Produced by Suzanne Lybarger, Brian Janes and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


  +------------------------------------------------------------+
  | Transcriber's Note:                                        |
  |                                                            |
  | Obvious typographical errors have been corrected in        |
  | this text. For a complete list, please see the bottom of   |
  | this document.                                             |
  +------------------------------------------------------------+


_An_
Anarchist Woman


_By_
HUTCHINS HAPGOOD

_Author of "The Autobiography of a Thief,"
"The Spirit of Labor"_


_NEW YORK_
DUFFIELD & COMPANY
1909

COPYRIGHT, 1909, BY
DUFFIELD AND COMPANY

  _"The best government is that which
  makes itself superfluous."_

  GOETHE


CONTENTS


CHAPTER                                             PAGE

      I. SCHOOL AND FACTORY                            1

     II. DOMESTIC SERVICE                             12

    III. DOMESTIC SERVICE (CONTINUED)                 26

     IV. ADVENTURES IN SEX                            48

      V. MARIE'S SALVATION                            65

     VI. TERRY                                        73

    VII. THE MEETING                                  94

   VIII. THE ROGUES' GALLERY                         120

     IX. THE SALON                                   147

      X. MORE OF THE SALON                           186

     XI. THE END OF THE SALON                        217

    XII. MARIE'S ATTEMPT                             239

   XIII. MARIE'S FAILURE                             261

    XIV. MARIE'S REVOLT                              280

     XV. TERRY'S FINISH                              299


PREFACE


It is possible that in fifty years people now called "anarchists" will
have in America as respectable a place as they now occupy in France.
When we are more accustomed to social thought, we shall not regard those
who radically differ from us, as mad dogs or malevolent idiots. Mery.+
So I wil.
Nay mistresse Custance.

+R. Royster.+ Alas, thou hittest me still.
Hold.

+M. Mery.+ Saue your self sir.

+R. Royster.+ Help, out alas I am slain
+M. Mery.+ Truce, hold your hands, truce for a pissing while or twaine:

Nay how say you Custance, for sauing of your life, Will ye yelde and
graunt to be this gentmans wife?

+C. Custance.+ Ye tolde me he loued me, call ye this loue?

+M.

Mery.+ He loued a while euen like a turtle doue.

+C.

Custance.+ Gay loue God saue it, so soone hotte, so soone colde,
+M. Mery.+ I am sory for you: he could loue you yet so he coulde.

+R. Royster.+ Nay by cocks precious she shall be none of mine.

+M. Mery.+ Why so?

+R. Royster.+ Come away, by the matte she is man-kine.
I durst aduenture the losse of my right hande, If shee dyd not slee hir
other husbande:
And see if she prepare not againe to fight.

+M. Mery.+ What then? sainct George to borow, our Ladies knight.

+R. Royster.+ Slee else whom she will, by gog she shall not slee mee.

+M. Mery.+ How then?

+R. Royster.+ Rather than to be slaine, I will flee.

+C.

Custance.+ Too it againe, my knightesses, downe with them all.

+R. Royster.+ Away, away, away, she will else kyll vs all.

+M. Mery.+ Nay sticke to it, like an hardie man and a tall.

+R. Royster.+ Oh bones, thou hittest me. Away, or else die we shall.

+M. Mery.+ Away for the pashe of our sweete Lord Iesus Christ.

+C. Custance.+ Away loute and lubber, or I shall be thy priest.
_Exeant om._
So this fielde is ours we haue driuen them all away.

+Tib Talk.+ Thankes to God mistresse, ye haue had a faire day.

+C. Custance.+ Well nowe goe ye in, and make your selfe some good
cheere.

_Omnes pariter._ We goe.

+T. Trust.+ Ah sir, what a field we haue had heere.

+C. Custance.+ Friend Tristram, I pray you be a witnesse with me.

+T. Trusty.+ Dame Custance, I shall depose for your honestie, And nowe
fare ye well, except some thing else ye wolde.

+C.

Custance.+ Not now, but when I nede to sende I will be bolde.
_Exeat._
I thanke you for these paines. And now I wyll get me in, Now Roister
Doister will no more wowyng begin. _Ex._

Actus. v. Scæna. j.

+Gawyn Goodlucke. Sym Suresby.+
Sym Suresby my trustie man, nowe aduise thee well, And see that no
false surmises thou me tell, Was there such adoe about Custance of a
truth?

+Sim.

Sure.+ To reporte that I hearde and sawe, to me is ruth, But both my
duetie and name and propretie, Warneth me to you to shewe fidelitie, It
may be well enough, and I wyshe it so to be, She may hir selfe discharge
and trie hir honestie, Yet their clayme to hir me thought was very
large, For with letters rings and tokens, they dyd hir charge.

Which when I hearde and sawe I would none to you bring.

+G. Goodl.+ No, by sainct Marie, I allowe thee in that thing.
Ah sirra, nowe I see truthe in the prouerbe olde, All things that
shineth is not by and by pure golde, If any doe lyue a woman of honestie,
I would haue sworne Christian Custance had bene shee.

+Sim. Sure.+ Sir, though I to you be a seruant true and iust.
Yet doe not ye therfore your faithfull spouse mystrust.
But examine the matter, and if ye shall it finde, To be all well, be not
ye for my wordes vnkinde.

+G. Goodl.+ I shall do that is right, and as I see cause why.
But here commeth Custance forth, we shal know by and by.

Actus. v. Scæna. ij.

+C. Custance. Gawyn Goodlucke. Sym Suresby.+
+C. Custance.+ I come forth to see and hearken for newes good, For about
this houre is the tyme of likelyhood, That Gawyn Goodlucke by the
sayings of Suresby, Would be at home, and lo yond I see hym I.

What Gawyn Goodlucke, the onely hope of my life, Welcome home, and kysse
me your true espoused wife.

+Ga. Good.+ Nay soft dame Custance, I must first by your licence, See
whether all things be cleere in your conscience, I heare of your doings
to me very straunge.

+C. Custance.+ What feare ye? that my faith towardes you should chaunge?

+Ga. Good.+ I must needes mistrust ye be elsewhere entangled.
For I heare that certaine men with you haue wrangled About the promise
of mariage by you to them made.

+C. Custance.+ Coulde any mans reporte your minde therein persuade?

+Ga. Good.+ Well, ye must therin declare your selfe to stande cleere,
Else I and you dame Custance may not ioyne this yere.

+C. Custance.+ Then woulde I were dead, and faire layd in my graue, Ah
Suresby, is this the honestie that ye haue?
To hurt me with your report, not knowyng the thing.

+Sim Sure.+ If ye be honest my wordes can hurte you nothing.
But what I hearde and sawe, I might not but report.

+C. Custance.+ Ah Lorde, helpe poore widowes, destitute of comfort.
Truly most deare spouse, nought was done but for pastance.

+G. Good.+ But such kynde of sporting is homely daliance.

+C. Custance.+ If ye knewe the truthe, ye would take all in good
parte.

+Ga. Good.+ By your leaue I am not halfe well skilled in that arte.

+C. Custance.+ It was none but Roister Doister that foolishe mome.

+Ga. Good.+ Yea Custance, better (they say) a badde scuse than
none.

+C.

Custance.+ Why Tristram Trustie sir, your true and faithfull frende,
Was priuie bothe to the beginning and the ende.
Let him be the Iudge, and for me testifie.

+Ga. Good.+ I will the more credite that he shall verifie, And bicause
I will the truthe know een as it is, I will to him my selfe, and know
all without misse.
Come on Sym Suresby, that before my friend thou may Auouch the same wordes,
which thou dydst to me say. _Exeant._

Actus. v. Scæna. iij.

+Christian Custance.+
+C. Custance.+ O Lorde, howe necessarie it is nowe of dayes, That eche
bodie liue vprightly all maner wayes, For lette neuer so little a
gappe be open, And be sure of this, the worst shall be spoken Howe
innocent stande I in this for deede or thought?
And yet see what mistrust towardes me it hath wrought But thou Lorde
knowest all folkes thoughts and eke intents And thou arte the
deliuerer of all innocentes.

Thou didst helpe the aduoutresse that she might be amended, Much more
then helpe Lorde, that neuer yll intended.
Thou didst helpe _Susanna_, wrongfully accused, And no lesse dost
thou see Lorde, how I am now abused, Thou didst helpe _Hester_, when
she should haue died, Helpe also good Lorde, that my truth may be
tried.
Yet if Gawin Goodlucke with Tristram Trusty speake.
I trust of yll report the force shall be but weake, And loe yond they
come sadly talking togither, I wyll abyde, and not shrinke for their
comming hither.

Actus. v. Scæna. iiij.

+Gawyn Goodlucke. Tristram Trustie. C. Custance. Sym Suresby.+
+Ga. Good.+ And was it none other than ye to me reporte?

+Tristram.+ No, and here were ye wished to haue seene the sporte.

+Ga.

Good.+ Woulde I had, rather than halfe of that in my purse.

+Sim Sure.+ And I doe muche reioyce the matter was no wurse, And
like as to open it, I was to you faithfull, So of dame Custance
honest truth I am ioyfull.

For God forfende that I shoulde hurt hir by false reporte.

+Ga. Good.+ Well, I will no longer holde hir in discomforte.

+C. Custance.+ Nowe come they hitherwarde, I trust all shall be well.

+Ga. Good.+ Sweete Custance neither heart can thinke nor tongue tell, Howe
much I ioy in your constant fidelitie, Come nowe kisse me the pearle
of perfect honestie.

+C. Custance.+ God lette me no longer to continue in lyfe, Than I shall
towardes you continue a true wyfe.

+Ga. Good.+ Well now to make you for this some parte of amendes, I
shall desire first you, and then suche of our frendes, As shall to you
seeme best, to suppe at home with me, Where at your fought fielde
we shall laugh and mery be.

+Sim Sure.+ And mistresse I beseech you, take with me no greefe, I did
a true mans part, not wishyng you repreefe.

+C. Custance.+ Though hastie reportes through surmises growyng, May of
poore innocentes be vtter ouerthrowyng, Yet bicause to thy maister thou
hast a true hart, And I know mine owne truth, I forgiue thee for
my part.

+Ga. Goodl.+ Go we all to my house, and of this geare no more.
Goe prepare all things Sym Suresby, hence, runne afore.

+Sim Sure.+ I goe. _Ex._
+G. Good.+ But who commeth yond, M. Merygreeke?

+C. Custance.+ Roister Doisters champion, I shrewe his best cheeke.

+T. Trusty.+ Roister Doister selfe your wower is with hym too.
Surely some thing there is with vs they haue to doe.

Actus. v. Scæna. v.

+M. Merygreeke. Ralph Roister. Gawyn Goodlucke. Tristram Trustie.
C. Custance.+
+M. Mery.+ Yond I see Gawyn Goodlucke, to whome lyeth my message, I
will first salute him after his long voyage, And then make all thing
well concerning your behalfe.

+R. Royster.+ Yea for the pashe of God.

+M. Mery.+ Hence out of sight ye calfe, Till I haue spoke with them, and
then I will you fet,
+R. Royster.+ In Gods name.

+M. Mery.+ What master Gawin Goodluck wel met And from your long
voyage I bid you right welcome home.

+Ga. Good.+ I thanke you.
+M. Mery.+ I come to you from an honest mome.
+Ga. Good.+ Who is that?
+M. Mery.+ Roister Doister that doughtie kite.
+C. Custance.+ Fye, I can scarce abide ye shoulde his name recite.
+M. Mery.+ Ye must take him to fauour, and pardon all past, He
heareth of your returne, and is full yll agast.
+Ga. Good.+ I am ryght well content he haue with vs some chere.
+C. Custance.+ Fye vpon him beast, then wyll not I be there.
+Ga. Good.+ Why Custance do ye hate hym more than ye loue me?
+C. Custance.+ But for your mynde sir, where he were would I not
be?

+T. Trusty.+ He woulde make vs al laugh.
+M. Mery.+ Ye nere had better sport.
+Ga. Good.+ I pray you sweete Custance, let him to vs resort.
+C. Custance.+ To your will I assent.
+M. Mery.+ Why, suche a foole it is, As no man for good pastime
would forgoe or misse.

+Ga. Good.+ Fet him to go wyth vs.
+M. Mery.+ He will be a glad man. _Ex._
+T. Trusty.+ We must to make vs mirth, maintaine hym all we can.
And loe yond he commeth and Merygreeke with him.
+C. Custance.+ At his first entrance ye shall see I wyll him trim.
But first let vs hearken the gentlemans wise talke.
+T. Trusty.+ I pray you marke if euer ye sawe crane so stalke.
Actus. v. Scæna. vj.
+R. Roister. M. Merygreeke. C. Custance. G. Goodlucke. T. Trustie.
D. Doughtie. Harpax.+ 
+R. Royster.+ May I then be bolde?
+M. Mery.+ I warrant you on my worde, They say they shall be sicke,
but ye be at theyr borde.

+R. Royster.+ Thei wer not angry then.
+M. Mery.+ Yes at first, and made strange But when I sayd your anger
to fauour shoulde change, And therewith had commended you accordingly,
They were all in loue with your mashyp by and by.
And cried you mercy that they had done you wrong.
+R. Royster.+ For why, no man, woman, nor childe can hate me
long.
+M. Mery.+ We feare (quod they) he will be auenged one day, Then
for a peny giue all our liues we may.
+R Royster.+ Sayd they so in deede.
+M. Mery.+ Did they? yea, euen with one voice He will forgiue all
(quod I) Oh how they did reioyce.

+R Royster.+ Ha, ha, ha.
+M. Mery.+ Goe fette hym (say they) while he is in good moode, For
haue his anger who lust, we will not by the Roode.
+R. Royster.+ I pray God that it be all true, that thou hast me
tolde, And that she fight no more.
+M. Mery.+ I warrant you, be bolde Too them, and salute them.
+R. Royster.+ Sirs, I greete you all well.
_Omnes._ Your maistership is welcom.
+C. Custance.+ Sauyng my quarell.
For sure I will put you vp into the Eschequer.
+M. Mery.+ Why so? better nay: Wherfore?
+C. Custance.+ For an vsurer.
+R. Royster.+ I am no vsurer good mistresse by his armes.
+M. Mery.+ When tooke he gaine of money to any mans harmes?
+C. Custance.+ Yes, a fowle vsurer he is, ye shall see els.
+R. Royster.+ Didst not thou promise she would picke no mo quarels?
+C. Custance.+ He will lende no blowes, but he haue in recompence
Fiftene for one, whiche is to muche of conscience.
+R. Royster.+ Ah dame, by the auncient lawe of armes, a man Hath
no honour to foile his handes on a woman.
+C. Custance.+ And where other vsurers take their gaines yerely,
This man is angry but he haue his by and by.
+Ga. Goodl.+ Sir, doe not for hir sake beare me your displeasure.
+M. Mery.+ Well, he shall with you talke therof more at leasure.
Vpon your good vsage, he will now shake your hande.
+R. Royster.+ And much heartily welcome from a straunge lande.
+M. Mery.+ Be not afearde Gawyn to let him shake your fyst.
+Ga. Goodl.+ Oh the moste honeste gentleman that ere I wist.
I beseeche your mashyp to take payne to suppe with vs.
+M. Mery.+ He shall not say you nay and I too, by Iesus.
Bicause ye shall be friends, and let all quarels passe.
+R. Royster.+ I wyll be as good friends with them as ere I was.
+M. Mery.+ Then let me fet your quier that we may haue a song.
+R. Royster.+ Goe.
+G. Goodluck.+ I haue hearde no melodie all this yeare long.
+M. Mery.+ Come on sirs quickly.
+R. Royster.+ Sing on sirs, for my frends sake.
+D. Dough.+ Cal ye these your frends?
+R. Royster.+ Sing on, and no mo words make.
_Here they sing._
+Ga. Good.+ The Lord preserue our most noble Queene of renowne, And
hir virtues rewarde with the heauenly crowne.
+C. Custance.+ The Lorde strengthen hir most excellent Maiestie,
Long to reigne ouer vs in all prosperitie.
+T. Trusty.+ That hir godly proceedings the faith to defende, He
may stablishe and maintaine through to the ende.
+M. Mery.+ God graunt hir as she doth, the Gospell to protect,
Learning and vertue to aduaunce, and vice to correct.
+R. Royster.+ God graunt hir louyng subiects both the minde and
grace, Hir most godly procedyngs worthily to imbrace.
_Harpax._ Hir highnesse most worthy counsellers God prosper, With
honour and loue of all men to minister.
_Omnes._ God graunt the nobilitie hir to serue and loue, With all
the whole commontie as doth them behoue.

AMEN.
Certaine Songs to be song by _those which shall vse this Comedie
or Enterlude_.

+The Seconde Song.+
Who so to marry a minion Wyfe, Hath hadde good chaunce and happe,
Must loue hir and cherishe hir all his life, And dandle hir in his
lappe.
If she will fare well, yf she wyll go gay, A good husbande euer
styll, What euer she lust to doe, or to say, Must lette hir haue
hir owne will.
About what affaires so euer he goe, He must shewe hir all his mynde,
None of hys counsell she may be kept free, Else is he a man
vnkynde.

+The fourth Song.+
I mun be maried a Sunday I mun be maried a Sunday, Who soeuer shall
come that way, I mun be maried a Sunday.
Royster Doyster is my name, Royster Doyster is my name, A lustie
brute I am the same, I mun be maried a Sunday.
Christian Custance haue I founde, Christian Custance haue I founde,
A Wydowe worthe a thousande pounde, I mun be maried a sunday.
Custance is as sweete as honey, Custance is as sweete as honey, I
hir lambe and she my coney, I mun be maried a Sunday.
When we shall make our weddyng feast, When we shall make oure weddyng
feast, There shall bee cheere for man and beast, I mun be maried a
Sunday.

I mun be maried a Sunday, etc.

_The Psalmodie_
_Placebo dilexi_, Maister Roister Doister wil streight go home and
die, Our Lorde Iesus Christ his soule haue mercie vpon:
Thus you see to day a man, to morrow Iohn.
Yet sauing for a womans extreeme crueltie, He might haue lyued yet
a moneth or two or three, But in spite of Custance which hath him
weried, His mashyp shall be worshipfully buried.
And while some piece of his soule is yet hym within, Some parte of
his funeralls let vs here beginne.
_Dirige._ He will go darklyng to his graue.
_Neque lux, neque crux, nisi solum_ clinke, Neuer gentman so went
toward heauen I thinke.There were long green tables in the saloons on which
men played pool, and there were books scattered about in which were
jokes and funny pictures. And the men played cards and told stories and
danced and sang and did about anything they wanted to. This seemed to me
good, and I felt sure at the time that if I were a man I should like to
be there, too.

"But now I learned that these were terrible places, dens of vice and
crime. What vice was, I did not know, but crime meant murdering somebody
or doing something else dreadful. I thought about what I heard the fine
ladies say until my poor little head became quite muddled. Left to
myself, I could not see anything so terrible about these places, but if
these finely dressed ladies said they were terrible, why they must be
so. They knew better than I did. But I wondered dreamily if all terrible
places were as nice as dance-halls.

"After the novelty of the situation wore away, life became rather
wearisome to me, and I sometimes wished I were again working in the old
factory. I thought of the evenings, when my day's work in the factory
was done and I was walking in the streets with my chums, telling them,
perhaps, of the small girls who worked with me in the factory, and of
the guys who waited for them on Saturday nights and took them to the
show. And one of the girl's guys always used to give her a whole box of
the swellest candy you ever tasted.

"Dreaming thus one day of all the happy times I had known, I loitered
over my work, as I fear I often did, and was sharply reprimanded by my
mistress, the honourable lady, who wanted to speak to me as soon as
possible on a matter of grave importance. I finished making the bed in a
hurry and went into the presence of Mrs. Belshow, who said to me:

"'My dear child, how old are you?'

"'Past fifteen, ma'am.'

"'Fifteen! H'm, you're quite a big girl for your age. I'm astonished
that you have no more self-respect, or your mother for you! How is it
that she allows you to go about with such short dresses? Why, it is
shameful; I am surprised, for your mother seemed to me a sensible sort
of a woman. I declare, I never would allow my daughter to expose herself
in such a shameless manner, and I certainly will not allow anyone in my
employ to do so. Only the other day my attention was called by some of
my friends to your most careless condition. They said they could not
help noticing it, it was so dreadful. It is this kind of thing which
causes a great part of the vice and immorality with which we are
surrounded. Unless a mother has common decency enough to clothe her
child properly, it seems hopeless for us to accomplish anything. Now, my
dear child, I want you to go home this very night and tell your mother
you must positively have some long dresses, or no self-respecting person
would care to associate with you. And you must try to have at least one
respectable garment by Sunday, for I am ashamed to have you seen going
out of my house in your present condition. Run along now and don't be
home later than ten this evening.'

"During this long harangue I stood gazing on the floor, blushing
painfully. I wanted to tell my mistress why I had no longer dresses,
but could only stammer 'yes, ma'am' and 'no, ma'am,' and was very glad
to escape from the room as soon as my lady had finished.

"When my mother heard about the affair, she was very indignant, and
demanded why Mrs. Belshow did not buy the dresses for me. 'For my part,'
she said, 'I have no money to waste on such trash. I'm sure, what you
are wearing now is all right. It's not so short, either, nearly down to
your shoe tops. But I suppose I must get you something, or she will fire
you. I'll give you a dress that'll be long enough all right--one that
goes right down to the floor, and if Mrs. Belshow doesn't like it,
she'll have to lump it. I can't afford to get you new dresses every year
and you not through growing yet. Gee, that Mrs. Belshow must think we're
millionaires!'

"When I made my appearance the next Sunday morning in a neat long skirt,
the honourable lady praised me very highly, saying that now I looked
like a respectable young woman. 'Why, you actually look pretty, my
child,' she said. 'You must get a nice ribbon for your neck, and then
you will be fine.' This remark made me very happy, for I had been
secretly longing for a dress of this kind. Now, at last, I was a real
grown-up lady. Perhaps I might soon have a fellow, who would take me to
the show, just like the girls in the factory. I thrilled with joy. Later
I looked into the mirror a long while, admiring myself and dreaming of
the afternoon, when I would be free. I decided that I would go to the
dance, and pictured to myself how surprised and envious the other girls
would be, when they saw me looking so fine. I would certainly not miss
one single dance the whole afternoon, for I was sure the boys would be
fascinated and that the swellest among them would see me home in the
evening.

"These joys made the morning an unforgettable one; but soon it was time
to get ready to go. I went to my room and curled my hair, and then was
more pleased with myself than ever. I really looked pretty! Oh, the joy
of it! I do not need to explain, even to a man. Briefly, I looked
sweller than ever. The only thing needed to complete my toilet were some
bright ribbons to fix in my hair and around my throat. I recollected
having seen some very pretty ribbons in my mistress's scrap-bag which
would do admirably. So I brought the scrap bag from the store room and
dumped the contents on my bed, and soon found just what I wanted--two
beautiful bits of silk. I hastily stitched them together, and was all
ready to go. I could return the silk to the bag the next morning and my
mistress would never know they had been gone. I thought regretfully what
a shame it was to throw such beautiful things into a scrap-bag.

"Poor, vain little me! I came home later than usual, that
never-to-be-forgotten night!--very tired, but very happy. And I had been
escorted all the way by the grandest young man I had ever known. I lay
awake for a long time, reviewing everything that had happened. I had
never dreamed it was possible to be so happy. It was because I was now a
grown-up lady! I should never forget that all my happiness was due to my
mistress, for it was through her that I had my long dress. I decided to
be more serviceable than ever, not dream and dawdle over my work, and
never to be angry when my mistress scolded me. I would disobey her only
in one thing--about going to Sunday School. At least, I would not go
every week, perhaps every other Sunday, so she would not notice. In the
midst of these good and delightful thoughts I fell asleep, and slept so
soundly that the alarm bell in the clock did not awaken me at the usual
hour.

"It did awaken Mrs. Belshow, however, who was just about to drop off to
sleep again, when it occurred to her that she had not heard me moving
about as usual, so she went to my room and aroused me in the midst of a
beautiful dream about the handsomest boy you ever saw just as he was
paying me the greatest attention!

"Jumping out of bed, I was horrified to find it was six o'clock, fully
half an hour late. I rushed about my work, dreading the moment, yet
wishing it were over, when my mistress should summon me for the scolding
I was sure would come, for if there was one thing Mrs. Belshow hated
more than anything else, it was being late. All too soon came the
dreaded moment. Breakfast was scarcely over, when I was requested to go
to my room. That was rather surprising, for, as a rule, I received my
scolding in the lady's room, while I was assisting her to pull on her
stockings or comb her hair.

"I had scarcely crossed the threshold of my room when my knees knocked
together and I nearly fell over, for there, standing in the centre of
the room, with a piece of silk in her hand and an ominous frown on her
face, stood my mistress. She pointed an accusing finger at me and asked
coldly, 'Where did you get this?' Receiving no answer, she continued,
'Don't tell any lies, now, to add to your other crime.' I stood there,
as if glued to the floor and could only gaze at her dumbly and
appealingly. I tried to speak in vain; but even if I had been able to,
she would not have given me a chance. She brought all her eloquence to
bear upon the stupid girl before her; she wanted to make me see what a
very evil act I had committed.

"'Oh, how sorry I am!' she cried, 'that this thing has happened. But you
are very fortunate that it has occurred in my house, rather than in
somebody else's, for I know what measures to take to cure you of the
propensity to crime which you have so clearly shown. I shall, of course,
have to send you away immediately; for I could never again trust you in
my home, for although it is only a trifle that you have stolen,--yes,
deliberately stolen,--yet anyone who takes only a pin that belongs to
another, will take more when the opportunity offers. So, in order to
cure you of this tendency, I myself will conduct you to your mother and
impress upon her the necessity of guarding and watching you carefully,
as a possible young criminal. I never should have expected this of you,
for you have quite an honest look. Now, dress yourself quickly and
bundle up whatever belongs to you. I will remain in the room while you
are packing. Are you sure you have taken nothing else which does not
belong to you?'

"This question loosened my tongue, which hitherto had clung tightly to
the roof of my mouth. Dropping on my knees before my mistress, I
fervently swore that I had taken nothing, that I had not meant to take
anything. I had meant to wear the pieces of silk only once and then put
them back where I had found them. With tears rolling down my face, I
begged her not to tell my mother.

"'I will work for you all my life without pay,' I cried, 'if you will
only not tell my mother. Indeed, I did not mean to steal, so please
don't tell my mother!'

"This I urged so vehemently and with such floods of tears that finally
my kind-hearted mistress said: 'My dear child, if you will promise me
faithfully never to do anything like this again, I will not tell your
mother. But let this be a lesson to you; never to take anything again,
not even a pin, that does not belong to you. You can never again say,
with perfect truthfulness, that you have not stolen. I am glad to see
that you have such respect for your mother that you do not want her to
know of this, and for your sake I will not tell her. I have a meeting at
Hull House to attend in half an hour, and before I leave I wish you
would scrub up the kitchen and your room and then you can go.'

"So saying, the honourable lady left the room quite satisfied with
herself for having (perhaps) rescued another human being from the paths
of vice and crime. I went about my work with a heavy heart. Forgotten
were all the joys of yesterday! Now, just as I was becoming used to my
place, I must leave it. And I must tell my mother some reason for it.
But I could not tell the truth. Ah! yes, I would say that my mistress
was about to close up the house and go South for the winter. That would
be a fine excuse. I had heard and read that many rich people go South
for a time in the cold weather, so surely my mother would not doubt it.
I went away, feeling easier in my mind, and never saw my honourable
mistress again.

"Many days have passed since then, and I have been serving several
different ladies. I learned a lesson from each one of them; but I shall
never forget what I learned from the kind-hearted, philanthropic Mrs.
Belshow, a prominent settlement worker in a large city. It's a lesson
that Mrs. Belshow will never learn, or could never understand. All of
which shows, perhaps, that I was simple at the time rather than stupid;
for I find that I am still receiving my education--not from books, but
from the way people treat me, and from what I see as I pass through
life."


CHAPTER III

_Domestic Service (Continued)_


"Nearly a year had passed," continued Marie, "since I had began to work
at service, and my experiences had not been of the sort that makes one
love one's fellow-creatures. For the most part I had worked for people
who were trying to make a good showing in society and had not the means
to do so. How often during those weary days of drudgery I looked back at
the dear old days when I used to work in the factories! Then I could go
to the dance! Now, it was very difficult, even if my mother had not been
so strongly against it. I could not understand why my mother so sternly
forbade me to go. When I asked her why she objected, the only answer I
received was: 'It is improper for a girl of your age.' 'Why is it
improper?' I asked myself, and could find no answer. So I disobeyed my
mother and danced whenever I had the chance. Whenever I did succeed in
going, my heart almost broke from sheer happiness. Oh, how supremely,
wonderfully joyous I felt! How I forgot everything then--my mother, my
drudgery, everything that made life disagreeable! Whenever the music
started, I felt as if I were floating in the air, I could not feel my
feet touching the floor. All the lights merged into one dazzling glow
and my heart kept time to the rhythm of the music. When the music
stopped, the glorious illumination seemed to go out and leave only a
little straggling light from a few badly smelling kerosene lamps. The
beautiful, fantastic music had been in reality only a harsh horn
accompanied by a concertina or some other stupid instrument jangling
vile music. The young boys and girls were all a common, stupid lot, and
the odour of the stock yards permeated the room. But when the mystical
music begins again, and the dance starts, presto! change, and I am again
floating in rhythmic space and the faces and dim lights have changed
into one glorious central flame.

"I shall never forget one awful night, when my mother, who had heard
that I was at the dance, came into the hall, and there before all the
boys and girls dragged me out and away to our home. I was so ashamed
that I did not show myself in that dance-hall again for months. I
cannot help thinking my mother was wrong, for I needed some outlet to my
energy. Like many a poor working girl, I had developed into womanhood
early and consequently was full of life. The dance satisfied this life
instinct, which, when that outlet was made difficult, sought some other
way.

"At that time I had a position as nurse-maid, my duties being to take
care of two beautiful, but spoiled children, who had never received
proper care, because their mother a wealthy woman, was too indolent, to
make any effort in that direction, spending most of her time lying in
bed with some novel in her hand. The house was filled with sensational,
sentimental books. They were to be found in every room, stacked away in
all the corners.

"At first I attempted to do what I thought was my duty, that is, to keep
the children neat and clean and try to train them to be more gentle and
obedient, but I soon saw that what their mother wanted was for me to
keep them out of her way. My ambition about them faded away, and I
sought only to fulfil my mistress's wishes. I used to take the two
children up into the store-room, in which were all sorts of
miscellaneous things, including stacks and stacks of paper-covered
novels, lock the door, and allow the children absolute liberty, while I
sat down comfortably and examined the books.

"Here a new life opened before me. I read these novels constantly every
day and half the night, and could hardly wait for the children to have
their breakfast, so eager was I to get at my wonderful stories again.
Even when it was necessary to take the children out for an airing, a
novel was always hidden in my clothes, which I would eagerly devour as
soon as I was out of sight of the house. During the four weeks spent at
this place I read more than forty novels. Even on Sunday, when I was
free, I sprawled out on the bed and read these sensational books. I
thought no more of my beloved dances, for I was living in a new world.
Here I was in a beautiful house, where I did almost nothing but loll in
the easiest chairs and feed my soul on stories about beautiful, innocent
maidens, who were wooed, and after almost insurmountable difficulties,
won by gallant, devoted heroes.

"But soon I became so absorbed that even the few duties I had, became
very irksome to me, for they interfered somewhat with my reading. Every
morning I had to bathe and dress the little ones, who, not seeing the
necessity for these operations, struggled and screamed and bit and
kicked. I had accepted this daily scene as a matter of course, but every
now and then it rather irritated me. One morning the hubbub was
unusually long and loud, so much so that the noise disturbed the mother,
who was breakfasting and reading in bed. She came to the room in a stew
and asked me what was the matter. When I told her, she angrily said:
'When I engage a nurse girl for my children, I do not expect to hear
them squealing every morning. Remember that, and do not let me hear them
again.'

"The little boy, who was precocious for his age, heard what his mother
had said, and seeing that he had not been scolded for his ill behaviour,
began to scream and struggle more than ever, and his little sister
imitated him, in a dutiful, feminine way. I then lost my patience,
seized the little boy, dragged him to his mother and said: 'Here's your
boy. Tend to him yourself; I cannot.'

"I was, of course, told to bundle up my belongings at once and go. I
did not forget to pack away among my things some of the novels, feeling
that since they had all been read by Madame, they were only in the way.
When I said 'good-bye' to the children, Madame came to me and said very
kindly, 'Marie, I'm really sorry this has occurred, for you are one of
the best nurse girls I have ever had, and the children seemed to get
along so nicely with you, too!' I was so surprised at this speech that I
could make no answer and so I lost my chance of remaining, for it is
quite certain she wanted me to stay. But it was fated to be otherwise,
and once more I returned to the home of my parents.

"My mother was not overjoyed to see me. It was a mystery to her why I
did not keep my jobs longer. I promised to get another place as soon as
possible and begged her to allow me to stay at home the rest of the
week. To this she consented rather grudgingly, and I flew to my beloved
books and read till supper time. I was beginning at it again in the
evening when my mother rudely snatched the book from me saying, that it
was not good for young girls to read such stuff. I begged earnestly to
be allowed to finish just that one story and she finally said that
perhaps I might read it the next day. In the morning I could hardly curb
my impatience; it seemed as though my mother were inventing all sorts of
useless things for me to do, just to keep me from the book. But at last
I was free and, hastening to my room, was soon absorbed in another
world. I was suddenly recalled to this earth by a sharp blow on my head,
and the book was again snatched from me and thrown into the fire and
burned. It seemed that mother had been calling me and that I had been
too much absorbed to hear; that she had finally lost her temper and
decided to punish me.

"'Don't ever again read such trash as this,' she cried in a rage. 'Have
you any more of them?'

"'No,' I said, fearing to tell the truth, lest the rest of the books
meet the same fate.

"She then sent me on an errand. As I left the house I felt uneasy,
thinking that my lie might be discovered. The moment I returned, I saw
by the expression on my mother's face that my fears had been realised.
The storm broke at once.

"'Oh, what an unfortunate woman I am!' she cried, 'to be treated thus by
my own flesh and blood, by the child that I brought into the world with
so much pain and suffering. O, God, what have I done to deserve this? O
God, what have I done to be cursed with such a child?--so young, yet so
full of lies. What will become of her? Have I not always done my duty by
her and tried to raise her the best I knew how? Why did she not die when
a baby? I like a fool, toiled and moiled for her night and day and this
is my reward.'

"I had heard these expressions often, for my mother was a hysterical
woman in whom the slightest thing would cause the most violent emotions
which demanded relief in such lamentations. And yet, frequent as they
were, they never failed to arouse in me feelings of shame and
rage--shame that I had caused my mother suffering, and rage that she
reproached herself for having brought me into the world. That expression
of hers never failed to make me wish that I had never been born--born
into this miserable world where I had to toil as a child, and could not
go to dances or even read without receiving a torrent of abuse and an
avalanche of blows. What harm had I done by my reading? True, I had not
heard my mother calling, but how often had I spoken to her without
being heard, when she was engrossed in some newspaper or book!

"So I remained quiet, when my mother railed at me for my lie, too
ashamed and bitter to make defense or reply. This silence, as usual,
made my mother still more angry and she shouted: 'You ungrateful wretch,
I'll tell your father, and he'll fix you so you won't feel like lying to
your mother for some time to come.'

"That threat nearly paralysed me with dread, for my father was to me a
strange man whom I had always feared; my mother, when she wanted to
subdue me, only needed to say: 'I'll tell your father.' I remembered the
last time my father had whipped me. I was a big girl at the time, more
than fourteen years old, and working down town. I had to rise very early
in the morning, and it often happened that I would fall asleep again
after my mother had called me. On that particular morning mother had
more difficulty than usual in arousing me, scolding me severely, and I
replied rather impudently, I suppose. She waited till I had got out of
bed and was standing in my bare arms and shoulders over the wash bowl,
and then she told father, who came with a long leather strap, which I
knew well, as it was kept only for one purpose, and beat me so severely
that I carried the marks for a long time. The strap was about two inches
broad, and with this in one hand, whilst he held me firmly with the
other, he belaboured me in such a way that the end of the strap curled
cunningly around my neck and under my arms and about my little breast,
making big welts which swelled at once to about a fourth of an inch in
diameter and were for a few days a most beautiful vivid scarlet in
colour. Then they toned down and new and milder tints came, and finally
there was only a dull sort of green and blue effect. Finally even these
disappeared from my body, but not from me.

"Now, when I thought of the possible consequences of the lie I had told,
I could feel those marks on my shoulders and arms. And, at my mother's
threat, the thought that I might be beaten again made me flush with
shame. A feeling of rebellion, of vivid revolt, came over me. Why not
resist, why not defend myself? I remembered what a factory girl had once
told me--how she had defended herself against her brother by striking
him with a chair.

"That is what I will do, I said to myself, trembling with excitement, if
my father tries to beat me again. I am too old to be whipped any more. I
don't care if he kills me, I will do it. Perhaps when I die, and they
see my grave, they'll be sorry.

"When father came home in the evening, he seemed to sense trouble at
once, for suddenly coming down on the table with his fist, he demanded:
'What in hell is the matter? Here you both are going around with faces
as if you were at a funeral. I'm working hard all day, and when I come
home at night, by God, I don't want to see such faces around me. What in
hell is it, now tell me!'

"Mother told him, and he said: 'Very well, just wait till I've had
supper, for I'm damned hungry, then we'll have a little understanding
with my lady, who's so mighty high-toned since she worked for those
swells. I'll soon show her, though, she is no better than we are.'

"When the important task of supper was over he called me to him. I was
trembling in every limb, for I knew that my father was a man of few
words and that he would without delay proceed to action. I managed to
get a chair between him and me. He went to work deliberately, as if he
were a prize-fighter. First, he spat on his hands, and was about to give
me a knock-out-blow, when I, with the courage of desperation, raised the
chair above my head, crying out, 'Father, if you strike me, I'll hit you
with this chair.' He was so astonished at my audacity that his arms fell
to his sides and he gazed at me as if he had lost his senses. I took
advantage of this pause to make for the door, but before I could escape,
he seized me by the arm and hurled me back into the room, and then with
blood-shot eyes and bull-like voice he cursed and cursed. My mother,
fearing the effect of his terrible rage, tried to intercede, but he
pushed her aside, shouting, 'Oh, she's the daughter of her mother all
right, and she'll turn out to be a damned ---- just like you!'

"He then came up to me, where I was standing really expecting my death,
and to my surprise only pressed his fist gently against my head saying:
'See how easily I could crush you. The next time I hear anything about
you, I will.' Cursing me and mother, he left the house and he took him
to a nearby saloon where he drank himself insensible. Toward morning he
was brought home. Poor man, he just couldn't bear to see long faces
about him, especially after a hard day's work!

"In a few days I secured another place, this time in a middle-class
family. I remained there nearly a year and was considered by my mistress
a model of willingness, patience, endurance, gentleness, and all the
other slavish virtues. I never spoke except when spoken to and then I
answered so respectfully! The children might kick and abuse me in any
way they chose without any show of resentment from me. This my mistress
noticed and duly commended. 'Those dear children,' she said. 'You know
they do not realise what they are about, and so one ought not to be
harsh to the dear pets.'

"I gave up reading books and even newspapers; partly I suppose because I
had for the time satiated myself, especially with sentimental and trashy
novels, and had not yet learned to know real literature, and partly
because, in my state of humility, I listened to my mistress when she
said reading took too much time, that it was better to sew, dust, and
the like, when I was not busy with the children. Everything I do, I must
do passionately, it seems, even to being a slave. I gave up dances, too,
and on my days out dutifully visited my parents. I had no friends or
companions and was in all respects what one calls a perfect servant--so
perfect that the friends of my mistress quite envied her the possession
of so useful a slave.

"I got pleasure out of doing the thing so thoroughly; but yet it would
not have been so interesting to me if it had not been painful, too. I
was enough of a sport to want as much depth of experience, while it
lasted, in that direction as in any other--in spite of, perhaps partly
because of, the pain. And what pain it was, at times! Who knows of the
bitter hatred surging in my heart, of the long nights spent in tears, of
the terrible mental tortures I endured! Sometimes it was as if an iron
hand were squeezing my heart so that I almost died; sometimes as if a
great lump of stone lay on my chest. And my mistress seemed each day
somehow to make the iron hand squeeze tighter and tighter and the stone
weigh heavier and heavier. If she had only known what a deadly hatred I
bore her--a hatred that would not have been so severe if I had not been
so good a servant--had given myself rope, had satisfied my emotions! If
she had understood that my calm, modest bearing was only a mask which
hid a passionate soul keenly alive to the suffering inflicted on me, she
would have hesitated, I think, before she entrusted her precious
darlings to my care.

"This period of virtuous serving was the severest strain to which my
nature, physical and moral, was ever put. I finally became very ill, and
had to be removed to my mother's house, as completely broken in body as
I had apparently been in spirit.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I sat near the window gazing vacantly at the scene below. All the
morning I had sat there with that empty feeling in my soul. From time to
time my mother spoke to me, but I answered without turning my head.
Since my illness I seemed to have lost all interest in life, and this,
although everybody was kind to me. My mother gave me novels to read and
money to go to the dances. The books I scarcely glanced at, and what I
did read seemed so silly to me! And the dances had lost their charm. I
went once or twice, but the music did not awaken any emotion in me, and
I sat dully in a corner watching, without any desire to join in. And
this, when I was hardly past sixteen years of age!

"The day before, I had been down town looking for a job in the stores,
for my mother had told me that I might work in the shops or factories
again, if I wished. Although even this assurance failed to interest me,
I had obediently tried to find a position, but oh! how weary I was and
how I longed for some quiet corner where I might sit for ever and ever
and ever without moving. This morning I was wearier than ever, my feet
seemed weighted, and I could hardly drag them across the room. My mother
asked me anxiously, if I were ill. 'No, no,' I said. 'Then my child,'
she replied, 'you must positively find work. You father is getting old
and it would be a shame to have him support a big girl like you--big
enough to make her own living. Don't you want to go back to your last
place? She would be very glad to have you, I am sure.'

"This last remark aroused me, and I replied that I would never go back,
even if I had to starve. 'Don't worry, mother,' I said, 'I'll go now,
and if I don't find a place, I won't come back.' 'Oh, what a torture it
is to have children,' moaned my mother. 'Don't you know your father
would kill me if you did not return?'

"Her words fell on heedless ears, for I was already half way down the
stairs. I bought a paper and in it read this advertisement, 'Wanted: a
neat girl to do second work in suburb near Chicago. Apply to No. --
Wabash Avenue.' Within an hour I presented myself at Mr. Eaton's office,
was engaged by him, received a railroad ticket and instructions how to
go to Kenilworth the following evening. On my way home I made up my mind
to tell nobody where I was going. I packed my few belongings and told my
mother that I had secured a place with a certain Mrs. So-and-so who
lived in Such-and-such a street. I lied to the best of my ability and
satisfied my mother thoroughly.

"The next morning I went away, and was soon speeding to Kenilworth,
where I was met at the station by my future mistress and her mother, two
extremely aristocratic women, who received me kindly and walked with me
to my new home, instructing me on the way in regard to my duties in the
household. These consisted mainly in being scrupulously neat, answering
the door-bell and waiting on the table. I began at once to work very
willingly and obligingly, and also helped the other girl working in the
household, and everybody was kind to me in return. I did not, however,
take this kindness to heart as I would have done a year or two earlier,
for I had learned to my cost that kindness of this kind was generally
only on the surface.

"But my new mistress soon proved to be a true gentlewoman, who treated
her servants like human beings. To work for a mistress who did not try
to interfere with my private life or regulate my religion or my morals
was an unusual and pleasing experience for me. This lady was as tolerant
and broad-minded toward her servants as she was toward herself, rather
more so, I think, for cares and age had removed from her desires and
temptations for which she still had sympathy when showing themselves in
younger people. I soon saw, to my astonishment, that things which my
mother and my other employers had told me were evil, and which I had
learned almost to think were so, did not seem evil to this sweet lady.
I remember how kindly and sadly she said to me once, when I had spent
half the night out with a young man: 'Little Marie, it is a sad thing in
life that what seems to us the sweetest and the best, and what indeed is
the sweetest and the best, often leads to our harm and the harm of
others. It would be foolish of me to pretend to know which of your
actions is good and which is bad; but remember that life is very
difficult and hard to lead right, and that you must be careful and
always thoughtful of what is good and what is evil. I myself have never
learned to know for sure what is good or evil, but as I grow older I am
certain that we act always for the one or for the other.'

"Under these conditions, in the home of such a sweet and tolerant woman,
all the throbbing joy of life and youth awoke again within me. Cut off
from the old scenes and companions, I entered upon a new existence. I
made many friends with the young people in the neighbourhood, and for
the first time felt free and without the opposition of anybody. I had
not written my mother or in any way let her know where I was, and no
disturbing word came from my past. I sang all day at my work, and in
the evening I joined my new companions and together we roamed and
frolicked to our hearts' content. I had many young men friends and could
satisfy my desire to be in their society, talk to, dance with them,
without arousing evil thoughts in others or, consequently, in ourselves.

"Under these happy influences I grew healthier and more wholesome in
every way. People began to say I was pretty, and indeed I did grow to be
very good-looking. My figure had reached its fullest development and the
rosy bloom of youth and of health was in my cheeks. I was strong and
vigorous, self-reliant and independent, and very happy. I became quite a
favourite and the recognised leader in the mischievous frolics of the
young people. Hardly an evening passed that did not bring a scene of
gaiety. It seemed to me that I had never lived before and that I was
making up for all the pleasures I had not known. There was, indeed,
something heartless and cruel in my happiness, for I never once wrote to
my mother, selfishly fearing to have my present joy disturbed.

"My fears had good reason, too, it seems, for I had lived in those
pleasant surroundings only a few months when one evening, while I was
enjoying myself at a moon-light picnic, I was approached by a sober,
stern-looking man who drew me away from my friends and asked me my name.
When I had told him, he showed me a newspaper clipping of an article
with the head-lines, 'Mysterious Disappearance of a Young Girl.' For
some moments I stood as if turned to stone, gazing stupidly at the
paper. Then troubled thoughts took possession of me. 'What shall I do?
What will become of me?' I remembered my mother so often saying that if
I ran away I would be put in the House of Correction. At this thought I
shuddered and exclaimed aloud, 'No, no.' The man had been watching me
closely and he asked: 'Is it true,' pointing to the article. I stared at
him, for a moment too absorbed in my inner terror to be very conscious
of him. When he repeated the question, I looked at him with a more
intelligent expression in my eyes, and he, seeing my condition, spoke to
me kindly and persuasively.

"'Tell me the truth,' he said, 'And I will help and advise you.' So I
told him the whole story, and he reassured me, saying, 'Don't be
afraid, little girl, I have no doubt your mother will forgive you if you
explain to her in the way you have to me. It is hard for children to
understand their parents. I know, for I have children of my own, and
sometimes they think me unkind when I am trying to do my best for them.'
He was kind, but he was firm, too, and said that if I did not write my
mother, he should do so himself. So I at last consented, and as a result
went back to the city: for my mother, my unfortunate, cruel mother,
wanted me for some strange reason, to be near her."


CHAPTER IV

_Adventures In Sex_


When Marie returned to her home, she found that her father had died. It
made little difference, practical or otherwise, to her or to her mother,
except to make her stay in the house less dangerous, though quite as
irksome, as formerly. Her mother had, of course, reproached her bitterly
for her conduct in running away, and had kept up her complaint so
constantly that Marie could hardly endure her home even for the night
and early morning. So for that reason, as well as for the need of making
her living, Marie went again into service, going quickly from one job to
another in the city.

And now there came for her a period of wildness, in the ordinary sense
of the word. It was not the simple joys of her Kenilworth experience.
She had returned to her mother's home in a kind of despair. It seemed
to her as if the innocent pleasures of life were not for her. She had
been torn away from her happiness and had been compelled to go back
to conditions she hated. Her passions were strong and her
seventeen-year-old senses were highly developed by premature work and
an irritating and ungenial home. So, in a kind of gloomy intensity,
she let herself go in the ordinary way of unguarded young girlhood.
She gave herself to a young fellow she met in the street one evening,
without joy but with deep seriousness. She did not even explain to him
that it was her first experience. She wanted nothing from him but the
passionate illusion of sex. And she parted from him without tenderness
and without explanations, to take up with other men and boys in the
same spirit of serious recklessness. She had for the time lost hope,
and therefore, of course, care for herself, and her intense and
passionate nature strove to live itself out to the limit: an instinct
for life and at the same time for destruction.

From this period of her life comes a story which she wrote for me, and
which I quote as being typical of her attitude and as throwing light on
her personality.

"The Southwest corner of State and Madison Streets is the regular
rendezvous of all sorts of men. They can be seen standing there every
afternoon and evening, gazing at the surging crowd which passes by. One
sees day after day the same faces, and one wonders why they are there,
for what they are looking. Some of these men have brutal, sensual faces;
others are cynical-looking and sneer. These, it seems, nothing can move
or surprise. They have a look which says: 'Oh, I know you, I have met
your kind before. You do not move me, nothing can. I have tried
everything, there is nothing new for me.' And yet they cannot tear
themselves away from this corner, coming day after day and night after
night, hoping against hope for some new adventure.

"Others stand there like owls, stupidly staring at the rushing tide of
faces. They see nothing, and yet are seemingly hypnotised by the
panorama of life. Here, too, pass the girls with the blond hair and the
painted faces; they ogle the men, and as they cross the street raise
their silken skirts a trifle, showing a bit of gay stocking. Here, too,
is the secret meeting-place of lovers, who clasp hands furtively,
glancing around with stealth. All this is seen by the sensual men, who
glance enviously at the lovers, and by the cynical men whose cold smiles
seem to say: 'Bah! how tiresome! wait, and your silly meetings will not
be so charming!'

"On my evenings off I had sometimes stopped to gaze at this, to me,
strangely moving sight. I saw in it then what I could not have seen a
few months before; but not as much as I can see now. Then it excited me
with the sense of a possible adventure. Strange, but I never went there
when I was happy, only when I was uncommonly depressed.

"On a chilly Sunday evening in October I was waiting on this corner to
take a car to the furnished room of a factory girl, named Alice, whom I
knew was out of town. As I was out of a job and did not want to go home,
I had availed myself of her place for a few days. As I was waiting on
this corner, I saw a face in the crowd that attracted me. It was, as I
afterward learned, the face of a club man, who had, on this Sunday
evening, drifted with the crowd and landed at this spot. He, too, had
stopped and gazed around him, idly. Several times he started as if to
move on, but he apparently thought this place as good as any other, and
so remained. He seemed not to know what to do, to be tired of himself.
His face was quite the ordinary American type, clean-cut features,
rather thin and cold, with honest grey eyes, but, in his case, a mouth
rather sensuous and a general air of curiosity and life which interested
me.

"I was sufficiently interested to allow several cars to pass by, while I
watched him. I noticed by the way he looked at the women who passed that
he was familiar with their kind. Several gay girls tried to attract his
attention, but he turned away, bored. Finally I began to walk away, and
then for the first time his face lighted up with interest. I was
apparently something new. I wore a straw hat, and a thin coat buttoned
tightly about my chest. My thin little face was almost ghastly with
pallor, and it made a strange contrast with my full red lips, which were
almost scarlet, and my big glowing black eyes. He probably saw that I
was poor, dressed as I was at that season. Why is it that for many rich
men a working girl half fed and badly dressed is so much more attractive
than a fine woman of the town or a nice lady?

"As I passed him, he said, 'Good evening,' in a low and timid tone, as
if he thought I surely would not answer. I think it surprised him when I
looked him full in the face and replied, 'Good evening!' He still
hesitated, until he saw in my face what I knew to be almost an appealing
look. I knew that in the depths of my eyes a smile was lurking, and I
wanted to bring it forth! A moment later, I smiled indeed, when he
stepped forward, lifted his hat, and asked with assurance: 'May I walk
with you? Are you going anywhere?'

"'Yes, I am going somewhere,' I said, smiling. 'To a meeting place in
Adams Street to hear a lecture.'

"'Oh, I say, girlie,' he cried, 'You're jollying. That must be a very
dull thing for you, a lecture.'

"'Sometimes it's funny,' I said. But I did not say much about it, as I
had never yet been to a lecture. I made up for that later in my life! I
of course had no intention of going to this.

"'Come,' he urged, 'let's go in somewhere and have something to eat and
drink.'

"'Yes, I will have something, not to eat, though, but let us go where
there are lots of people and lights and all that sort of thing,' I
finished, vaguely.

"Charley tucked my arm in his and we walked along State Street until we
came to a brilliantly lighted café. The place was crowded with
well-dressed men and beautiful women, eating and drinking, chatting and
laughing. Waiters were hastening to and fro. An orchestra was playing
gay music, as we wound our way through the crowd to a table. I was
painfully conscious that my shabby coat and straw hat attracted
attention. Some of the women stared at me with a look of conscious
superiority in their eyes, others with a look of still more galling
pity. Charley, too, I thought, seemed nervous. Perhaps he did not relish
being seen by some possible acquaintance with so dilapidated-looking a
person!

"But soon I lost consciousness of these things and gave myself up to the
scene and the music. My sense of pleasure seemed to communicate itself
to my companion, who ordered some drinks; I don't know what they were,
but they tasted good--some kind of cordial. I took longer and longer
sips: it was a new and very pleasant flavour. He ordered more of the
same kind and watched me with interest as I drank and looked about me.

"'Oh,' I said, 'what beautiful women, and how happy they are! look at
that one with the blond hair. Isn't she beautiful, a real dream?'

"Charley replied in a tone of contempt: 'Yes, she's beautiful, but I
would not envy her, if I were you--neither her happiness nor her good
looks. She needs those looks in her business. Nearly all the women here
belong to her class.'

"Charles looked at me intently as he said this. Perhaps he thought I
would be angry because he had brought me to such a place. But I watched
the girls with even greater interest and said: 'Ah, but they must be
happy!'

"Charles shrugged his shoulders and said, with contempt and some pity in
his eyes, 'A queer sort of happiness!'

"I looked at him rather angrily. He did not seem just to me.

"'You don't like them,' I said, 'you think they are vile and low. But
you men seem to need them, just the same. Oh! I think they are brave
girls!'

"Charles looked at me in apparent astonishment. But then a thought
seemed to strike him. He was thinking that I might be one of that class,
for he asked me questions which showed me plainly enough what he was
worrying about. He encouraged me to drink again, and said with a
self-confident laugh, 'you're a cute one but you cannot fool me with any
such tricks.'

"I paid no attention to his remarks, and did not answer any of his
personal questions. He could find out nothing about me. I would only
smile and say, 'I don't want to know anything about you, why can't you
treat me the same way?'

"I could see that the less he knew, the more interested he became. He
plied me with drinks, perhaps thinking that the sweet liquor would
loosen my tongue. Soon I began to feel a little queer and the room began
to go round, taking with it the faces of the men and women. After this
dizziness passed, I felt very happy indeed, and smiled at everybody in
the room; and wanted to go and tell them all how much I liked them. But
I did not dare trust my legs, they felt so heavy. I thought I would
like to stay there always, listening to the music and watching the
people.

"I suppose my happiness heightened my colour, for Charles said, 'what a
beautiful mouth you have, what red lips. One would almost believe they
were painted. How your upper lip lifts when you smile, Marie! Don't you
want to go out now?'

"'Yes, yes,' I replied, hastily, 'I must go home now.'

"I sprang from my chair, I made for the door, but he, quickly seizing
his hat, followed me and took my arm. I went very slowly for my feet
seemed weighted. They were inclined to go one way, while I went another.
So when Charles led me I was quite thankful. As we went out into the
street he asked me where I was living, what I did, and if I were
married, all in one breath. This made me laugh merrily, as I assured him
I was not married. I told him I lived away out on the West Side and that
he could see me home, if he wanted; but not to, if it was out of his
way, for I was used to going alone. He eagerly accepted, and we took a
car.

"I fell dreaming on the way, of all nice things. The days in Kenilworth
came back to me and I smiled to myself and wistfully hoped my present
happiness would last. My companion eagerly devoured me with his eyes,
and asked me many pressing questions. I answered only very vaguely, for
my mind was full of other things. So finally Charles, too, was silent,
and merely watched me.

"Suddenly I woke to the fact that I was at Alice's room, so I hastily
arose and signalled to the car to stop. Turning to Charles I extended my
hand in a good-bye and said: 'This is where I live.' But he quickly got
off with me saying he would see me to the house. 'I don't like to leave
you alone this time of night,' he said. As we stopped in front of the
dilapidated-looking frame building where I was staying for a few days,
he seemed much embarrassed and not to know what to say. Pointing
upwards, I said, 'that's where I live.' 'Do you live alone?' he asked.
'Yes, now, not always. Good night--Charles,' I answered, mischievously,
but with a real and disturbing feeling taking possession of me.

"But he seized me by the hand: 'Don't leave me yet, girlie,' he pleaded.
'Think how lonesome I'll be when you are gone!' He drew me to him in
the darkness, and I did not object, why should I? My lips seemed to
prepare themselves and after one long kiss that sad intensity seized me;
and I sighed or sobbed, I don't know which, as we went up the stairs
together.

       *       *       *       *       *

"An hour later, as he was about to descend the stairs, I said: 'Charles,
when will you come again?'

"'Oh, I can't tell,' he replied 'but it will be soon.'

"'Well,' I said, 'remember I shall be here only a few days. Alice will
be back within the week. Come Wednesday evening.'

"But he left with the remark that it might not be possible! I did not
care for him deeply, of course, it was only an adventure, but this stung
me deeply. The light way he took what he wanted and then seemed to want
to have no tie remaining! I felt as he did, too, really, but I did not
want him to feel so! I imagined in what a self-satisfied mood he must
be, how he walked off, with his lighted cigar! He probably wondered what
sort of a girl this was who had given herself so easily? Partly, too,
no doubt, he laid it to his charm and masculine virtue: though he knew
women were weak creatures, he also knew that men were strong! Ah! I
could almost hear him muse aloud, in my imagination. His reveries,
perhaps, would run about like this:

"'I was rather lucky to happen along this evening! She was certainly
worth while, though pretty weak, I must say. She had fine eyes and, by
jove, what a mouth! She said, "Wednesday." I think I will go, though it
is never good policy to let girls be too sure of you. Besides, how do I
know she isn't playing me some game?'

"I didn't know as much then as I do now about man's nature, but now I
make no doubt that as the time passed between then and Wednesday
Charles's desire grew: it began with indifference, but ended, I am sure,
with intensity: for men are like that! Their fancy works in the absence,
not in the presence, of the girl. I am sure the girl with the red lips
and the deep dark eyes haunted him more and more as time went on!

"At the time, I didn't know just why, but I did know that I wanted
nothing more of Charley. He had never been anything but a man to me--he
was a moment in my life, that was all. But I decided to meet him, for
only in that way could I really finish the affair. Otherwise, if I
merely broke the engagement, he could imagine whatever he wanted to
account for it. No, he must be under no illusion. He must know that I
did not want him!

"I waited for him in front of the house, and on the appointed hour he
arrived, looking very happy and eager. He greeted me with much warmth,
to which I responded coldly. He suggested going inside, but I said: 'No,
I am going away. I have been waiting here to tell you so, in case you
came to-night.'

"'But,' he exclaimed in an aggrieved tone, 'Did not you ask me to come,
and now you say you are going away. Is that fair to me?'

"I shrugged my shoulders and said, 'I don't know, but I'm going.
Good-bye,' and I turned from him and started to walk away. His tone
changed to anger, as he said: 'Now, see here, Marie, I won't stand for
any nonsense of this kind. You can't treat me like this, you know. What
right have you to act in this lying way?'

"I had been walking away and he following, and as he stopped talking, he
took my arm, which I jerked away and impatiently said: 'Well, to be
frank, I don't want you to-night. Whether I have a right to act so, I
don't know or care. Why I asked you to come I don't know, unless it was
because I felt different from what I do now.'

"Charles adopted a more conciliating tone and asked me when he might
come. His interest in me seemed to grow with my resistance.

"'I guess you'd better not come at all,' I said, coolly.

"'But I want to,' he said. 'Do name the night, any night you say.'

"Then I turned to him with angry eyes, and cried out, 'Oh, how stupid
you are! Don't you understand that I don't want you at all?'

"I again started to walk away, but he seized my arm and shouted angrily:
'You cannot leave me like this without explaining some things to me. In
the first place, why did you pull me on last Saturday night, and who are
you to turn me down like this?' I answered, with flashing eyes, 'I owe
you no explanation, but I will answer your questions. As to who the girl
is who can dare to turn you down, you know very well she is not what you
think, or you wouldn't so much object to being turned down, as you call
it. As to pulling you on, you were the first to speak or, at any rate,
it was mutual, so you need not demand any explanation. What you really
want to know is why I don't want you now. If I were a man like you, I
suppose I should never even think of explaining to anyone why I happened
to change in feeling toward some persons, but as I'm a woman, it's
different. I must explain!'

"This speech I have no doubt made him angry, but his pride came to the
rescue and he said with a show of indifference: 'I was angry, it is
true, but only for a moment. It was irritating to me to have a girl like
you show the nerve to throw me down; for I'm not accustomed to associate
with your sort.'

"At this insolence my face flushed hotly and I opened my mouth to make
some indignant reply, but I thought better of it and only walked away,
laughing softly to myself. As I went away, I heard him mutter, 'What a
cat.'

"But, I imagine, he didn't forget me so easily. I have no doubt that the
girl with the red lips and deep dark eyes haunted him for a long time.
Who was this girl who had given herself to him once and only once? It is
this kind of a mystery that makes a man dream and dream and curse
himself.

"Will you be _very_ sorry to miss the fun?"
Leslie muttered something about not minding _much_, and then the brave
little fellow set himself to help the poor old woman home, as gently and
tenderly as he could.

She would not let him come in with her, but told him to run off as
quickly as he could, and perhaps after all, he would not be too
late for the skating.

But Leslie could not bear to leave her alone and in pain, so he
decided to run home and fetch his Aunt.

When Mrs.

Howard arrived at the cottage, you can think how surprised she was to
find that Leslie's "poor old woman" was none other than Grandmamma
Howard herself, who wishing to find out the real characters of her
grandsons, had chosen to come in this disguise to the little village
where they lived.

You will easily guess which of the three boys Grandmamma chose
to be her little companion.

And oh! what a lovely Grandmamma she was, as not only Leslie, but his
cousins too, found out. She always seemed to know exactly what a boy
wanted, and still better, to give it to him.

Walter and Stanley often felt terribly ashamed of the selfish manner
in which they had behaved, and wished they were more like Leslie.

But Grandmamma told them that it was "never too late to mend," and they
took her advice, and I am quite sure that at the present moment if
they were to meet a poor old woman in distress by the roadside,
they would not pass her by, as they once did Grandmamma Howard.

ANNA MORRISON.

THE DOLLS' CHRISTMAS PARTY.

It was the week before Christmas, and the dolls In the toy-shop played
together all night. The biggest one was from Paris.

One night she said, "We ought to have a party before Santa Claus carries
us away to the little girls.

I can dance, and I will show you how."
"I can dance myself if you will pull the string," said a "Jim Crow"
doll.

"What shall we have for supper?" piped a little boy-doll in a Jersey
suit. He was always thinking about eating.

"Oh, dear," cried the French lady, "I don't know what we shall do for
supper!"

"I can get the supper," added a big rag doll. The other dolls had
never liked her very well, but they thanked her now. She had taken lessons
at a cooking-school, and knew how to make cake and candy.
She gave French names to everything she made, and this made it taste
better. Old Mother Hubbard was there, and she said the rag doll did not
know how to cook anything.

They danced in one of the great shop-windows. They opened a toy piano, and
a singing-doll played "Comin' through the Rye," The dolls did not find
that a good tune to dance by; but the lady did not know any other,
although she was the most costly doll in the shop.

Then they wound up a music-box, and danced by that. This did very
well for some tunes; but they had to walk around when it played
"Hail Columbia," and wait for something else.

The "Jim Crow" doll had to dance by himself, for he could do nothing
but a "break-down." He would not dance at all unless some one pulled his
string. A toy monkey did this; but he would not stop when the dancer
was tired.

They had supper on one of the counters. The rag doll placed some boxes
for tables. The supper was of candy, for there was nothing in the shop
to eat but sugar hearts and eggs. The dolls like candy better than
anything else, and the supper was splendid.

Patsy McQuirk said he could not eat candy.

He wanted to know what kind of a supper it was without any potatoes. He
got very angry, put his hands into his pockets, and smoked his pipe.

It was very uncivil for him to do so in company. The smoke made the
little ladies sick, and they all tried to climb into a "horn of plenty"
to get out of the way.

Mother Hubbard and the two black waiters tried to sing "I love
Little Pussy;" but the tall one in a brigand hat opened his mouth
wide, that the small dollies were afraid they might fall into it.

The clown raised both arms in wonder, and Jack in the Box sprang up
as high as me could to look down into the fellow's throat.

All the baby-dolls in caps and long dresses had been put to bed. They
woke up when the others were at supper, and began to cry. The big doll
brought them some candy, and that kept them quiet for some time.

The next morning a little girl found the toy piano open. She was sure
the dolls had been playing on it. The grown-up people thought
it had been left open the night before; but they do not understand dolls
as well as little people do.

VIOLA ROSEBOROUGH

GRANDMA'S CHRISTMAS GIFTS.

Grandma Burns sat knitting busily in the sun one bright morning the
week before Christmas.

The snow lay deep, and the hard crust glistened like silver. All at
once she heard little sighs of grief outside her door. When
she opened it there sat Peter and Jimmy Rice, two very poor little
boys, with their faces in their hands; and they were crying.

"My patience!" cried grandma. "What can be the matter with two bright
little boys this sunny morning?"
"We don't have no good times," sighed little Peter.

"We can't slide. We haven't any sleds," whimpered Jimmy.

"Why, of course boys can't have a good time without sleds," said grandma,
cheerily. "Let us look about and see if we can't find something."
And grandma's cap-border bobbed behind barrels and boxes in the
shed and all among the cobwebs in the garret; but nothing could be found
suitable.

"Hum! I do believe this would do for little Pete;" and the dear
old lady drew a large, pressed-tin pan off the top shelf in the
pantry.

A long, smooth butter-tray was found for Jimmy. Grandma shook her
cap-border with laughter to see them skim over the hard crust in their
queer sleds. And the boys shouted and swung their hands as they flew
past the window.

"I do expect they'll wear 'em about through," murmured grandma; "but boys
must slide,--that's certain."

And the pan was scoured as bright as a new silver dollar and the
red paint was all gone off the wooden tray when Peter and Jimmy
brought their sleds back.

Grandma knitted faster than ever all that day, and her face was bright
with smiles. She was planning something. She went to see Job Easter that
night. He promised to make two small sleds for the pair of socks she was
knitting.

When the sleds were finished she dyed them red and drew a yellow
horse upon each one.

Grandma called them horses, but no one would have suspected it. Then the
night before Christmas she drew on her great socks over her shoes to keep
her from slipping, put on her hood and cloak, and dragged the little
sleds over to Peter and Timmy's house.

She hitched them to the door-latch, and went home laughing all the
way.

MAMA'S HAPPY CHRISTMAS.

It had seemed to the little Wendell children that they would have
a very sad Christmas.

Mama had been very ill, and papa had been so anxious about mama that he
could not think of anything else.

When Christmas Day came, however, mama was so much better that she could
lie on the lounge. The children all brought their stockings into
her room to open them.

"You children all seem as happy as if you had had your usual Christmas
tree," said mama, as they sat around her.

"Why, I _never_ had such a happy Christmas before," said sweet little
Agnes. "And it's just because you are well again."
"Now I think you must all run out for the rest of the day," said
the nurse, "because your mama wants to see you all again this
evening."

"I wish we could get up something expressly for mama's amusement," said
Agnes, when they had gone into the nursery.

"How would you like to have some tableaux in here?" asked their French
governess, Miss Marcelle.

"Oh, yes," they all cried, "it would be fun, mama loves tableaux."
So all day long they were busy arranging five tableaux for the
evening.

The tableaux were to be in the room which had folding-doors opening into
Mrs. Wendell's sitting-room.

[Illustration: MAMA'S HAPPY CHRISTMAS]
At the proper time Miss Marcelle stepped outside the folding-doors and
made a pretty little speech. She said that some young ladies and
a young gentleman had asked permission to show some tableaux to
Mrs.
Wendell if she would like to see them. Mrs. Wendell replied that she
would be charmed.

    Then mademoiselle announced the
     tableaux; opening the doors
     wide for each one.

This is a list of the tableaux: First, The Sleeping Beauty; second,
Little Red Riding Hood; third, The Fairy Queen; fourth, Old Mother Hubbard;
fifth, The Lord High Admiral.

Miss Marcelle had arranged everything so nicely, and Celeste, the
French maid, helped so much with the dressing, that the pictures
all went off without a single mistake.

[Illustration: LITTLE RED RIDING HOOD]
[Illustration: THE LORD HIGH ADMIRAL]
Mama was delighted. She said she must kiss those dear young ladies,
and that delightful young man who had given her such a charming surprise.

So all the children came in rosy and smiling.

"Why, didn't you know us?" asked the little Lord Admiral.

"I know this," said mama, "I am like Agnes; I _never_ had such a happy
Christmas before."
MIRIAM T. BARNARD.

THE CHRISTMAS CAROL OF THE BIRDS.

Do you know, when we are having such good times at Christmas, what
sweet music they have in Norway, that cold country across the sea? One
day in the year the simple peasants who live there make the birds
very happy, so that they sing, of their own free-will, a glad,
joyous carol on Christmas morning.

And this is why they sing on that morning more than on any other. After
the birds have found shelter from the north wind on Christmas-eve, and
the night is still and bright with stars, or even if the storm be ever
so severe, the good people bring out sheaves of corn and wheat from
their storehouses. Tying them on slender poles, they raise them from
every spire, barn, gatepost, and gable; then, when the Christmas sun
rises over the hills, every spire and gable bursts forth into joyous
song.

You can well believe that these songs of the birds make the people
of Norway very happy. They echo, with all their hearts, their living,
grateful anthem, "Glory to God in the highest, on earth peace, good-will
to men!"
MRS. G. HALL.

A TURKEY FOR ONE.

Lura's Uncle Roy is in Japan. He used to take Christmas dinner at Lura's
home. Now he could only write her papa to say a box of gifts had
been sent, and one was for his little girl.

The little girl clapped her hands, crying, "Oh, mamma! don't you think
it is the chain and locket dear uncle said he would sometime give
me?"
"No," replied her papa, reading on. "Your uncle says it is a turkey for
one."
"But we do not need turkeys from Japan," remarked the little daughter,
soberly.

Her papa smiled, and handed the open letter to her mamma.

"Read it aloud, every bit," begged Lura, seeing her mamma was smiling,
too.

But her mamma folded the letter and said nothing.

On Christmas eve the box, which had just arrived, was opened,
and every one in the house was made glad with a present. Lura's was a
papier-mache turkey, nearly as large as the one brought home at the
same time by the market-boy.

Next morning, while the fowl in the kitchen was being roasted, Lura
placed hers before a window and watched people admire it as they passed.
All its imitation feathers, and even more its red wattles, seemed to
wish every man and woman, boy and girl, a Merry Christmas.

Lura had not spoken of the jewelry since her uncle's letter was read.
It is not nice for one who receives a gift to wish it was different.

Lura was not that kind of a child.

When dinner was nearly over, her papa said to her, "My dear, you have
had as much of my turkey as you wanted; if you please, I will now try
some of yours."
"Mine is what Uncle Roy calls a turkey for one," laughed Lura. She
turned in her chair towards where her bird had been strutting on
the window-sill, and added, in surprise, "Why, what has become of
him?"

At that moment the servant brought in a huge platter. When room had
been made for it on the table it was set down in front of Lura's papa,
and on the dish was her turkey.

"Oh, what fun!" gayly exclaimed the child. "Did uncle tell you to pretend
to serve it?"
"I have not finished what he directs me to do," her papa said, with a
flourish of the carving-knife.

"But, papa--oh, please!" Her hand was on his arm. "You would not spoil
my beautiful bird from Japan!

A hidden spring was touched with the point of the knife. The breast opened,
and disclosed the fowl filled with choice toys and other things.
The first taken out was a tiny box; inside was a gold chain and
locket; the locket held Uncle Roy's picture.

It was a turkey for one,--for only Uncle Roy's niece. But all the
family shared the amusement.

LAVINIA S. GOODWIN.

LITTLE CHRISTMAS CAROLLERS.

We are a band of carollers, We march through frost and snow, But care not
for the weather As on our way we go.

At every hall or cottage That stands upon our way, We stop to give the
people Best wishes for the day.

We pray a merry Christmas, Made bright by Christmas cheer, With peace,
and hope, and gladness And all they may hold dear.

And for all those that happen To pass us on our way We have a smile, and
wish them A merry Christmas-day.

L.A. FRANCE

[Illustration: CHRISTMAS CAROLLERS]

WHAT HAPPENED CHRISTMAS EVE.

It was Christmas Eve and the frost fairies were busy getting ready for
Christmas Day. First of all they spread the loveliest white snow carpet
over the rough, bare ground; then they hung the bushes and trees with
icicles that flashed like diamonds in the moonlight. Later on, they
planned to draw beautiful frost pictures on the window panes, to surprise
the little children in the morning.

The stars shone brightly and the moon sent floods of light in every
nook and corner. How could any one think of sleeping when there was such
a glory outside!

Jessie and Fred had gone to bed very early so they might be the
first to shout "Merry Christmas!"

but their eyes would not stay shut.

"Oh dear! it must be 'most morning," said Fred; "let us creep softly
down stairs and maybe we'll catch Santa Claus before he rides off."
Hand in hand they tiptoed to the dining-room and peeped out the big
window;--surely, surely, that was something climbing up the roof of
cousin Nellie's house; it must be old Santa. Fred gave a chuckle
of delight; to be sure the reindeer were very queer looking objects, and
the sleigh such a funny shape, but the children were satisfied.

The old fir tree, whose high branches almost touched the roof, knew
all about those shadows, but it was so old no one could ever
understand a word of the many tales it told.

"There's something scratching on the door," whispered Jessie; but
it was only a mouse, who had sniffed the delightful odors of the
Christmas goodies and was trying his best to find a way into the
pantry and test them with his sharp teeth.

"Come," said Jessie, "we'll turn to icicles if we stay here much,
longer"; so up-stairs they quickly scampered.

Papa had been to town on an errand, so it was quite late when he
came home.

As he was hunting in his pockets for his key, he heard a pitiful
cry, and looking down he saw a big, white cat carrying a tiny kitten in
her mouth.

"Poor thing," said papa, "you shall come inside till morning."
Santa Claus had been there with the nicest wagon for Fred and a warm,
seal-skin cap that lay right in the middle of it. When papa left the
room, puss and her kitty were curled up comfortably on the rug singing
their sleepy song.

The sun was shining brightly in the dining-room window when Jessie
and Fred made their appearance; then Fred just laughed with delight,
for right in the crown of his new cap lay the cutest white kitten,
with big, blue eyes and wee pink nose, while standins close by as
if to guard her darling from danger, was good old mother puss.

"I never had a live Christmas present before," said Fred, "now I know
Santa Claus read the letter I threw up the chimney because I told him
to bring me a kitten and here it is."
Papa smiled and looked at mamma, and then everybody said "Merry Christmas"
at once.

OLIVER HERFOLD.

SUSY'S CHRISTMAS PRESENT.
"Tell us a story, nursie; please do", begged two little golden-haired
girls, as they snuggled on the soft rug before the fire. "Did you
ever have just what you wished for at Christmas, when you were a
little girl?"
"Yes, I did once. I was the oldest, and had two brothers and three
little sisters. We did not have a beautiful home like this. We lived
in a little cottage. It was pretty, though, in the summer time,
when the roses and pinks were in bloom. My father was dead, and
mother worked for the rich people around the village. There was
plenty to do about holiday times.
"It was the day before Christmas. Mother was at the house of a very
rich and kind lady. She was going to have a grand party in the
evening.
"Mother told me, when she went away, to mind the children, and
perhaps I might have a nice Christmas present. I knew we should
have plenty of candy and cake, and other nice things, from Mrs.
Reid's. We often had pretty clothes, too, that Mamie and Robbie
Reid had outgrown.
"I had been wishing for a muff; but I knew Mother could not afford
to buy me one. It was hard enough even to get shoes for us all. I
thought I should have to be satisfied with mittens.
"It was quite dark, and we all sat around the fire. I had rocked
Tilly to sleep and put her to bed. Willie and Joe were playing
cat's-cradle.
The rest of us were making believe we were rich and could have all
we wanted for Christmas.
"All at once there was a heavy step on the porch, and a knock at
the door. I opened it, with Margie and Amy clinging to my dress. A
boy shoved a big box into the room and shouted, 'A merry Christmas
to you!' He then ran out at the gate.
"The box had all our names on the cover, and the children were wild
to see what was inside.
"'Wait till mother comes,' I said; and pretty soon we heard her at
the gate, She seemed surprised, and said Santa Claus had remembered
us early.
"Mother advised us to go to bed and wait until morning to see our
presents. It was pretty hard; but we had some oranges and candy,
and I put the boys to bed. Margie and I wondered and guessed what
was in the box; but at last we fell asleep.
"You may be sure we were up early in the morning. There were dolls
and toys for the little ones, with hoods and mittens, and for me a
lovely squirrel muff, lined with blue, with a soft little boa for
my neck. I was a happy girl that Christmas, I can tell you.
"And now, my dears, you must go to bed, or Santa Claus will not be
able to find your stockings."
"Oh! I hope I shall have what I want to-morrow!" said Gracie.
"And I, too," echoed Helen. "And your story was very nice, nursie."
"Good-night, and call us early in the morning."
SANTA CLAUS'S LETTER.
Christmas was coming. Jamie and Ted had already begun to write long
letters to Santa Claus. But one thing was rather queer: both boys
asked him for the same things.
Each little letter ended with,--"Just like Brother's."
They agreed to ask for only one sled. They would rather ride
together.
Now was not this very sweet and loving?
One night, after they had gone to bed, Jamie said, "Ted, if Santa
Claus brings us skates, Jim can teach us how to use them."
"Oh, yes; and if we get fur mittens it will be such fun to make a
fort." 
"And a snow-man," Jamie answered.
Ted went oh: "I'll always ride the sled down a hill, and you can
ride it up." 
"I guess you won't," Jamie said, speaking loudly.
"Why not?" Ted asked.
"Because it'll be as much my sled as yours."
"Yes, of course," Ted replied; "but I chose it first."
"You are a selfish boy!" said Jamie.

"Well, then, so are you!"
"I don't care. I won't sleep with you. I'll ask mamma if I can't
have the first pick; I'm the biggest," roared Jamie, bounding out
of bed.
"You're a big, cross cry baby," Ted shouted, jumping out after his
brother.
Away ran Jamie to mamma, with Ted at his heels. Both were angry.
Both talked at once.
Mamma was grieved. Her dear little boys had never been so unkind
to each other before. She kissed their hot faces and stroked their
pretty hair. She told them how their naughty words hurt her. She
showed them how displeased God was to see two little brothers
quarrel.
That night they went to sleep in each other's arms, full of love
and forgiveness.
Christmas morning came at last. Very early the boys crept out of
bed, just to "feel" their stockings.
Papa heard them, and, remembering that he was once a boy lighted
the gas.
Each little red stocking was full from toe to top. Boxes and paper
parcels were piled around them. Such shouting! Such a good time!
It seemed as if all their letters had been answered.
Suddenly Jamie cried, "O Ted, here's a letter!"
They put their little heads together, and with papa's help spelled
this out:--
"My dear Boys,--No sled this year. It quarrelled so I was afraid
to bring it. I dropped it off the load about a week ago. Get ready
for it next year. Merry Christmas! SANTA CLAUS."
A RAGGED CHRISTMAS FEAST.
On Christmas day there is a great feast in Dublin. This, you know,
is the chief city of Ireland. The feast is made for the children.
There are in that city a great many little ones who are very very
poor.
There are kind people there, also, who look after these poor
children.
They have what they call "ragged schools," where many of them are
taught to read, and to sew, and other useful things.
Dr. Nelaton is a famous minister in Dublin, and every year he, with
other good people, gets up this great feast for the children.
About eight hundred of them came last year. Some of these were only
half-clad, and all were very ragged. They were seated at long,
narrow tables, which were covered with a white cloth, The children
from the ragged schools wore aprons in bright colors, to hide their
rags. Each school had a color of its own. These aprons were only
lent them for the day, and the children felt very fine in them. But
there were two long rows without any aprons. These were little ones
who had been picked up along the streets. Each ragged scholar had
permission to bring all the children he could find. And, oh, how
ragged and dirty these two rows were!
But they brightened up, just like the children with aprons, when
they saw the feast. A huge mug of steaming tea and an immense bun
to each child! Rarely did they have such a treat as this. And how
they did eat! Each child had all he wanted. It would have done you
good to see their poor, pinched faces beam with delight. During the
meal a large throng of orphan children in the gallery sung some
sweet songs. Then, after the feast, there were small gifts, and
little speeches and prayers, and more songs. The little ragged ones
seemed like new beings in this atmosphere of love. Such a glad day
as that Christmas was a rare event in their sad lives. Children who
live in happy homes know little about the sufferings of the poor.
Perhaps, if they knew more, such little ones would try harder, by
gifts and kind acts, to carry sunshine to sorrowful hearts.I am trying merely to express.
Prepared for everything, I have forgiven everything, even myself.
Everything that could happen has happened to me, perhaps the worst that
happened did not come from without, but from within. My family came off
safely enough from the fray of the factory. Only two of us were maimed
for life and five claimed for death--out of a family of eleven. That
left half a dozen for the statistician to figure on."

Terry, a transcendental poet, who worked in the shop for many years, had
quit it some time before he met Marie. The above letter shows, in a
general way, the mood which finally brought about his social self-exile,
so to speak. The letter which follows gives a specific instance of the
kind of experience which disgusted the idealist with the imperfect
world. He had been living against society, had foregathered with
outcasts and had thrown down the gauntlet generally to organised
society, for some years, but he still from time to time worked at some
job or other. An incident happening some years after the meeting with
Marie, which is still to be described, is sufficiently typical of what
finally threw him entirely out from society to be truthfully
illustrative at this point.

"I was keeping open house for all comers, regardless of law or order,
morality or money. I wished to hurl myself and my theories to the test,
and gauntlet my defiance to a withered world. It was a happy time,
looked back on now as a dream, in which, however, there was an undertone
of nightmare. We had three little rooms up many mild flights of
unbalustered stairs. Our main furniture consisted of mattresses which,
like morning clouds, were rolled away when the sun arose.

"For the shocking salary of six dollars a week I was collector for the
Prudential Insurance company. One rent day I lacked the necessary four
dollars and a half. I telegraphed my other ego, my dear brother Jim, in
Pittsburg. The same day brought from him a telegraph money-order for
twenty-five dollars, and soon afterward a letter asking me to go to
Pittsburg and help him out. I had always been deemed an expert in the
leather line, especially in locating anything wrong in the various
processes. My brother was a member of a new millionaire leather firm,
which was losing thousands of dollars every week because they were
unable to locate the weakness in the process. Jim wanted me to find the
flaw.

"It was with the utmost repugnance that I quit my happy slum life, but I
loved Jim, and it was the call of the ancient clan in my blood. When I
arrived in Pittsburg, without a trunk, and with other marks of the
proletarian on me, Mr. Kirkman, the millionaire tanner, showered me with
every luxury--every luxury except that of thought and true emotion.
Never before did I realise so intensely my indifference to what money
can buy. My private office in the shop was stocked with wines and
imported cigarettes: but I was not so well off as in my happy slum.

"I toiled like a sleepless sisyphus, and one day, in a flash of
intuition, I located and showed the flaw in an obscure process; I was
completely successful.

"I had put no price on my services. For Jim's sake, I had worked like a
Trojan, physically and mentally, for a month. With unlimited money at my
disposal, I had drawn only twenty dollars altogether, and this I sent to
Marie, to keep the wolf away from the Rogues' Gallery, our flat.

"When the factory was running smoothly, I told Mr. Kirkman that I would
break in a man for my place. He made me a tempting offer to take full
charge of the shop. I told him I would not be a participant in
exploiting his 'hands,' who were getting only $7 to $8 a week.
Furthermore, I said I would not stand for the discharge of any man for
incompetency. I had never in the shop met any man I could not teach and
learn something from in return; I had never discharged a man, and never
would. The millionaire boss nevertheless continued to urge me to take
the position, and my brother Jim offered me two thousand dollars' worth
of stock at par and a large yearly salary. Well, I suppose, there's no
use of anybody's trying to move me when Jim has failed.

"I quit Pittsburg with nothing but the price of a ticket to Chicago,
though my brother told me the firm would send me a check for $500 or
$1,000 for my services as an expert. When, with a beating heart, I
returned to my dear Rogues' Gallery, all was change and dispersion. No
more happy times in our little balcony of fellowship, which had
overlooked in its irresponsibility the jarring sects and insects of this
world: the most delightful place in this world to me is a home without a
boss, and this home was for the time gone. The possibility of being
unfair to Marie makes me draw a veil over the cause of the breaking-up
of the Rogues' Gallery.

"Poor Jim found that the firm would not pay me a cent for my really
brilliant month's work, for the reason that I had refused to be a
conventional boss and had no written or verbal contract or agreement.
Jim therefore resigned, forfeiting fifty dollars of weekly salary and
twenty-five thousand dollars in stock, ten thousand of which he had
offered me to stay. Mr. Kirkman thought all the world of Jim and could
not run the shop without him. Nor could he recover from the blow, for he
loved my brother, as everybody did. Mr. Kirkman died a few weeks
afterward, and after a year or two the firm went into the hands of a
receiver. All this happened because of a few paltry dollars, which I did
not ask for, for which I did not care a damn--and this is business! I
heartily rejoice, if not in Mr. Kirkman's death, at least in the
dispersion of his family and their being forced into our ranks, where
there is some hope for them.

"My brother Jim was one of the maimed ones in my family. Twenty years
ago, defective machinery and a surgeon's malpractice made one arm
useless. The Pittsburg affair broke up his beautiful home. He and his
whole-souled wife and charming children, into whose eyes it was an
entrancing rapture for me to look, were a family without a boss; they
needed none, for they loved one another perfectly. Jim is dead now, and
the best I can do is to send you his last letter; it has the brevity of
grief:

"'I have no explanation to offer for my silence, more than a feeling
which possessed me shortly after my arrival here--a desire to be
considered a dead one, and am doing all but the one thing that will make
my wish a reality. I am long tired of the game, and only continue to
play because of the hardships my taking off would cause those who at
present are not able to care for themselves. A way out of it would be to
take them along, but I think if the matter were put before them, they
would decline my proffered service; and take a chance as half-orphans.
You calling up our boyhood days in "Little Hell" makes me question still
further if I have any right to deny those dear to me the delights that
only the young can feel and enjoy. I made a great mistake in coming to
this Ohio town. The chase for dollars which I am performing here seven
days every week is very disgusting to me, and every day only adds to the
pangs. I am out all day selling goods, pleading for trade and collecting
for former weeks' business; and in the evening I must do the necessary
office work. Every day is the same, except Sunday, when I make up the
book-keeping for the whole week and prepare statements and the like, to
begin the usual round on Monday morning. It is a hell of a life and I
wish it were done. I have some consolation in being able to call up at
will those that I love. I have many a waking dream, while tramping the
hills, about the comrades that have added to the joys of my former
existence. Let me hear from you occasionally, because a letter from you
seems to revive some of the old feeling that formerly made life
passable.'

       *       *       *       *       *

"I suppose I shall recover in time from Jim's death. I wish I could have
been with him when he died. During his last half-unconscious moments the
nurse proposed to send for a priest. Jim's soul must have made a last
effort, for raising himself erect, he flung these words: 'I hire no
spiritual nurse,' and then asked his daughter of fourteen to bring him
a volume of Emerson and read to him. When she returned with the book, he
was gone.

"Of course, the doctor and all the wise ones have diagnosed Jim's case.
But I think he sized up his case in that letter I sent you. He died of
that great loneliness of soul which made of his wasted body a battered
barricade against the stupidity which finally engulphed him. The soul of
social and individual honour and commercial integrity, he had the
misfortune to find few like himself. He yearned for the ideal; and I am
sure he went down with that hope for humanity. Let us trust that there
is an ever increasing number of human beings who have Jim's
malady--'seekers after something in this world, that is there in no
satisfying measure, or not at all.' If this letter seems boisterously
blue, remember it is only the sullen marching of the black sap preceding
the unfurling of the emerald banners of spring, when all things break
into a 'shrill green.'"

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Terry's letter, like Marie's, I give verbatim.--H. H.


CHAPTER VII

_The Meeting_


The mood of rebellious idealism sometimes expresses itself in actual
anti-social conduct and life. So it was with Terry. He is the most
consistent anarchist I have known, in the sense that he more nearly
rejects, practically, all social institutions and forms of conduct and
morality. He is very sweet, and very gentle, loves children and is
tender to every felt relation. There is a wistful look always in his
eyes. He is tall, thin, and gaunt, his hair is turning grey; but there
is nothing of the let-down of middle age in his nature, always tense,
intense; scrupulously, deeply rebellious.

Even before his meeting with Marie, his open acts of sympathy with what
is rejected by society had put him more and more in the position of an
outcast. Some of the members of his family had become fairly successful
in the ways of the world. Terry might easily have taken his place in
comfortable bourgeois society. But his temperament and his idealism led
him to the disturbed life of the radical rejector. And he was rejected,
in turn, by all, even by his family.

Between him and his mother there was perhaps an uncommon bond, but even
she in the end cast him out. He wrote of her:

"She taught me that I did not belong in this world; she did not know how
deeply she was right. When she crossed my arms over my childish breast
at night and bade me be prepared, she gave me the motive of my life. She
told me I would weep salt tears in this world, and they have run into my
mouth. She loved me, as I never have been loved before or since, even up
to the hour of my social crucifixion: then she basely deserted me. But I
rallied, and the motive she implanted in me remains. Though a child
without any childhood, I had my reason for existence, just the same.
Everything is meaningless and transitory, except to be prepared. And I
finally became prepared for anything and everything. My life was and is
a preparation--for what? For social crucifixion, I suppose, for I belong
to those baffled beings who are compelled to unfold within because there
is no place for them without. I am a remaining product of the slums,
consciously desiring to be there. I know its few heights and many
depths. There have I seen unsurpassed devotion and unbelievable
atrocities, which I would not dare, even if I could, make known. The
truth, how can we stand it, or stand for it? I think a sudden revelation
has wofully unbalanced many a fine mind. Hamlet, revealing himself to
Ophelia, drives distraught one of the sweetest of souls. Fortunately we
never know the whole truth, which may account for man being gregarious.
One cannot help noticing that they who have a hopeless passion for truth
are left largely alone--when nothing worse can be inflicted upon them."

Terry's experience in the slums was no other than many another's, but
the effect it made upon his great sensibility was far from ordinary. In
another letter, speaking of what he calls his "crucifixion," he wrote:

"Only great sorrow keeps us close, and that is why, the first night
after one of my deepest quarrels with my mother, I picked out a
five-cent lodging-house, overlooking my home, to pass the night of my
damnation in sight of the lost paradise. I never had any reason, or I
would have lost it. Let me hope that I am guided by something deeper
than that. All my life I have felt the undertone of society; it has
swept me to the depths, which I touched lovingly and fearfully with my
lips.

"Whenever and wherever I have touched the depths, and it has been
frequent and prolonged, and have seen the proletarian face to face,
naked spiritually and physically, the appeal in his eyes is irresistible
and irrefutable. I must do something for him or else I am lost to
myself. If I should ever let an occasion go by I am sure I never could
recover from the feeling that something irreparable had happened to me.
I should not mind failure, but to fail here and in my own eyes is to be
forever lost and eternally damned. This looks like the religion of my
youth under another guise, but I must find imperishable harmony
somewhere. The apathy of the mass oppresses me into a hopeless
helplessness which may account for my stagnation, my ineffectiveness, my
impotence, my stupidity, my crudeness, and my despair. I have always
felt lop-sided, physically, especially in youth. My awkwardness became,
too, a state of mind at the mercy of any spark of suggestion. My
subjectively big head I tried to compress into a little hat, my
objectively large hands concealed themselves in subjective pockets, my
poor generous feet went the way of the author of _Pilgrim's Progress_.
The result is a lop-sided mind, developed monstrously in certain
sensitive directions, otherwise not at all. A born stumbler in this
world, I naturally lurched up against society--but, as often happens I
have lost the thread of my thought: my thoughts, at the critical moment,
frequently desert me, as my family did; they seem to carry on an
alluring flirtation, and when I think them near they suddenly wave me
from the distance. But, like a lover, I will follow on--follow on to
platonic intercourse with my real mistress, the proletarian. And soul
there is there. I have met as fathomless spirits among the workers as
one will meet with anywhere. Art never has fathomed them, and may never
be able to do so. Often have I stood dumbfounded before some simple
day-labourer with whom I worked. Art does not affect me, as this kind of
grand simplicity in life does. I keep muttering to myself: there must be
a meaning to our lives somewhere, or else we must sunder this social
fabrication and create a meaning; and so my incantations go on
endlessly.

"The proletarian is that modern sphinx whose thundering interrogative
society will be called upon to answer. You and I know too well that
society hitherto has answered only with belching cannon and vain
vapourings of law, religion, and duty. But the toiling sphinx, who has
time only to ask terrible questions, will some day formulate an
articulate reply to its own question, and then once more we shall see
that our foundations are of sand--sand that will be washed away, by
blood, if need be. Some there are who will weep tears over the sand: the
pleasures and the joy may die, for to me they are cold and false. My joy
cannot find place within the four walls which shut out the misery and
brutality of the world.

"How be a mouthpiece for the poor? How can art master the
master-problem? They who have nothing much to say, often say it well and
in a popular form; they are unhampered by weighty matters. It takes an
eagle to soar with a heavy weight in its grasp. The human being, rocking
to and fro with his little grief, must give way in depth of meaning to
him who is rocked with the grief of generations past, present, and to
come. It is then that love might rise, love so close to agony that agony
cannot last: the love that will search ceaselessly, in the slums, in the
dives, throughout all life, for the inevitable, and will accept no
alternative and no compromise."

This was the man who met Marie at a critical time of her life. He was
about thirty-five years old, had experienced much, had become formed,
had rejected society, but not the ideal. Rather, as he dropped the one,
he embraced more fervently the other. He had consorted with thieves,
prostitutes, with all low human types; and for their failures and their
weaknesses, their ideas and their instincts, he felt deep sympathy and
even an æsthetic appreciation.

Marie, as we have seen, was only seventeen, unformed and wild, full of
youthful passion and social despair, on the verge of what we call
prostitution; reckless, hopeless, with a deep touch of sullenness and
hatred. She was working at the time in the house of one of Terry's
brothers. Katie, too, was employed there; although she lived with Nick,
her husband, she still occupied herself at times with her old
occupation; and, as ever, she watched Marie with a careful eye, rather
vainly so just then, for this girl was as wild as a girl well could be.

One day Terry paid one of his infrequent visits to his brother's home,
and saw the plump and pretty Marie hanging clothes in the yard. He was
at once attracted to her, and entered into conversation. He was deeply
pleased; so was the girl; and they made an appointment. He soon saw what
her character was, and this was to him an added attraction.

"I had been looking for a girl like Marie," he said, "for several years.
I had made one or two trials, and they always got me into trouble with
my family. But the other girls did not make good. They were too weak and
conventional and could not stand the pace of life with me. I had early
formed a contempt for the matrimonial relation. Five years I had nursed
my rebellion and waited for a chance to use it. As soon as I met Marie I
felt I had met one of my own kind. It was partly the fierce charm of a
social experiment, the love for the proletarian and the outcast; for I
felt Marie was essentially that. This element of my interest in her
Marie never understood--this unconscious propaganda, as it were. She
thought it was all sex and wanted it so."

Katie saw that Terry was making up to her beloved Marie, and tried to
prevent their meetings; but in vain; the attraction was too strong.
Katie blackguarded Terry on every occasion, until she finally saw it was
hopeless, and then invited him into her house to meet the girl. There he
began to go frequently and the intimacy grew. Nick warned Terry against
the girl on account of her loose character. "I have often found her," he
said, "misconducting herself with some fellow or other. Why, she does so
with everybody. Only this evening I found her on the front door-step
with young Bladen. She is not the kind for you to be serious about.
Everybody knows how common she is."

Nick did not understand that an argument of that kind tended only to
confirm Terry in his interest in Marie. Terry answered him laconically:
"That's all right, Nick. When you don't want her, just send her to me."

Nick, as we have seen, was jealous of Marie, because of Katie's love for
her; so he fomented trouble between the two women. Katie, too, was at
this time more exasperated with the girl's conduct than she had ever
been before; and they had frequent quarrels. As the result of one of
them, Marie went off with Terry to his family flat, where he was living
alone at the time--to "have a fish dinner," telling the relenting Katie
that she would return in the evening. But she stayed there with Terry
all that night, for the first time. In the morning Katie turned up
bright and early, burst into the flat, and reproached Terry so bitterly
that they almost came to blows. But when Marie took Terry's side, Katie,
terribly disappointed and hurt, yet made up her mind that it was
inevitable; and Terry and Marie began to live together.

How did Marie feel about all this? What was her condition at the time,
and her attitude toward this strange man, so different from every other
she had met? In a long letter to me she has given an account of it all.

"I wrote you about my adventure with the club man. Well that was only a
single instance of what finally became frequent with me. I had grown so
fearfully tired of the life I was leading in domestic service that the
only problem for me was how to get away from it all. For a time, I had
thought I could get away only by marriage. I was ready to marry anybody
who offered me food and shelter, and I had even thought of prostitution
as a means of escape from domestic drudgery. I had not the slightest
idea of what prostitution in its accepted sense meant. I knew in a vague
way that women sold their bodies to men for money, that they lived
luxurious lives, went to theatres and balls, wore beautiful gowns and
seemed to be gay and happy. I was willing to marry any man who offered
me a home, without the least suspicion that in that way, too, I should
prostitute myself. But no one at that time offered me this means of
escape, so I was quite ready to take the only other way, as I thought,
left to me.

"About this time I met an old girl-friend whom I had not seen for
several years; she was a domestic servant, too, but was in advance of me
in her recklessness. When I met her again she was in the mood to lose
all the little virtue left to her. She was quite willing to sell
herself: she had done enough for love, she said, marriage was now an
impossibility, and she might as well realise on her commercial value. To
these ideas I agreed, and we arranged to meet in two weeks from that day
and try an experiment. Meanwhile she was to go back to her home, get her
belongings, and tell her parents she had secured a place as a
servant-girl in Chicago.

"I left my position, and finding things too disagreeable at home where I
continually quarrelled with my mother, I went to visit Kate, until my
friend should return.

"How my ideas and ideals had changed! When I first began to dislike the
work I was forced to do, I dreamed that some charming fairy would come
and release me: I had been taught such a view of life from the novels of
Bertha M. Clay and E. D. E. N. Southworth. Some rich man, young and
charming, possibly the owner of the factory I was working in, would fall
passionately in love with me, marry me and carry me away to his palace!
Gradually, my ideas came down. I should have been glad to marry a
foreman, then some good mechanic, and finally, some workman, however
humble, whom I would love dearly. And now I was deliberately preparing
for a life of prostitution!

"It was then, while living with my dear friend Kate, whom I sometimes
helped in the work she did out, that I met my first, my last, my truest
lover and friend, Terry. We met just at the right moment. I was filled
with rebellion at the powers that were crushing me, breaking me, without
realising why, or how, or what I might make of myself, when he came
along and taught me in his own quiet and gentle convincing way how cruel
and unjust is this scheme of things, and pointed out to me the cruelty
and tyranny of my parents and of all society. He showed me that marriage
such as I had contemplated was a bad form of prostitution, and he told
me why. Of course, I did not grasp all the things he told me at once,
but I listened and felt comforted; I began to feel that perhaps I might
amount to something, might have some life of my own, and that my
rebellion was perhaps justifiable. I began to understand why work was so
objectionable to me and why I rebelled against the authority of my
parents. My conceptions of freedom were crude, but I began to feel that
my revolt was just, and was based upon the terrible injustice whereby
the many must toil so that the few may live in splendour. I will not
weary you with all the details of the things I learned at that time from
Terry. To you it might seem very raw and crude, and you no doubt have
read some of the pamphlets written by socialists and anarchists dealing
with the labour question in all of its aspects. But to me these ideas
were quite new and they seemed grand and noble.

"And Terry revealed to me, too, almost at once, the great inspiring fact
that there is such a thing as beauty of thought--that there is poetry
and art and literature. This, too, of course, came little by little, but
do you wonder I loved a man who showed me a new world and who taught me
I was not bad? He put good books into my hands, and to my grateful joy I
found I liked these books better than the trash I had hitherto read.

"I felt so much better, after seeing so much of Terry, that I decided to
go to work again. Terry was against this. 'Try it,' he said, 'But I
assure you you don't need to work. I have tried doing without work for
many years, it is much easier than it seems.' Nevertheless I got a job
in a bicycle factory, but I only stayed a few days. It seemed like a
stale existence to me! And besides, I was in love and wanted to be with
Terry all the time. 'By God,' I said to him that night, 'you are right!
I'll never work again.'

"My friend Gertrude, the girl with whom I had intended to go in the last
reckless experiment, came to Terry's flat to see me, and get me to go
with her. I had thought, after I gave up work, that Terry might offer me
marriage, but he told me quite frankly that it was against his
principles to marry anybody. I was a little hurt and astonished at this,
but as I was very much in love and was already beginning to imbibe his
ideas, it did not matter so very much to me.

"So, when Gertrude came, I led her to Terry and asked him what he
thought about her plan. He said to us: 'The kind of prostitution you
contemplate is no worse than the kind often called marriage. Selling
your body for a lifetime is perhaps worse than selling it for an hour or
for a day. But the immediate result of this kind of prostitution which
you plan is very terrible practically. It generally leads to frightful
diseases which will waste your bodies and perhaps injure your minds. The
girls you envy are not always as happy, gay, and careless as they seem.
It is part of their business to seem so, but they are not, or only so
for a very short time. Perhaps you will be better off so than in
domestic drudgery. It is a choice of evils, but if you are very brave
and courageous you may perhaps get along without either. But if forced
to one or the other, I recommend prostitution. It may be worse for you
but, as a protest, it is better for society, in the long run.'

"He pictured to us as truly as he could the life of the street-walker;
he did not seem to think that morally it was worse than any other life
under our social organisation, but he did not make it seem attractive;
nor did he make the life of the domestic servant or factory-girl seem
attractive. He seemed to feel that one might look on prostitution as,
under the circumstances, a grim duty--but it was certainly grim.

"We were rather incredulous at the picture Terry had drawn of the life
we had resolved to lead. Gertrude turned up her pretty little nose and
said it would not be like that with her. We talked about it all that
day and night; and Gertrude decided to have a try at it, while I was
undecided. I was somewhat piqued at Terry's attitude. I had expected him
to oppose my plan, to do all in his power to prevent it. But I did not
understand him. He knew that if I were determined, nothing would prevent
me, and all he could do was to give us a faithful picture of what such a
life would be.

"Things were happening of which we were ignorant for a time, but which
helped to settle our immediate problem. I had often been seen going into
Terry's flat, and this was food for gossip. It was said that Terry had
started a bad house, and had done so in the flat belonging to his
family, who were in the country at the time. These stories reached my
mother's ears, and also were told to Terry's mother and sisters, and the
mischief began. I was forbidden ever to cross my mother's threshold
again, and he was requested to leave the home of his virtuous sisters
which he had polluted and contaminated by his debaucheries with that
immoral person, myself."

Marie omitted, in the above letter, the details of the split with the
two families. It seems that Terry had, on hearing about the "rumours,"
gone to his family, then near Chicago, and presented to them his
philosophy of life; also his determination not to give up Marie, and not
to marry her. It was then that the last rung was put in the ladder of
his family crucifixion, as he would call it. It was then that his mother
"basely deserted him;" and Terry left for good, rejecting the money
offered him.

"I passed them up," he said, scornfully, "and after spending the night
in the lodging-house, I beat my way back to Chicago. I had been gone
several days, and when I got back to the flat, where I went only to get
Marie and clear out for God knows where, I found her gone, and no
apparent way of finding her address. I went to see her mother, and had
an awful scene with her. The violent woman was in hysterics and, after a
long dispute, implored me to find her daughter. 'I'll find her,' I
replied, 'for myself,' and left.

"Marie afterwards told me that she and Gertrude had gone to see her
mother, when I was in the country with my family, and that her mother
had driven them away. Perhaps, the mother realised the change in the
girl. Perhaps, too, she realised what must happen, if she drove her
away. Yet she did drive her daughter away. From her own point of view,
it was diabolical to do so. Her anger, her exasperation and her outraged
desire to rule drove her to doing what she must have felt was the worst
thing she could do. And she did it in the name of virtue! Perhaps it was
for the best: I believe it was, but she did not and I cannot see where
her spiritual salvation comes in."

Terry finally found Marie--found her in the midst of a short experiment,
in company with Gertrude, "in one of the social extremes,"--to be plain,
leading the life of a prostitute.

I ask the reader to pause here and reflect. Pause, before you conclude
that this book is an indecent and immoral book. Reflect before you
conclude that this woman is an immoral woman. [Laughter.] My cabman has
been the confidant of an amount of humor and apt quotations and
clever sayings which you will never know, and which you will never guess.
But something in what has been said by one of my countrymen recalls
to my mind a matter of graver character. As a man who has lived all his
life in the country, to my shame be it said I have not been an habitual
theatre-goer. I came too late for the elder Kean. My theatrical experience
began with Fanny Kemble--I forget how many years ago, but more than
I care to remember--and I recollect the impression made upon me
by her and by her father.

I was too young to be critical; I was young enough to enjoy; but I
remember that what remained with me and what remains with me still of
what I heard and saw, and especially with regard to Charles Kemble,
was the perfection of his art. It was not his individual
characteristics--though of course I remember those--it was the perfection
of his art. My countryman has alluded to the fact that at one time it
was difficult for an actor to get a breakfast, much more to have one
offered to him; and that recalls to my mind the touching words of
the great master of your art, Shakespeare, who in one of his sonnets
said:--
"O for my sake do you with Fortune chide, The guilty goddess of my
harmful deeds, That did not better for my life provide Than public
means, which public manners breeds:
Thence comes it that my name receives a brand; And almost thence
my nature is subdu'd To what it works in, like the dyer's hand."

Certainly the consideration in which the theatrical profession is held has
risen greatly even within my own recollection. It has risen greatly since
the time when Adrienne Lecouvreur was denied burial in that consecrated
ground where rakes and demireps could complete the corruption they
had begun on earth; and this is due to the fact that it is now
looked upon not only by the public in general but by the members of
your profession as a fine art. It is perfectly true that the stage has
often lent itself, I will not say to the demoralization of the
public, but to things which I think none of us would altogether
approve.

This, however, I think has been due, more to the fact that it not only
holds up the mirror to nature, but that the stage is a mirror in
which the public itself is reflected.

And the public itself is to blame if the stage is ever degraded. [Cheers.]

It has been to men of my profession, perhaps, that the degradation has
been due, more than to those who represent their plays. They have
interpreted, perhaps in too literal a sense, the famous saying of
Dryden that
"He who lives to write, must write to live."
But I began with the Irishman's weapon and I shall not forget that among
its other virtues is its brevity, and as in the list of toasts which
are to follow I caught the name of a son of him who was certainly the
greatest poet, though he wrote in prose, and who perhaps possessed
the most original mind that America has given to the world, I
shall, I am sure, with your entire approbation make way for the
next speaker.

[Applause.]

* * * * *

COMMERCE
[Speech of James Russell Lowell at the second annual dinner of the
London Chamber of Commerce, January 29, 1883. H. C. E. Childers, Chancellor
of the Exchequer, was in the chair. The company included representatives
of the English-speaking race in every part of the world. On the
chairman's left sat James Russell Lowell, United States Minister.

In proposing "The Chambers of Commerce of the United Kingdom and of
the Whole World," he delivered the following speech.]

MR. CHAIRMAN, MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN:--I was a few moments ago discussing
with my excellent friend upon the left what a diplomatist might be permitted
to say, and I think the result of the discussion was that he was left
to his choice between saying nothing that had any meaning or saying
something that had several [laughter]; and as one of those
diplomatists to whom the Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs alluded
a short time ago, I should rather choose the latter course, because
it gives one afterwards a selection when the time for explanation
comes round.

[Laughter.]
I shall not detain you long, for I know that there are speakers both on
the right and on the left of me who are impatient to burst the bud;
and I know that I have not been selected for the pleasant duty that has
been assigned to me for any merits of my own. [Cries of dissent.] You
will allow me to choose my own reason, gentlemen. I repeat, I have
not been chosen so much for my own merits as for the opportunity afforded
you of giving expression to your kindness and good feeling towards the
country I represent--a country which exemplifies what the colonies
of England may come to if they are not wisely treated.

[Laughter and cheers.] Speaking for myself and for one or two of my
compatriots whom I see here present, I should certainly say that that
was no unpleasant destiny in itself. But I do not, nor do my countrymen,
desire that those great commonwealths which are now joined to England
by so many filial ties should ever be separated from her.

I am asked to-night to propose the "Chambers of Commerce of the
United Kingdom and of the World," and I might, if the clock did
not warn me against it--["Go on!"] if my own temperament did not stand
a little in the way--I might say to you something very solemn on
the subject of commerce.

I might say how commerce, if not a great civilizer in itself, had always
been a great intermediary and vehicle of civilization. I might say
that all the great commercial States have been centres of civilization,
and centres of those forces which keep civilization from becoming stupid.
I do not say which is the _post_ and which the _propter_ in this inference;
but I do say that the two things have been almost invariably associated.

One word as to commerce in another relation which touches me more nearly.
Commerce and the rights and advantages of commerce, ill understood
and ignorantly interpreted, have often been the cause of animosities
between nations.

But commerce rightly understood is a great pacificator; it brings men
face to face for barter. It is the great corrector of the eccentricities
and enormities of nature and of the seasons, so that a bad harvest
and a bad season in England is a good season for Minnesota, Kansas, and
Manitoba.

But, gentlemen, I will not detain you longer. It gives me great pleasure
to propose, as the representative of the United States, the toast of "The
Chambers of Commerce of the United Kingdom and of the Whole World," with
which I associate the names of Mr. C. M. Norwood, M. P., vice-president
of the Associated Chambers of the United Kingdom, and the Hon.

F. Strutt, president of the Derby Chamber. [Cheers.]

* * * * *

AFTER-DINNER SPEAKING
[Speech of James Russell Lowell at a banquet given to Sir Henry Irving,
London, July 4, 1883, in view of his impending departure for a professional
tour of America. Lord Coleridge, Lord Chief Justice of England,
occupied the chair.

The toast, "Literature, Science, and Art," was proposed by Viscount
Bury, and Mr. Lowell was called upon to respond for Literature. Professor
Tyndall replied on behalf of Science, and Alma Tadema for Art.]

MY LORD COLERIDGE, MY LORDS, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:--I confess that
my mind was a little relieved when I found that the toast to which
I am to respond rolled three gentlemen, Cerberus-like, into one
[laughter], and when I saw Science pulling impatiently at the leash
on my left, and Art on my right, and that therefore the responsibility
of only a third part of the acknowledgment has fallen to me.

You, my lord, have alluded to the difficulties of after-dinner
oratory.

I must say that I am one of those who feel them more keenly the
more after-dinner speeches I make.

[Laughter.] There are a great many difficulties in the way, and there are
three principal ones, I think. The first is the having too much to
say, so that the words, hurrying to escape, bear down and trample out the
life of each other. The second is when, having nothing to say, we are
expected to fill a void in the minds of our hearers. And I think the
third, and most formidable, is the necessity of following a speaker who
is sure to say all the things you meant to say, and better than you, so
that we are tempted to exclaim, with the old grammarian, "Hang these
fellows, who have said all our good things before us!" [Laughter.]
Now the fourth of July has several times been alluded to, and I believe
it is generally thought that on that anniversary the spirit of a
certain bird known to heraldic ornithologists--and I believe to
them alone--as the spread eagle, enters into every American's breast,
and compels him, whether he will or no, to pour forth a flood of
national self-laudation.

[Laughter and cheers.] This, I say, is the general superstition, and
I hope that a few words of mine may serve in some sort to correct
it. I ask you, if there is any other people who have confined their
national self-laudation to one day in the year. [Laughter.] I may be
allowed to make one remark as to a personal experience. Fortune has
willed it that I should see as many--perhaps more--cities and manners
of men as Ulysses; and I have observed one general fact, and that
is, that the adjectival epithet which is prefixed to all the virtues is
invariably the epithet which geographically describes the country that
I am in. For instance, not to take any real name, if I am in the kingdom
of Lilliput, I hear of the Lilliputian virtues. I hear courage, I hear
common sense, and I hear political wisdom called by that name. If I
cross to the neighboring Republic Blefusca--for since Swift's time
it has become a Republic--I hear all these virtues suddenly qualified
as Blefuscan.

[Laughter.]
I am very glad to be able to thank Lord Coleridge for having, I believe
for the first time, coupled the name of the President of the United
States with that of her Majesty on an occasion like this. I was
struck, both in what he said, and in what our distinguished guest of
this evening said, with the frequent recurrence of an adjective which
is comparatively new--I mean the word "English-speaking." We continually
hear nowadays of the "English-speaking race," of the "English-speaking
population."

I think this implies, not that we are to forget, not that it would be
well for us to forget, that national emulation and that national pride
which is implied in the words "Englishman" and "American," but the word
implies that there are certain perennial and abiding sympathies between
all men of a common descent and a common language. [Cheers.] I am sure,
my lord, that all you said with regard to the welcome which our distinguished
guest will receive in America is true.

His eminent talents as an actor, the dignified--I may say the
illustrious--manner in which he has sustained the traditions of that
succession of great actors who, from the time of Burbage to his own, have
illustrated the English stage, will be as highly appreciated there as
here. [Cheers.]

And I am sure that I may also say that the chief magistrate of England
will be welcomed by the bar of the United States, of which I am an
unworthy member, and perhaps will be all the more warmly welcomed
that he does not come among them to practise. He will find American law
administered--and I think he will agree with me in saying ably
administered--by judges who, I am sorry to say, sit without the
traditional wig of England. [Laughter.] I have heard since I came here
friends of mine gravely lament this as something prophetic of the decay
which was sure to follow so serious an innovation. I answered
with a little story which I remember hearing from my father.

He remembered the last clergyman in New England who still continued to
wear the wig. At first it became a singularity and at last a
monstrosity; and the good doctor concluded to leave it off. But there
was one poor woman among his parishioners who lamented this sadly, and
waylaying the clergyman as he came out of church she said, "Oh, dear
doctor, I have always listened to your sermon with the greatest edification
and comfort, but now that the wig is gone all is gone." [Laughter.]
I have thought I have seen some signs of encouragement in the faces
of my English friends after I have consoled them with this little
story.

But I must not allow myself to indulge in any further remarks. There is
one virtue, I am sure, in after-dinner oratory, and that is brevity;
and as to that I am reminded of a story. [Laughter.] The Lord Chief
Justice has told you what are the ingredients of after-dinner oratory.
They are the joke, the quotation, and the platitude; and the successful
platitude, in my judgment, requires a very high order of genius. I
believe that I have not given you a quotation, but I am reminded of
something which I heard when very young--the story of a Methodist clergyman
in America.

He was preaching at a camp meeting, and he was preaching upon the miracle
of Joshua, and he began his sermon with this sentence: "My hearers,
there are three motions of the sun. The first is the straightforward
or direct motion of the sun; the second is the retrograde or
backward motion of the sun; and the third is the motion mentioned
in our text--'the sun stood still.'" [Laughter.]
Now, gentlemen, I don't know whether you see the application of the
story--I hope you do.

The after-dinner orator at first begins and goes straight forward--that
is the straightforward motion of the sun. Next he goes back and
begins to repeat himself--that is the backward motion of the sun. At
last he has the good sense to bring himself to the end, and that is the
motion mentioned in our text, as the sun stood still. [Great laughter,
in the midst of which Mr. Lowell resumed his seat.]

* * * * *

"THE RETURN OF THE NATIVE"
[Speech of James Russell Lowell at the annual Ashfield Dinner at Ashfield,
Mass., August 27, 1885,--the harvest-time festival in behalf of Sanderson
Academy, given for several years under the leadership of Charles Eliot
Norton and George William Curtis, long summer residents in this
country town.

Mr. Lowell had recently returned from his post as Minister to England;
and he was presented to the literary gathering by Professor Norton,
President of the day. Professor Norton closed his eloquent words of
introduction as follows: "On our futile laurels he looks down, himself
our highest crown.--Ashfield speaks to you to-day, and the welcome is
your own to New England."]

MR.

PRESIDENT, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:--I cannot easily escape from some
strength of emotion in listening to the words of my friend who has
just sat down, unless I receive it on the shield which has generally
been my protection against many of the sorrows and some of the
hardships of life. I mean the shield of humor, and I shall,
therefore, take less seriously than playfully the portrait that he
has been kind enough to draw of me. It reminds me of a story I once heard
of a young poet, who published his volume of verses and prefixed to
it his own portrait drawn by a friendly artist. The endeavor of
his life from that time forward was to look like the portrait that
his friend had drawn. [Applause.] I shall make the same endeavor.

It is a great pleasure to me to come here to-day, not only because
I have met some of the oldest friends of my life, but also that
after having looked in the eyes of so many old English audiences I
see face to face a new English one, and when I looked at them I was
reminded of a family likeness and of that kinship of blood which
unites us.

When I look at you I see many faces that remind me of faces I saw on the
other side of the water, and I feel that whether I speak there or here
I am essentially speaking to one people. I am not going to talk about
myself, and I am not going to make a speech. I have spoken so often for
you on the other side of the water that I feel as though I had a
certain claim, at least, to be put on the retired list. But I could not
fail to observe a certain distrust of America that has peeped out in
remarks made, sometimes in the newspapers, sometimes to myself, as to
whether a man could live eight years out of America, without really
preferring Europe.
It seems to me to imply what I should call a very unworthy distrust in
the powers of America to inspire affection.

    I feel to-day, in looking in your faces,
     somewhat as I did when I took my first walk over the hills after
my return, and the tears came into my eyes as I was welcomed by the
familiar wayside flowers, the trees, the birds that had been my
earliest friends.

It seems to me that those who take such a view quite miscalculate
the force of the affection that a man feels for his country. It is
something deeper than a sentiment. If there were anything deeper, I should
say it was something deeper than an instinct. It is that feeling
of self-renunciation and of identification with another which Ruth
expressed when she said: "Entreat me not to leave thee nor to depart
from following after thee, for whither thou goest I will go: where
thou livest I will live, and where thou diest there will I die
also."

That, it seems to me, is the instinctive feeling that a man has. At
the same time, this does not exclude the having clear eyes to see the
faults of one's country. I think that, as an old President of Harvard
College said once to a person who was remonstrating with him: "But
charity, doctor, charity." "Yes, I know; but charity has eyes and ears
and won't be made a fool of." [Laughter.]
I notice a good many changes in coming home, a few of which I may,
perhaps, be allowed to touch upon. I notice a great growth in
luxury, inevitable, I suppose, and which may have good in it--more
good, perhaps, than I can see. I notice, also, one change that has
impressed me profoundly, and when I hear that New England is drawing away,
I cannot help thinking to myself how much more prosperous the farms
look than they did when I was young; how much more neat is the
farming, how much greater the attention to what will please the eye
about the farm, as the planting of flowers and trimming the grass,
which seems to me a very good sign.

I had an opportunity, by a strange accident, of becoming very
intimate with the outward appearance of New England during my youth by
going about when a little boy with my father when he went on exchanges.
He always went in his own vehicle, and he sometimes drove as far west
as Northampton. I do not wish to detain you on this point, except as
it interested me and is now first in my mind.

While I was in England I had occasion once to address them on the subject
of Democracy, and I could not help thinking when I came up here that
I was coming to one of its original sources, for certain it is that in
the village community of New England, in its "plain living and high
thinking," began that social equality which afterwards developed on
the political side into what we call Democracy. And Democracy--while
surely we cannot claim for it that it is perfect--yet Democracy,
it seems to me, is the best expedient hitherto invented by mankind,
not for annihilating distinctions and equalities, for that is impossible,
but, so far as it is humanly possible, for compensating them. Here in
our little towns in the last century, people met without thinking of it
on a high table-land of common manhood. There was no sense of presumption
from below, there was no possibility of condescension from above,
because there was no above and below in the community.

Learning was always respected in the clergyman, in the doctor, in the
squire, the justice of the peace, and the rest of the community. This
made no artificial distinction.

I observe, also, that our people are getting over their very bad habit
with regard to politics, for Democracy, you must remember, lays a heavier
burden on the individual conscience than any other form of government;
and I have been glad to observe that we have been getting over that habit
of thinking that our institutions will go of themselves. Now it seems
to me that there is no machine of human construction, or into which
the wit of man has entered, that can go of itself without supervision,
without oiling; that there are no wheels which will revolve without
our help, except the great wheel of the constellations or that great
circle of the sun's which has its hand upon the dial plate, and
which was made by a hand much less fallible than ours.

It also pleases me very much to see a friend whose constancy, whose
faith, and whose courage have done so much more than any other man's
to bring about that reform [great applause], though when I speak of
civil service reform the friend who stands at our elbow on all these
occasions will suggest to me a certain parallel, that is, that as Mr.
Curtis is here to-day and I am here to-day, it reminds one of the
temperance lecturer who used to go about carrying with him an
unhappy person as the awful example [great laughter], and it may
have flickered before some of your minds that I was the "awful
example" of the very reform I had preached.

However, I say that it is to me a very refreshing thing to find that
this old happy-go-lucky feeling about our institutions has a very
good chance of passing away.

One thing which always impressed me on the other side of the water as
an admirable one, and as one which gave them a certain advantage over
us, is the number of men who train themselves specifically for politics,
for government. We are apt to forget, over here, that the art of governing
men, as it is the highest, so it is the most difficult, of all arts.
We are particular how our boots are made, but about our constitutions
we "trust in the Lord," without even, as Cromwell advised, keeping our
powder dry. We commit the highest destinies of this Republic,
which some of us hope bears the hope of the world in her womb--to whom?
Certainly not always to those who are most fit on any principle of natural
selection: certainly, sometimes to those who are most unfit on any
principle of selection,--and this is a very serious matter, for if you
will allow me to speak with absolute plainness, no country that
allows itself to be governed for a moment by its blackguards is safe.

[Applause.] That was written before the United States of America existed.
It is one of the truths of human nature and of destiny. If I were a man
who had any political aspiration,--which, thank Heaven, I have not,--if
I had any official aspiration--which, thank Heaven, also, I have
not,--I should come home here, and when I first met an American
audience I should say to them: My friends, America can learn nothing of
Europe; Europe must come to school here. You have the tallest monument,
you have the biggest waterfall, you have the highest tariff of any
country in the world. [Great laughter and applause.] I would tell you
that the last census showed that you had gained so many millions, as if
the rabbits did not beat us in that way of multiplication, as if
it counted for anything! It seems to me that what we make of our several
millions is the vital question for us.

I was very much interested in what Prof. Stanley Hall said. I am heretic
enough to have doubted whether our common schools are the panacea we
have been inclined to think them.

I was exceedingly interested in what he said about the education which
a boy gained on the hills here. It seems to me we are going to fall back
into the easy belief that because our common schools teach more
than they used--and in my opinion much more than they ought--we can
dispense with the training of the household. When Mr. Harrison [J. P.
I
remember, one day, he said to me: "How often, during the lifetime of the
Rogues' Gallery, did I saunter down State Street with the pleasing
knowledge that I would find some 'low' person, girl or man, whom I knew
I could get at, who would strip himself or herself bare to me in a
spiritual sense, and would be revealed disinterestedly, would have no
axe to grind and no contemptible small ends to gain, and no tradesman's
commercial morality and no grafting conventionality, no moral cant based
on self-interest--some being so near the 'limit' that he was
intellectually and morally fearless and did not need to pose, from whom
some truth could be derived, whose sincerity and power of
straight-seeing was not warped and concealed by any bourgeois ambitions,
by any respectability."

From time to time Terry would take one of these beings home with him--to
his Rogues' Gallery and to Marie and to the other intimates, mainly more
or less self-conscious anarchists, all or nearly all derelicts of the
labouring class. There they could stay as long as they æsthetically
fitted, could share the communal cigarette, beds, beer, and food. And
Terry and Marie and their friends would talk and read aloud--Terry the
teacher, giving transcendental light into the nature of the good, the
beautiful, and the true. Many an outcast here came first to a pleasing
sense that from some points of view he was not altogether bad, nay, that
he had unexpectedly good points. Many of them to some philosophic
intensity; conversation became a joy, strangely unknown hitherto. The
educational character of this meeting place was marked, but, as I have
said, Terry's indiscriminating passion for the outcasts of the
proletaire limited the intellectual development of his little society.
At a later time, a much more developed society grew around Terry and
Marie, as we shall see, when we get to the Anarchist salon, or the
intellectual drawing room of the Anarchist Proletaire.

Terry's main effort was, at this time, and for years afterwards,
naturally directed toward Marie's spiritual education. Hitherto Marie
has revealed herself to the reader as a rather commonplace, very
physical, rather lazy, and quite egoistic person, one of many, with no
distinguished characteristics. But she was unusually endowed in some
ways. Eminently plastic, up to a certain point she rapidly assumed forms
suggested by Terry's spiritual touch. She derived from him her interest
in all high things, in philosophy, art and literature, but there always
remained an interesting distinction in the way she reacted to her
education. Terry remained always the rather transcendental philosopher,
with a predominant ethical sense. Marie, as she developed, showed a
deeper and subtler feeling for expression and a surer sensing of human
character, a juster psychology. Her nature is essentially less
beautiful, by far, than that of Terry, but more real, in a way, more
robust, and so constituted that in a long spiritual conflict she would
wear out the finer qualities of her lover. But this is anticipating,
except in so far as it is true that from the start Marie's psychological
vividness showed itself, often, of course, with base and physical
concomitants. In this connection I will quote a letter which well
illustrates this side of her character, and which also shows a contrast
to some of her loftier but more conventional and less true qualities.
She had been attending an anarchists' ball and she wrote:

"I danced a great deal and felt very happy, without the aid of any
stimulant either. I did not have any feeling of irritation or even
indifference toward anybody, not even toward Rose. I am fascinated by
Rose, and I sometimes think I hate her. I always like to be near her
when there is no one else around. She reveals herself to me then; in
fact quite throws off the mask which all women wear. In order to
encourage her to do this, I apparently throw down my own mask. Oh, how I
gloat over her then, when she shows me a side of her life and betrays
secret thoughts and feelings to me half unconsciously! Sometimes I
succeed in having her do this when there is a third person present, and
the look of hatred which passes across her face when she perceives she
has made a mistake, is a most interesting thing to see. But she
immediately comes to my side and we kiss each other and call each other
'angel girls' and 'darlings.' Thus we play with each other, and it is a
stand-off which is cleverest. She is quite puzzled sometimes by my
frankness about some things, for instance, about her looks. I notice she
compliments me on my looks whenever I am decidedly off colour, when I
wear a green ribbon, or a dowdy dress, or big shoes. But I am honest
with her in these things, and I like to see her look well. The game is
more interesting then.

"Well, at this ball, I wanted to dance with a certain man, but I did not
wish to ask him myself. So I requested Rose to do so, and she consented,
and I was soon whirling around in his arms. I had felt curious about him
for a long time: I did not know just what the state of my feeling toward
him was. I did not know whether I liked or disliked him, but I had
often experienced a sort of thrilling sensation when he happened to pass
by or touch me, or even when he mentioned my name, which had occurred
only once since I knew him. 'Good evening, Marie,' was all he said. But
the name and the way he said it seemed new, and it kept recurring to me
at unexpected times and always troubled me. When I fancy I hear that
name in his voice I feel sad and lonely, and my heart aches. I see him
often, mostly at our Sunday evening lectures. We are very distant, and I
am often rude to him, not answering when he speaks to me.

"So when I danced with him the other night, I was agreeably surprised to
find that I did not experience any unusual sensation at all. And I was
relieved, too, for I had a sort of instinctive feeling that he was not
worthy of any strong interest. After the dance was over, we went
down-stairs together and he kissed me. You know, the radicals all kiss
one another freely and it does not mean anything special, as a rule:
often it is done without any feeling at all, just a common habit. But
this time I was astonished to find that the moment he touched me I had
the same thrilling sensation, only more intense, as when I heard him
speak my name. I resisted however, and just then I heard Rose's voice
ring out exultantly, 'Oh, if you knew how crazy Marie is about you, how
she raved when she first met you and so on.' You can imagine how I felt
then. I managed to get away and drank and smoked and danced all the
evening and never looked at him again. When we all went away Rose and I
kissed each other and called each other 'darling girl.'

"In some moods I would like to be a big, beautiful, heartless woman like
one or two I know. In such moods, how I would make men suffer! I was
talking about this to little Sadie the other day, and she assured me
solemnly that she would do that when she was thirty, but not merely to
make men suffer, but to develop them."

As Terry continued to read aloud and talk in his Rogues' Gallery, Marie
grew to reflect more and more the results of the reading of good things,
and of the thinking and talking about these things. It shows how some
temperaments are able to connect literature and philosophy with life,
and thereby see their real meaning, quite independently of any merely
conventional culture or education. One of the greatest prejudices of our
time (and of all times) is the belief that intellectual culture, which
is merely the perception in detail of how life and thought is expressed
in form, is peculiarly dependent upon academic or conventional
education. And yet, of course, somewhere or other, the nature capable of
understanding form must come in contact with it, before the meaning of
the whole thing is incorporated into its daily habit. Terry was Marie's
point of contact with form, in its deep relation to life. Marie felt
this and loved him and was grateful, to the depths of her nature, so
different from his, so animal, so unideal, in comparison! She wrote:

"Terry gave me a new way to express myself, and that, after all, is the
only thing worth living for. And he gave me this new way without trying
to make me give up any other way of self expression, my sensuality, for
example. This sensuality I have sometimes regretted, but not directly
through Terry's influence, except that he has shown me the beauty of
something else. He is a winged thing in comparison with me, but he is
so wonderfully tolerant that he can see beauty in even the baser part
of my nature. Why should I regret what I am, anyway? I believe that the
only purity that means anything is that which results from working one's
nature out harmoniously, not suppressing it. Terry must be a wonderful
man, to have been able to encourage me in many new directions, and to
take away the maiming sting of regret for what I inevitably was and
could not help being.

"I do not think an ordinary person could have made me see the beauty of
anarchism. I know that the anarchistic ideas are rather shocking, even
at their best, and of course they naturally appeal most to the man with
the hoe, inciting him to rebel, while the man behind the idea is usually
endowed with so much sensitiveness that he shrinks from the rebellion
part of the programme himself; he is not a man of action, only a man of
ideas. It is shameful, some think, to disturb the blissful ignorance of
the man with the hoe, for when the gleam of intelligence shines in his
eye and he is aroused to the knowledge of his degrading position, he is
likely to rebel in the most healthy but brutal manner, so much so that
the æsthetic reformer shrinks back from the consequences of the
propagation of his own ideas. Of course, the brutality of the
proletariat is not nearly so subtle as that of the aristocracy, and it
takes some cleverness to discover that the latter is brutality at all.
It requires time and patience to drive into the thick heads of the
workers that they are downtrodden, and that their oppressors are
worthless parasites. When they finally do awaken to this idea and rebel,
how terribly shocked the world is because these brutes have not the
cleverness or delicacy to be more subtle in their brutalities.

"In your last letter you wrote of the crudeness of most propagandists of
anarchism, naming Anatole France as one of the rare anarchists who
express themselves otherwise than crudely. He rarely or never, you say,
ever mentions the word 'anarchism,' although much of his writing is
calculated to destroy belief in the value of organised society as it now
exists. Don't you think you are perhaps prejudiced too much against
certain words because of their associations? I know that many words are
objectionable to refined, cultured people because they have been so
long associated with the coarse and brutal mob, the working class, as
the socialists would say. But you must remember that anarchism is
intended to appeal to this 'mob' especially; that its doctrines might
not be needed by refined people who ought to have enough sensibility not
to enjoy 'freedom' unless it is shared by the coarse and brutal workers.
Believe me, there is nothing so degrading as poverty. It makes the slave
more slavish and the brute more brutal. It acts like a goad, spurring
people on to do things which make them seem to themselves and others
lower and lower, until they are truly no longer human beings but
animals.

"Therefore it is that the propaganda of anarchism is generally crude. It
is true that much good literature is permeated with the ideals of
anarchism, for instance, Shelley, Whitman, Thoreau, and Emerson. Such
reading is excellent as a means of humanising and making anarchists of
refined people, but how could you appeal to the rebellious workers with
such books as these? For instance, my father, do you think he could read
Ibsen or any of the others? Indeed not; but let him go to a meeting
where he can hear Emma Goldman speak, or let him read Jean Grave, or
Bakunin, or some other writer of 'crude' pamphlets, and he might become
interested, he might be able to understand. But since it seems that
truly refined people cannot enjoy the pleasures of freedom without
being, at any rate at times, worried because of the condition of the
'mass,' what is to be done? This objectionable crudity must remain until
there is a demand for something more subtle on the part of the workers
for whom is intended all propaganda. The rich and cultured presumably
have brains which they can use to solve the problems for themselves or
to digest the things written by Anatole France and others. But how do
you suppose that I, for instance, could a few years ago have relished
Anatole France? Wouldn't you think it idiotic for anyone to have given
me such books, at that time, with any expectation of my appreciating
their refined and evanescent anarchism?"

It must have been a strange sight that of Terry sitting on his
dilapidated bed in the Rogues' Gallery, with his eternal cigarette in
his mouth, talking to Marie and perhaps to some prostitute or
pickpocket! We begin already to see the result on Marie's education:
that will appear complex and manifold, but it is likely that on many a
half-formed creature who afterward passed out of Terry's life, his words
yet made an impression which perhaps in some later darkness revived an
idea which explained and justified his miserable existence.


CHAPTER IX

_The Salon_


The Rogues' Gallery went the way of all good things: it ceased to exist
when the creative spirit was gone. Terry went to Pittsburg, as we have
seen, to find the flaw in the tanning process, and while he was away
Marie attempted to conduct the academy of anarchism. But she was too
much interested in what is called "life" to make a sustained mental or
moral effort without the inspiring presence of a man whose central
passionate ideas never changed. The personal jealousies which Terry's
philosophic attitude and idealism tended to dissipate became, during his
absence, too strong for the bond uniting the "rogues," and when Terry
returned he found that his little colony had dispersed and that Marie,
unable any longer to pay the rent, was living with her old friend Katie.

This was, to our idealist, a deep disappointment. On the heels of his
final break in Pittsburg with society came this sign of woman's
weakness. Terry might easily have expected it, but one of the
limitations of an idealist is an insufficient knowledge of realities. To
men of his temperament there is always a distinct shock envolved in
coming face to face with an actuality. Truth is the element of the
idealist, but an abstract truth into which concrete realities seldom
fit. Terry did not, or tried not to, mind, at this time, this continued
sexual freedom, or rather vagaries, of Marie's life; for that fitted
into his scheme of personal freedom: he zealously strove to respect the
private inclinations of every human being. But the least sign, in any of
his acquaintances, of a compromise with the integrity of the soul, of
any essential weakness, met with no tolerance from him. "He passed him
up," on the spot, with a scornful wafture of his hand. That Marie had
yielded to the stress of circumstances, had been unable to hold out in
the Rogues' Gallery, galled the relatively uncompromising, exigent
idealist. If she had resorted to temporary prostitution to hold the
society together he would have admired her. But, instead, she weakly
sought, like any merely conservative woman, the shelter of Katie's roof.
The first seed of the essential discord which finally resulted, at a
much later time, in their relations was planted thus in this deep
irritation of Terry's soul; it did not, however, affect seriously his
love for Marie as a person or his interest in her as a social
experiment. But it tended to make him feel more lonely and to render him
more hopeless of any realisation of the ideal, as he saw it.

When Terry returned, without a job, and with no intention of trying for
one, and found Marie living with Katie, he had a long talk with the two
women. Katie was still with her husband, Nick, but she was willing to
quit him in order to live with and take care of, her darling Marie. She
proposed to Marie and Terry to hire some rooms and all live together.
She would work as cook in a restaurant and thus support the three of
them.

To this eager desire of Katie's Terry refused to consent; but he also
refused to work. What was to be done? He was too proud willingly to live
on Katie, and he was principled against labour. Katie wanted the luxury
of her proposed arrangement. She quarrelled with Terry, but he
interested her. Already she began to look on these two as her superior
cultivated ones, aristocrats, with whom it was a joy to live and for
whom it was a pleasure to work. To work for them, especially for Marie,
she would drop her old Nick, good dull man, in a moment.

An event which happened just at the right moment to decide things,
finally brought about the union of the three. One night Terry was
drinking in a saloon, talking philosophy, and quoting literature. Some
rapid lines from Swinburne had just left his lips when an elderly man,
who had been listening to Terry's talk approached him and said: "You are
the man I'm looking for, won't you have a drink?"

As he spoke, he flashed a fifty dollar bill over the bar and repeatedly
treated the crowd, all in Terry's honour.

"Before we separated that night," said Terry, telling me the story, "I
learned that the old guy had fifty thousand dollars and that he would
soon go down and out, for he had all sorts of bad diseases. He knew it
himself, but he was an old sport and he wanted his fling before he died.
He liked me and wanted me to be bar-tender in a saloon he owned. He
lived above the saloon and wanted a housekeeper to take care of the
rooms. So I told Kate here was her chance. The next day Marie, Katie,
and I moved into the rooms, where the old man lived, too, and I began my
work as a bar-tender.

"I did not regard this job as work: it was really graft, for I had
decided that my old friend, not long for this world, did not need all of
his money and that I might as well turn part of it toward Katie, to help
maintain a common house for us all. So, every night, after the day's
work, I turned the roll that I received behind the bar over to Katie,
who tucked it away in the bank. I don't know whether the old guy knew
about it or not, if he did, he did not care. He died after two or three
months, but Katie had increased her bank account by three or four
hundred dollars."

Terry is strenuous about this story. He is evidently anxious lest it be
thought that he later became a mere parasite on Katie. He prides himself
on having taught her to steal from an unkind world, but he does not like
the idea that she has slaved for him without any help in return. Katie
did not prove to be a good pupil. She was not naturally "wise," in the
slang sense, but gained what she gained by hard labour. Even while she
was housekeeper for the old guy she felt she earned all the money she
tucked away.

"I worked hard for the old man," she said, "and I only got about one
hundred and thirty dollars for all my work. I thought I made that much."

There is a slight difference in the amount received, in Terry's account
and in Katie's, but it is clear that it was not very much. It is
interesting and characteristic that Terry wants it to appear to have
been "graft," while Katie looks upon the money as honest wages, received
in an unconventional way.

Nick was definitely deserted, and the new "salon" formed, with Terry and
Marie as the bright particular stars and Katie as the happy means of
living, if not in luxury at least in independence. They lived on her
eight or nine dollars a week with the comfortable feeling that there
were several hundred dollars tucked away in the bank, the result of
Katie's savings and Terry's ideas.

The salon was of a more select and higher order intellectually than had
been the Rogues' Gallery. The people who frequented the three little
slummy rooms on the West Side where Terry, Marie, and Katie lived were
mainly anarchists in theory, and occasionally one or another of them was
so in practice. They mainly consisted of rebellious labourers who had
educated themselves in the philosophy of anarchism.[2] They had ideas
about politics and government and the relation between the sexes. They
were indeed all "free lovers," and quite naturally so; the rebellious
temperament instinctively takes as its object of attack the strongest
convention in society. But a man who was not a house guard came into
my private office one day just as the jury was about to be impanelled.
Said he: "Judge, I hear you live out of town." Said I: "Yes."
Said he: "I guess you burn kerosene. You don't have electric lights or
anything of that kind? Well," said he, "if you will let me off this jury
I will give you the darnedest nice can of kerosene ever you see." Said
I: "Young man, I see in your mind the exact virtues which would
be most useful,--a justice and probity which will make you serve
the country most admirably as a juryman." So he served. I don't know but
that if it had been a barrel it might have been different.
[Great laughter.]
Another tried the intimidation dodge. He says: "Jedge, I have been exposed
to the small-pox, and expect it to break out every minute." Said I:
"Break!" [Laughter.]

He broke into the jury box and served his country well, and had no
incapacitating disease that I ever heard of.

I don't know that there is much of anything else, except that I
would give some advice. I am going to draw up some rules for my
successor, and the first one will be: "Always decide in favor of the
Merchants' Association." When there are two Merchants' Associations
together, in different interests, then you must do like that jury in
Kennebec county.
There was a jury there which was very prompt and satisfactory. When
they got through, the judge said: "Gentlemen, I thank you very
much for the very satisfactory character of your verdicts, for the
great promptness with which they have been rendered, without a single
disagreement." The foreman returned thanks for the compliment, and
said that the jury had escaped the delays and disagreements to which
his Honor had referred, by always tossing up a copper as soon as
they had retired, and abiding by the result of the throw.

One word in a more serious vein. I wish to express, in closing, my
profound gratification that my efforts to do my duty simply and
industriously should have met with your approval, and my gratitude for
its public and spontaneous expression. [Applause.]

LORD LYTTON
(SIR EDWARD BULWER-LYTTON)

MACREADY AND THE ENGLISH STAGE
[Speech of Sir Edward Bulwer-Lytton at a public dinner given to William
C. Macready, London, March 1, 1851, on the occasion of the tragedian's
withdrawal from the stage. Lord Lytton, in proposing the toast of the
evening, delivered the following speech.]

GENTLEMEN:--When I glance through this vast hall, and feel how weak and
indistinct is my voice, I feel that I must frankly throw myself
upon your indulgence, and entreat your most patient and courteous
attention while I approach that subject which unites to-day an
assembly so remarkable for the numbers and distinction of those
who compose it.
We are met to do honor to an eminent man, who retires into private life
after those services to the public which are most felt at the moment we
are about to lose them. There are many among you far better qualified
than I am to speak critically of the merits of Mr. Macready as an
actor, but placed as I am in this chair, I feel that I should justly
disappoint you if I did not seek to give some utterance to those
sentiments of admiration of which you have made me the representative.

Gentlemen, this morning I read in one of the literary journals, some
qualifying remarks as to the degree of Mr. Macready's genius; and
now, as I recognize here many who are devoted to literature and art,
I will ask them if I am not right in this doctrine--that the
true measure of the genius of an artist is the degree of excellence
to which he brings the art that he cultivates. Judge of Mr. Macready
by this test, and how great is that genius that will delight us
no more; for it is because it has so achieved what I will call the
symmetry of art that its height and its breadth have been often
forgotten.

We know that it is the uneven and irregular surface that strikes us as the
largest, and the dimensions of a genius, like those of a building, are
lost in the justness of its proportions; and therefore it is that
in recalling the surpassing excellence of our guest as an artistical
performer, one is really at a loss to say in what line of character
he has excelled the most.

The Titanic grandeur of Lear, the human debasement of Werner, the frank
vivacity of Henry V, the gloomy and timorous guilt of King John, or
that--his last--personation of Macbeth, in which it seemed to me that he
conveyed a more correct notion of what Shakespeare designed than I can
recollect to have read in the most profound of the German critics;
for I take it, what Shakespeare meant to represent in Macbeth was the
kind of character which is most liable to be influenced by a belief in
supernatural agencies--a man who is acutely sensitive to all
impressions, who has a restless imagination more powerful than his
will, who sees daggers in the air and ghosts in the banquet-hall, who
has moral weakness and physical courage, and who--as our guest
represented him--alternates perpetually between terror and daring--a
trembler when oppressed by his conscience, and a warrior when defied
by his foe.

But in this and in all that numberless crowd of characters which is
too fresh in your memories for me to enumerate, we don't so much say "How
well this was spoken," or "How finely that was acted," but we feel within
ourselves how true was the personation of the whole.

Gentlemen, there is a word that is often applied to artists and to authors,
and I think we always apply it improperly when we speak of a superior
intellect--I mean the word "versatile." Now, I think the proper word is
"comprehensive." The man of genius does not vary and change, which
is the meaning of the word versatile, but he has a mind sufficiently
expanded to comprehend variety and change. If I can succeed in describing
the circle, I can draw as many lines as I please from the centre straight
to the circumference, but it must be upon the condition--for that is the
mathematical law--that all these lines shall be equal, one to the
other, or it is not a circle that I describe.

Now, I do not say our guest is versatile; I say that he is comprehensive;
and the proof that he has mastered the most perfect form of the comprehensive
faculty is this--that all the lines he has created within the range of
his art are equal the one to the other. And this, gentlemen, explains to
us that originality which even his detractors have conceded to
him.

Every great actor has his manner as every great writer has his style.

But the originality of our guest does not consist in his manner
alone, but in his singular depth of thought.

He has not only accomplished the obvious and essential graces of the
actor--the look, the gesture, the intonation, the stage play--but he
has placed his study far deeper. He has sought to penetrate into the
subtlest intentions of the poet, and made poetry itself the
golden key to the secrets of the human heart. He was original because
he never sought to be original but to be truthful; because, in a word,
he was as conscientious in his art as he is in his actions. Gentlemen,
there is one merit of our guest as an actor upon which, if I were
silent, I should be indeed ungrateful.

Many a great performer may attain to a high reputation if he restrains
his talents to acting Shakespeare and the great writers of the
past; but it is perfectly clear that in so doing he does not advance one
inch the literature of his time. It has been the merit of our guest to
recognize the truth that the actor has it in his power to assist in
creating the writer. He has identified himself with the living drama
of his period, and by so doing, he has half created it. Who does not
recollect the rough and manly vigor of Tell, the simple grandeur
of Virginius or the exquisite sweetness and dignity and pathos with
which he invested the self-sacrifice of Ion; and who does not feel
that but for him, these great plays might never have obtained their
hold upon the stage, or ranked among those masterpieces which this
age will leave to posterity?

And what charm and what grace, not their own, he has given to the lesser
works of an inferior writer, it is not for me to say.

But, gentlemen, all this, in which he has sought to rally round him
the dramatic writers of his time, brings me at once from the merits
of the actor to those of the manager. I recall, gentlemen, that brief
but glorious time when the drama of England appeared suddenly to revive
and to promise a future that should be worthy of its past; when by a
union of all kindred arts, and the exercise of a taste that was at once
gorgeous and severe, we saw the genius of Shakespeare properly embodied
upon our stage, though I maintain that the ornament was never superior
to the work. Just remember the manner in which the supernatural agency
of the weird sisters was made apparent to our eye, in which the magic
Isle of Prospero rose before us in its mysterious and haunted beauty,
and in which the knightly character of the hero of Agincourt received
its true interpretation from the pomp of the feudal age, and you
will own you could not strip the scene of these effects without stripping
Shakespeare himself of half the richness and depth of his
conceptions.
But that was the least merit of that glorious management.

Mr. Macready not only enriched the scene, but he purified the
audience; and for the first time since the reign of Charles II, a father
might have taken his daughters to a public theatre with as much safety
from all that could shock decorum as if he had taken them to the house
of a friend. And for this reason the late lamented Bishop of Norwich
made it a point to form the personal acquaintance of Mr. Macready,
that he might thank him, as a prelate of the Church, for the good he
had done to society.

Gentlemen, I cannot recall that period without a sharp pang of indignant
regret, for if that management had lasted some ten or twelve years, I
know that we would have established a permanent school for actors--a
fresh and enduring field for dramatic poetry and wit--while we should
have educated an audience up to feel that dramatic performances in their
highest point of excellence had become an intellectual want that could
no more be dispensed with than the newspaper or review.

And all this to be checked or put back for ages to come! Why? Because
the public did not appreciate the experiment! Mr. Macready has told
us that the public supported him nobly, and that his houses overflowed.
Why then? Because of the enormous rent and exactions, for a theatre
which even in the most prosperous seasons, make the exact difference
between profit and loss.
Gentlemen, it is not now the occasion to speak of remedies for that
state of things.

Remedies there are, but they are for legislation to effect. They involve
considerations with regard to those patents which are secured to certain
houses for the purpose of maintaining in this metropolis the legitimate
drama, and which I fear, have proved the main obstacle to its success.

But these recollections belong to the past. The actor--the manager--are
no more. Whom have we with us to-day? Something grander than actor, or
manager: to-day we have with us the man. Gentlemen, to speak of those
virtues which adorn a home, and are only known in secret, has always
appeared to me to be out of place upon public occasions; but there
are some virtues which cannot be called private, which accompany a
man everywhere, which are the essential part of his public character,
and of these it becomes us to speak, for it is to these that we are
met to do homage.

I mean integrity, devotion to pure ends, a high ambition, manly independence,
and honor that never knew a stain. Why should we disguise from ourselves
that there are great prejudices to the profession of an actor? Who
does not know that our noble guest has lived down every one such
prejudice, not falling into the old weakness of the actor, and for
which Garrick could not escape the sarcasm of Johnson, of hankering after
the society and patronage of the great? The great may have sought
in him the accomplished gentleman, but he has never stooped his bold front
as an Englishman to court any patronage meaner than the public, or
to sue for the smile with which fashion humiliates the genius it condescends
to flatter. And therefore it is that he has so lifted up that
profession to which he belongs into its proper rank amid the liberal
arts; and therefore it is, that in glancing over the list of our
stewards we find every element of that aristocracy upon which he
has never fawned uniting to render him its tribute of respect.

The ministers of foreign nations--men among the noblest of the peers
of England--veterans of those professions of which honor is the
lifespring--the chiefs of literature and science and art--ministers
of the Church, sensible of the benefits he has bestowed upon society in
banishing from the stage what had drawn upon it the censure of the
pulpit--all are here and all unite to enforce the truth, the great
truth, which he leaves to those who come after him--that let a
man but honor his calling, and the calling will soon be the honor
of the man.

Gentlemen, I cannot better sum up all I would say than by the words
which the Roman orator applied to the actor of his day; and I ask
you if I may not say of our guest as Cicero said of Roscius--"He is a man
who unites yet more of virtues than of talents, yet more of truth than
of art, and who, having dignified the scene by the various
portraitures of human life, dignifies yet more this assembly by the example
of his own."
Gentlemen, the toast I am about to propose to you is connected with many
sad associations but not to-day. Later and longer will be cherished
whatever may be sad of these mingled feelings that accompany this
farewell--later, when night after night we shall miss from the
play-bill the old familiar name, and feel that one source of elevated
delight is lost to us forever.

To-day let us rejoice that he whom we prize and admire is no worn-out
veteran retiring to a rest he can no longer enjoy--that he leaves
us in the prime of his powers, with many years to come, in the course
of nature, of that dignified leisure for which every public man
must have sighed in the midst of his triumphs, and though we cannot
say of him that his "way of life is fall'n into the sere, the yellow
leaf," yet we can say that he has prematurely obtained "that which
should accompany old age, as honor, love, obedience, troops of
friends;" and postponing for this night all selfish regret, not
thinking of the darkness that is to follow, but of the brightness
of the sun that is to set, I call upon you to drink with full glasses
and full hearts, "Health, happiness and long life to William Macready

."

* * * * *

FAREWELL TO CHARLES DICKENS
[Speech of Sir Edward Bulwer-Lytton at a farewell banquet given to
Charles Dickens, London, November 2, 1867, prior to his departure on a
reading tour in the United States. In giving the toast of the evening,
Lord Lytton, the chairman, delivered the following speech.]

MY LORDS AND GENTLEMEN:--I now approach the toast which is special to
the occasion that has brought together a meeting so numerous and
so singularly distinguished.

You have paid the customary honors to our beloved sovereign, due
not only to her personal virtues, but to that principle of constitutional
monarchy in which the communities of Europe recognize the happiest
mode of uniting liberty with order, and giving to the aspirations
for the future a definite starting-point in the experience and the
habits of the past.
He,
the friend, an ordinary, rather stupid fellow, once helped poor Nicoll,
got a room for him and gave him money, after he was released from
prison. He felt proud to think that a man like Nicoll would accept
hospitality 'from a poor bloke like me,' as he put it. His friendship
with Nicoll has been the great event of his life. Whenever anything
occurs in the radical movement which recalls ever so slightly the affair
of which Nicoll was the scapegoat, his old friend will say, in his funny
Jewish Cockney, 'That's always the wey, like Nicoll's kise, for
example.' Then he launches forth into eloquent streams of denunciation,
for he does not regard Nicoll as at all insane, but on the contrary,
'the finest man ever downed' by aristocrats like Turner and Kropotkin.

"This affair has made our friend pessimistic about anarchism, at times,
and inclined to join the socialist party. His life is made miserable by
the ceaseless debate of his mind and soul over which of these two
philosophies is the best one for the race. He, suspiciously, is always
looking for another case like Nicoll's, and is doubtful about all
movements, not only anarchism and socialism, but all which preach
liberty, justice, and the like, such as Theosophy, Single Tax, Sun
Worshippers, Spirit Fruiters, Holy Rollers, Upton Sinclair's Helicot
Colony, and Parker Sercombe's Spencer-Whitman Centre. All these he has
tested and found more or less wanting. Life grows daily more melancholy
for him, as he continues, on account of 'Nicoll's Kise,' to probe
beneath the surface of all the cults and movements which profess
boundless love for humanity, truth, justice and freedom.

"P. R., whom you have also met in London, has got himself into trouble
by making inflammatory speeches in Germany. When they talked of
arresting him, he immediately claimed American citizenship. But if he
ever turned up in America again they would clap him in jail so quick it
would make his head swim. He, together with McQueen, was arrested here
some years ago for helping start the New Jersey riots, but he skipped
his bonds, to the great disgust of the bondsmen, who were comrades in
the movement. The movement in the whole United States, Canada, Europe,
and Asia was divided into factions over this affair, and very nearly
went to pieces. But it was ridiculous to arrest him in the first place,
for he could not incite a feather to riot. He is one of those flamboyant
wind-bags, with a terrific command of high-sounding phrases, eloquent
gestures, and fine eyes--the kind sixteen-year-old girls admire--to
think I once loved him, or thought I did! He is a big little physical
coward and prides himself on being the realisation of Nietzsche's
Uebermensch.

"The movement in Chicago is about to resume its usual winter activity by
the opening of the Social Science League this Sunday evening. There are
many cultured people in this city who think the Social Science League is
too crude and vulgar to grace with their presence, therefore it has been
resolved to establish another society of a more exclusive order, in
which may be discussed important questions in a more subdued, rational,
and artistic way. It is especially desired that only the 'artistic'
anarchist be admitted to this new society. The crude element of
anarchism is to be excluded as much as possible, but what cannot be
excluded is to be subdued. If this is impossible, it shall be expelled.
All illustrious lights will speak there. Terry has been invited, but has
refused on democratic grounds, and sticks to that 'bum' society, the S.
S. League.

"One of the girls who has gone over to the 'swells' is Mary. She is a
factory girl and an important little person, who prides herself on the
amount of culture she possesses, and the famous people she has met and
talked with. I introduced her once to a literary man, but she did not
know he was so, at the time, and only nodded coldly. But when she found
he was the famous Mr. F---- she was angry at me for not putting her
'next' and was much distressed, for here was another famous man whom she
had nearly talked with.

"Another girl whom I know has done a wonderful thing with a certain man.
He is a great, strong German, who guzzles beer and bullies the other
fellow in his arguments about anarchism. When I first knew him, several
years ago, he was married to a nice non-resistant sort of a girl, whom
he treated awfully bad--without intending to. For he is really generous
and good-hearted, but is firmly imbued with the idea, which he thought
was the beginning of anarchism, that one must be firm and have one's own
way and do all that one wants to do, without allowing any scruple of
conscience or morals or delicacy to interfere; that to be a man and an
anarchist one must never allow a petticoat to come between you and your
desire. So he did what he wanted, regardless of anybody. He was a sort
of brutal Overman; one could not help admiring the kind of barbaric
splendour there was about him. And his poor wife idolised him and would
stand everything from him.

"Now he is here with another girl. Talk about a change! He has turned
from a lion to a mouse. She is a little bit of a thing, only nineteen,
rather silly and not very attractive. She is pretty in an outward way,
but her features are unlit by any glimmer of feeling or thought, or even
good nature--a slothful, empty sort of prettiness. She makes him walk a
chalk-line, and it is contemptible and ridiculous and pitiful to see
that big man cringe before this poor, pretty, empty little thing. Once
in a while he tears himself away, and a glimmer of his old self returns;
for an hour or two he plays his old rôle again, but if she finds out
about it, it is very unpleasant for him. It is strange how weak women
can subdue at times these big, husky creatures. But the more they
succeed, the more dissatisfied they grow, until at last they feel
contempt for the man they have subdued. The girl in this case feels that
way about this big, powerful man. If he would assert himself, she would
love him, as she did when she saw how he bullied his wife and all
others. But at bottom we women are pleased, for it is a triumph for our
sex, though we feel a little jealous because not one of us could have
been the lion-tamer, instead of this weak little creature. Terry is wild
about it, and tries to lead the enslaved Hercules into evil ways and
keep him out at night, but all these things have lost their charm for
the big man, who now would rather stay at home with the little girl.
She, however, finds things very tedious, particularly in the day time,
when her big man is at the factory, for she has nothing to do. So she
passes her time at Esther's house.

"I would go crazy were I in Esther's place. Poor Esther, she doesn't
know what to do, either, for she cannot be always ill. She takes
pleasure in being an invalid, but she can't use this plea for sympathy
all the time, people get tired of it. But Esther is fortunate in having
somebody to whom she can tell all her aches and pains and their history.
She has found a unique occupation, in scrubbing. She starts Monday
mornings and finishes Saturday afternoons, and then on Monday starts
again. I was with her a week, and that's the way she spent the days.
Perhaps she is like Mary Maclain and finds a peculiar inspiration in
this fascinating task. If you were a woman I would write more about
Esther's scrubbing, which is very wonderful, but you probably would not
understand. Jay, her lover, comes home from work every evening, and,
after eating the chaste evening meal of rice and beans, lights his
corncob pipe, settles himself comfortably in his chair and listens
carefully to the description of the aches and pains which have afflicted
Esther that day. These pains continue in spite of all the beautiful
scrubbing. He suggests different remedies until his pipe is finished,
then he calmly retires to his library and reviews a book and reads
several pamphlets, writes an article for '_The Demonstrator_' or '_The
Appeal to Reason_' or some other radical paper and attends to his
voluminous correspondence with the leading radicals of the day. Then he
retires for the night, also Esther, after the farewell scrub of the
dishes, table, and the rest, and the kids, too, go to roost. When I was
there, I also went to bed, though it was only about half past eight.

"About half past five in the morning a most infernal alarm clock emits a
most hellish noise. Jay and Esther tumble from their couch, light the
lamp, and resume their occupations. After a very chaste breakfast Esther
continues her scrubbing and Jay finishes his correspondence and puts in
the rest of the time until seven o'clock, when his work in the factory
begins, in studying the new language, Esperanto. Oh, I spent a most
charming and delightful week there; I could hardly tear myself away."

One of Marie's amorous episodes led her to Detroit, with a "fake"
anarchist, of whom there are many. After a week or two of dissipation
and disillusionment, Marie returned, very ill, to the "Salon," where
Terry received her with his usual stoicism, and acted as trained nurse.
Repentant and disgusted, Marie wrote me from her convalescent bed:

"I am still far from well, but am much better. My illness was caused by
too much dissipation, which I plunged into for relaxation. For some
weeks previously I had got a particularly large dose of my environment.
Terry and I live in surroundings which would kill an ordinary person.
Our little home is not as bad in the summer time. We can have the
windows and doors open, but now in this cold winter we must all live in
one room, a very small room, where there is a stove. The dampness
penetrates right through the walls and the wind comes through the holes
in the window panes. Sundays are the hardest days for me. Then Kate,
queen of the kitchen, is here, and she delights in cooking all sorts of
things on that day, so for the remaining six days our home smells of her
culinary operations--most abominable, this odour of stale cookery! And
what a mess our rooms are in on Monday morning! You wouldn't
comprehend, even if I told you. I have to clean up all this, and I wish
I could fly away every Sunday. At times I get so tired of this way of
living. I hope some day I may find a large barn with a hay loft: I would
immediately abolish Kate and her cookery and would be comfortable for
once in my life.

"So I ran away, for a time, partly for relief, partly because I was
rather taken with a Detroit anarchist who was visiting us. Though he was
a comrade, he was really a Philistine, which I did not see till
afterwards. I saw only that he was young and lusty and wanted a lark, as
I did, so I went with him on an awful tear, and returned terribly done
up, as you know.

"I have been lying here in this little room for three weeks. I thought
surely I should die, and I was neither glad nor sorry. It was curious,
this sensation of approaching death. All these days Terry sat opposite
me at a table reading or writing. I could see him distinctly at times,
at other times everything was misty or completely dark, only his voice
reached me from such a long, long distance. He sat there like an
implacable fate, with calm, cold eyes, gazing above and beyond me.
Between two slow heart beats I felt it was almost a duty to call him
and bid him farewell, but some strange sense of shyness held me back. I
tried so hard to think of what I might do, and the most grotesque and
comical things suggested themselves. At one lucid moment I had the
brilliant idea of becoming a jockey!

"Other ways of passing my life revolved ceaselessly in my brain, and now
at last perhaps I have found it. Now that I am better I am reading
Swinburne aloud, in bed. The sound of my voice carried along with the
music of his matchless rhythms is to me a delight and a wonder. I have
discovered that the Garden of Proserpine should be read only when one is
in a reclining position. Then one's voice conveys more perfectly the
weariness of all things mortal and the sweet delight of rest. I find I
must practice breathing more deeply, if I wish to render the voluptuous,
sinuous lines. Don't you think this is a great ambition, to read
Swinburne well? I am so glad to find something to do, something I love
to do. Perhaps I may escape from all by this.

"It is now five days since I started to write to you, but I still lie on
my back and dream and have not found my place, and never shall.
Swinburne's never-ceasing, monotonous rhymes have palled upon me. Even
this is sordid, and then, if so, what is the rest?--the daily life
filled with brutish and shallow men and women? When I can no longer
endure poetry and daily life--it is then that I rush into brutal
dissipation, from which I awake sick in mind and body, without hope or
desire for anything but sleep: and then, once more, the Garden of
Proserpine reveals itself to me, or some other thing of beauty. It is an
eternal round.

"I often think that the only way for me to be in harmony with the scheme
of things would be to go down into the gutter. Some years ago during my
brief period of--prostitution, I suppose--I felt a strange importance.
It was death to me, but something real, too. I was fulfilling a need of
society, a horrible need, but a need. And then, too, all my men friends
often go to these houses. All the nice, intellectual men are to be met
there--men from all ranks of life--men a girl like me could never meet
in any other way. During that brief time, at moments between a sleep and
a drink, I used to have this fancy, which sometimes makes me shudder
now, as I think of it, and yet somehow seems such a fine satisfying
protest--a feeling that some day I would be seen waddling about the
streets of Chicago, known to all the denizens of the under world as
Drunken Mary! I saw myself fat and repulsive, begging nickels from the
passers-by and perhaps strangled at the end by some passing hobo for the
few nickels in my stocking. And am I essentially worse than you, or my
lady, or anyone whom Society protects and honours? To me poet and pimp,
politician, reformer, thief, aristocrat, prostitute are one. Caste and
class distinctions are too subtle for my poor brain and too outrageous
for my heart, which still tries to beat with and for humanity."

Terry refers only in a line or two, characteristically, to this
adventure and illness of Marie.

"She is seriously ill, the result of a mad adventure. As I exist for
others when they are in pain, I am her trained nurse. She is now
recovering from the drugs, the debauching, and the raving madness of
sleepless nights. I will give you an account sometime of a strange piece
of magic charlatanism, practiced under the guise of beautiful art!...

"I think her growing recovery is largely due to the inability to secure
a doctor to christen her disease. I feel rather worn with domestic
drudgery, cooking, laundering, wrestling with disease without and demons
within. Still, as a trained nurse who can go sleepless for three weeks,
I do not look upon myself as a failure."

Marie's health improved slowly, due in part to the unsanitary conditions
of her home. She wrote:

"The roof of this miserable shack leaks all the time. The other day the
owner came around in his automobile. I was speechless. It made me mad to
think of that hound, riding in his car which we had paid for. Oh, the
miserable people who live in these two houses: old, decrepit women who
earn their living by washing clothes for others. It would make your
blood boil to see them. And then to see that fat dog in his auto,
accepting money from them and not ever giving them a whole roof in
return. When I saw him I wanted to say so much. I could only choke. Oh,
when you hear of the brutality of the mob, don't believe it. The mob may
indeed, under the impulse of the moment, burn and destroy; but think of
the cold brutality of a judge sitting on his bench and calmly condemning
some poor wretch to be killed, and this with no emotion. How can this
be? The revolutionists in France were the kindest beings, in comparison.
They had personal injuries to avenge, and all they did was to strike off
an enemy's head and that was the end. There was even a chance of being
saved, if the doomed one could find the right expression, some little
sentence that would affect the brutal (?) people. But this could not
happen before a judge!

"The trouble with the poor is, they have not enough imagination. They
are not refined in their cruelties. They could never invent the Bull
Pen, but would only quickly destroy. It is raining to-day, and I have
been moving about trying to find a dry spot where I can continue writing
without having a large splash come down on my nose. But I guess I'll
have to give it up. Oh, that cursed landlord! I'd like to do something
to him, not so much for myself as for those poor old things, they are
all rheumatic and stiff, but continue to live here because, poor souls,
they think the rent is low. Ye gods, the place is not fit for dogs to
live in, and yet he charges all the way from five dollars up for these
filthy, worm-eaten, rotten holes. And yet the old decrepit inhabitants
of this rich man's house unbend their stiff knees in profound salaams
whenever he appears."

But in these leaky rooms of Kate's there was often much jollity and
gaiety, when the "Salon" had its sessions, and proletarians of the pale
cast of thought sat and smoked their cigarettes, drank their beer,
kissed their girls, and talked of philosophy and literature and social
evil and possible regeneration. Even if we had had, as we did not have,
the power to compel such a transfer, it could not have been made
without the most serious international complications.

Such a course could not be thought of. And yet had we refused to accept
the cession of them we should have had no power over them, even for their
own good. We could not discharge the responsibilities upon us until these
islands became ours, either by conquest or treaty. There was but one
alternative, and that was either Spain or the United States in
the Philippines. The other suggestions--first, that they should be tossed
into the arena of contention for the strife of nations; or, second, be
left to the anarchy and chaos of no protectorate at all--were too
shameful to be considered. [Applause.]
The treaty gave them to the United States. Could we have required
less and done our duty?

Could we, after freeing the Filipinos from the domination of Spain, have
left them without government and without power to protect life or property
or to perform the international obligations essential to an independent
State? Could we have left them in a state of anarchy and justified
ourselves in our own consciences or before the tribunal of mankind? Could
we have done that in the sight of God or man?

Our concern was not for territory or trade or empire, but for the people
whose interests and destiny, without our willing it, had been put in our
hands. It was with this feeling that from the first day to the last
not one word or line went from the Executive in Washington to our military
and naval commanders at Manila or to our Peace Commissioners at
Paris, that did not put as the sole purpose to be kept in mind, first
after the success of our arms and the maintenance of our own honor,
the welfare and happiness and the rights of the inhabitants of the
Philippine islands. Did we need their consent to perform a great
act for humanity?

We had it in every aspiration of their minds, in every hope of their
hearts. Was it necessary to ask their consent to capture Manila, the
capital of their islands? Did we ask their consent to liberate them
from Spanish sovereignty or to enter Manila Bay and destroy the Spanish
sea-power there? We did not ask these; we were obeying a higher moral
obligation which rested on us and which did not require anybody's
consent. We were doing our duty by them, as God gave us the light to
see our duty, with the consent of our own consciences and with the
approval of civilization. Every present obligation has been met and
fulfilled in the expulsion of Spanish sovereignty from their islands, and
while the war that destroyed it was in progress we could not ask
their views. Nor can we now ask their consent. Indeed, can any one tell
me in what form it could be marshaled and ascertained until peace and
order, so necessary to the reign of reason, shall be secured and established?
A reign of terror is not the kind of rule under which right action and
deliberate judgment are possible. It is not a good time for the
liberator to submit important questions concerning liberty and
government to the liberated while they are engaged in shooting down their
rescuers.

We have now ended the war with Spain.

The treaty has been ratified by the votes of more than two-thirds
of the Senate of the United States and by the judgment of nine-tenths
of its people.

No nation was ever more fortunate in war or more honorable in its
negotiations in peace. Spain is now eliminated from the problem. It
remains to ask what we shall now do.

I do not intrude upon the duties of Congress or seek to anticipate or
forestall its action. I only say that the treaty of peace,
honorably secured, having been ratified by the United States, and,
as we confidently expect, shortly to be ratified in Spain, Congress
will have the power, and I am sure the purpose, to do what in good
morals is right and just and humane for these peoples in distant
seas.

It is sometimes hard to determine what is best to do, and the best
thing to do is oftentimes the hardest.

The prophet of evil would do nothing because he flinches at sacrifice
and effort, and to do nothing is easiest and involves the least cost.

On those who have things to do there rests a responsibility which is not
on those who have no obligations as doers. If the doubters were in a
majority, there would, it is true, be no labor, no sacrifice, no anxiety,
and no burden raised or carried; no contribution from our ease and
purse and comfort to the welfare of others, or even to the extension
of our resources to the welfare of ourselves.

There would be ease, but alas! there would be nothing done.

But grave problems come in the life of a nation, however much
men may seek to avoid them. They come without our seeking;
why, we do not know, and it is not always given us to know;
but the generation on which they are forced cannot avoid the responsibility
of honestly striving for their solution. We may not know precisely how
to solve them, but we can make an honest effort to that end, and if
made in conscience, justice, and honor, it will not be in vain.

The future of the Philippine Islands is now in the hands of the American
people. Until the treaty was ratified or rejected the Executive department
of this government could only preserve the peace and protect life and
property. That treaty now commits the free and enfranchised Filipinos
to the guiding hand and the liberalizing influences, the generous
sympathies, the uplifting education, not of their American masters,
but of their American emancipators. No one can tell to-day what is best
for them or for us. I know no one at this hour who is wise enough or
sufficiently informed to determine what form of government will best
subserve their interests and our interests, their and our well-being.

If we knew everything by intuition--and I sometimes think that there
are those who believe that if we do not, they do--we should not need
information; but, unfortunately, most of us are not in that happy
state.
This whole subject is now with Congress; and Congress is the voice, the
conscience and the judgment of the American people. Upon their judgment
and conscience can we not rely? I believe in them. I trust them. I know
of no better or safer human tribunal than the people.

[Applause.]
Until Congress shall direct otherwise, it will be the duty of
the Executive to possess and hold the Philippines, giving to the people
thereof peace and order and beneficent government, affording them every
opportunity to prosecute their lawful pursuits, encouraging them in
thrift and industry, making them feel and know that we are their
friends, not their enemies, that their good is our aim, that their welfare
is our welfare, but that neither their aspirations nor ours can be
realized until our authority is acknowledged and unquestioned.

That the inhabitants of the Philippines will be benefited by this Republic
is my unshaken belief. That they will have a kindlier government under
our guidance, and that they will be aided in every possible way to be a
self-respecting and self-governing people is as true as that the American
people love liberty and have an abiding faith in their own government
and in their own institutions. No imperial designs lurk in the American
mind. They are alien to American sentiment, thought and purpose. Our
priceless principles undergo no change under a tropical sun. They go
with the flag. They are wrought in every one of its sacred folds and
are inextinguishable in its shining stars.

"Why read ye not the changeless truth, The free can conquer but to save."

If we can benefit these remote peoples, who will object? If in the years
of the future they are established in government under law and liberty,
who will regret our perils and sacrifices? Who will not rejoice in our
heroism and humanity?

Always perils, and always after them safety; always darkness and
clouds, but always shining through them the light and the sunshine;
always cost and sacrifice, but always after them the fruition of
liberty, education and civilization.

I have no light or knowledge not common to my countrymen. I do not
prophesy. The present is all-absorbing to me, but I cannot bound my
vision by the blood-stained trenches around Manila, where every red
drop, whether from the veins of an American soldier or a misguided Filipino,
is anguish to my heart; but by the broad range of future years, when
that group of islands, under the impulse of the year just passed, shall
have become the gems and glories of those tropical seas; a land of plenty
and of increasing possibilities; a people redeemed from savage
indolence and habits, devoted to the arts of peace, in touch with
the commerce and trade of all nations, enjoying the blessings of
freedom, of civil and religious liberty, of education and of homes,
and whose children and children's children shall for ages hence
bless the American Republic because it emancipated and redeemed
their fatherland and set them in the pathway of the world's best
civilization.

[Long-continued applause and cheers.]

WILLIAM B. MELISH

THE LADIES
[Speech of William B. Melish at a banquet given in honor of the Grand
Encampment of Knights Templars of the United States, by the Templars of
Pennsylvania, at Pittsburg, Pa., 1898. Colonel Melish, of Cincinnati,
Ohio, was assigned the toast, "Our ladies."]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--Once in three years it falls to the
lot of a few, a happy few, of us budding blossoms of the official
corps of the Grand Encampment to be discovered by a triennial
committee, and distinguished by having our names printed on the
banquet lists, and told that we are to sit among the elect at the
big centre table, and to respond to certain toasts.

With all the vanity of man we gladly accept, and care little what
the toast may be.

So, when the Pittsburg Committee asked me to select my topic, I rashly
said "any old thing," and they told me I was to talk about the ladies.
Then I regretted that I had said "any old thing." [Laughter.] In vain I
told them I knew but little of the subject, delightful though it be,
and that what I did know I dare not tell in this presence. The
Chairman unearthed some ancient Templar landmark of the Crusaders Hopkins
and Gobin, about "a Knight's duty is to obey," hence as the poet says:--

"When a woman's in the case, You know all other things give place."

Last Sunday when the Grand Master, and all the Grand officers, save possibly
the Grand Prelate, made their _triennial_ appearance in church, I
picked up a book in the pew I was in, and was impressed with the opening
chapters of a story called "The Book of Genesis." It is the first mention
made of one who was entitled to be called the "first lady in the land."
I read that the Creator "saw everything that he had made and behold
it was very good," and he rested.

Then He made man and said He was good--and He rested. He then made woman
out of the rib of a man, but no mention is made of His remarks, or of
His resting--in fact there has been no rest for mankind ever since.
[Laughter.] The first lady was called woman--"because she was taken
out of man," and twenty centuries look down upon us, and we realize
that what she has taken out of man is a plenty. As the poet Moore
pleasantly remarks:--
"Disguise our bondage as we will 'Tis woman, woman rules us still."
For two thousand years the Order of Knighthood has been endeavoring to
ameliorate and elevate the condition of womankind.

Among savages they are beasts of burden, among barbarians and Mohammedans
they are toys or slaves, but among us, thanks to American manhood,
they have our love and respect, they have all our rights, all our
money, and, in these days of tailor-made garments, they have nearly
all our clothes; and we smile and smile, and wonder what next?

[Laughter.]
Is it surprising that a sedate, sober-minded, slightly bald-headed,
middle-aged Templar Knight, "used only to war's alarms [laughter] and
not to woman's charms," should be at a loss what to say on an occasion
like this, or to do justice to such a subject? It is delightful to
have the ladies here. Like Timon of Athens we can truly say:--
"You have, fair ladies, Set a fair fashion to our entertainment, Which
was not half so beautiful and kind."
In the presence of the bright eyes, rosy cheeks, and warm red lips of
the ladies it might be possible to work up to the proper degree of
enthusiasm in the short time allotted me, if it were not for the stony
glare of one which says "Beware, I am here!" [Laughter.] Now, in my
innocence, I presumed that poets were the fellows who had prepared all
the pretty things to say about the dear girls, but I find a variety of
opinions expressed. That good old Masonic bard, Bobby Burns, says:--

"And nature swears, the lovely dears, Her noblest work she classes,
O; Her 'prentice hand she tried on man An' then she made the lasses,
O."
But you will note that Dame Nature swears this, and she is not a competent
witness, as she had nothing to do with the little surgical episode when
Brother Adam lost his rib. [Laughter.] Lord Lyttleton gave our sisters
good advice, as follows:--
"Seek to be good, but aim not to be great, A woman's noblest station is
Retreat, Her fairest virtues fly from public sight, Domestic worth
that shuns too strong a light."
Another English authority named "Howe," in his "Advice to Wives,"
says:--
"A wife, domestic, good and pure Like snail should keep within her
door, But not, like snail, with silver track Place all her wealth
upon her back."

But who in these latter days would preach the heresies of those old-fashioned
fellows to the hundreds of ladies present, plumed in all the titles and
distinctions of the hundred and one woman's clubs of to-day, which
they represent. Perish the thought!

Woman is being emancipated. She is enthroned in the sun, crowned with
stars, and, trampling beneath her dainty feet the burnt-out moon, emblem
of a vanished despotism that denied her the companionship of her husband,
questioned her immortality, locked her up in the harem, or harnessed
her to the plough. A hundred years from now, if she does a man's
work, she will be paid a man's wages [applause], and some of us
will not have to work for a living, but can go to our clubs in
peace, take our afternoon naps, and be ready in the evening to get
Mamma's slippers ready when she comes home from the office.

[Laughter.]
But the problem for to-night is how to consider the various relations which
women bear to us weak, frail men--as mother or mother-in-law, as
sweetheart or wife. We are somewhat in the predicament of the green
bridegroom at Delmonico's who said: "Waiter, we want dinner for two."
"Will ze lady and ze gentleman haf table d'hote or a la carte?" "Oh,
bring us some of both, with lots of gravy on 'em!" Oh, ye Knights!
Take the advice of the philosopher who is talking to you, and be on the
best of terms with your mother-in-law. [Laughter.] Only get her on
your side, and you have a haven to fly to when all others fail to
appreciate you, and when some one of the others feels appointed a
special agent to tell you about it. Now, it isn't everybody that
knows this, and I commend it to you. [Laughter.]
Some men are like the two darkies I heard discussing the question of
what a man should do if he were in a boat on a wide river, with
his mother and his wife, and the boat should sink, and he could
only save one woman.

"Johnson," said Billy Rice, "who would you save, yo' mudder or yo'
wife?" Johnson thought and said: "Billy! I would save my mudder.
I could get anudder wife, but where under the blue canopy of hebben could
I get anudder dear old mudder?" "But look here, Billy! 'Spose you
was in de boat, in de middle of de river, wid yo' wife and yo'
mudder-in-law?" "Oh, what a cinch!"--said Billy. "And de boat," continued
Johnson, "was to strike a snag and smash to pieces, and eberybody go
into de water, who would you save?" "My wife, dar! my mudder-in-law
dar!

and de boat strike a snag?" "Yes!" "I would save de snag," said Billy.
"I could get anudder wife, I might den have anudder mudder-in-law, but
where under de blue canopy of hebben could I find anudder dear, thoughtful
old snag?" [Laughter.]
It has been well said that "all a woman has to do in this world is
contained within the duties of a daughter, a sister, a wife, and a
mother." She has sustained at least one of these relations to even the
poorest of us; but I wonder if there is a man here to-night so miserably
abject and forlorn and God-forsaken as not, some time in his life,
to have been able to regard her in the delightful relation of sweetheart?
I hope not. I would rather he had had a dozen, than no sweetheart at
all.
The most unselfish devotion we may ever know is that of our mother; a
sweet affection is that of our sisters, a most tender love is that of
our daughters, but the love and affection we all want, and without
which we are never satisfied, is that of the sweethearts who reward our
devotion--out of all proportion to our deserts--by becoming
our wives and the mothers of our daughters. [Applause.]
It is not less the pleasure than the duty of every man to have a
sweetheart--I was almost tempted to say, the more, the merrier--and
the sooner he makes one of his sweethearts his wife, the better
for him.

If he is a "woman-hater," or professes to be (for, as a matter of fact,
there is no such anomaly as a genuine "woman-hater" at liberty in
this great and glorious country), let him beware, as I believe with
Thackeray, that a "woman, with fair opportunities, and without an
absolute hump, may _marry_ whom she likes. [Laughter.]
"During the teamsters' strike I witnessed a scene where the strikers
hustled the scabs, overturned several huge wagons loaded with beef, in
the centre of one of the poorest districts of Chicago, where the people
were suffering from want of meat, but the wretches did not even have
sense enough to help themselves from this plentiful store which was left
on the street guarded only by one or two policemen. And there would have
been no danger of arrest, for the policemen could easily have been swept
aside by the rest of the mob. It made me mad. I felt like shouting at
them, 'you fools, why don't you help yourselves?' How differently a
hungry bunch of kids would have acted!"

Terry, in his very different way, wrote on the same subject:

"I never knew a sincere, not to say honest, labour leader, from business
agent up. Poor proletaire! forever crucified between two sets of
thieves--one rioting on his rights, the other carousing on his wrongs.
Labour plods while plunder plays, thus runs the world away. But if he
should take it into his thick head to be his own walking delegate some
day!"

This strange master of the "salon," this poetic interpreter of the
philosophy of the man who has nothing, has, in spite of his pessimisms,
a profound mystic hope. He wrote:

"That toiling humanity--the labour movement--to me is a thing so vast,
that whatever other movements try to exclude themselves from it, they
must be swallowed up in it. All other things are but the shadows cast
behind or before the ever-marching phalanx of the unconquerable, the
imperishable proletaire. This is the hope which sends its thrill through
us when nothing else can. At the bottom of my heart I know I am living
but for one thing, and my life has been nothing but a preparation for
this. Of and for myself I have accomplished nothing: for to be ever
ready and alert is not accomplishment.... I see a profound hope in the
proletaire, for to him is granted that intense, wistful awareness of his
common lot and life with his fellows. His very crowding in factories
and tenements, salons, unions, and brothels, brings it home to him. Yes,
this very lack of space must remorselessly rub it in, even by dumb,
physical close contact. The friction resulting from ten living in one
room must make one of them phosphorescent--and capable of giving light
to humanity. The tenement houses are harmless boxes of lucifers as long
as none is ignited. The inhabitants are wofully benighted, but they
possess wonderfully the quality of brotherhood, of oneness, hence arises
their wonderful psychology and their æsthetics, so full and overflowing
with pathos, so piercing, it carries one to that borderland where comic
and tragic make marriage.

"This strange crowding in our consciousness of things that do not seem
to come from us and yet are of us--this clamouring consciousness is what
drives me to despair and makes me feel I have not the form or shadow of
things, though I may have the substance. Yet I am determined to strain
my self-consciousness even to the breaking point; for though I know
madness lies that way, there stands my Ideal, beckoning. I must grasp
this great common thing which comes from all of us, from us crowded
proletarians, and yet is not in any one of us. Together we enjoy and
suffer more than any one of us alone. There is, I believe, something
deeper than the deepest woe: our racial consciousness is there and we
must find it. At moments of great insight we are suddenly made aware of
this, the mysterious unity of the Race, but it is flashed and gone and
we must await another crisis. It is only in moments of sublime sorrow
that the depths of the racial consciousness is heaved up to us. Joy
cannot do this, for joy is narrow and wants us to do away with sorrow;
but sorrow never wants us to do away with joy. Keats always beheld joy
in an external attitude of farewell and this is profoundly and perfectly
mystical and real: joy is swallowed up in something deeper, away down in
the common racial consciousness. We must all strive to be men beyond
essential harm; else, standing blindly before the meaning and destiny of
the race, we should go mad. Most of us try to think, intellectuals; fear
to abandon ourselves to alarming states of feeling where reason is
crowded to the wall. And yet I feel that by abandoning ourselves
completely to mere feeling lies our only hope to find the logic of the
race that no individual reason can master.

"Let me tell you of something that recently happened to me which shows
how strong this race feeling is, as opposed to merely individual or
family feeling. I heard that my mother was dying. I had become
reconciled long ago, had seen many things more clearly; for if joy is of
the heart, sorrow is of the soul, by which we see. I wonder if woman has
a 'lake' in her heart. I used to think my mother had, and when I called
to see her once more, the old love-longing caught me by the throat. My
presence seemed to help her some, but, though moved, I had passed beyond
the family boundary-line, and was engaged in stripping myself of
everything not belonging to the soul. If I wish to be something more
than myself, I must be prepared to lose all, even myself. And what is my
family and my mother?"

Terry does not like to use the word "religion." But he certainly belongs
to the type of the religious man. One of the most marked characteristics
of the religious temperament is this abandonment of personal and family
ties, this indifference and often hostility to social law, "this
emotional devotion to something intangible." All the anarchists and
social rebels I have known have, more or less, the religious
temperament, although a large part of their activity is employed in
scoffing at and reviling religion--as they think the God of theology has
been largely responsible for the organisation of social and political
injustice. But the deeply religious spirits have often been hostile to
theology, as well as to all other complicated forms of society. Here are
some religious words:

"There must be some meaning," wrote Terry, "for all this ancient agony.
Oh, that I might expand my written words into an Epic of the Slums, into
an Iliad of the Proletaire! If an oyster can turn its pain into a pearl,
then, verily, when we have suffered enough, something must arise out of
our torture--else the world has no meaning. On this theory, all my pangs
are still to come. I too will arise out of my sacrificial self and look
back on my former bondage in amaze, even as I now look down on the dizzy
slums where I am and yet am not! It cannot be that I came up out of the
depths for nothing. If I could pierce my heart and write red lines, I
might perhaps tell the truth. But only a High Silence meets me, and I do
not understand. In letting myself down to the bottomless, I discovered I
could not stand it long enough. I am dumbly dissatisfied. I feel like a
diver who has nigh strangled himself to bring up a handful of seaweed,
and so feels he must down again--and again--until he attains somewhere
the holy meaning of Life."

Terry feels that somehow deep in his life he has been crucified, that
society has nailed him to the cross:

"I was alone on the cross and with bloodshot, beseeching eyes beheld
the world objectively. Yet I was aware of a harmony beyond me, though
not in me or around me."

It is this "harmony beyond," this religious sense of "something far more
deeply interfused" which, ever conscious in the idealist's mind, makes
the concrete vision of everyday fact so ugly, leads to anarchism of
feeling profound and constant.

But in this world, which as a whole the heart rejects--"my heart," said
Terry, "is the last analysis of all things"--the idealist sees things of
beauty which constitute for him the elements of perfection, elements
which in some future state he dreams may be fully realised in a social
whole.

"I saw a fine thing from the window to-day," Terry wrote, "a thing of
sheer delight, the complete transfiguration of a human being. An Italian
street labourer came into the yard and sprawled on the grass to eat his
own lunch. He was bandy-legged from being coaxed to stand alone too
soon. But he had a most wonderful face; all the mobility which toil had
banished from his form must have sought refuge in his eyes and his
caressing countenance. Catching sight of some children playing 'house,'
he jumped up and in a most charming way offered them all of his cakes
and went back to his luncheon. The children instinctively brought him
back some of the cakes, which he not only refused, but offered them the
rest of his food. They gathered in a semicircle while he spoke to them.
There came something in his face and attitude which I have seen many
'cultured' people vainly attempt. He absolutely was one of them; the
children stood spell-bound, dazed at the sudden transformation of a man
into a child. The imagination that can become one with its object is a
high form of unconscious art and rests upon the heart and the mass
feeling of the race. The ancient folk-lore and ballads must have arisen
from some such fusion as this. How unfair, at least unwise, it is to
judge the individual action of the proletaire, when he is made for
action in the mass."

This vague philosophy and transcendental ethics pass naturally enough,
at times, into the feeling of violent revolution, where bomb-throwing,
if not advocated, is emotionally sympathetic.

"Just now," wrote Terry, "there is strong predisposition among the
'reds' to resort to Russian methods. It needs only the occasion, which
must be waited for, and cannot be created. When the 'error' is great
enough, the 'Terror' will surely rise to the occasion. Were it not for
my faith in this, I should be glad to see Humanity lapse back to whence
it came."

In the idealist there is a growing impatience with the world; in his
attempt to react even against Nature and some of the necessary qualities
of men there is such inevitable failure that no moral revolutionist or
anarchist can indefinitely endure the struggle. He is destroyed by his
fundamental opposition to the world which he seeks to destroy.
Therefore, impatiently, weakly, he sometimes breaks out--with a
bomb--even against his philosophy and his temperament.

He is led into contradictions. One of them touches upon his feeling of
"class consciousness." Terry at times, as a transcendental moralist,
rises above this feeling, but his special instinct as a "labour" man
often asserts itself against and in contradiction to his passion for the
oneness of the race. In my intimate association with him I sometimes saw
that, much as he liked me, he felt that I was of another "class." In the
work which resulted in my book, _The Spirit of Labour_, I frequently
came in discouraging contact with this "class" distrust of me--in him
and in others. Marie alone seemed free of it, in her relation to me, and
yet she wrote:

"I think we have a peculiar sympathy for each other, and yet I realise
that in some subtle way there is not that perfect understanding there
ought to be. Just think of what extremes we two come from--how different
our social environment! I know you understand as nearly as is possible
for one of your class, and yet I doubt if you can really sympathise
with the ideas of anarchism which springs naturally from only one
class--the labour class. Do you not hesitate sometimes and doubt that
all men are worthy of the better things of life, the coalheaver as well
as the banker and artist? Even I hesitate sometimes, when I see the
coarseness and ignorance of these poor plodders of earth, and when I
think of all the really great things that slavery has accomplished. But
who knows how much greater things might be, if done freely by free men?
When I remember that these poor plodders have never had a chance, I
relent and feel so sorry and so hopeless. How often Terry and I have
walked along the boulevards, admiring the beautiful homes of the rich.
Oh, it used to make me wild! I felt that I belonged to humanity, and yet
I could only enter these beautiful homes as a servant, an object of
contempt--an object of contempt supposed, moreover, to have morals, and
religion, too!"

Of "class consciousness," Terry wrote: "Class feeling has always been a
deep problem to me: it emanates from profound depths. This reflection
concerns you. Many of your 'labour' friends here seem to regret that
there were many things they could not tell you; not that they had any
conscious lack of faith in you as an individual; indeed, they had great
faith in you as a person. Their distrust of you was a class distrust;
they dreaded to betray the interests of their class. They felt a
fundamental antagonism, not to you as an individual, but to you as a
member of your class. From their Social Sinai they enunciate the
eleventh commandment, 'Thou shalt not be a Scab!', and the other ten
commandments do not seem to them so important. But you, they think,
cannot feel this commandment as they do, so passionately, so fully. To
them, it is the keynote of solidarity; to you, partly at least, a
principle of division, of separation.

"No wonder our class--the thinkers among them--rejects the morality of
your class--property morality, and the rest meant only to make property
morality as strong as a law of God. I made at one time the fatal mistake
of the many simple labourers who are organically honest. I spent most of
my best life in seeking a solution of our hard lot from those above me.
After a loss of many feathers and some brave plumage, but no down, I
must in all humility beat my way back to the traditional lost ideals of
our organically incorporated class.... Perhaps the most conscienceless
class who seek to solve the insoluble is the 'cultured' class. But most
of them seem to me like artistic undertakers officiating at the 'wake'
of Life. With their platitudes, their prudery, and their chastity, they
make for death. These languid ones desire to have life served up to them
in many courses. Greed lies at the bottom of their being, and so they
preach content to the masses, though for the workers they have nothing
in their shallow souls but contempt. This cultured leisure class has had
the time and cunning to perpetrate one great and tragic trick. They have
made social falsehoods so complicated that they themselves neither
understand nor wish to understand.... Why is it that in all the great
authors I detect an air of condescension, marking their contempt for
those who make and keep them what they are? With what fine contempt the
'rube' is surveyed by the faker who has plucked him! Must I put these
classic souls of art in the same category? The art for art's sake
people--these make me sick. It is at best an argumentative confusion
springing from the fact that in the perfect work of art there is such a
fusion of form and substance as to resist dissociation and defy
analysis. Perhaps this fact accounts for Tolstoi's contempt for some of
the classic art. It seems to me that most classic art is one of two
things: either it smacks of smug content and over-fed geniality or it is
permeated with a profound pessimism. The philosophers are worse than the
artists; they are the ringleaders of the betrayers of humanity. Art at
least makes the atonement of beauty for its mistakes, but this cannot be
said of philosophy.

"Herbert Spencer, for instance, who represents the high-water mark of a
philosophy that will not hold water, pours out the vials of his
bottled-up wrath on the poor unfortunates of London who are compelled
'to make a living' by tips in opening the carriage doors or holding the
horses of the wealthy. He had nothing but loathing for the pregnant girl
who tries to break her 'fall' by taking advantage of the 'poor laws.'
For the workingman, who sincerely tries, at least, to settle the
'affairs of State' in the pot-house over a mug of ale, Spencer had
nothing but contempt; but to the parliamentary people who settle the
same 'affairs' over champagne and prostitutes, he played the
lick-spittle.... The recantation of his 'Social Statics' is the worst
case of intellectual cowardice on record.... He went down with final
contempt for the workers who served him, gave him his daily bread, made
his ink, pen, and paper and bound the twenty volumes of his philosophy
of falsehood! May his 'works' rest in oblivion!...

"In dismissing Spencer, it is worthy of note that the very thing which
made him pause in the righting of social wrongs is the thing which will
cause the Revolution, namely, the complicated nature of social
falsehoods. In recanting his published truth on the land question, he
admitted that, although the legal title to land was obtained by murder
and dispossession of original occupants, the matter was now too
complicated to be dealt with. If this be so, if justice cannot be done
because of the difficulties in the way, then all hail to the simplicity
and elemental justice of a Red Revolution!...

"Yes, sometimes I feel like the crudest of the revolutionists, although
I call myself a philosophical anarchist. Sometimes the jails seem to
yearn for my reception, and I question my right to be at large. Nothing
but a decreasing cowardice leaves me at liberty. And if I could not do
more for my soul behind the bars than I have done in front of them, then
I am fit only for durance vile. I, who have out-fasted the very flies
till they fled my room, dread but one thing in the life of a
prison--that I should have no time for reflection and repose! but out of
a born anarchist it would make of me a compulsory Socialist, condemned
to work for the State--a veritable dungeon of disgrace.

"It is not so much that I love life, though as a rule the poor, who are
so close to life, worship it in a way that puts all other things to
scorn. I know nothing that reaches farther up or deeper down than this.
It is only in the gutter that life is truly worshipped. And that is why
I search for my last faith there--in the gutter, whence all faith really
springs.

"And yet to have faith even in the gutter is an act of deep imagination.
In the rotting rooms beneath me lives a worker with a family of six
girls and one boy. Capitalism has crucified his carcass for fifty years
and now 'laid him off.' He has been looking for work for the last month.
I watch the insanity in his restless, aimless movements, and I feel
desperate enough to try to get him a job. Unfortunately, he does not
drink; so his pipe, ever in his mouth, is the only obstacle between him
and the mad-house, or the poor-house. Every morning at six o'clock, his
sandwich dinner concealed in his pocket, he makes a brave show of
walking away briskly in his hopeless search for work; for there are too
many younger men. His assumed activity is only put on till he turns the
first corner, for he tries to conceal his lameness and decrepitude,
especially from his wife, who strains her gaze after him. Just before
starting off he takes the superfluous precaution to put some
shoe-blacking on his hair which shows white about the temples. He comes
back after a six hours' search, about noon, his neglected dinner still
in his pocket. He has tramped ten or twelve miles with no open shop for
him. He does not blame anyone, but regards it all as an accident that
has happened to him in some unfortunate way. He broods over this till I
can see it in his eyes; but I don't dare say anything to him. He is too
old, and I might only make his trouble worse. If I were a sculptor I
would put him before the world in a material almost as hard and I hope
more enduring than itself. His arms never hang down by his side, but
seem to be set in the position required by his last job, shovelling. It
reminds me of the time, thirty years ago, when I was laid off, and the
madness first got in and crouched behind my eyes....

"Yes, I suppose I am mad. It is true that if I cannot have the
intellectual red that heralds the approach of Dawn, then I want the red
light of Terror that ushers in the Night. My feelings have been
clamouring for many years against my cowardly better judgment. I believe
some day they will break loose and throw me, as from a catapult, even up
against the stone wall of atrocity we call Society."

Thus the idealist becomes frenzied at times at the incredible
difficulties in the way of a total revolt against society, even against
nature. We shall see how the absolute nature of his anarchism led Terry
further and further along the path of rejection, "passing up" one thing
after another, even letting anarchism as a social enthusiasm go by the
board and making his continued relation with a human being, even with
Marie, a practical impossibility.


CHAPTER XI

_The End of the Salon_


Terry's love for Marie was partly due, as we have seen, to his passion
for social propaganda: that she represented the "social limit" was a
strong charm to him. She, woman-like, always insisted on the personal
relation, and for a long time his interest in her personality as such,
combined with his social enthusiasm, was strong enough to keep the bond
intact. When, however, his social enthusiasm paled, and his merely
individualistic anarchism became stronger, his interest in Marie
weakened. The times grew more frequent with him when he doubted the
social side of anarchism itself--when this social propaganda seemed as
hollow and as unlovely as society itself; and when he saw the weaknesses
and vanities of his associates, how far they were from realising any
ideal. Then, more and more, he was thrown back upon himself, for as his
hope in the new society weakened, his hope in Marie as an embodiment of
it weakened also.

Marie's sex interests, always freely and boldly expressed, played, at
first, no part in the growing irritability of their relations. Marie's
occasional "affairs" with other men, sometimes taking her away from the
salon for a time, were taken by Terry in silence. Even when he came face
to face with the fact of Marie's absence of restraint in this respect,
lack of delicacy and feeling for him, he did not complain. To do so was
against his principles of personal freedom; and the fling in the face of
society envolved in Marie's conduct pleased him rather than otherwise;
also there was in him a subtle feeling of superiority over other men, in
the fact that he was without physiological jealousy, or if not, that he
could at least control it.

Even Marie's jealousy of him, whenever he was in the society of another
woman, he took with a patient shrug. Terry's interest in other women was
not a passionate one: in it was always an element of the pale cast of
thought, and Marie had no real cause for jealousy. But Terry tolerantly
took it as a feminine weakness and tried to shield Marie from this
unreasonable unhappiness. On her account he gave up many a desire to
talk intimately with some female comrade. But Marie had no such
tolerance for him. Not only was she quite free with other men and to the
limit, but she often went into a real tantrum of jealousy. One day she
followed Terry all over town, fearing that he had an appointment with a
well-known radical woman. Marie often acknowledged to me her
inconsistency. "But, you know," she would say, "our principles and ideas
do not count much when our fundamental emotions are concerned."

This was a true remark of Marie's, and I have often had occasion to
perceive the great degree of it throughout the radical world. Men and
women often try in that society to be tolerant; they give one another
free rein sometimes for years, but generally in the end, the resistance
of one or the other weakens; human nature or prejudice, whichever it is,
asserts itself, and tragedy results. This I had occasion to see over and
over again: how nature triumphed over the most resolute idealism and
brought about in the end either ugly passion or pathetic unhappiness.

As Terry began to doubt his deepest hope, as he began to turn away from
the ideas about which his salon was formed, he saw and felt more
clearly the limitations of Marie's personal character; and her acts
began to hurt him. Perhaps he began to lose faith in both--Marie and the
Salon--at the same time.

"I am afraid," he wrote, "that the days of the salon are numbered. I am
of the opinion that most of our latter-day radicals are on a par with
our latter-day Christians. They have grown weary, or wary, of their
original purpose. They seem to think Liberty a beautiful goddess who
will never come: they willingly believe in her as long as there is no
danger of or in her 'coming.' Business was conducted as a rule without
the formality of contracts, and those whose lives justly provoked scandal
were shunned on every side.

This community possessed the only real wealth the world can give--content;
and the local newspaper of that day, even under the direction of a
progressive journalist, could be little more than a commonplace
chronicler of current events.

The most satisfactory newspaper work I have ever done, I mean the
most satisfactory to myself, was during the first few months after I
founded the "Sentinel."

There was pardonable boyish pride in seeing my name given with studied
prominence as editor and proprietor, and the reading of my own
editorials was as soothing as the soft, sweet strains of music on distant
waters in summer evening time. They were to my mind most exquisite in
diction and logic, and it was a source of keen regret that they were
so "cabined, cribbed, and confined" within the narrowest provincial
lines, whereby the world lost so much that it greatly needed. I knew that
there were others, like Chandler, Gales, Greeley, Ritchie, Prentice,
and Kendall, who were more read and heeded, but I was consoled by the
charitable reflection that entirely by reason of fortuitous
circumstance they were known and I was not.

Then to me life was a song with my generously self-admired newspaper as
the chorus.

There came rude awakenings, of course, from those blissful dreams as
the shock of editorial conflict gradually taught me that journalism
was one unending lesson in a school that has no vacations.

I have pleasant memories also of the intimate personal relations between
the village editor and his readers. Most of them were within a radius of
a few miles of the publication office, and all the influences of
social as well as political ties were employed to make them enduring
patrons.

With many of them the question of sparing from their scant income three
cents a week for a county paper, was one that called for sober thought
from year to year, and it often required a personal visit and earnest
importunity to hold the hesitating subscriber. I well remember the
case of a frugal farmer of the Dunker persuasion who was sufficiently
public-spirited to subscribe for the "Sentinel" for six months, to get
the paper started, but at the end of that period he had calculated the
heavy expenses of gathering the ripening harvest and decided to stop his
paper for a while. I need not say that he was enthusiastically confronted
with many reasons why a man of his intelligence and influence
should not be without the county newspaper, but he yielded only to the
extent of further considering the matter with his wife. He
returned in a few days and spread sunshine around the editorial chair
by saying that his wife had decided to continue for another six months,
as the paper would be very handy in the fall for tying up her
apple-butter crocks.

A few years after I had settled down in this quiet community to devote
my life to journalism, a shrill, weird voice was heard in the beautiful
valley of the Juniata as the iron horse made his first visit to us
with his train of cars. It was welcome music as it echoed over the
foothills of the Alleghenies, and entirely new to nearly all who heard
it. With the railway came the telegraph, the express, and the advent
of the daily newspaper among the people. In a single year the community
was transformed from its sedate and quiet ways into more energetic,
progressive, and speculative life. It was a new civilization that
had come to disturb the dreams of nearly a century, and it rapidly
extended its new influences until it reached the remotest ends of
the little county, and with this beneficent progress of civilization
came also the vices which ever accompany it, but against which the
civilization itself is ever fortified by the new factors called
into requisition to strengthen its restraining power.

While advancing the better attributes of mankind it has left unrest
in the shop, the field, the forest, and the mine, where there was content
in other days, but that unrest is the inevitable attendant of our
matchless strides in the most enlightened civilization of the age,
and it will ever present new problems for our statesmanship.

It should be remembered that while Philadelphia had then two journals
of national fame under the direction of such accomplished
editorial writers as Joseph R. Chandler and Morton McMichael, there
was not a daily newspaper in this city, or in the State, that had a
circulation of 5,000, excepting only the "Ledger," then a penny journal
almost unknown outside of the city.

Even the New York "Tribune" and the New York "Herald" then relatively
quite as distinguished as national journals as they are to-day, did not
have a daily circulation of over 15,000. There are several daily journals
now published in Philadelphia, each of which circulates more newspapers
every day than did all the great dailies of New York and Pennsylvania
combined, fifty years ago.
Thus, a careless remark of mine
resulted in a quarrel between Terry and me which did not lessen with
time, but grew larger and larger, until now the relations of us two
idyllic lovers are anything but pleasant. And a very serious attack of
love from which I suffered last summer has passed as quickly and lightly
as a breath of wind, while another light love of mine, which came to me
last February, has assumed large proportions simply because I have been
abused for it by Terry, whom no one could ever displace in my heart. I
was bound to defend my lover from the attacks of Terry, whom I had
always regarded as above such a common display of irritation in such
matters. So this other man became a sort of ideal lover in my mind, and
all because of Terry's opposition. This man had wooed me in a great,
glorious, godless fashion. He was a big man in the labour world, and he
flattered me immensely, but I should never have cared for him, if
Terry's nature had not suddenly seemed to weaken....

"I have been so uneasy about Terry lately. He has been talking so much
about joining the criminal class. He seems to be losing his interest in
our movement and to be looking for some other way of escape, as he
calls it. He says his liberty is only a figment of his mind, that he has
now reached the time for which he had all along been unconsciously
preparing himself. I am, of course, used to this kind of talk from
Terry. He has been in the depths of despondency often enough, but
nothing ever came of it except a saloon brawl. He would usually seek
Harris; they would break a mirror or a few glasses in some saloon, and
the next day Terry would have a headache, after which he was usually
content to browse around his philosophy in that mild and subtle way of
his, for a week or so.

"But now Harris is gone, and Terry does not know any other person quite
so strenuous in the fine art of breaking glasses and barroom fixtures in
general, so, finding no vent for his accumulated despondency, he may
possibly do real things. I feel so sadly for him and wish I could help
him. The Lord knows I would be willing to break any amount of glassware
with him, but he has not much confidence in my aim, I guess; women never
can throw straight. In fact, he has little confidence in me in any way
lately, for he never tells me the details of his schemes, but only
throws out dark and terrible hints....

"Truly, something may indeed happen this time. He is so anti-social. He
positively won't go out anywhere to meet people, won't go to our picnics
or socials, and in manner is very strange, distant, cold, and polite to
Katie and me. One would think he had been introduced to us just five
minutes before. Perhaps he thinks that Katie and I want him to go to
work--common, vulgar work, I mean, for Katie has lost her job and we are
living in the most economical way, for we don't know when another
desirable job can be found. Now, Terry really ought to know that I
shouldn't have him work for anything in the world. I know that Katie has
not said the least word to him, but he is so terribly sensitive that
perhaps he suspects what she may be thinking.

"Katie is despondent, too, and nearly makes me crazy talking of her
life, past, present, and future, in the most doleful way. Last night,
after talking to me for two hours about the misery of life, she made the
startling proposal that she and I commit suicide. 'For,' said she, 'I
cannot see anything ahead of me but work, work, like a cart-horse, until
I am dead. I'd rather die now and be done with everything, and you had
better come with me, for you haven't anything, and if I went alone, what
would become of you, such a poor helpless creature; see how thin you
are, I can almost look through your bones! Who would take care of you?'

"After talking in this strain for what seemed to me hours and hours,
Katie went to bed and to sleep, and then came Terry from his solitary
walk--he usually goes for a walk if there are any indications that Katie
will do any talking--and entertained me by carelessly, carefully hinting
at one of his dark, mysterious plots. Then he, too, went to bed, and I,
too, had forty winks and seventy thousand nightmares."

But Marie, even in this growing strain, never failed in her love and
admiration for the strange man with whom she lived. On the heels of the
above came the following:

"Terry is one of those characters who has not lost any of his distinct
individuality. His is a nature which will never become confounded or
obliterated in one's memory. The instantaneous impression of large
soul, sincerity, and truthfulness he made upon me at our first meeting
has never left me. This impression must have been very strong, for
generally these impressions grow weaker, if people live together so
closely as poor people must. All his faults, as well as perhaps his
virtues, come from the fact that he is not at all practical. In spite of
his experience, he does not know the world, and is a dreamer of dreams.
His wild outbursts are the result, I think, of his sedentary life.
Sometimes we two remain at our home for weeks without venturing out,
without hardly speaking to each other, and then suddenly we burst out
into the wildest extravagances of speech!"

A few days later there was a wilder burst than ever, and Terry left the
salon. Marie wrote:

"Last week we all had a row, and Terry has not been seen or heard of
since. The last words he uttered were that he should return for his
belongings in a few days. I am dreadfully sorry about it, especially
that we could not have parted good friends. I realise and always shall
be sensible of the great good I had from him and shall always think of
him with the best feeling and greatest respect. The parting has not
been a great surprise to me, for it really has been taking place for a
long time, ever since he withdrew his confidence from me, now months
past, and I have been acting with other men without his knowledge.
Nothing mattered in our relation but mutual confidence, but when that
went, it was, I suppose, only a question of time. And, at the same time
that he withdrew spiritually from me, he seemed to lose his interest in
the movement, and grew more and more solitary and hopeless.

"I don't know what Terry is doing, or where he has gone, and I am
uneasy. Justly excepting the comparatively few public men who tower over
mediocrity in public place, journalism gives the position and
fashions the fame of most of them.

It is not done arbitrarily nor from choice, as public and political
necessities are often paramount with journalists, as with others, in
awarding public honors; but with all its exactions and responsibilities,
which are ever magnified by the greater opportunities for usefulness,
there is no calling that brings richer compensation for fidelity to
duty. The consciousness that each day the editor whose readers are
numbered by hundreds of thousands, may greatly aid in making the world
better than it was in the passing yesterday, is a constant inspiration
to the best efforts, and it is especially gratifying that even in the
many and at times impassioned conflicts of journalistic dispute,
the rugged and sharp-angled walls which divide us are ever so
beautiful and fragrant with the flowers of good-fellowship, as is
impressively taught by this assembly.

Thus charged with the highest of civil trusts in the most enlightened
government of the earth, the editor must be honored or dishonored
here by the measure of his fidelity to his exceptional duties, and
must be so judged in the hereafter, when the narrow pathway of life
that divides past and future eternities has been traversed.

We come when bidden, we know not whence; we go when bidden, we know not
whither; but each and all have duties to themselves, to their
homes, to their country, and to the common brotherhood of man, which
when performed with the faithfulness that human infirmities will permit,
must greatly brighten the brief and often fretful journey from the
cradle to the grave.

Friends, in this evening twilight of my journalistic work, so sweetly
mellowed by the smiling faces, young and old, about me, I answer your
generous greeting with the gratitude that can perish only when the
gathering shadows shall have settled into the night that comes to
purple the better morn.

ST. CLAIR McKELWAY

SMASHED CROCKERY
[Speech of St. Clair McKelway before the National Society of China Importers,
New York City, February 6, 1896.]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND FRIENDS:--The china I buy abroad is marked "Fragile"
in shipment. That which I buy at home is marked: "Glass--This Side Up
With Care." The foreign word of caution is fact. The American note of
warning is fiction--with a moral motive. The common purpose of both is
protection from freight fractors and baggage smashers. The European
appeals to knowledge. The American addresses the imagination.
The one expresses the truth. The other extends it. Neither is entirely
successful.

The skill and care of shippers cannot always victoriously cope with the
innate destructiveness of fallen human nature. There is a great deal
of smashed crockery in the world.

You who are masters in the art of packing things and we whose
vocation is the art of putting things, both have reason to know
that no pains of placing or of preparation will guarantee freight
or phrases, plates or propositions, china of any kind or principles
of any sort, from the dangers of travel or from the tests of time.

Your goods and our wares have to take their chances in their way across
the seas, throughout the land and around the world. You lose some of
yours merely in handling.
The defects of firing cannot be always foreseen. The intrusion of
inferior clay cannot be always prevented. The mere friction of contact
may produce bad nicks. Nor is the fineness nor the excellence of the
product an insurance against mishaps. From your factories or stores your
output is at the mercy of carriers without compunction, and in our
homes it is exposed to the heavy hands of servants without sentiment.

The pleasure of many a dinner is impaired by the fear or the consciousness
that inapt peasants are playing havoc with the treasures of art on
which the courses are served.

If, however, the ceramic kingdom is strewn with smashed crockery,
how much more so are the worlds of theology, medicine, politics,
society, law, and the like.

No finer piece of plate was ever put forth than the one inscribed:
"I will believe only what I know." It was for years agreeable to the
pride and vanity of the race. It made many a fool feel as if his forehead
was lifted as high as the heavens, and that at every step he knocked out
a star. When, however, the discovery was made that this assumption to
displace deity amounted to a failure to comprehend nature, some
disappointment was admitted.

He who affected by searching to find out and to equal God could not
explain the power by which a tree pumps its sap from roots to leaves,
or why a baby rabbit rejects the grasses that would harm it, or why
a puling infant divines its mother among the motley and multitudinous
mass of sibilant saints at a sewing society which is discussing the
last wedding and the next divorce.

He "who admits only what he understands" would have to look on
himself as a conundrum and then give the conundrum up. He would have the
longest doubts and the shortest creed on record. Agnosticism is part
of the smashed crockery of the moral universe.

Nor is the smug and confident contention: "Medicine is a science, one
and indivisible," so impressive and undented as it was. Sir Astley
Cooper in his plain, blunt way is reported to have described his
own idea of his own calling as "a science founded on conjecture and
improved by murder."

The State of New York has rudely stepped in and legally and irrevocably
recognized three schools of medicine and will recognize a fourth or a
fifth as soon as it establishes itself by a sufficient number of cures
or in a sufficient number of cemeteries. Medical intolerance cannot be
legislated out of existence, but it has no further recognition in
legislation. A common and considerable degree of general learning is by
the State required of all intending students of medicine.
An equal and extended degree of professional study is required. An
identical measure of final examination with state certification and state
licensure is required. The claim that men and women must die _secundum
artem_ in order to have any permit to live here or to live hereafter,
has gone to the limbo of smashed crockery in the realm of therapeutics.
The arrogant pretension that men must die _secundum artem_ has been
adjourned--_sine die_.

And the State which prescribes uniform qualifications among the schools
will yet require uniform consultations between them in the interest
of the people whom they impartially prod and concurrently purge with
diversity of methods, but with parity of price.

Other long impressive and long pretty plaques have also been incontinently
smashed. One was lovingly lettered: "Once a Democrat, always a Democrat."
Another was inscribed: "Unconditional Republicanism."

In the white light of to-day the truth that an invariable partisan is
an occasional lunatic becomes impressively apparent. Party under
increasing civilization is a factor, not a fetish.
It is a means, not an end. It is an instrument, not an idol. Man is its
master, not its slave. Not that men will cease to act on party lines.
Party lines are the true divisional boundary between schools of thought.

No commission is needed to discover or to establish those lines. They have
made their own route or course in human nature. The bondage from which
men will free themselves is bondage to party organizations. Those
organizations are combinations for power and spoils. They are feudal
in their form, predatory in their spirit, military in their methods,
but they necessarily bear no more relation to political principles
than Italian banditti do to Italian unity, or the men who hold up
railway trains do to the laws of transportation.

Party slavery is a bad and disappearing form of smashed crockery.

The smashed crockery of society and of law could also be remarked.

Our fathers' dictum, that it is the only duty of women to be charming,
deserves to be sent into retirement.

It is no more their duty to be charming than it is the duty of the
sun to light, or the rose to perfume, or the trees to cast a friendly
shade. A function is not a duty. In the right sense of the word it is a
nature or a habit. It is the property of women and it is their prerogative
to be charming, but if they made it a duty, the effort would fail,
for the intention would be apparent and the end would impeach the
means.

Indeed, the whole theory of the eighteenth century about women has
gone to the limbo of smashed crockery.

It has been found that education does not hurt her. It has been discovered
that learning strengthens her like a tonic and becomes her like a
decoration.

It has been discovered that she can compete with men in the domain of
lighter labor, in several of the professions, and in not a few of
the useful arts.

The impression of her as a pawn, a property or a plaything, came
down from paganism to Christianity and was too long retained by the
Christian world.

There is even danger of excess in the liberality now extended to her.

The toast, "Woman, Once Our Superior and Now Our Equal," is not without
satire as well as significance. There must be a measurable reaction
against the ultra tendency in progress which has evolved the New Woman,
as the phrase is.

I never met one and I hope I never shall. The women of the present, the
girls of the period, the sex up-to-date, will more than suffice to
double our joys and to treble our expenses.

The new fads, as well as the old fallacies, can be thrown among the
smashed crockery of demolished and discarded misconceptions.

I intended to say much about the smashed crockery of the lawyers.

I intended to touch upon the exploded claim that clients are their
slaves, witnesses theirs for vivisection, courts their playthings,
and juries their dupes.

More mummery has thrived in law than in even medicine or theology. The
disenchanting and discriminating tendency of a realistic age has, however,
somewhat reformed the bar. Fluency, without force, is discounted in our
courts. The merely smart practitioner finds his measure quickly taken
and that the conscientious members of his calling hold him at arm's
length. Judges are learning that they are not rated wise when they are
obscure, or profound when they are stupid, or mysterious when they
are reserved. Publicity is abating many of the abuses both of the bench
and the bar. It will before long, even in this judicial department,
require both rich and poor to stand equal before the bar of justice. The
conjugal complications of plutocrats will not be sealed up from general
view by sycophantic magistrates, while the matrimonial infelicities
of the less well-to-do are spread broad on the records. The still
continuing scandals of partitioning refereeships among the family
relatives of judges will soon be stopped and the shame and scandal
of damage suits or of libel suits, without cause, maintained by procured
and false testimony and conducted on sheer speculation, will be brought
to an end. The law is full of rare crockery, but it is also replete with
crockery that ought to be smashed. Much bad crockery in it has been
smashed and much more will be, if necessary, by the press, which is itself
not without considerable ceramic material that could be pulverized
with signal benefit to the public and to the fourth estate.

But why am I talking about smashed crockery when I am told that it is the
very life of your trade? Were crockery imperishable this would be the
last dinner of your association. Your members would be eating cold
victuals at area doors, passed to you on the plates you have made, by the
domestics whose free and easy carelessness is really the foundation of
your fortunes. You want crockery to be smashed, because the more smash
the more crockery and the more crockery the more output, and the
more output the more revenue, and the more revenue the more Waldorf
dinners, and the more Waldorf dinners the more opportunity for you
to make the men of other callings stand and deliver those speeches,
which I like to hear, and in the hope of hearing which I now give way

.

* * * * *

TRIBUTE TO MARK TWAIN
[Speech of St. Clair McKelway at a dinner given in honor of Samuel L.
Clemens [Mark Twain] by the Lotos Club, New York City, November 2, 1900.
The President of the Lotos, Frank R.

Lawrence, introduced Dr.
McKelway as the man whose wondrous use of adjectives has converted
to his opinion many doubters throughout this city and country.]

MR. PRESIDENT AND FRIENDS:--Years ago we here sought to hold up Mark
Twain's hands. Now we all feel like holding up our own, in
congratulation of him and of ourselves. Of him because his warfare is
accomplished. Of ourselves because he has returned to our company. If
it was a pleasure to know him then, it is a privilege and an honor to
know him now.

He has fought the good fight. He has kept the faith. He is ready to be
offered up, but we are not ready to have him offered up. For we want the
Indian summer of his life to be long, and that to be followed by a genial
winter, which, if it be as frosty as his hair, shall also be as
kindly as his heart. [Applause.]
He has enough excess and versatility of ability to be a genius. He has
enough quality and quantity of virtues to be a saint.

But he has honorably transmuted his genius into work, whereby it has
been brought into relations with literature and with life. And he has
preferred warm fellowship to cold perfection, so that sinners love him
and saints are content to wait for him. May they wait long. [Applause.]

I think he is entitled to be regarded as the Dean of America's humor;
that he is entitled to the distinction of being the greatest humorist
this nation ever had. I say this with a fair knowledge of the chiefs
of the entire corps, from Francis Hopkinson and the author of "Hasty
Pudding," down to Bill Nye and Dooley. None of them would I depreciate.

I would greatly prefer to honor and hail them all for the singular
fittedness of their gifts to the needs of the nation in their times.
Hopkinson and Joel Barlow lightened the woes of the Revolution by
the touch of nature that makes the whole world grin.

Seba Smith relieved the Yankee sense of tension under the impact of
Jacksonian roughness, by tickling its ribs with a quill. Lieutenant
Derby turned the searchlight of fun on the stiff formalities of army
posts, on the raw conditions of alkali journalism and on the solemn humbugs
of frontier politics. James Russell Lowell used dialect for dynamite to
blow the front off hypocrisy or to shatter the cotton commercialism
in which the New England conscience was encysted. Robert H. Newell,
mirth-maker and mystic, satirized military ignorance and pinchbeck
bluster to an immortality of contempt.

Bret Harte in verse and story touched the parallels of tragedy and of
comedy, of pathos, of bathos, and of humor, which love of life and
lust of gold opened up amid the unapprehended grandeurs and the coveted
treasures of primeval nature. Charles F. Browne made "Artemus Ward"
as well known as Abraham Lincoln in the time the two divided the
attention of the world.

Bill Nye singed the shams of his day, and Dooley dissects for
Hinnissey the shams of our own. Nor should we forget Eugene Field,
the beatifier of childhood; or Joel Chandler Harris, the fabulist
of the plantation; or Ruth McEnery Stuart, the coronal singer of
the joys and hopes, the loves and the dreams of the images of God
in ebony in the old South, ere it leaped and hardened to the new.

To these, love and honor. But to this man honor's crown of honor, for
he has made a mark none of the others has reached. Few of them
have diversified the delights to be drawn from their pages of humor.
They have, as humorists, in distinction to the work of moralists,
novelists, orators and poets, in which the rarest among them shine,
they have as humorists, in the main, worked a single vein. And some of
them were humorists for a purpose, a dreary grind that, and some of them
were only humorists for a period as well as for a purpose.

The purpose served, the period passed, the humor that was of their life
a thing apart, ceased.
'Tis Clemens' whole existence! [Applause.]
As Bacon made all learning his province, so Mark Twain has made all
life and history his quarry, from the Jumping Frog to the Yankee at
Arthur's Court; from the inquested petrifaction that died of protracted
exposure to the present parliament of Austria; from the Grave of
Adam to the mysteries of the Adamless Eden known as the league of
professional women; from Mulberry Sellers to Joan of Arc, and from
Edward the Sixth to Puddin'head Wilson, who wanted to kill his half of
the deathless dog.

Nevada is forgiven its decay because he flashed the oddities of its
zenith life on pages that endure. California is worth more than its
gold, because he showed to men the heart under its swagger.

He annexed the Sandwich Islands to the fun of the nation long before
they were put under its flag. Because of him the Missouri and the
Mississippi go not unvexed to the sea, for they ripple with laughter as
they recall Tom Sawyer, Huckleberry Finn, poor Jim, and the Duke. Europe,
Asia Minor, and Palestine are open doors to the world, thanks to this
Pilgrim's Progress with his "Innocents Abroad."

Purity, piety and pity shine out from "Prince and Pauper" like the eyes
of a wondering deer on a torch-lighted night from a wooded fringe
of mountain and of lake.

But enough of what I fear is already too much. In expressing my debt
to him, I hope I express somewhat at least of yours.

I cannot repay him in kind any more than I could rival him. None of us
can. But we can render to him a return he would like. With him we can
get our way to reality, and burn off pretence as acid eats its way to
the denuded plate of the engraver.

We can strip the veneer of convention from style, and strengthen
our thought in his Anglo-Saxon well of English undefiled.

We can drop seeming for sincerity. We can be relentless toward hypocrisy
and tender to humanity. We can rejoice in the love of laughter, without
ever once letting it lead us to libertinism of fancy. We can reach
through humor the heart of man. We can make exaggeration the scourge
of meanness and the magnifier of truth on the broad screen of life. By
study of him, the nothing new under the sun can be made fresh and fragrant
by the supreme art of putting things. Though none of us can handle
his wand, all of us can be transformed by it into something different
from and finer than our dull selves. That is our delight, that
is our debt, both due to him, and long may he remain with us to brighten,
to broaden and to better our souls with the magic mirth and with the
mirthful magic of his incomparable spell. [Applause.]
[Illustration: REPRODUCTIONS OF MURAL DECORATIONS FROM THE LIBRARY OF
CONGRESS, WASHINGTON

"_PATRIOTISM_"
_Photo-engraving in colors after an original painting by George W.
Maynard_

This is from a series of eight panels, representing "The Virtues"--Fortitude,
Justice, Patriotism, Courage, Temperance, Prudence, Industry, and
Concord. Each figure is about five and a half feet high clad in drapery,
and standing out on a solid red background. The style is Pompeiian, the
general tone is somewhat like marble, but relieved by a touch of
color. "Patriotism" is represented as feeding an eagle, the emblem
of America, from a golden bowl, symbolizing the nourishment given by
this Virtue to the spirit of the nation.]

WILLIAM McKINLEY 

OUR COUNTRY
[Speech of President McKinley, in response to the toast "Our Country,"
at the Peace Jubilee banquet in the Auditorium, Chicago, October
19, 1898.

The President was introduced by Hon. Franklin MacVeagh, in the following
words: "Since Washington, with the exception of Lincoln, no
President has carried upon his shoulders such grave responsibilities
or met such heavy demands upon his judgment, forbearance and wisdom
as President McKinley.

This resolution of Marie's seemed to have helped her considerably, for
her later letters are not quite so exclusively concerned with the
unhappy aspect of her relations with Terry. The strong vitality of mind
and temperament which enabled this factory girl and prostitute to adjust
herself to a relatively intellectual and distinguished existence still
stood her in good stead, and enabled her to meet the present deeply
tragic situation step by step and not go under: her youth and vitality
and her love of life triumphed, as we shall see, over even this terrible
rupture; the consolatory philosophy of anarchism, which had educated
her, largely fell away, with the love of the man who had created it for
her. But the work of the social propagandist has been done on Marie: the
woman is a thoroughly self-conscious individual, as capable of leading
her life as only are very few really distinguished personalities. Her
next letter shows again a more general interest, though still largely
concerned with Terry:

"The other night Terry spoke for the Social Science League on 'The
Lesson of the Haymarket'--referring, as you know, to the hanging of the
anarchists in 1886. _The Saturday Evening Post_ had quite a lengthy
notice about it the day before the lecture, and nearly all the morning
papers spoke of it the day after. The lecture hall was well filled with
people who do not usually attend the S. S. League. And I think these
people, who were not radical, were much shocked and disappointed, for
Terry was not a bit gentle and well-mannered, nor as philosophical as he
nearly always is. I thought his lecture good, though there was something
forced about it. Perhaps because he no longer has so much faith was the
cause of his greater violence. It was as if he was trying to remember
what he had once felt; and that made the expression rougher than if it
had been more spontaneous. I really do not believe that he is, at
bottom, at all violent. But he tried to be so in this lecture. He
advocated assassination and regicide and other most violent and
blood-curdling things. His voice and manner, however, in saying these
terrible things were not at all convincing. When replying to the
critics, he was most violent, and was hissed and shamed, over half of
the audience leaving the hall, very angry and indignant. I thought, for
a while, that a regular free fist-fight would follow, and it very nearly
did, but Terry had a few friends with him, among them a German
hen-pecked anarchist I must write you about, and your friend Jimmy, both
of whom were ready to stand by Terry.

"Needless to say, Terry was gloriously drunk, and utterly reckless, and
after the meeting was over quite a bunch of us became as drunk as he,
though not quite so gloriously. He was quite helpless toward the small
hours, when our party broke up, and I took Terry home with me, as Katie
was not there, and on the way I had the pleasure of acting as a referee
when he and a stranger, who Terry fancied had insulted him, did really
have a fist-fight; I gathered up their hats and neck-ties and kept out
of the way, ready to call assistance if need be, which fortunately was
not necessary, for they only rolled around in the dirt a little, and
Terry only had his chin smashed slightly by the fall.

"Drunk as he was, he did not strike the other man, though being stronger
he could have pounded the life out of him; he only tripped him up and
rolled him on the ground. Terry is certainly instinctively and
naturally gentle and chivalrous, and I loved him as much as ever as I
took him home and put him to bed.

"I am beginning to think I am a genius in taking care of drunken men,
for I have managed in some way to take home and care for quite a number
of them, for instance, Harris, who is the most unmanageable and perverse
creature when drunk. I had an experience taking him home which I would
not dare write you; and I can hardly realise to this day how I even
succeeded in half carrying and half dragging him to our home from away
down town. He certainly was the limit.

"On Monday the papers were all shrieking for Terry's head--wanted him
deported or persecuted or prosecuted. But Terry has a good many friends
and too much of a reputation as a philosopher; and his friends and his
reputation prevented his becoming a martyr. Two friends, both newspaper
men, managed to eliminate the most objectionable parts of Terry's
terroristic utterances from their respective papers, and Terry's sister,
the lawyer, one sergeant of police, and the ferocious but humane Tim
Quinn did the rest. For the present, therefore, Terry's desire to be
acquainted with the inside of a prison, or otherwise to suffer for the
cause which he still half-heartedly believes in, is frustrated.

"To me the most important aspect of the lecture was that he prepared it
in our home. So, for another week, we enjoyed one another's company; and
after the lecture he not only went home with me, as I have said, but he
has remained ever since. I am trying not to build up any more hopes on
this, because I know that Terry has been in a particularly reckless
mood, and does not care much where he is. I am sorry that he could not
find a better outlet for his mood than lecturing for the Social Science
League, but that perhaps is a better and more harmless way than getting
in with the criminals, as he has wanted to do so often of late. You may
be sure, however, that his talk on the platform will not be forgotten,
and should anything happen, in any way like the McKinley affair, for
instance, I am sure things would be made very unpleasant for him. So I
hope nothing will happen.

"Terry is really harmless. He expends all of his energy in desiring and
thinking and talking, and has nothing left over for action. Whenever he
had any scheme in mind I did not like, I used to encourage him to talk
about it, knowing that he thus would be satisfied, without acting. He
lives almost altogether in the head and in the imagination, and is
really a teacher, in his own peculiar way, rather than an actor or
practical man. That is why he takes offence at what seems to me such
little things: they are not little to him, in his scheme of things,
which is not the scheme of the world, and, alas! not even mine, I fear.
He is so terribly alone, and growing more so, and I feel so awfully
sorry for him.

"Especially since our rupture I have been compelled to be so careful not
to hurt his feelings or trespass on his ideas of right and wrong; for he
imagines he can feel what I am thinking and feeling, even if no words
are said. He says words only conceal thought and do not express it. At
times I feel so oppressed and depressed that I should experience the
keenest ecstasy if I could hurt him in some physical way, use my muscles
on him until I were exhausted. In imagination I sometimes know the
fierce delight and exaltation of my flesh and spirit in hurting this
man whom I love, in hurting him morally and physically--and I feel the
lightness of my heart as the accumulated burden of my repression rolls
away in the wildest, freest sensations.

"Of course, I have only felt this way at times; and at those times I
know I was very passionate and unreasonable. I had regular fits of
jealousy and anger, but at other times I had a boundless pity for him,
there was something so pathetic about his gestures and his voice when he
told me he knows just how I feel about him, that I could have cried out
with the ache of my heart. It was so terrible to see how he suffered in
his heroic attempt to suffice unto himself, to defy the world. He tries
to think and feel deeper and higher than anyone else, but this is a
terrible, terrible strain. It is all fearfully sad, and sometimes I wish
I had never known him."

About his speech, Terry wrote:

"I am one of the by-products that do not pay just now, until some
process comes along and sets the seal of its approval on me. Just now I
am deemed worse than useless, and since my speech on 'The Lesson of the
Haymarket Riot' the authorities are looking for a law that will deport
me. This will suit me, as I will swear that I am a citizen of no man's
land. What I really need is not deportation, but solitary confinement,
for the sake of my meditations. For even with my scant companionship I
feel as if I were a circus animal. I still clutch convulsively to the
idea that thought is the only reality and all expression of it merely a
grading down of what was most high. If I am shut up I must cease talking
and may think about real things, that is, ideal things. That would help
me to put up with the world, which cannot put up with me unless I am in
cold storage. There is a mental peace which passeth all understanding,
and perhaps I might find that peace in prison. I have been insidiously
poisoning my own mind for some time, and unless I can stop this I had
better cease from talking, which does not seem to purge me of my
unconscious pose, and retire to solitude behind the prison bars. There,
undisturbed, I can meditate and often remember peacefully the beautiful
things I have known in literature and nature. Beauty is like rain to the
desert, it is rare, but it vanishes only from the surface of things, and
deep down who knows what secret springs it feeds? As my sands run out,
the remembrance of the brief beauty I have known will break over me like
the pleasant noise of far-off Niagara waters on the stony desert of my
life.

"I once thought that I could help the mob to organise its own freedom.
But now I see that we are all the mob, that all human beings are alike,
and that all I or anyone can do is to save his own soul, to win his own
freedom, and perhaps to teach others to do the same, not so much through
social propaganda as by digging down to a deeper personal culture.
Though I sometimes think that just now the prison would help me, yet I
also long at times to talk to the crowd. I wish to tell the smug ones
that we waste our lives in holding on to things that in our hearts we
hold contemptible. I wish to tell the mob just why there are thirty
thousand steady men out of work in this city: to do this I may take to
the curbstone."

After his speech Terry returned to the home of Katie and Marie, as has
been described by Marie, but on no basis of permanence. He thus speaks
of it:

"You may think that I, too, have 'cashed in' my ideals; for I am back at
the Salon--for how long nobody knows--by special proxy request of
Katie. I will spare myself and you any moralising on my relapse."

Katie, explaining Terry's return, said: "When he went away, Marie was
sad all the time. She could not eat nor sleep and was looking for her
lover every day. After weeks had passed I said to her: 'When you see
Terry at the Social Science League, bring him home.' 'Do you mean it,
Katie?' asked Marie, her eyes sparkling. She did so, and Terry went
quietly into his room, and the next morning I made coffee as usual and
Terry came out, and it was all right; it might have been all right for
good, if this damned Nietzsche business had not come up." But that is
anticipating.

It was after Terry's return that the famous miner Haywood, just after
his acquittal from the charge of murder in connection with the Idaho
labour troubles, visited Chicago, and spent most of his time at the
Salon with Terry and Marie and several of their friends. The Salon was
temporarily revived, like the flash in the pan, under Haywood's
stimulating influence. Terry wrote of him:

"Haywood has the stern pioneer pride of the West. There is a mighty
simplicity about him. He is Walt Whitman's works bound in flesh and
blood. He is a man of few words, and of instinctive psychic force, and
is the big blond beast of Nietzsche. He knows just what he is doing and
why, and has a great influence on the crowd: the mob went wild at his
mere presence, and after his brief speech he came absolutely to be one
of them. The swaying mass becomes, at his touch, in close contact with
their instinctive leader. He is too much in touch with the people to
agree with narrow trades-union policies. At a secret meeting in this
city with Mitchell and Gompers he hinted that the Western Federation of
Miners would amalgamate with the American Federation of Labour on the
ground of no trade agreements and the open shop, and warned them that no
man and no organisation was strong enough to stand in the way of this
development. The Socialist party made him a big offer, but he replied
that the Labour movement was big enough for him."

Of Haywood, Marie wrote: "He is a giant in size, but as gentle as the
most delicate woman. He has only one eye, but that a very good one which
does not miss things. He has been made into a regular hero by the
people here, but he is the most modest man I have ever met. He is
sincere and unassuming, so calm, with no heroic bluster about him. His
voice is quiet and gentle. We had a blow-out for him, and all those
present were very discreet. We all forgot our years and our troubles and
we showed him a good time. I hardly think that even you, with all your
democracy, could have stood for all the things that happened. Haywood is
a big, good-natured boy, but quite sentimental, too. I think he liked me
pretty well. I am sure he could have won many much more attractive girls
than I, but somehow he took to me right from the start. I was introduced
to him along with a whole bunch of girls, all good-lookers, too, but I
sat back quietly and was the only one who did not say nice things to the
hero."


CHAPTER XIII

_Marie's Failure_


Though Terry was back in what was formerly the Salon, and though the old
spirit seemed at times to be still alive, yet it was more in appearance
than in reality. It is difficult to regain an emotional atmosphere once
lost; and it is especially difficult to live by the gospel of freedom,
when once the eloquence of that gospel is no longer deeply felt. Then
there is nothing left to take its place--no prosaic sense of duty, no
steady habit, no enduring interest in work. As these two human beings
drifted further and further apart from their common love and their
common interest, the idealistic man became more self-centred, more
unsocial, more fiercely individual, and the emotional and sensual woman
became more self-indulgent, more hostile to any philosophy--anarchism
such as Terry's, with its blighting idealism--which limited her simple
joy in life and in mere existence.

So their quarrels became more brutal, more abrupt. Both intensely
nervous, both highly individualised, their characters conflicted with
the intensity of two real and opposing forces. A tragic aspect of it all
was that it was due to Terry's teaching that Marie attained to the
highly individualised character which was destined to rebel against the
finally sterilising influence of her master. Even physical violence
became part of their life, and words that were worse than blows. The
strong bond which still lingered held them for a time together,
notwithstanding what was becoming the brutality of their relations. One
day Marie called Terry to his coffee and he refused. A quarrel followed,
in the course of which she hit Terry on the head with a pitcher, and the
resulting blood was smeared over them both. When calm came again she
said to him:

"Terry, how can we live together?"

"Ain't we living together? Doesn't this prove it?" he replied, grimly.

And this man would use violence in return--and this was the delicate
idealist, the idealist whose love for Marie had at one time been part
and parcel of his high dreams for humanity and perfection, a part of his
propaganda, a part of his hope: during which period he had been
scrupulous not to use force of any kind, spiritual or physical, on the
girl whom he doubly loved--the girl whom he held in his arms every night
for years with a passionate tenderness due to his feeling of her
physical fragility and her social unhappiness, rather than to any other
instinct.

"Marie," he said, "did not fully understand the character of my love for
her. She loved me intellectually and sensually, but not with the soul.
She wanted my ideas, and sex, and more sex, but not the invisible
reality, the harmony of our spirits. From the day that I fully
understood this, my confidence in her and in all things seemed to go.
She felt that I had withdrawn something from her, and it made her
harder. She began cruelly to fling the amours that I had tolerated as
long as I hoped for the spiritual best in my face. It was a kind of
revenge on her part."

Practical troubles, too, lent their disturbing element to the little
remaining harmony of the three.

"We shall probably be forced to leave our rooms in a short time," wrote
Marie. "Our landlord has asked us to leave, without giving any other
reasons than that he wanted a smaller family in these most desirable
rooms! Terry is indignant, for we have been quiet and orderly, and Katie
has always paid the rent in advance. We shall certainly stay until the
police come and carry us out and our household goods with us.

"It is true that we have had unusual difficulty in paying the rent and
in getting enough to eat and smoke; and this has not added to our
good-nature. You have no doubt read about the 'money stringency' in this
country. Times are indeed very hard, thousands of men are out of a job,
and the so-called criminals are very much in evidence. For a long time
Katie could not find work to do and could not get any of her money from
the bank, so that things looked very 'bohemian' around here for a while.
She could not get anything to do in her own line, and finally had to go
out to 'service.' But this she could not stand more than a week, for
Katie has fine qualities and is used to a certain amount of freedom, so
she couldn't stand the slavishness of the servant life, though she had
good wages and nice things to eat, which Katie likes very much.

"When Katie started in on this venture she had the proverbial thirty
cents, which she divided up with me--Terry had not returned from his
wanderings at that time--and I recklessly squandered ten cents of this
going to and returning from the Social Science League. In a day or two
there was nothing edible in our house but salt, so I squandered my
remaining nickel for bread. I made that loaf last me nearly four days: I
ate only when I was ravenously hungry, so that it would taste good, for
I hate rye bread. I slept a good deal of the time. I suffered terribly,
though, when my tobacco gave out, and I spent most of my time and energy
hunting old stumps, and I found several very good ones in the unswept
corners and under the beds. I even picked some out of the ashcan. These
I carefully collected, picked out the tobacco and rolled it in fresh
papers, as carefully as any professional hobo."

When Katie was temporarily hard up, that naturally put Terry and Marie
"on the bum." But they remained "true blue" and did not go to work,
Marie being willing to put up with all sorts of discomfort rather than
try for a job. She continued:

"It is a strange thing that nobody came to our house during these six
days. But on the sixth day, Terry came, and then I had a good square
meal, and he even left me carfare and some of the horrible stuff he
calls tobacco. Two more days elapsed before Katie returned. Until then I
lived on that square meal. I had ten cents from Terry, but I was sick of
rye bread. On the day that Katie returned, in fact only a few hours
before, I was foolish enough to visit an anarchist friend, Marna. I was
awfully lonely and thought a little change would do me good. So I went
to Marna, but got there a little too late for supper. I must admit I was
hungry. I hinted to Marna that I was, said I'd been in town all day, and
things like that, but she did not catch on and I was stubborn and
wouldn't ask. Stephen was there, and for a moment I thought I might eat.
He had not had his supper, and he said that if Marna was not too tired
to cook, he would go and buy a steak. I tell you, the thought of that
steak was awfully nice and I had to put my handkerchief to my mouth to
keep the water from flowing over. I offered to cook it for him, but he
passed it up. I made one more desperate bluff and asked him if he would
get some beer for us! And I reached for my purse, and for one wild
moment I thought sure he had called my bluff and would really take my
only nickel, my carfare home. I nearly fell over with suspense, but in
the nick of time he went out, refusing my money. And I even taunted him,
asked him if he thought it was tainted!

"When the beer came, I drank most of it. Beer is a great filler, but of
course it went straight to my head and feet--that is, my head got light
and my feet heavy. But I managed to navigate to the street car and so on
home, where I found Katie, a cheerful fire and a delicious smell of
cookery and coffee.

"Now, I must make you a confession. During these six days I had some
thoughts of working, the only thing I could think of being a job as a
waitress. But when a vision of ham and pert females and more impertinent
males came to me my courage oozed away, and I did not even try. I don't
think I'll ever work again. Did you ever read Yeats' story 'Where There
is Nothing?'

"I love Marna, as you know, but when she talks to me about 'work,'
'health,' and the like, I feel like becoming even more solitary than I
am. She says I am not ambitious! Ye gods, I think I am ever so much more
ambitious than she! I am more ambitious to live in these little squalid
rooms than in the mansions of the rich. My kind of happiness--I mean
ideally--is not Marna's kind; and I am sure now that if I ever find it,
it will be in the slums. Here I can sit and muse, undisturbed by the
ambition of the world. Blake comes to me as an indulgent father to his
tired and fretful child and sings to me his sunflower song. If I were in
a castle I don't think even Blake could soothe my restless spirit.

"But, unfortunately, even in the slums one needs to eat. Without warning
I tumble from my air castles because some horrible monster gnaws at me,
and will not let me be, however much I try to ignore him. That mean,
sneaking thing is hunger. And because I am only mortal, and because the
will to live is stronger than I, I must eat my bread. I often cry when I
think of this contemptible weakness. I have often tried to overcome this
annoying healthiness of my body. How can people be gourmands? Even
Shelley and Keats had to eat. What a repulsive word 'eat' is! I would I
could eat my heart and drink my tears. The world is what it is because
we must eat. See the whole universe eating and eating itself, over and
over! If it were not for this fearful necessity, Terry and I should
not, perhaps, have failed in our high attempt!

"'The chief thing,' said Oscar Wilde, 'that makes life a failure, from
the artistic point of view, is the thing which lends to life its sordid
security.'

"But alas! to this sordid security, or to the care for it, we are driven
by our need of bread. If Terry and Katie and I had never had this need,
we might have become angels of virtue and insight. But on account of
this we never could really attain freedom; that embittered our souls and
turned us at times viciously against each other."

Terry's growing jealousy, which seemed to surprise Marie, was a sign of
the weakening of his philosophy, as far as it was social and not purely
individual. It may seem strange that after his real love for her
appeared to pass, his jealousy increased; but this was due to several
causes: if his social interest in her--his propagandist interest--had
continued, her sexual license would have continued to feed his passion
for social protest. But when Marie had ceased to interest him as a
"case," or a "type," or a "victim," the only bond remaining must be that
of the pure individual soul or of the body. Terry's lack of
sensuality--his predominating spiritual and mental character--precluded
any strong tie of the physical kind. So there remained, as a possible
tie, only a close spiritual relation between two individuals, a soul
bond--and this Marie's character and conduct tended to prevent. Terry,
if they were to be together, saw that the deeper personal relation must
exist, now that there was no other--and so he was jealous of any conduct
which showed in Marie a lack of sensibility for the deeper spiritual
life; hence the physiological jealousy, which he had not felt, or had
controlled at one time, showed itself. No doubt his increasing
nervousness was an added reason--nervousness due to the long strain,
physical and mental, which his life and social experiment had involved.

During these last weeks Marie had another lover, and was especially
careless in not concealing any of its manifestations. She, too, on her
side, was subject to greater and greater strain. Terry's growing
loneliness and austerity, his melancholy and unsociability, his negative
philosophy, all this tended more and more to inhibit her natural young
joy in life and to give it violent expression. The philosophy of
anarchism had increased her natural leaning to the free expression of
her moods and passions, and now, with weakened nervous resources, she
hardly cared to make any effort to restrain what she called her
temperament.

"Yes, he became my lover," she wrote, "and we disappeared for a few
days. Did you ever read George Moore's Leaves From My Lost Life? In it
is a story called 'The Lovers of Orelay.' My lover and I spent our few
days together in much the same way as did the lovers in the story. We
had our nice secluded cool rooms and beautiful flowers. I threw my
petticoats over the chairs and scattered ribbons and things on the
dressing table just like the girl in the story. And we had nice things
to drink and good cigarettes, and had all our breakfasts and suppers
served in our rooms. The little adventure turned out better than such
things usually do; nothing awkward happened to mar our pleasure in any
way, and I'm glad it happened--and is over and done with.

"You may think me a very light-headed and heartless and altogether
frivolous person from my actions. But I felt so humiliated and so sorry
and so desperate about Terry that I was ready to embrace any excitement,
just to forget that our great relation had gone. This time it was to get
away from myself, not in the old physically joyous mood--and to get away
from Terry's poisonous philosophy of life.

"This lover of mine was so joyous, so healthy, so vigorous, so full of
life! He was very different from Terry, and I really needed him as a
kind of tonic. And yet, of course, I did not care for him deeply at all.
In fact, I want never again to have a deep relation to anybody, if this
between Terry and me must go.

"This profound failure has made me reckless; Terry is sensitive now, and
knows from my manner and face and the way I express myself just how I am
feeling toward any other man. The other day an old lover of mine turned
up in Chicago, and this brought about a scene with Terry.

"To explain this episode I must go back several years. I once knew a
Swiss boy, a typical Tyrolean. The day I met him in Chicago he had just
arrived from his native land, and seemed so forlorn and lonely and
miserable that my heart went right out to him. He was such a big,
handsome child, too, about twenty years old. He could not understand a
word of English, and no one talked to him, but me, who, as you know, had
parents who spoke German. He was delighted and told me his whole life
story, how he became emancipated and one of the Comrades. His eyes
sparkled so and his cute little blond curls jumped all over his head
with the enthusiasm and joy of having found some one to talk to, that I
was quite content to sit and watch and listen. And he thought me the
most sympathetic person in the world.

"Had I only known the result of my impulse to say a few words to a
lonely boy! For he did fall in love with me, and in such sturdy
mountaineer fashion that I very nearly had nervous prostration--and he
too--in trying to get away from his strenuous wooing. For he started out
to win me in the same style that he would have used toward one of the
cow-girls in his native Alps. He waylaid me and followed me around
everywhere, just camped on my trail; wanted to carry me away to some
place out West, where there were mountains. The more I discouraged him,
the more lovesick and forlorn he became, until finally he became the
laughing-stock of the 'movement,' and I was chaffed about it
unmercifully. He knew I had a lover, but that was no obstacle; and he
told me several times with fine enthusiasm that he would not object to
sharing his love with another man! He had read something about free
love, and thought he should like to be an Overman and superior to petty
jealousies.

"Strange to say, my curly-headed Swiss lover did not 'insult' me, as
they call it, though I naturally enough supposed that he wanted to, but
didn't have enough courage. _How many Commandments be there?_
_Answ._ Ten.

Quest. _Which be they?_
_Answ._ The same which God spoke in the twentieth Chapter of _Exodus_,
saying, _I am the Lord thy God, who brought thee out of the Land of
Egypt, out of the House of Bondage._

_Quest._ Which is the First?

Answ. _Thou shalt have no other gods before me._
_Quest._ Which is the Second?

Answ. _Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven Image, or any
likeness of any thing that is in Heaven above, or that is in the Earth
beneath, or that is in the Water under the Earth: thou shalt not bow
down thy self to them, nor serve them; for I the Lord thy God am a jealous
God, visiting the Iniquity of the Fathers upon the Children, unto the
third and fourth generation of them that hate me, and showing mercy
unto thousands, of them that love me and keep my Commandements._
_Quest_.

Which is the Third?

Answ. _Thou shalt not take the Name of the Lord thy God in vain; for
the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his Name in
vain_.

_Quest_. Which is the Fourth?

Answ. _Remember the Sabbath-day to keep it holy, six days shalt thou
labour and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath of
the Lord thy God, in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy
son, nor thy daughter, thy man-servant, nor thy maid-servant, nor
thy cattel, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; for in six
dayes the Lord made Heaven and Earth, the Sea, and all that in them
is, and rested the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the
Sabbath-day, and hallowed it_.

_Quest_. Which is the Fifth?

Answ. _Honour thy father and thy Mother, that thy days may be long upon
the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee_.

_Quest._ Which is the Sixth?

Answ. _Thou shalt not kill._
_Quest._ Which is the Seventh?

Answ. _Thou shalt not Commit Adultery._
_Quest._. Which is the Eighth?

Answ. _Thou shalt not steal._
_Quest._ Which is the Ninth?

Answ. _Thou shalt not bear false Witness against thy Neighbour._
_Quest._ Which is the Tenth?
Answ. _Thou shalt not Covet thy Neighbour's House, thou shalt not
Covet thy Neighbours Wife, nor his Man-servant, nor his Maid-servant,
nor his Oxe, nor his Ass, nor any thing that is thy Neighbour's._
Quest. _Are you bound to keep all these Commandments?_
_Answ._ YES.
Quest. _Are you bound to keep them in Thought, Word, and Deed?_
_Answ._ YES.

Quest. _How are you bound to keep them?_
_Answ._ By my Baptism and by the Word of God.
Quest. _Are you able to keep them of your self?_ 
_Answ._ NO.
Quest. _Why so?_
_Answ._ Because I was conceived and born in sin.
Quest. _From whence was that?_ 
_Answ._ From _Adam_'s Fall.
Quest. _How did_ Adam _fall_?
_Answ._ By Eating the forbidden Fruit.
Quest. _Do you sin daily?_ 
_Answ._ YES.
Quest. _What is Sin?_ 
_Answ._ The Breaking of God's Law.
Quest. _What doth Sin deserve?_ 
_Answ_. HELL.
Quest. _What is Hell?_ 
_Answ._ Darkness and Torments.
Quest. _How long doth it last?_ 
_Answ_. For Ever and Ever.

Quest.Marie, however, seemed about this time to have lost any sensibility
about Terry's emotion that she may have possessed. Perhaps it was
because, as I have said, she felt that the relation of mutual confidence
was really broken and nothing very much mattered. Anyway, she went so
far in her carelessness that Terry could not help coming in disagreeable
contact with what was growing painful to him, though he would be far
from admitting it.

Katie, describing these last weeks, said that Terry grew more and more
jealous and inclined to violence. He was very imaginative, and saw in
Marie's eyes "something wrong," as Katie put it. Marie could not be
expressive to Terry after an "affair," and Katie saw that Terry
understood the meaning of this inexpressiveness. Also, when Terry went
away for a day or two, without an explanation, Marie was equally
"imaginative." Both were intensely proud, both intensely interested in
their "individuality." One day Terry went away, without an explanation,
and returned, after a few days, "pleasantly piped," as he put it, sat
down and began to undress. It was dark, and he had no idea that somebody
else was there. But Marie called out harshly, "You can't sleep here."

"I understood," said Terry. But Katie replied, "That's all right," and
she slept on the couch.

"This kind of thing," said Katie, "put them further and further apart.
Terry couldn't help feeling the sting there was in it. Marie had done
the same before, but it was in a different spirit. One of the last
scenes was when H---- was visiting us. He and Marie were having coffee
in her room, and Terry was in the other room. Marie and H---- called
Katie to come and have coffee with them. Terry was not invited and this
later brought about a terrible quarrel.

"But," said Katie, "it was not really jealousy, though that was part of
it, that brought about the last break. They calmed down, but then began
to read Nietzsche again, and I think went daffy over him. Terry tried
the Overman theory on me and Marie. Americans cannot understand German
philosophy."

Nietzsche's doctrine of the distinguished individual being "beyond good
and evil," a man superior to the morality of society, his hatred of
Christian civilisation and Christian ethics, his love of the big
forcible blonde who takes his right by his strength only, all this was
congenial to Terry's character, and especially so after the weakening of
his social philosophy. The aloofness of the Overman, the individualistic
teachings of Zarathustra, appealed to the anti-social Terry, to the man
who more and more went back to his egotistic personality, to whom more
and more the "communist" Christian anarchists made little appeal, who
more and more became what is called an individualist anarchist, with
whom there is little possibility of relationship, who is essentially
anti-social, whose philosophy is really that of social destruction. This
indeed is the anarchist who lives in the public mind--a destroyer. But
what the public mind does not see is that this destructive anarchist is
the result of a lost hope in anarchistic communism, a lost hope of
radical extension of social love, in absolute solidarity.


CHAPTER XIV

_Marie's Revolt_


"The winners fall by the wayside," wrote Terry, "while the losers must
ever on--hearkening to some high request, hastening toward a nameless
goal. I am loser, for my motives are large and my actions small. In my
desire to embrace the universe I may neglect a comrade. I can be as hard
as my life and as cruel as its finish. I have only an ideal, and
whenever anything or anybody gets in the way of it I am ruthless in
feeling. I must not give up all that I have--what is in my imagination:
I have nothing else."

Yes, Terry is hard. He "passes up" remorselessly not only the
individual, but all society; but it is the hardness of the idealist, of
the man who is still religious in the sense that he sees a beyond-world
with which to compare this world and find it totally lacking. So, more
and more he "passed up" Marie, found her more and more lacking, more and
more human. The fact of her being a social outcast no longer had its
strong appeal. He became hard and cruel to her through idealism, just as
she had been hard and cruel to him through sensuality and false
philosophy. But her hardness never equalled his fine scorn.

For a year or two preceding this point in the situation I had been
living in Europe, and had met a good many men and women who had given a
larger part of their lives to the making of a social experiment. Some of
them, discouraged, had returned to a "bourgeois" manner of life, some
even to a "bourgeois" philosophy. Almost all of the anarchists I have
known lost their philosophy and enthusiasm with middle age, and
experience with the actual constitution of things, combined with
disillusion regarding the ideal. Most of them had been hurt or broken by
their attempt, but they all retained a certain something, a certain
remaining dignity of having struggled against the inevitable, and had
acquired insight into some of the deeper things in life, though having
lost some of the childlike simplicity which is a characteristic of the
social rebel.

I saw a great deal of an old Frenchman, who had known Bakunin, and had
been astute in the dangerous work of the "International" in England and
Germany. An associate of William Morris and the other English anarchists
who at that time called themselves socialists, my friend came in contact
with much that was distinguished in mind and energy; he afterward
carried the propaganda of revolutionary socialism to Germany, where he
was arrested and imprisoned for five years. He is now a handsome,
white-haired, well-preserved old man, with fine simple manners and joy
in simple things, love of children and of long conversations with
friends, good will and peace. He has retained a certain mild contempt
for the "bourgeois," for people who prefer an easy time in this world to
an attempt, even a foolish one, for radical improvement. But he knows
the world now, and I fancy many of his illusions are gone.

Another of my radical friends is now only thirty-six years old; but
already he is tired and discouraged, socially speaking. He is a
Frenchman, too, with all the easy mental grace and intellectual culture
of his race. Soon after his student days at the Sorbonne, the social
fever of our day, which burns in the blood of all who are sensitive,
took possession of him. Like Terry, he was drawn emotionally to an
interest in the social outcast; like Terry, a girl in that class
interested him, and he took up the cause of the girls, and led an attack
against the _policiers des moeurs_, the special police who attempt to
regulate prostitution in Paris. He spent all the money he had in the
attempt, lost his respectable friends, and, after several years of
fruitless effort, hope left him. When I met him he was living quietly,
in bohemian fashion, drawing a very small salary and devoting himself to
abstract philosophy, to science, and to pessimistic memories of the days
of his social enthusiasm, or what he now calls his social illusions.

One of the most pathetic social experiments I have known was made by a
young girl, whom I also knew at Paris. She generously determined that
she would have no sex prejudices; and for several years she strove
against the terribly strong social feeling in that regard. Not only
theoretically but practically she persisted in thinking and acting in a
way which the world calls immoral. She wanted to show that a girl could
be good and yet not what the world calls chaste. She did not believe
that sex-relations had anything to do with real morality. In one way,
she has been successful. She is as good now--better--as when she began
her experiment. She is broader and finer and bigger; but she has
suffered. She has been disappointed in her idealism, disappointed in the
way men have met her frank generosity, she has been injured in a worldly
way. Her strongest desires are those of all good women--she deeply wants
the necessary shelter for children and social quiet and pleasure, and
these essentials are denied her because of her idealism. She half feels
this now and is tired and discouraged.

Another woman who has paid heavily for her "social" interests is in
quite a different position. She is married to a man who is also a social
idealist. He is so emotionally occupied with "society" that nature and
life in its more eternal and necessary aspects touch him lightly. He
hardly realises their existence. She tries to follow him in this
direction; strains her woman's nature, which is a large one, to the
uttermost. It is probable that the loss of his child was due to this
idealistic contempt for old wisdom. Not a moment must be lost, not a
thought devoted to anything but the revolution; this necessitated
social activity, and that exclusively. Where was the opportunity for
the quiet development and care of an infant? The children of the
"radicals" are few, and as a rule do not grow up in the best conditions.
This certainly is a terrible sacrifice entailed upon the social
idealist.

Writers in France and in Europe generally are much more interested in
radical ideas of society and politics than they are in this country. The
most distinguished among them are from the American point of view
radical, at least. There is hardly a play of note produced in France or
Germany that does not in some way trench upon modern social problems.
Anatole France is a philosophical anarchist, and so is Octave Misbeau.
It is not a disreputable thing to be so in France. An Emma Goldman there
would be an object of respect. The prime minister of France was
generally regarded as an anarchist before he went into office. A man of
the type of Hervê would be deemed a madman here. Even a man as little
radical as Jaurès would be considered a terrible social danger in
America and could not conceivably have the power he exerts in France,
where they have a respect for ideas as such.

But, combined with this interest in social things and this willingness
to entertain the most radical ideas, there is a note of pessimism and
disillusionment. Anatole France's work shows this double tendency well.
He reflects the social revolt and lack of respect for the old society in
a most subtle way, but also he mirrors the failing hope of the social
enthusiast. He has a deep sympathy for the social idealist, but nearly
every book suggests the inevitable wreckage of enthusiasm on the rocks
of actuality.

When, after an absence of several years, I returned from Europe and went
again to Chicago, I found Terry alone, disheartened, and different from
the Terry I had known. Soon I saw that in him had taken place a process
not unlike that which had happened to my friends abroad and which was
reflected in European literature. His letters and Marie's had already
indicated, as we have seen, his social disappointment. [Prolonged
applause.]

NELSON APPLETON MILES

THE SPANISH-AMERICAN WAR

[Speech of Major-General Nelson A. Miles at a banquet given in his honor
by more than seven hundred of the most distinguished citizens of New
York City, November 11, 1898. While the last course was being served,
a unique procession made the round of the hall. It was headed by
three figures, one fifer and two drummers, attired to represent the famous
painting called "Spirit of '76." These three were followed by a procession
bearing miniature ships of war manufactured of various confections.
Joseph H. Choate was Chairman of the banquet.]

MR. CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN:--
"Joyfully dear is the homeward track, If we are but sure of a welcome
back."
Such a generous reception has been extended to me to-night as few are
permitted to enjoy, and I should be wanting in gratitude did I not
appreciate the sentiment expressed in this cordial greeting. I should
be vain indeed to ascribe it to myself, or for a moment to accept
it solely as a personal tribute. As an expression of appreciation
of the gallant troops which I have the honor to command, it is accepted
in behalf of the living and for them I thank you, as well as for
those whose lips are forever silent and whose heroism and sacrifice
I know are here remembered and revered.

This reception is to me doubly gratifying, for I am delighted to
return once more to the shores of the Great Republic and also to
be welcomed by the men of the great Empire State and by those
associated with them in this entertainment.

For many years New York has seemed like home to me.
I passed down Broadway in 1861, at the age of twenty-one, a lieutenant
in a regiment from my native State; eight months later I was honored
by that great patriot and statesman, Governor Morgan, with a commission
as lieutenant-colonel in one of the New York regiments. From
that time during the great Civil War I was largely identified with
the New York troops, commanding a regiment, a brigade, and, at one time,
thirty-two regiments from the State of New York. Many of my comrades
in the field were from New York, many of my strongest friends are
New Yorkers, and I am honored to-night by such a greeting as would
make the heart of any soldier proud.

The wars of the past have had their objects, their achievements, and
glorious results. The last war was one in the interest of humanity and
in behalf of a heroic people, who for many years had been struggling
against cruel atrocities, oppression, and the despotism of a decaying
monarchy. It has been most remarkable in many respects. It has
presented one series of victories, without a single disaster or a
single defeat.

The flag of the United States has not been lowered in a single instance.

Not a foot of ground has been surrendered, not a soldier, gun or
rifle has been captured by the enemy. The American soldiers and sailors
have been true to the principles and traditions of their fathers, and
maintained the honor and glory of the American arms. One of the great
blessings to the country in this brief but decisive war has been to
unite firmly in bonds of imperishable union all sections of the United
States: North, South, East, and West.

Still more, it has given us reason and opportunity to appreciate
our obligations to the mother country for the dignified and powerful
influence of the British Empire in the maintenance of our principles and
rights.

There are other fields to conquer. The past has gone, and the future
opens the door to greater responsibilities, and I trust to greater
progress and prosperity. We are ascending to a clearer atmosphere, up to
a higher level, where we should take a stronger position than ever
before occupied by our government and people. We can no longer confine
ourselves to the narrow limits that governed us as a people in the
past.
Much has been said of what has been the ruling policy of the past. This
much, I think, is apparent to all, that the grave responsibilities
of the nation are too great to be contaminated by personal, partisan,
or sectional interests.

Our interests are national in the highest degree.
They embrace two hemispheres. They involve the welfare of a hundred millions
of the human race. We are getting to that time when we shall require
not only the ablest men but many of them, in every department, to
protect and administer the affairs of the Nation. In those impressive
lines of Holland we might exclaim:--
"God give us men; a time like this demands Strong minds, great
hearts, true faith and ready hands, Men whom the lust of office
does not kill, Men whom the spoils of office cannot buy, Men who
possess opinions and a will, Men who have honor; men who will not
lie."

The important and great questions that had to be met and that have been
decided during the last few months have had a broadening influence upon
the great mass of our people. It has been uplifting to every community
and every phase of society. It has turned the attention of our people
to the great power and responsibility of our Republic, and institutions,
and true interests as a people and a nation, not only at home, but
through every part of the globe. We have been enabled to give freedom
to millions of the oppressed, and I believe that we shall be able to
extend to them the hand of support and secure for them a full measure of
justice and enlightened government. In behalf of the army and
for myself, I wish to return my most heartfelt thanks for this most cordial
greeting. [Applause.]

SAMUEL FREEMAN MILLER

FEDERAL JUDGES
[Speech of Samuel F. Miller, Justice of the Supreme Court of the United
States, at the annual dinner of the State Bar Association, Albany,
November 20, 1878. Justice Miller spoke in response to the toast: "The
Supreme Court of the United States." With the toast was associated the
following sentiment from De Tocqueville: "The peace, the prosperity,
and the very existence of the Union are vested in Federal Judges."]

MR.

CHAIRMAN AND GENTLEMEN OF THE ASSOCIATION:--I perceive that in the
meeting of this State Bar Association it has devolved upon me to inaugurate
the talking on all occasions. [Laughter.] When I had supposed
last evening that I should hear the eloquent voice of your then President,
Judge Porter, to get up the enthusiasm which was necessary, I was
surprised to find that he was absent, and that the distinguished
gentleman who presided did not feel called upon to fill his place
in that regard, though he did the honors and discharged the duties
of the office very gracefully; and now when your own Governor, and
when the President of the United States are toasted in advance of
the body of which I have the honor to be a member, there is nobody
with the respectful and cordial approval of the Association here
to respond to the sentiments in their honor.

But I have had the honor of sitting for a couple of hours in this
body, and to find that although a moderate speaker myself, I had
opened the way for a good deal of disposition to talk [applause];
and I trust it will be found that there will be a similar experience
this evening, as I find here the Judges of the Court of Appeals and
of the Supreme Court of this State, and others, who know how to
speak, and who, no doubt, will speak in response to toasts.

The sentiment of De Tocqueville, to which I am in some sense called
upon to respond, is one which those of you who have read his work on
"Democracy in America," written forty-five years ago, must know
has reference to a much smaller body of judges than now existing.
Perhaps I shall entertain you a little by telling you about what
are the Federal judges, and how many of them there are. We have fifty-seven
or fifty-eight district judges who are Federal judges. We have nine
judges of the Circuit Court of the United States; we have five judges
of the District of Columbia; we have five judges of the Court of Claims;
and we have nine judges of the Supreme Court of the United States, and
these are all considered and treated as constitutional Federal
judges. That is to say, they enter their offices as officers of the
United States, and hold their offices during life or good behavior. We
have, in addition to these, eight Territories, each of which has
three judges, who are Federal judges, although in a different sense. They
are not called constitutional judges--I do not know that that is a
very correct distinction--and they are only appointed for four years.
These are the Federal judges, the name which De Tocqueville applies
to them.

You will excuse me if I talk for a few minutes about the court of
which I have the honor to be a member--the Supreme Court of the United
States.
That court, if it is nothing else, certainly is a hard-working
court. It is a court of which a great deal is required; and it is some
solace for the hard work that we have to do, that we are supposed to be
a court of a good deal of dignity and of a very high character. I hope
you all concur. [Laughter and applause.] Just consider what the
jurisdiction of that court is. There have come before that court often,
States--States which in the old ante-bellum times, we called "Sovereign
States"--and some of them did not come voluntarily. They were brought
by the process of that court.

And when one State of the Union has a question of juridical cognizance
against another State of the Union, it must come to that court. A
subpoena is sent, and it is brought into that court just like an
individual, and it must, by the constitution of this country, submit
its rights and territorial jurisdiction, and the right which
accompanies that territorial jurisdiction, to the decision of that
Supreme Court.

Except the great court which sat on Mount Olympus, I know of no other
which has ever had the right to decide, and compel States to submit to
its decision. [Applause.] It is within our province to declare a law
of one of these sovereign States, void, absolutely null, because
it may be in conflict with the Constitution and laws of the United States;
and that is a function of daily occurrence. What other court in the
world has that power? To what other court has ever been submitted such a
function as that--to declare the legislation of a State like New York,
with five millions of population, and other States verging upon
the same amount of population and wealth, to declare that the laws
which you have passed in the ordinary discharge of your powers as
legislators, are null and void?

It is a great power. We not only do that, but we decide that the laws
which the Congress of the United States shall pass are void, if they
conflict with that instrument under which we all live and move and have
our being. Though we approach these subjects with regretful hesitation,
it is a duty from which the court has never shrunk, and from which I
presume it never will shrink as long as that court has its
existence.
[Applause.]
Gentlemen, I have told you about our high prerogatives; but just look at
what we have done! see what it is that we are compelled to know or
supposed to know--but I am very sorry to say we don't know at
all.
[Laughter.] We are supposed to take judicial cognizance of all questions
of international law, of treaties, of prize laws, and of the law of
nations generally. We take notice of it without its being specially
pleaded.

We take notice of the laws and statutes of every State of these
thirty-eight States of the Union. They are not to be proved in our
courts; they are not brought in issue, but the judge of the Federal
courts, from the lowest one to the highest, is supposed to take judicial
cognizance of all the statute laws, and to know them, of the whole
thirty-eight States of the Union, and of the eight Territories besides.

In addition to that, we are supposed to take notice of the common law
of the country. We take notice of the equity principles, and we
apply them now in separate courts, notwithstanding you have combined
them in your processes in the State courts. We are supposed to understand
the civil law on which Texas and Louisiana have framed their system of
laws; and we are supposed to understand all the other laws, as I said,
of the States, divergent and varied as they are. We do the best we can
to understand them; but, gentlemen, permit me to say that, but
for the bar which practices before us; but for the lawyers who come
up from New York and Pennsylvania, and from the States of the West and
of the South, to tell us what the law is; but for the instruction
and aid which they afford to us, our duties would be but poorly
fulfilled.

I take pleasure in saying, gentlemen, and it is the last thing that
I shall trouble you with, that a bar or set of men superior in
information, in the desire to impart that information to the court,
a set of gentlemen in the legal profession more instructive in their
arguments, could hardly be found in any country in the world.

[Applause.] I doubt whether their equals are found, when you consider
the variety of the knowledge which they must present to us, the topics
which they discuss, the sources from which they derive the matter which
they lay before us. I say that it is with pleasure that the court
relies upon the lawyers of the country to enable it to perform its
high functions.

JOHN MORLEY

LITERATURE AND POLITICS
[Speech of John Morley at the banquet of the Royal Academy, London,
May 3, 1890.

Sir Frederic Leighton, President of the Academy, said in introducing
Mr.

Morley: "With Literature I associate, not for the first time, the
name of a master of strong and sober English, a man in whose writings
the clear vision of a seeker after truth controls the generous
fervor of an idealist, and of whom every appreciator of a fine
literary temper must earnestly hope that the paths upon which he
has so long trod with growing honor may never become wholly strangers
to his feet--I mean Mr.

John Morley."]

MR. PRESIDENT, YOUR ROYAL HIGHNESS, MY LORDS, LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:--I
feel that I am more unworthy now than I was eight years ago to figure as
the representative of literature before this brilliant gathering of all
the most important intellectual and social interests of our time. I
have not yet been able like the Prime Minister, to go round this
exhibition and see the works of art that glorify your walls; but I am
led by him to expect that I shall see the pictures of Liberal leaders,
including M. Rochefort. [Laughter.] I am not sure whether M. Rochefort
will figure as a man of letters or as a Liberal leader, but I can
understand that his portrait would attract the Prime Minister because
M.

Rochefort is a politician who was once a Liberal leader, and who has
now seen occasion to lose his faith in Parliamentary government. [Laughter
and cheers.] Nor have I seen the picture of "The Flowing Tide," but I
shall expect to find in that picture when I do see it a number of
bathing-machines in which, not the younger generation, but the elder
generation are incarcerated. [Laughter.] The younger generation, as I
understand, are waiting confidently--for the arrival of the "Flowing
Tide," and when it arrives, the elderly gentlemen who are incarcerated
in those machines [laughter] will be only too anxious for a man and
a horse to come and deliver them from their imminent peril.
[Laughter and cheers.]
I thought that I detected in the last words of your speech, in proposing
this toast, Mr. President, an accent of gentle reproach that any
one should desert the high and pleasant ways of literature for the
turmoil and the everlasting contention of public life. I do not
suppose that there has ever been a time in which there was less of
divorce between literature and public life than the present time. ["Hear!
Hear!"] There have been in the reign of the Queen two eminent
statesmen who have thrice had the distinction of being Prime Minister,
and oddly enough, one of those statesmen [Lord Derby] has left
behind him a most spirited version of Homer, while the other eminent
statesman [William E.

Gladstone]--happily still among us, still examines the legends and the
significance of Homer. [Cheers.] Then when we come to a period nearer
to ourselves, and look at those gentlemen who have in the last six
years filled the office of Minister for Ireland, we find that
no fewer than three [George Otto Trevelyan, John Morley, and Arthur
Balfour] were authors of books before they engaged in the very
ticklish business of the government of men.

["Hear! Hear!"] And one of these three Ministers for Ireland embarked upon
his literary career--which promised ample distinction--under the editorial
auspices of another of the three.

We possess in one branch of the Legislature the author of the most
fascinating literary biography in our language. We possess also another
writer whose range of knowledge and of intellectual interest is so
great that he has written the most important book upon the Holy Roman
Empire and the most important book upon the American Commonwealth [James
Bryce]. [Cheers.]
The first canon in literature was announced one hundred years ago by
an eminent Frenchman who said that in literature it is your business
to have preferences but no exclusions.

In politics it appears to be our business to have very stiff and
unchangeable preferences, and exclusion is one of the systematic objects
of our life. [Laughter and cheers.] In literature, according to
another canon, you must have a free and open mind and it has been said:
"Never be the prisoner of your own opinions."
And her failure to
appreciate or reciprocate my respect for the integrity of her
personality is the hardest blow she can ever give to me. I have the same
fatal charge to make against almost all men; the exceptions are so few
and doubtful that I doubt whether I can ever gain from another that
intense receptive attitude which I am willing to bestow. Fortunately for
me, this illusion that there are such intense perceivers re-creates
itself out of the veriest dust and dross of humanity. Like Shelley's
'Cloud,' my illusion may change, but it cannot die. Now I am in a state
of mind when I am willing to let everything go by default--everything
except my last illusion, that I can never let myself out to anyone. To
Marie--and to you--and one or two others--I have been sorely tempted to
lay myself out--but not even the moon can seduce me to reveal myself. My
dead and buried self is my first and last seduction. This is crazy, of
course, but I am heartily sick of all the 'sense' I know or can know. I
believe, however, that I have lived so close to the 'truth' that its
shadow has been cast over all my life. If, in the last analysis, all is
illusion, I shall stick to the most powerful one--myself. My feeling for
Marie arises largely from the fact that she is an expression of the
irreparable part of my life--of its deepest essence.

"A year ago to-day, on the thirteenth of August," he wrote, "occurred my
first, last, and only breakaway from the best pal I have ever hoped to
have, Marie. Now that it has passed, I see it in its proper proportions,
just as if it had happened to someone else, but to one as near and dear
to me as myself. I have broken away from the Mob, too. My sympathy for
what is called the People has been worn down to a mere thread that might
easily be broken and turn me against them. When one has been stoned
long enough, one may easily turn into something as hard as stone itself.
I am like the knight of old, turned inside out. I am developing a
coating of internal mail, as so many of the attacks come from within.
But worse than attacks from within or without is the sordid security and
mental inertia of all the people about me: they are strangling me just
as surely as if they put a rope around my neck. By day they hurry on
like ghosts about their business, and by night they gather in the little
tombs of many rooms they call their homes.

"You may call it madness, this my cutting off of all things. I know that
I have kept off madness a long while now. I have shrunk from 'business'
to social anarchy and pure beings, from these again I have shrunk to
books and poetry, from these again into the solitude of myself where
only I am really at home. Though I have lost my general bearings, I
still stand at the helm of myself. I am going to pieces on the rocks of
the world, but I still inhabit the realm of the soul.

"When I could no longer see my ideals rise out of my work, I quit that
work; for then the work was no longer an expression of myself. This is
the origin of all modern problems. A man stands to his job because of
the visions that come to him only when at work. He sees in imagery his
own possibilities arise out of the thing on which he is at work, and
easily links himself to his fellows. Thus does the worker make of his
eternal cerebral rehearsals an endless chain of imaged solidarity
binding him in a maze from which he can never think his way out. The
fixed gaze of those who try to grasp the abstract is proof of this.

"When I could no longer see my ideals arise out of human solidarity, I
quit my fanatical belief in the possibility of a Utopia. So that now I
am not even an anarchist. I am ready to pass it all up."

When I saw Terry for the last time, and found him in this almost crazy
crisis of extreme individualism, where he hopelessly "passed up"
everything--human society, love and friendship, all the things his warm
and loving Irish heart really desired, I felt that here indeed was a
complete expression of the spirit of revolt. It was so extreme that I
and no one else could follow him in it. It had passed beyond the point
where social rebellion may be useful or stimulating or suggestive
poetically and had reached the sad absurdity of all extreme attitudes.
One lesson Terry's proud and strenuous soul has never learned: that the
deeper and simpler things in social growth we must take on faith. We
cannot demand an ideal reason or justification for all social
organisation, for the ways that human beings have of living together.
The elementary social forms at least must be instinctively and blindly
accepted. To go beyond in one's rejection the anarchism of the social
communist into what is called individualistic anarchism is mere
egotistic madness and has as its only value the possible poetry of a
unified personal expression. Into this it was that Terry fell, and of
course he could find no support for it except in his own soul, which
could not bear the strain. No soul could, for, struggle as we may, we
are largely social and cannot stand alone. Terry's life well shows the
sympathetic source of social rebellion and its justification, but it
also shows the ultimate sterility of its extreme expression.

The latest word I have about Marie is that she is at work "keeping
house for a respectable family" in San Francisco. Her experience in
camping-out seems to have rendered her normal to, for her, an extreme
degree. Going to work certainly represented as radical a reaction from
Terry and his philosophy as well could be imagined. A friend of mine in
San Francisco writes of her: "She is now to all appearances a good,
respectable girl. She wants to live a new life, is working hard, and is
trying to break away from smoking. Sometimes she feels the restraint
severely, and comes to our house where she knows she can smoke and
express herself. She is in better health, and I think now is in close
enough touch with nature not to want to go back for nourishment to ideas
and the slum."

The latest word I have from Terry shows him faithful to the
end--faithful to his character and his mood:

"There is a rumour that Marie has got a job at general housework. This
gave me the blues--after all our life together, this the end! I'd rather
have her do general prostitution, with the chance of having an
occasional rest in the hospital. But perhaps her drudgery will kill her
enthusiasm for 'vita nuova!'

"I should have answered your letter had I not been suffering from an old
malady of mine which is accompanied by such mental depression that I
could not answer the communication of even a lost soul. I had to seek
surcease in my old remedy of hasheesh and chloroform, which was a change
from suffering to stupidity. But I shall not swell the cosmic chorus of
woe by raising my cracked voice against impending fate. I am more and
more alone, more and more conscious of a growing something that is
keeping me apart from all whom I can possibly avoid."

Terry is nearing his logical end, while Marie is still struggling for
life, life given her in the beginning by this strange man, whose
influence was then to take it away from her; and from this, like the
world, she rebelled. "Anarchism" she embraced as long as it enhanced her
being; as long as this deeply emotional philosophy added to the fulness
of her life, she saw its meaning and its use; when it finally tended to
sterilise her new existence, its "pragmatic" value was nothing.

This is the test of all social theory: How It Works Out. In Marie's
case, as in the case of many proletarians, it worked out well, as a
general civilising and consoling philosophy, for a time, but when
carried to an "idealistic" extreme, it tended rapidly towards general
death--from which all live things react. So it was with Marie: she left
her "poisonous" Terry and sought for another vitalising experience.
Goethe said that the best government is that which makes itself
superfluous. Terry's spiritual influence on Marie, important for her in
the beginning as rendering her self-respecting and mentally ambitious,
had become superfluous. But it had been of great value to the girl. So,
too, with our society. The extreme rebellious attitude educates
us--sometimes to the point where rebellion is superfluous.

THE END


_The_
Autobiography _of a_ Thief

A true story of the life of a criminal
taken down and edited by Mr. Hapgood.

_Cloth. 349 pp. $1.25 postpaid._

COMMENTS OF THE CRITICS

     "The book as a whole impresses the reader as an accurate
     presentation of the thief's personal point of view, a vivid
     picture of the society in which he lived and robbed and of
     the influences, moral and political, by which he was
     surrounded. The story indeed has something of the quality of
     Defoe's 'Colonel Jacque'; it is filled with convincing
     details."--_New York Evening Post._

     "To one reader at least--one weary reader of many books
     which seem for the most part 'flat, stale and
     unprofitable'--this is a book that seems eminently 'worth
     while.' Indeed, every word of the book, from cover to cover,
     is supremely, vitally interesting. Most novels are tame
     beside it, and few recent books of any kind are so rich in
     suggestiveness."--_Interior._

     "What is the value of such an autobiography of a thief as
     Mr. Hapgood has given us? It is this. Professional crime is
     one of the overprosperous branches of industry in our large
     cities. As a nation we are casting around for means to check
     it, or, in other words, to divert the activities of the
     professional criminals into some other industry in which
     these men can satisfy their peculiar talents and at the same
     time get a living with less inconvenience to the mass of
     citizens. The criminal, being as much a human being as the
     rest of us, must be known as he is before we can either
     influence him personally or legislate for him effectually.
     If we treat him as we would the little girl who stole her
     brother's candy mice or as the man who under great stress of
     temptation yields to the impulse to steal against his
     struggling will, we will fail, for we overlook the very
     essence of the matter--his professionalism. It is safe to
     say that perusal of Mr. Hapgood's book will help many a
     student of criminology to find his way through the current
     tangle of statistics, reform plans, analyses of 'graft' and
     what not, by the very light of humanity that is in
     it."--_Chicago Record-Herald._

     "The manner and style of 'The Autobiography of a Thief' is
     that which attracts even the fastidious lovers of
     literature. It is the life-story of a real thief
     unmistakably impressive in its force and truth. As a matter
     of course, the book is on the hinge of a novel, but it
     contains the gem and sparkle of genuineness and its
     complication has the flavor of accuracy."--_New Orleans
     Item._

     "It is not only a powerful plea for the reform of abuses in
     our penitentiaries, but it is an extraordinary revelation of
     the life of a criminal from his birth up, and an explanation
     of the conditions which impelled him first to crime and
     later to attempted reformation."--_New York Herald._

     "The truth found in 'The Autobiography of a Thief' is not
     only stranger but far more interesting than much of the
     present day fiction. The autobiography of 'Light-fingered
     Jim' is absorbing, in many pages startling, in its
     graphicness.... In spite of its naturalness, daring and
     directness, the work has a marked literary style--a finish
     that could not have been given by an unexperienced hand. But
     this adds to rather than detracts from the charm of the
     book."--_Philadelphia Public Ledger._

     "No more realistic book has been written for a long time
     than Hutchins Hapgood's 'The Autobiography of a Thief.' No
     books on criminology and no statistics regarding penal
     institutions can carry the weight of truth and conviction
     which this autobiography conveys."--_Chicago Chronicle._

     "As a study in sociology it is splendid; as a human story it
     will hold attention, every page of it."--_Nashville
     American._

     "It is a clear and graphic insight into the lives of the
     lower world and is written with impressive force. It is a
     remarkable addition to the literature of the
     season."--_Grand Rapids Herald._

     "An illuminating and truly instructive book, and one of
     terrible fascination."--_Christian Endeavor World._

     "As a contribution to the study of sociology as illustrated
     from life and not from mere text-books, the story recorded
     by Mr. Hapgood will be welcomed by all philanthropic
     people."--_New York Observer._

     "It is an absorbing story of the making of a criminal, and
     is rightly classed by the publishers as a 'human document.'
     It is absorbing alike to the reader who reads for the
     diversion of reading and to those who are really thoughtful
     students of the forces which are working in the life round
     about them."--_Brooklyn Life._

     "Those in whom the sense of human oneness and social
     responsibility is strong will be intensely interested in
     these genuine experiences and in the naïve, if perverted,
     viewpoint of a pick-pocket, thief and burglar who has served
     three terms in State's prison."--_Booklovers' Library._

     "It may be that 'Jim' puts things strongly sometimes, but
     the spirit of truth at least is plain in every chapter of
     the book. That, in general, it is the real thing is the
     feeling the reader has after he has finished with 'The
     Autobiography of a Thief.' It is not a pleasant book; it is
     anything but a book such as the young person should receive
     as a birthday gift. It is a book however which the man
     anxious to keep track of life in this country should read
     and ponder over."--JOSIAH FLYNT, _in the Bookman_.

DUFFIELD AND COMPANY

36 EAST 21ST ST. NEW YORK

       *       *       *       *       *

"_The_ Spirit _of_ Labor"

_$1.25 Net_

     "A straightforward narrative which has the tremendous
     advantage of disclosing more things about the greater life
     of Chicago--and more which are not generally known to the
     more sheltered classes--than any book of its size ever
     written. Those who wish to be written down as loving their
     fellow-men should read this volume with care. It is a real
     book, and worth anybody's while."--_The Interior, Chicago._

     "Much of the story is set down in this man's own words, and
     the whole is made vividly interesting and really meaningful
     by the author's broad understanding and sincerity of
     purpose."--_Life, New York._

     "Mr. Hapgood's portrayal of the American workingman is a
     'moving picture' in two senses of this equivocal phrase. It
     is kinetoscopic, first of all, in its lifelikeness and the
     convincing reality of the actions it pictures. Then, again,
     it is emotionally moving; for the character of Anton, the
     big, honest, alert and energetic Chicago laborer, can hardly
     fail to arouse in the reader intense admiration, lively
     sympathy and not a little amusement free from all cynicism
     and class feeling. In 'The Spirit of Labor' we are brought
     into living contact with the men and women we meet on the
     streets, the great American public with whom every business
     man, every pastor and every politician has daily to reckon.
     Teamsters, masons, unionists, saloonkeepers, policemen,
     wash-women, newsboys, walking delegates, waitresses, ward
     heelers, local bosses, anarchists--the procession seems
     endless and the medley beyond all hope of disentanglement.
     But it is real life and no parade of puppets."--_New York
     Tribune._

     "We cannot doubt, however, that Anton is a true type and
     represents a large portion of the men of this land with whom
     workers and students in social matters must meet. The book
     deals intimately with the questions arising between labor
     and capital, and is especially interesting in its analysis
     of the Chicago spirit as it relates to these matters."--_The
     Christian Advocate, New York._

     "The story of Anton and his socialistic, anarchistic, and
     trade union comrades is a faithful and photographic picture
     of aspects of the urban activity of vast multitudes of
     industrials combining to assist each one in his fellow in
     the struggle for existence and fullness of life. The forces
     revealed are full of danger, the temper is ugly, the manners
     are always urbane, the judgment not always well informed,
     the range of knowledge often limited; but there is wondrous
     power, vigor, and the chaotic promise of a better and larger
     morality than anything the churches yet have taught, or the
     mere book students have ever dreamed. Miss Jane Addams has
     discovered this larger morality in seeming coarseness and
     evil, and Mr. Hapgood has given us glimpses of it in the
     biography of his man of toil and rebellion. The Philistine
     needs the Anarchist to wake him, as Hume did Kant, from his
     dogmatic slumbers, and the Philistine may (let us hope
     rarely) wear cap and gown."--_The Dial, Chicago._

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  | Transcriber's Notes:                                         |
  |                                                              |
  | Page 54: woman amended to women                              |
  | Page 97: acount amended to account                           |
  | Page 102: interst amended to interest                        |
  | Page 145: pamplets amended to pamphlets                      |
  | Page 148: envolved _sic_                                     |
  | Page 154: senstive amended to sensitive                      |
  | Page 166: inconsistences amended to inconsistencies          |
  | Page 172: beause amended to because                          |
  | Page 241: concious amended to conscious                      |
  |                                                              |
  | Punctuation has been standardised.Dobinet Doughtie. Harpax.+
  _Two drummes with their Ensignes._
  +C. Custance.+ What caitifes are those that so shake my house
  wall?
  
+M. Mery.+ Ah sirrha now Custance if ye had so muche wit I woulde
see you aske pardon, and your selues submit.

+C..                             |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+