"Yes, Hartmut, your new work is certainly fine," said his father, as he
reached out his hand to his son. "I believe the fatherland will yet
honor my boy in peace, as well as in war."

Hartmut's eyes lighted as he returned the warm hand pressure. He knew
what such praise from his father's lips signified.

"Good-bye," said the general, kissing his daughter. "I'll go on from
Burgsdorf to the city, but in a few days we'll meet again. Good-bye,
children."

I am ashamed to say I am of so young and fashionable society."
The lady patronesses were of the very highest rank. Timbs quotes from a
letter of Gilly Williams:
"You may imagine by the sum, the company is chosen, though refined
as it is, it will scarcely put old Soho [Mrs."Here, as a boy, I played for hours with Will," said Hartmut softly,
"and here my destiny was decided for me on that fateful night. I realize
now, for the first time, all that I did to my father in that fearful
hour."

"Ah, but you have repaid him for all his suffering," answered Ada, as
she laid her hand on her husband's arm. "The world, too, has forgotten
your boyhood's folly. That was proven by the words of praise and
congratulations which poured in upon your father from all sides about
his heroic son."

Hartmut shook his head. "That was no heroism, it was despair. I did not
think I should succeed. No one thought so; but even had I fallen, the
enemy's bullet would have redeemed my honor. Egon understood that, and
that was why he put my salvation in my own hands. When we two said
good-bye in the little ruined church on that icy winter's night, we knew
we should never meet again, but we both thought I would be the victim,
for I rode to almost certain death. But a spirit-hand seemed to lead me,
and in the hour in which I reached my goal, poor Egon fell. You need
not hide your tears, dear. I have no jealousy of the dead."

"Eugen brought me his last greeting," said the young wife, the hot tears
standing in her eyes. "And poor Stadinger wrote me, too, of his master's
last words. I fear the old man won't live long; his letter sounded as
though he were heart-broken."

"My poor Egon!" Hartmut's voice told how deep was his sorrow for his
loss. "He was so sunny, so amiable always. He seemed created for a long,
cloudless life. Perhaps you would have been happier by his side, Ada,
than with your wild, stormy Hartmut, who will so often vex you with the
dark shadows of his life."

Ada glanced up at him, smiling through her tears.

"I have only one love, and that is my wild, stormy Hartmut, and I know
no greater happiness than to be his wife!"

Wood and water lay quiet in the afternoon sunshine. The old firs stood
dark and tall, while the reeds whispered softly to one another, and
thousands of sunny sparks danced on the water. Far above, in the heavens
to which the boy had once longed to mount like a falcon, the sun rode on
his glorious course. In splendor he shed his rays on all
beneath--mighty, eternal and glorious source and promise of life and
joy.