Produced by David Widger


AT SUNWICH PORT

BY

W. W. JACOBS

Part 4.


ILLUSTRATIONS

From Drawings by Will Owen


CHAPTER XVI

The two ladies received Mr. Hardy's information with something akin to
consternation, the idea of the autocrat of Equator Lodge as a stowaway on
board the ship of his ancient enemy proving too serious for ordinary
comment.  Mrs. Kingdom's usual expressions of surprise, "Well, I never
did!" and "Good gracious alive!" died on her lips, and she sat gazing
helpless and round-eyed at her niece.

"I wonder what he said," she gasped, at last.

Miss Nugent, who was trying to imagine her father in his new role aboard
the Conqueror, paid no heed.  It was not a pleasant idea, and her eyes
flashed with temper as she thought of it.  Sooner or later the whole
affair would be public property.

"I had an idea all along that he wasn't in London," murmured Mrs.
Kingdom.  "Fancy that Nathan Smith standing in Sam's room telling us
falsehoods like that!  He never even blushed."

"But you said that you kept picturing father walking about the streets of
London, wrestling with his pride and trying to make up his mind to come
home again," said her niece, maliciously.

Mrs. CORSAIR-POEM.

--sky--dark--sea--rough; --Corsair--brave--tough; --wind--high--waves
steep; --moon--veil'd--oce--deep; --foam--gainst--vess--dash'd;
--Corsair--board--wash'd.
--rope--vain--to save, --brine--Cors--grave.

* * * * *

"STUPID AS A 'POST.'"
The _Morning Post_ has made another blunder. Lord Abinger, it seems, is
too Conservative to resign.

After all the editorial boasting about "exclusive information," "official
intelligence," &c. it is very evident that the "_Morning Twaddler_"
must not be looked upon as a direction _post_

.

* * * * *

We learn that a drama of startling interest, founded upon a recent
event of singular horror, is in active preparation at the Victoria
Theatre.

It is to be entitled "_Cavanagh the Culprit; or, the Irish Saveloyard_."
The interest of the drama will be immensely strengthened by the introduction
of the genuine knife with which the fatal ham was cut. Real saveloys
will also be eaten by the Fasting Phenomenon before the audience.

* * * * *

"Never saw such _stirring_ times," as the spoon said to the saucepan

.

* * * * *

THE "PUFF PAPERS."

[Illustration]

CHAPTER I.

Having expressed the great gratification I should enjoy at being permitted
to become a member of so agreeable a society, I was formally presented
by the chairman with a capacious meerschaum, richly mounted in
silver, and dark with honoured age, filled with choice tobacco,
which he informed me was the initiatory pipe to be smoked by every
neophyte on his admission amongst the "Puffs."

I shall not attempt to describe with what profound respect I received
that venerable tube into my hands--how gently I applied the blazing
match to its fragrant contents--how affectionately I placed the
amber mouth-piece between my lips, and propelled the thick wreaths
of smoke in circling eddies to the ceiling:--to dilate upon all
this might savour of an egotistical desire to exalt my own merits--a
species of _puffing_ I mortally abhor.

Suffice it to say, that when I had smoked the pipe of peace, I was heartily
congratulated by the chairman and the company generally upon the
manner in which I had acquitted myself, and I was declared without
a dissentient voice a duly-elected member of the "Puffs."

The business of the night, which my entrance had interrupted, was now
resumed; and the chairman, whom I shall call Arden, striking his hammer
upon a small mahogany box which was placed before him on the table,
requested silence. Before I permit him to speak, I must give my readers
a pen-and-ink sketch of his person. He was rather tall and erect in his
person--his head was finely formed--and he had a quick grey eye,
which would have given an unpleasant sharpness to his features, had
it not been softened by the benevolent smile which played around
his mouth.

In his attire he was somewhat formal, and he affected an antiquated
style in the fashion of his dress.

When he spoke, his words fell with measured precision from his lips; but
the mellow tone of his voice, and a certain courteous _empressement_
in his manner, at once interested me in his favour; and I set him
down in my mind as a gentleman of the old English school.

How far I was right in my conjecture my readers will hereafter have
an opportunity of determining.

"Our new member," said the chairman, turning towards me, "should
now be informed that we have amongst us some individuals who possess
a taste for literary pursuits."

"A very small taste," whispered a droll-looking 'Puff,' with a particularly
florid nose, who was sitting on my right hand, and who appeared to be
watching all the evening for opportunities of letting off his
jokes, which were always applauded longest and loudest by himself.

My comical neighbour's name, I afterwards learned, was Bayles; he
was the licensed jester of the club; he had been a punster from his
youth; and it was his chief boast that he had joked himself into
the best society and out of the largest fortune of any individual
in the three kingdoms.

This incorrigible wag having broken the thread of the chairman's speech, I
shall only add the substance of it.

It was, that the literary members of the "Puffs" had agreed to contribute
from time to time articles in prose and verse; tales, legends, and sketches
of life and manners--all which contributions were deposited in the
mahogany box on the table; and from this literary fund a paper was
extracted by the chairman on one of the nights of meeting in each
week, and read by him aloud to the club.

These manuscripts, I need scarcely say, will form the series of THE
PUFF PAPERS, which, for the special information of the thousands
of the fair sex who will peruse them, are like the best black teas,
strongly recommended for their fine _curling leaf_.

The first paper drawn by the chairman was an Irish Tale; which, after
a humorous protest by Mr.

Bayles against the introduction of foreign extremities, was ordered to be
read.

The candles being snuffed, and the chairman's spectacles adjusted to the
proper focus, he commenced as follows:-- 
THE GIANT'S STAIRS.

A LEGEND OF THE SOUTH OF IRELAND.

"Don't be for quitting us so airly, Felix, _ma bouchal_, it's a
taring night without, and you're better sitting there opposite that
fire than facing this unmarciful storm," said Tim Carthy, drawing
his stool closer to the turf-piled hearth, and addressing himself
to a young man who occupied a seat in the chimney nook, whose quick
bright eye and somewhat humorous curl of the corner of the mouth
indicated his character pretty accurately, and left no doubt that
he was one of those who would laugh their laugh out, if the _ould
boy_ stood at the door.

The reply to Tim's proposal was a jerk of Felix's great-coat on his left
shoulder, and a sly glance at the earthen mug which he held, as
he gradually bent it from its upright position, until it was evident
that the process of absorption had been rapidly acting on its
contents.

Tim, who understood the freemasonry of the manoeuvre, removed all the latent
scruples of Felix by adding--"There's more of that stuff--where you know;
and by the crook of St. Patrick we'll have another drop of it to comfort
us this blessed night. Whisht! do you hear how the wind comes sweeping
over the hills? God help the poor souls at say!"
"Wissha amen!"

replied Tim's wife, dropping her knitting, and devoutly making the
sign of the cross upon her forehead.

A silence of a few moments ensued; during which, each person present
offered up a secret prayer for the safety of those who might at
that moment be exposed to the fury of the warring elements.

I should here inform my readers that the cottage of Tim Carthy was
situated in the deep valley which runs inland from the strand at Monkstown,
a pretty little bathing village, that forms an interesting object on the
banks of the romantic Lee, near the "beautiful city" of Cork.

"I never heard such a jearful storm since the night Mahoon, the ould giant,
who lives in the cave under the _Giants Stairs_, sunk the three
West Ingee-men that lay at anchor near the rocks," observed Mrs.

Carthy.

"It's Felix can tell us, if he plazes, a quare story about that same Mahoon,"
added Tim, addressing himself to the young man.

"You're right there, anyhow, Tim," replied Felix; "and as my pipe
is just out, I'll give you the whole truth of the story as if I was
after kissing the book upon it.

"You must know, then, it was one fine morning near Midsummer, about five
years ago, that I got up very airly to go down to the beach and launch
my boat, for I meant to try my luck at fishing for conger eels under the
Giant's Stairs. I wasn't long pulling to the spot, and I soon had my lines
baited and thrown out; but not so much as a bite did I get to keep up my
spirits all that blessed morning, till I was fairly kilt with
fatigue and disappointment.

Well, I was thinking of returning home again, when all at once I felt
something mortial heavy upon one of my lines.

At first I thought it was a big conger, but then I knew that no
fish would hang so dead upon my hand, so I hauled in with fear and
thrembling, for I was afeard every minnit my line or my hook would
break, and at last I got my prize to the top of the water, and then
safe upon the gunnel of the boat;--and what do you think it was?"

"In troth, Felix, sorra one of us knows."
"Well, then, it was nothing else but a little dirty black oak box,
hooped round with iron, and covered with say-weed and barnacles, as if it
had lain a long time in the water. 'Oh, ho!' says myself, 'it's in rale
good luck I am this beautiful morning. Phew! as sure as turf, 'tis full
of goold, or silver, or dollars, the box is.'

For, by dad, it was so heavy intirely I could scarcely move it,
and it sunk my little boat a'most to the water's edge; so I pulled back
for bare life to the shore, and ran the boat into a lonesome little
creek in the rocks.

There I managed somehow to heave out the little box upon dry land, and,
finding a handy lump of a stone, I wasn't long smashing the iron
fastenings, and lifting up the lid.
I looked in, and saw a weeshy ould weasened fellow sitting in it, with
his legs gothered up under him like a tailor.

He was dressed in a green coat, all covered with goold lace, a red
scarlet waistcoat down to his hips, and a little three-cornered
cocked hat upon the top of his head, with a cock's feather sticking
out of it as smart as you plase.

"'Good morrow to you, Felix Donovan,' says the small chap, taking off
his hat to me, as polite as a dancing-masther.

"'Musha!

then the tip top of the morning to you,' says I, 'it's ashamed of
yourself you ought to be, for putting me to such a dale of throuble.'

"'Don't mention it, Felix,' says he, 'I'll be proud to do as much for
you another time. But why don't you open the box, and let me out? 'tis
many a long day I have been shut up here in this could dark place.' All
the time I was only holding the lid partly open.

"'Thank you kindly, my tight fellow,' says myself, quite 'cute; 'maybe you
think I don't know you, but plase God you'll not stir a peg out
of where you are until you pay me for my throuble.'

"'Millia murdher!' says the little chap. 'What could a poor crather like
me have in the world? Haven't I been shut up here without bite or sup?'
and then he began howling and bating his head agin the side of the
box, and making most pitiful moans. But I wasn't to be deceived by
his thricks, so I put down the lid of the box and began to hammer away at
it, when he roared out,--

"'Tare an' agers! Felix Donovan, sure you won't be so cruel as to shut me
up again? Open the box, man, till I spake to you.'

"'Well, what do you want now'!'

savs I, lifting up the lid the laste taste in life.

"'I'll tell you what, Felix, I'll give you twenty goolden guineas
if you'll let me out.'

"'Soft was your horn, my little fellow; your offer don't shoot.'

"'I'll give you fifty.

"'No.'
"'A hundred.'
"'T won't do.

If you were to offer me all the money in the Cork bank I wouldn't take it.'

"'What the diaoul will you take then?' says the little ould chap,
reddening like a turkey-cock in the gills with anger.

"'I'll tell you,' says I, making answer; 'I'll take the three best gifts
that you can bestow.'"

(_To be continued._)
* * * * *

Why is a butcher like a language master?--Because he is a _retailer
of tongues_

.

* * * * *

THE KNATCHBULL TESTIMONIAL.

A meeting, unequalled in numbers and respectability, was held during
the past week at the sign of "_The Conservative Cauliflower_,"
Duck-lane, Westminster, for the purpose of presenting an address,
and anything else, that the meeting might decide upon, to Sir Edward
Knatchbull, for his patriotic opposition to 'pikes.

Mr. ADAM BELL, the well-known literary dustman, was unanimously called
to the Chair.

The learned gentleman immediately responded to the call, and having gracefully
removed his fan tail with one hand and his pipe with the other, bowed to
the assembled multitude, and deposited himself in the seat of honour.
As there was no hammer in the room, the inventive genius of the
learned chairman, suggested the substitution of his bell, and having
agitated its clapper three times, and shouted "_Orger_" with
stentorian emphasis, he proceeded to address the meeting:--

"Wedgetable wendors and purweyors of promiscus poulte-ry, it isn't
often that a cheer is taken in this room for no other than harmonic
meetings or club-nights, and it is, therefore, with oncommon pride
that I feels myself in my present proud persition.

(_Werry good! and Hear, hear!

_) You are all pretty well aware of my familiar acquaintance with the
nobs of this here great nation.

(_We is! and cheers._) For some years I've had the honour to collect
for Mr.

Dark, night and day, I may say; and in my mind the werry best standard
of a real gentleman is his dust-hole.

(_Hear, hear! and He's vide avake!

_) You're hailed," continued the eloquent Adam, "you're hailed by
a sarvant in a dimity jacket; you pulls up alongside of the curb;
you collars your basket, and with your shovel in your mawley, makes
a cast into the hairy; one glance at the dust conwinces you vether
you're to have sixpence or a swig of lamen-table beer.

(_It does! and cheers._) A man as sifteses his dust is a disgrace
to humanity!

(_Immense cheering, which was rendered more exhilarating by the
introduction of Dirk's dangle-dangles, otherwise bells._) But you'll
say, Vot is this here to do with Sir Eddard?

I'll tell you. It has been my werry great happiness to clear out Sir Eddard,
and werry well I was paid for doing it. The Tories knows what _jobs_ is,
and pays according-_ly_. (_Here the Meeting gave the Conservative
Costermonger fire._) The 'pinion I then formed of Sir Eddard has jist been
werrified, for hasn't he comed forrard to oppose them rascally
taxes on commercial industry and Fairlop-fair--on enterprising
higgling and 'twelve in a tax-cart?'

need I say I alludes to them blessed 'pikes? (_Long and continued cheers._)
Sir Eddard is fully aware that the 'pike-men didn't make the dirt
that makes the road, and werry justly refuses to fork out
tuppence-ha'penny!

It's werry true Sir Eddard says that the t'other taxes must be paid, as
what's to pay the ministers?

But it's highly unreasonable that 'pike-men is to be put alongside
of Prime Ministers, wedgetable wendors, and purveyors of promiscus
polte-ry!

Had that great man succeeded in bilking the toll, what a thing it would
ha' been for us! Gatter is but 3d. a pot, and that's the price of a
reasonable 'pike-ticket.

That wenerable and wenerated liquor as bears the cognominum of 'Old
Tom' is come-atable for the walley of them werry browns.

But Sir Eddard has failed in his bould endeavour--the 'pikes has it!
(_Shame!_) It's for us to reward him.

I therefore proposes that a collection of turnpike tickets is made, and
then elegantly mounted, framed and glaziered, and presented to the
Right Honourable Barrownight."

(_Immense applause._)
Mr. ALEC BILL JONES, the celebrated early-tater and spring-ingen
dealer, seconded the proposition, at the same time suggesting that
"Old 'pike-tickets would do as well as new 'uns; and everybody know'd
that second-hand tumpike-tickets warn't werry waluable, so the thing could
be done handsome and reasonable."
A collection was immediately commenced in the room, and in a few
minutes the subscription included the whole of the Metropolitan
trusts, together with three Waterloo-bridge tickets, which the donor
stated "could ony be 'ad for axing for."

A deputation was then formed for the purpose of presenting this
unique testimonial when completed to Sir Edward Knatchbull.

It is rumoured that the lessees of the gates in the neighbourhood
of the Metropolis are trying to get up a counter meeting. We have
written to Mr.
Levy on the subject.

* * * * *

MUSICAL NEWS (NOOSE).

We perceive from a foreign paper that a criminal who has been imprisoned
for a considerable period at Presburg has acquired a complete mastery
over the violin. It has been announced that he will shortly make an
appearance in public.

Doubtless, his performance will be _a solo on one string_.

* * * * *

THE PHYSIOLOGY OF THE LONDON MEDICAL STUDENT.

10.--THE TERMINATION OF THE HALL EXAMINATION.

[Illustration: T]The morning after the carousal reported in our last
chapter, the parties thereat assisting are dispersed in various parts of
London. Did a modern Asmodeus take a spectator to any elevated point
from which he could overlook the Great Metropolis of Mr. Grant and England
just at this period, when Aurora has not long called the sun, who rises
as surlily as if he had got out of bed the wrong way, he would see Mr.
Rapp ruminating upon things in general whilst seated on some
cabbages in Covent Garden Market; Mr.

Jones taking refreshment with a lamplighter and two cabmen at a
promenade coffee-stand near Charing Cross, to whom he is giving a
lecture upon the action of veratria in paralysis, jumbled somehow
or other with frequent asseverations that he shall at all times be
happy to see the aforesaid lamplighter and two cabmen at the hospital
or his own lodgings; Mr.

Manhug, with a pocket-handkerchief tied round his head, not clearly
understanding what has become of his latch-key, but rather imagining that
he threw it into a lamp instead of the short pipe which still
remains in the pocket of his pea-jacket, and, moreover, finding
himself close to London Bridge, is taking a gratuitous doze in the
cabin of the Boulogne steam-boat, which he ascertains does not start
until eight o'clock; whilst Mr.

Simpson, the new man, with the usual destiny of such green
productions--thirsty, nauseated, and "coming round"--is safely taken
care of in one of the small private unfurnished apartments which
are let by the night on exceedingly moderate terms (an introduction
by a policeman of known respectability being all the reference that
is required) in the immediate neighbourhood of the Bow-street
Police-office.

Where Mr.
Captain Hardy regarded him affectionately.  "Go easy, my lad," he said,
equably; "go easy.  If I'd known it before, things would have been
different; as I didn't, we must make the best of it.  She's a pretty
girl, and a good one, too, for all her airs, but I'm afraid she's too
fond of her father to overlook this."

"That's where you've made such a mess of things," broke in his son.
"Why on earth you two old men couldn't--"

"Easy," said the startled captain.  "When you are in the early fifties,
my lad, your ideas about age will be more accurate.  Besides, Nugent is
seven or eight years older than I am."

"What became of him?" inquired Jem.

"He was off the moment we berthed," said his father, suppressing a smile.
"I don't mean that he bolted--he'd got enough starch left in him not to
do that--but he didn't trespass on our hospitality a moment longer than
was necessary.  I heard that he got a passage home on the Columbus.  He
knew the master.  She sailed some time before us for London.  I thought
he'd have been home by this."

It was not until two days later, however, that the gossip in Sunwich
received a pleasant fillip by the arrival of the injured captain.  He
came down from London by the midday train, and, disdaining the privacy
of a cab, prepared to run the gauntlet of his fellow-townsmen.

A weaker man would have made a detour, but he held a direct course, and
with a curt nod to acquaintances who would have stopped him walked
swiftly in the direction of home.  Tradesmen ran to their shop-doors to
see him, and smoking amphibians lounging at street corners broke out into
sunny smiles as he passed.  He met these annoyances with a set face and a
cold eye, but his views concerning children were not improved by the
crowd of small creatures which fluttered along the road ahead of him and,
hopeful of developments, clustered round the gate as he passed in.

[Illustration: "He met these annoyances with a set face."]

It is the pride and privilege of most returned wanderers to hold forth
at great length concerning their adventures, but Captain Nugent was
commendably brief.  At first he could hardly be induced to speak of them
at all, but the necessity of contradicting stories which Bella had
gleaned for Mrs. Kingdom from friends in town proved too strong for him.
He ground his teeth with suppressed fury as he listened to some of them.
The truth was bad enough, and his daughter, sitting by his side with her
hand in his, was trembling with indignation.


"Poor father," she said, tenderly; "what a time you must have had."
"It won't bear thinking of," said Mrs. Kingdom, not to be outdone in
sympathy.

"He met these annoyances with a set face."

"Well, don't think of it," said the captain, shortly.

Mrs. Kingdom sighed as though to indicate that her feelings were not to
be suppressed in that simple fashion.

"The anxiety has been very great," she said, shaking her head, "but
everybody's been very kind.  I'm sure all our friends have been most
sympathetic.  I couldn't go outside the house without somebody stopping
me and asking whether there was any news of you.  I'd no idea you were so
popular; even the milkman----"

"I'd like some tea," interrupted the captain, roughly; "that is, when you
have finished your very interesting information."

Mrs. Kingdom pursed her lips together to suppress the words she was
afraid to utter, and rang the bell.

"Your master would like some tea," she said, primly, as Bella appeared.
"He has had a long journey."  The captain started and eyed her fiercely;
Mrs. Kingdom, her good temper quite restored by this little retort,
folded her hands in her lap and gazed at him with renewed sympathy.

"We all missed you very much," said Kate, softly.  "But we had no fears
once we knew that you were at sea."

"And I suppose some of the sailors were kind to you?" suggested the
unfortunate Mrs. Kingdom.  "They are rough fellows, but I suppose some of
them have got their hearts in the right place.  I daresay they were sorry
to see you in such a position."

The captain's reply was of a nature known to Mrs. Kingdom and her circle
as "snapping one's head off."  He drew his chair to the table as Bella
brought in the tray and, accepting a cup of tea, began to discuss with
his daughter the events which had transpired in his absence.

"There is no news," interposed Mrs. Kingdom, during an interval.  Mr.
Hall's aunt died the other day."

"Never heard of her," said the captain.  "Neither had I, till then," said
his sister.  "What a lot of people there are one never hears of, John."
The captain stared at her offensively and went on with his meal.  A long
silence ensued.

"I suppose you didn't get to hear of the cable that was sent?" said Mrs.
Kingdom, making another effort to arouse interest.

"What cable?" inquired her brother.

"The one Mr. Hardy sent to his father about you," replied Mrs. Kingdom.

The captain pushed his chair back and stared her full in the face.  "What
do you mean?" he demanded.

His sister explained.

"Do you mean to tell me that you've been speaking to young Hardy?"
exclaimed the captain.

"I could hardly help doing so, when he came here," returned his sister,
with dignity.  "He has been very anxious about you."

Captain Nugent rose and strode up and down the room.  Then he stopped and
glanced sharply at his daughter.

"Were you here when he called?" he demanded.

"Yes," was the reply.

"And you--you spoke to him?" roared the captain.

"I had to be civil," said Miss Nugent, calmly; "I'm not a sea-captain."

Her father walked up and down the room again.  Mrs. Kingdom, terrified at
the storm she had evoked, gazed helplessly at her niece.

"What did he come here for?" said the captain.

Miss Nugent glanced down at her plate.  "I can't imagine," she said,
demurely.  "The first time he came to tell us what had become of you."

The captain stopped in his walk and eyed her sternly.  "I am very
fortunate in my children," he said, slowly.  "One is engaged to marry the
daughter of the shadiest rascal in Sunwich, and the other--"

"And the other?" said his daughter, proudly, as he paused.

"The other," said the captain, as he came round the table and put his
hand on her shoulder, "is my dear and obedient daughter."

"Yes," said Miss Nugent; "but that isn't what you were going to say.  You
need not worry about me; I shall not do anything that would displease
you."


CHAPTER XVIII

With a view to avoiding the awkwardness of a chance meeting with any
member of the Nugent family Hardy took the sea road on his way to the
office the morning after the captain's return.  Common sense told him
to leave matters for the present to the healing hand of Time, and to
cultivate habits of self-effacement by no means agreeable to one of his
temperament.

Despite himself his spirits rose as he walked.  It was an ideal spring
morning, cool and sunny.  The short turf by the side of the road was
fragrant under his heel, and a light wind stirred the blueness of the
sea.  On the beach below two grizzled men of restful habit were
endeavouring to make an old boat waterproof with red and green paint.

A long figure approaching slowly from the opposite direction broke into a
pleasant smile as he drew near and quickened his pace to meet him.

"You're out early," said Hardy, as the old man stopped and turned with
him.

"'Ave to be, sir," said Mr. Wilks, darkly; "out early and 'ome late, and
more often than not getting my dinner out.  That's my life nowadays."

"Can't you let her see that her attentions are undesirable?" inquired
Hardy, gravely.

"Can't you let her see that her attentions are undesirable?"

[Illustration: "'Can't you let her see that her attentions are
undesirable?'"]

"I can't be rude to a woman," said the steward, with a melancholy smile;
"if I could, my life would ha' been very different.  She's always
stepping across to ask my advice about Teddy, or something o' that sort.
All last week she kept borrowing my frying-pan, so at last by way of
letting 'er see I didn't like it I went out and bought 'er one for
herself.  What's the result?  Instead o' being offended she went out and
bought me a couple o' neck-ties.  When I didn't wear 'em she pretended it
was because I didn't like the colour, and she went and bought two more.
I'm wearing one now."

He shook his head ruefully, and Hardy glanced at a tie which would have
paled the glories of a rainbow.  For some time they walked along in
silence.

"I'm going to pay my respects to Cap'n Nugent this afternoon," said Mr.
Wilks, suddenly.

"Ah," said the other.

"I knew what it 'ud be with them two on the same ship," continued Mr.
Wilks.  "I didn't say nothing when you was talking to Miss Kate, but I
knew well enough."

"Ah," said Hardy again.  There was no mistaking the significance of the
steward's remarks, and he found them somewhat galling.  It was all very
well to make use of his humble friend, but he had no desire to discuss
his matrimonial projects with him.

"It's a great pity," pursued the unconscious Mr. Wilks, "just as
everything seemed to be going on smoothly; but while there's life there's
'ope."

"That's a smart barge over there," said Hardy, pointing it out.

Mr. Wilks nodded.  "I shall keep my eyes open this afternoon," he said
reassuringly.  "And if I get a chance of putting in a word it'll be put
in.  Twenty-nine years I sailed with the cap'n, and if there's anybody
knows his weak spots it's me."

He stopped as they reached the town and said "good-bye."  He pressed the
young man's hand sympathetically, and a wink of intense artfulness gave
point to his last remark.

"There's always Sam Wilks's cottage," he said, in a husky whisper; "and
if two of 'is friends _should_ 'appen to meet there, who'd be the wiser?"

He gazed benevolently after the young man's retreating figure and
continued his stroll, his own troubles partly forgotten in the desire to
assist his friends.  It would be a notable feat for the humble steward to
be the means of bringing the young people together and thereby bringing
to an end the feud of a dozen years.  He pictured himself eventually as
the trusted friend and adviser of both families, and in one daring flight
of fancy saw himself hobnobbing with the two captains over pipes and
whisky.

Neatly dressed and carrying a small offering of wallflowers, he set out
that afternoon to call on his old master, giving, as he walked, the last
touches to a little speech of welcome which he had prepared during
dinner.  It was a happy effort, albeit a trifle laboured, but Captain
Nugent's speech, the inspiration of the moment, gave it no chance.

He started the moment the bowing Mr. Wilks entered the room, his voice
rising gradually from low, bitter tones to a hurricane note which Bella.
could hear in the kitchen without even leaving her chair.  Mr. Wilks
stood dazed and speechless before him, holding the wallflowers in one
hand and his cap in the other.  In this attitude he listened to a
description of his character drawn with the loving skill of an artist
whose whole heart was in his work, and who seemed never tired of filling
in details.

"If you ever have the hardihood to come to my house again," he concluded,
"I'll break every bone in your misshapen body.  Get!"

Mr. Wilks turned and groped his way to the door.  Then he went a little
way back with some idea of defending himself, but the door of the room
was slammed in his face.  He walked slowly down the path to the road and
stood there for some time in helpless bewilderment.  In all his sixty
years of life his feelings had never been so outraged.  His cap was still
in his hand, and, with a helpless gesture, he put it on and scattered his
floral offering in the road.  Then he made a bee-line for the Two
Schooners.

Though convivial by nature and ever free with his money, he sat there
drinking alone in silent misery.  Men came and went, but he still sat
there noting with mournful pride the attention caused by his unusual
bearing.  To casual inquiries he shook his head; to more direct ones he
only sighed heavily and applied himself to his liquor.  Curiosity
increased with numbers as the day wore on, and the steward, determined to
be miserable, fought manfully against an ever-increasing cheerfulness due
to the warming properties of the ale within.

"I 'ope you ain't lost nobody, Sam?" said a discomfited inquirer at last.

Mr. Wilks shook his head.

"You look as though you'd lost a shilling and found a ha'penny," pursued
the other.

"Found a what?" inquired Mr. Wilks, wrinkling his forehead.

"A ha'penny," said his friend.

"Who did?" said Mr. Wilks.

The other attempted to explain and was ably assisted by two friends,
but without avail; the impression left on Mr. Wilks's mind being that
somebody had got a shilling of his.  He waxed exceeding bitter, and said
that he had been missing shillings for a long time.

"You're labourin' under a mistake, Sam," said the first speaker.

Mr. Wilks laughed scornfully and essayed a sneer, while his friends,
regarding his contortions with some anxiety, expressed a fear that he was
not quite himself.  To this suggestion the steward deigned no reply, and
turning to the landlord bade him replenish his mug.

"You've 'ad enough, Mr. Wilks," said that gentleman, who had been
watching him for some time.

Mr. Wilks, gazing at him mistily, did not at first understand the full
purport of this remark; but when he did, his wrath was so majestic and
his remarks about the quality of the brew so libellous that the landlord
lost all patience.

"You get off home," he said, sharply.

"Listen t' me," said Mr. Wilks, impressively.

"I don't want no words with you," said the land-lord.  "You get off home
while you can."

"That's right, Sam," said one of the company, putting his hand on the
steward's arm.  "You take his advice."

Mr. Wilks shook the hand off and eyed his adviser ferociously.  Then he
took a glass from the counter and smashed it on the floor.  The next
moment the bar was in a ferment, and the landlord, gripping Mr. Wilks
round the middle, skilfully piloted him to the door and thrust him into
the road.

[Illustration: "He took a glass from the counter and smashed it on the
floor."]

The strong air blowing from the sea disordered the steward's faculties
still further.  His treatment inside was forgotten, and, leaning against
the front of the tavern, he stood open-mouthed, gazing at marvels.  Ships
in the harbour suddenly quitted their native element and were drawn up
into the firmament; nobody passed but twins.

"Evening, Mr. Wilks," said a voice.

The steward peered down at the voice.  At first he thought it was another
case of twins, but looking close he saw that it was Mr. Edward Silk
alone.  He saluted him graciously, and then, with a wave of his hand
toward the sky, sought to attract his attention to the ships there.

"Yes," said the unconscious Mr. Silk, sign of a fine day to-morrow.
"Are you going my way?"

Mr. Wilks smiled, and detaching himself from the tavern with some
difficulty just saved Mr. Silk from a terrible fall by clutching him
forcibly round the neck.  The ingratitude of Mr. Silk was a rebuff to a
nature which was at that moment overflowing with good will.  For a moment
the steward was half inclined to let him go home alone, but the
reflection that he would never get there softened him.

"Pull yourself t'gether," he said, gravely, "Now, 'old on me."

The road, as they walked, rose up in imitation of the shipping, but Mr.
Wilks knew now the explanation: Teddy Silk was intoxicated.  Very gently
he leaned towards the erring youth and wagged his head at him.

"Are you going to hold up or aren't you?" demanded Mr. Silk, shortly.

The steward waived the question; he knew from experience the futility of
arguing with men in drink.  The great thing was to get Teddy Silk home,
not to argue with him.  He smiled good-temperedly to himself, and with a
sudden movement pinned him up against the wall in time to arrest another`
fall.

[Illustration: "The great thing was to get Teddy Silk home."]

With frequent halts by the way, during which the shortness of Mr. Silk's
temper furnished Mr. Wilks with the texts of several sermons, none of
which he finished, they at last reached Fullalove Alley, and the steward,
with a brief exhortation to his charge to hold his head up, bore down on
Mrs. Silk, who was sitting in her doorway.

"I've brought 'im 'ome," he said, steadying himself against the doorpost;
"brought 'im 'ome."

"Brought 'im 'ome?" said the bewildered Mrs. Silk.

"Don' say anything to 'im," entreated Mr. Wilks, "my sake.  Thing might
'appen anybody."

"He's been like that all the way," said Mr. Silk, regarding the steward
with much disfavour.  "I don't know why I troubled about him, I'm sure."

"Crowd roun 'im," pursued the imaginative Mr. Wilks.  "'Old up, Teddy."

"I'm sure it's very kind of you, Mr. Wilks," said the widow, as she
glanced at a little knot of neighbours standing near.  "Will you come
inside for a minute or two?"

She moved the chair to let him pass, and Mr. Wilks, still keeping the
restraining hand of age on the shoulder of intemperate youth, passed in
and stood, smiling amiably, while Mrs. Silk lit the lamp and placed it in
the centre of the table, which was laid for supper.  The light shone on a
knuckle of boiled pork, a home-made loaf, and a fresh-cut wedge of
cheese.

"I suppose you won't stay and pick a bit o' sup-per with us?" said Mrs.
Silk.

"Why not?" inquired Mr. Wilks.

"I'm sure, if I had known," said Mrs. Silk, as she piloted him to a seat,
"I'd 'ave 'ad something nice.  There, now!  If I 'aven't been and forgot
the beer."

She left the table and went into the kitchen, and Mr. Wilks's eyes
glistened as she returned with a large brown jug full of foaming ale and
filled his glass.

"Teddy mustn't 'ave any," he said, sharply, as she prepared to fill that
gentleman's glass.

"Just 'alf a glass," she said, winsomely.

"Not a drop," said Mr. Wilks, firmly.

Mrs. Silk hesitated, and screwing up her forehead glanced significantly
at her son.  "'Ave some by-and-by," she whispered.

"Give me the jug," said Mr. Silk, indignantly.  "What are you listening
to 'im for?  Can't you see what's the matter with 'im?"

"Not to 'ave it," said Mr. Wilks; "put it 'ere."

He thumped the table emphatically with his hand, and before her indignant
son could interfere Mrs. Silk had obeyed.  It was the last straw.  Mr.
Edward Silk rose to his feet with tremendous effect and, first thrusting
his plate violently away from him, went out into the night, slamming the
door behind him with such violence that the startled Mr. Wilks was nearly
blown out of his chair.

"He don't mean nothing," said Mrs. Silk, turning a rather scared face to
the steward.  "'E's a bit jealous of you, I s'pose."

Mr. Wilks shook his head.  Truth to tell, he was rather at a loss to know
exactly what had happened.

"And then there's 'is love affair," sighed Mrs. Silk.  "He'll never get
over the loss of Amelia Kybird.  I always know when 'e 'as seen her, he's
that miserable there's no getting a word out of 'im."

Mr. Wilks smiled vaguely and went on with his supper, and, the meal
finished, allowed himself to be installed in an easy-chair, while his
hostess cleared the table.  He sat and smoked in high good humour with
himself, the occasional remarks he made being received with an enthusiasm
which they seldom provoked elsewhere.

"I should like t' sit 'ere all night," he said, at last.

"I don't believe it," said Mrs. Silk, playfully.

"Like t' sit 'ere all night," repeated Mr. Wilks, somewhat sternly.  "All
nex' day, all day after, day after that, day----"

Mrs. Silk eyed him softly.  "Why would you like to sit here all that
time?" she inquired, in a low voice.

"B'cause," said Mr. Wilks, simply, "b'cause I don't feel's if I can
stand.  Goo'-night."

He closed his eyes on the indignant Mrs. Silk and fell fast asleep.  It
was a sound sleep and dreamless, and only troubled by the occasional
ineffectual attempts of his hostess to arouse him.  She gave up the
attempt at last, and taking up a pair of socks sat working thoughtfully
the other side of the fire-place.

The steward awoke an hour or two later, and after what seemed a terrible
struggle found himself standing at the open door with the cold night air
blowing in his face, and a voice which by an effort of memory he
identified as that of Edward Silk inviting him "to go home and lose no
time about it."  Then the door slammed behind him and he stood balancing
himself with some difficulty on the step, wondering what had happened.
By the time he had walked up and down the deserted alley three or four
times light was vouchsafed to him and, shivering slightly, he found his
own door and went to bed.


CHAPTER XIX

Any hopes which Hardy might have entertained as to the attitude of Miss
Nugent were dispelled the first time he saw her, that dutiful daughter of
a strong-willed sire favouring him with a bow which was exactly half an
inch in depth and then promptly bestowing her gaze elsewhere.  He passed
Captain Nugent next day, and for a week afterwards he had only to close
his eyes to see in all its appalling virulence the glare with which that
gentleman had acknowledged his attempt at recognition.

[Illustration: "Captain Nugent."]

He fared no better in Fullalove Alley, a visit to Mr. Wilks eliciting the
fact that that delectable thoroughfare had been put out of bounds for
Miss Nugent.  Moreover, Mr. Wilks was full of his own troubles and
anxious for any comfort and advice that could be given to him.  All the
alley knew that Mrs. Silk had quarrelled with her son over the steward,
and, without knowing the facts, spoke their mind with painful freedom
concerning them.

"She and Teddy don't speak to each other now," said Mr. Wilks, gloomily,
"and to 'ear people talk you'd think it was my fault."

Hardy gave him what comfort he could.  He even went the length of saying
that Mrs. Silk was a fine woman.

"She acts like a suffering martyr," exclaimed Mr. Wilks.  "She comes over
'ere dropping hints that people are talking about us, and that they ask
'er awkward questions.  Pretending to misunderstand 'er every time is
enough to send me crazy; and she's so sudden in what she says there's no
being up to 'er.  On'y this morning she asked me if I should be sorry if
she died."

"What did you say?"  inquired his listener.

"I said 'yes,'" admitted Mr. Wilks, reluctantly.  "I couldn't say
anything else; but I said that she wasn't to let my feelings interfere
with 'er in any way."

Hardy's father sailed a day or two later, and after that nothing
happened.  Equator Lodge was an impregnable fortress, and the only member
of the garrison he saw in a fortnight was Bella.

His depression did not escape the notice of his partner, who, after first
advising love-philtres and then a visit to a well-known specialist for
diseases of the heart, finally recommended more work, and put a generous
portion of his own on to the young man's desk.  Hardy, who was in an evil
temper, pitched it on to the floor and, with a few incisive remarks on
levity unbecoming to age, pursued his duties in gloomy silence.

A short time afterwards, however, he had to grapple with his partner's
work in real earnest.  For the first time in his life the genial
shipbroker was laid up with a rather serious illness.  A chill caught
while bathing was going the round of certain unsuspected weak spots, and
the patient, who was of an inquiring turn of mind, was taking a greater
interest in medical works than his doctor deemed advisable.

"Most interesting study," he said, faintly, to Hardy, as the latter sat
by his bedside one evening and tried to cheer him in the usual way by
telling him that there was nothing the matter with him.  "There are
dozens of different forms of liver complaint alone, and I've got 'em
all."

"Liver isn't much," said his visitor, with the confidence of youth.

"Mine is," retorted the invalid; "it's twice its proper size and still
growing.  Base of the left lung is solidifying, or I'm much mistaken; the
heart, instead of waltzing as is suitable to my time of life, is doing a
galop, and everything else is as wrong as it can be."

"When are you coming back?" inquired the other.

"Back?" repeated Swann.  "Back?  You haven't been listening.  I'm a
wreck.  All through violating man's primeval instinct by messing about in
cold water.  What is the news?"

Hardy pondered and shook his head.  "Nugent is going to be married in
July," he said, at last.

"He'd better have had that trip on the whaler," commented Mr. Swann; "but
that is not news.  Nathan Smith told it me this morning."

"Nathan Smith?" repeated the other, in surprise.

"I've done him a little service," said the invalid.  "Got him out of a
mess with Garth and Co.  He's been here two or three times, and I must
confess I find him a most alluring rascal."

"Birds of a feather--" began Hardy, superciliously.

"Don't flatter me," said Swann, putting his hand out of the bed-clothes
with a deprecatory gesture.

"I am not worthy to sit at his feet.  He is the most amusing knave on the
coast.  He is like a sunbeam in a sick room when you can once get him to
talk of his experiences.  Have you seen young Nugent lately?  Does he
seem cheerful?"

"Yes, but he is not," was the reply.

"Well, it's natural for the young to marry," said the other, gravely.
"Murchison will be the next to go, I expect."

"Possibly," returned Hardy, with affected calmness.

"Blaikie was saying something about it this morning," resumed Swann,
regarding him from half-closed lids, "but he was punching and tapping me
all about the ribs while he was talking, and I didn't catch all he said,
but I think it's all arranged.  Murchison is there nearly every day, I
understand; I suppose you meet him there?"

Mr. Hardy, whistling softly, rose and walked round the room, uncorking
medicine bottles and sniffing at their contents.  A smile of unaffected
pleasure lit up his features as he removed the stopper from one
particularly pungent mixture.

[Illustration: "Sniffing at their contents."]

"Two tablespoonfuls three times a day," he read, slowly.  "When did you
have the last, Swann?  Shall I ring for the nurse?"

The invalid shook his head impatiently.  "You're an ungrateful dog," he
muttered, "or you would tell me how your affair is going.  Have you got
any chance?"

"You're getting light-headed now," said Hardy, calmly.  "I'd better go."

"All right, go then," responded the invalid; "but if you lose that girl
just for the want of a little skilled advice from an expert, you'll never
forgive yourself--I'm serious."

"Well, you must be ill then," said the younger man, with anxiety.

"Twice," said Mr. Swann, lying on his back and apparently addressing the
ceiling, "twice I have given this young man invaluable assistance, and
each time he has bungled."

Hardy laughed and, the nurse returning to the room, bade him "good-bye"
and departed.  After the close atmosphere of the sick room the air was
delicious, and he walked along slowly, deep in thought.  From Nathan
Smith his thoughts wandered to Jack Nugent and his unfortunate
engagement, and from that to Kate Nugent.  For months he had been
revolving impossible schemes in his mind to earn her gratitude, and
possibly that of the captain, by extricating Jack.  In the latter
connection he was also reminded of that unhappy victim of unrequited
affection, Edward Silk.

It was early to go indoors, and the house was dull.  He turned and
retraced his steps, and, his thoughts reverting to his sick partner,
smiled as he remembered remarks which that irresponsible person had made
at various times concerning the making of his last will and testament.
Then he came to a sudden standstill as a wild, forlorn-hope kind of idea
suddenly occurred to him.  He stood for some time thinking, then walked a
little way, and then stopped again as various difficulties presented
themselves for solution.  Finally, despite the lateness of the hour, he
walked back in some excitement to the house he had quitted over half an
hour before with the intention of speaking to the invalid concerning a
duty peculiarly incumbent upon elderly men of means.

The nurse, who came out of the sick room, gently closing the door after
her, demurred a little to this second visit, but, receiving a promise
from the visitor not to excite the invalid, left them together.  The
odour of the abominable physic was upon the air.

"Well?" said the invalid.

"I have been thinking that I was rather uncivil a little while ago," said
Hardy.

"Ah!" said the other.  "What do you want?"

"A little of that skilled assistance you were speaking of."

Mr. Swann made an alarming noise in his throat.  Hardy sprang forward in
alarm, but he motioned him back.

"I was only laughing," he explained.

Hardy repressed his annoyance by an effort, and endeavoured, but with
scant success, to return the other's smile.

"Go on," said the shipbroker, presently.

"I have thought of a scheme for upsetting Nugent's marriage," said Hardy,
slowly.

"It is just a forlorn hope which depends for its success on you and
Nathan Smith."

"He's a friend of Kybird's," said the other, drily.

"That is the most important thing of all," rejoined Hardy.  "That is,
next to your shrewdness and tact; everything depends upon you, really,
and whether you can fool Smith.  It is a great thing in our favour that
you have been taking him up lately."

"Are you coming to the point or are you not?" demanded the shipbroker.

Hardy looked cautiously round the room, and then, drawing his chair close
to the bed, leaned over the prostrate man and spoke rapidly into his ear.

"What?" cried the astounded Mr. Swann, suddenly sitting up in his bed.
"You--you scoundrel!"

"It's to be done," said Hardy.

"You ghoul!" said the invalid, glaring at him.  "Is that the way to talk
to a sick man?  You unscrupulous rascal!"

"It'll be amusement for you," pleaded the other, "and if we are
successful it will be the best thing in the end for everybody.  Think of
the good you'll do."

"Where you get such rascally ideas from, I can't think," mused the
invalid.  "Your father is a straightforward, honest man, and your
partner's uprightness is the talk of Sunwich."

"It doesn't take much to make Sunwich talk," retorted Hardy.

"A preposterous suggestion to make to a man of my standing," said the
shipbroker, ignoring the remark.  "If the affair ever leaked out I should
never hear the end of it."

"It can't leak out," said Hardy, "and if it does there is no direct
evidence.  They will never really know until you die; they can only
suspect."

"Very well," said the shipbroker, with a half-indulgent, half-humorous
glance.  "Anything to get rid of you.  It's a crack-brained scheme, and
could only originate with a young man whose affections have weakened his
head--I consent."

"Bravo!" said Hardy and patted him on the back; Mr. Swann referred to the
base of his left lung, and he apologized.

"I'll have to fix it up with Blaikie," said the invalid, lying down
again.  "Murchison got two of his best patients last week, so that it
ought to be easy.  And besides, he is fond of innocent amusement."

"I'm awfully obliged to you," said Hardy.

"It might be as well if we pretended to quarrel," said the invalid,
reflectively, "especially as you are known to be a friend of Nugent's.
We'll have a few words--before my housekeeper if possible, to insure
publicity--and then you had better not come again.  Send Silk instead
with messages."

Hardy thanked him and whispered a caution as a footstep was heard on the
landing.  The door opened and the nurse, followed by the housekeeper
bearing a tray, entered the room.

"And I can't be worried about these things," said Swann, in an
acrimonious voice, as they entered.  "If you are not capable of settling
a simple question like that yourself, ask the office-boy to instruct you.

"It's your work," retorted Hardy, "and a nice mess it's in."

"H'sh!" said the nurse, coming forward hastily.  "You must leave the
room, sir.  I can't have you exciting my patient."

Hardy bestowed an indignant glance at the invalid.

"Get out!"  said that gentleman, with extraordinary fierceness for one in
his weak condition.  "In future, nurse, I won't have this person admitted
to my room."

"Yes, yes; certainly," said the nurse.  "You must go, sir; at once,
please."

"I'm going," said Hardy, almost losing his gravity at the piteous
spectacle afforded by the house-keeper as she stood, still holding the
tray and staring open-mouthed at the combatants.  "When you're tired of
skulking in bed, perhaps you'll come and do your share of the work."

Mr. Swann rose to a sitting position, and his demeanour was so alarming
that the nurse, hastening over to him, entreated him to lie down, and
waved Hardy peremptorily from the room.

"Puppy!" said the invalid, with great relish.  "Blockhead!"

[Illustration: "'Puppy!' said the invalid."]

He gazed fixedly at the young man as he departed and then, catching sight
in his turn of the housekeeper's perplexity, laid himself down and buried
his face in the bed-clothes.  The nurse crossed over to her assistant
and, taking the tray from her, told her in a sharp whisper that if she
ever admitted Mr. Hardy again she would not be answerable for the
consequences.


CHAPTER XX

Charmed at the ease with which he had demolished the objections of Mr.
Adolphus Swann and won that suffering gentleman over to his plans, Hardy
began to cast longing glances at Equator Lodge.  He reminded himself that
the labourer was worthy of his hire, and it seemed moreover an extremely
desirable thing that Captain Nugent should know that he was labouring in
his vineyard with the full expectation of a bounteous harvest.  He
resolved to call.

Kate Nugent, who heard the gate swing behind him as he entered the front
garden, looked up and stood spellbound at his audacity.  As a fairly
courageous young person she was naturally an admirer of boldness in
others, but this seemed sheer recklessness.  GEORGE SNIVEL saw
the fire bursting from the Tower on Saturday night, and being greatly
frightened he ran home to his mother as soon as possible.
His mother called him a fool, and said it was the gas-works.

THOMAS POPKINS rents a back attic at Rotherhithe; he had been peeling
an onion on the 30th of October, and went to the window for the purpose
of throwing out the external coat of the vegetable mentioned in the beginning
of his testimony, when he saw a large fire burning somewhere, with
some violence.

Not thinking it could be the Tower, he went to bed after eating the
onion--which has been already twice alluded to in the course of
his evidence.

MR.

SWIFT, of the Jewel-office, says, that he saw the Tower burning at the
distance of about three acres from where the jewels are kept, when
his first thought was to save the regalia.

For this purpose he rushed to the scene of the conflagration and desired
everybody who would obey him, to leave what they were about and follow
him to that part of the Tower set apart for the jewels.

Several firemen were induced to quit the pumps, and having prevailed
on a large body of soldiers, he led them and a vast miscellaneous
mob to the apartments where the crown, &c., were deposited.

After a considerable quantity of squeezing, screaming, cursing, and
swearing, it was discovered that the key was missing, when the
jewel-room was carried by storm, and the jewels safely lodged in
some other part of the building.

When witness returned to the fire, it was quite out, and the armoury
totally demolished.

The whole of the official report is in the same satisfactory strain, but
we do not feel ourselves justified in printing any more of it

.

* * * * *

A CON-CERTED CON.

"When is the helm of a ship like a certain English composer?"

--said the double bass to the trombone in the orchestra of
Covent Garden Theatre, while resting themselves the other evening between
the acts of Norma.--The trombone wished he might be _blowed_ if
he could tell.

--"When it is _A-lee_" quoth the bass--rosining his bow with
extraordinary delight at his own conceit

.

* * * * *

RECONCILING A DIFFERENCE.

Two literary partisans were lately contending with considerable
warmth, for the superiority of Tait's or Blackwood's Magazine--till
from words they fell to blows, and decided the dispute by the
_argumentum ad hominem_.

--Doctor Maginn, hearing of the circumstance, observed to a friend,
that however the pugnacious gentleman's opinions might differ with
respect to _Tait_ and _Blackwood_, it was evident they were content
to decide them by a _Frazer_ (_fray sir_)

.

* * * * *

OUR WEATHERCOCK.

The state of the weather, at all times an object of intense interest
and general conversation amongst Englishmen, has latterly engaged
much of our attention; and the observations which we have made on
the extraordinary changes which have taken place in the weathercock
during the last week warrant us in saying "there must be something
in the wind."

It has been remarked that Mr. Macready's _Hamlet_ and Mr. Dubourg's chimneys
have not _drawn_ well of late. A smart breeze sprung up between Mr. and
Mrs. Smith, of Brixton, on last Monday afternoon, which increased
during the night, and ended in a perfect storm.

Sir Peter Laurie on the same evening retired to bed rather misty,
and was exceedingly foggy all the following morning.

At the Lord Mayor's dinner the _glass_ was observed to rise and fall
several times in a most remarkable manner, and at last settled at
"heavy wet."

A flock of gulls were seen hovering near Crockford's on Tuesday, and on
that morning the milkman who goes the Russell-square walk was
observed to blow the tips of his fingers at the areas of numerous
houses.

Applications for food were made by some starving paupers to the
Relieving Officers of different workhouses, but the hearts of those
worthy individuals were found to be completely frozen.

"I should come ostensibly to see you," he said,
cheerfully; "to smoke a pipe with you."

"Smoke!" stuttered the captain, explosively; "smoke a pipe with ME?"

"Why not?" said the other.  "I am offering you my services, and
anything that is worth having is worth paying for.  I suppose we could
both smoke pipes under pleasanter conditions.  What have you got against
me?  It isn't my fault that you and my father have quarrelled."

"I don't want anything more to say to you," said the captain, sternly.
"I've shown you the door once.  Am I to take forcible measures?"

Hardy shrugged his broad shoulders.  "I am sorry," he said, moving to the
door again.

"So am I," said the other.

"It's a pity," said Hardy, regretfully.  "It's the chance of a lifetime.
I had set my heart on fooling Kybird and Smith, and now all my trouble is
wasted.  Nathan Smith would be all the better for a fall."

The captain hesitated.  His visitor seemed to be confident, and he would
have given a great deal to prevent his son's marriage and a great deal to
repay some portion of his debt to the ingenious Mr. Smith.  Moreover,
there seemed to be an excellent opportunity of punishing the presumption
of his visitor by taking him at his word.

"I don't think you'd enjoy your smoking here much," he said, curtly.

"I'll take my chance of that," said the other.  "It will only be a matter
of a few weeks, and then, if I am unsuccessful, my visits cease."

"And if you're successful, am I to have the pleasure of your company for
the rest of my life?" demanded the captain.

"That will be for you to decide," was the reply.  "Is it a bargain?"

The captain looked at him and deliberated.  "All right.  Mondays and
Thursdays," he said, laconically.

Hardy saw through the ruse, and countered.

"Now Swann is ill I can't always get away when I wish," he said, easily.
"I'll just drop in when I can.  Good day."

He opened the door and, fearful lest the other should alter his mind at
the last moment, walked briskly down the path to the gate.  The captain
stood for some time after his departure deep in thought, and then
returned to the garden to be skilfully catechized by Miss Nugent.

"And when my young friend comes with his pipe you'll be in another room,"
he concluded, warningly.

Miss Nugent looked up and patted his cheek tenderly.  "What a talent for
organization you have," she remarked, softly.  "A place for everything
and everything in its place.  The idea of his taking such a fancy to
you!"

The captain coughed and eyed her suspiciously.  He had been careful not
to tell her Hardy's reasons for coming, but he had a shrewd idea that his
caution was wasted.

"Today is Thursday," said Kate, slowly; "he will be here to-morrow and
Saturday.  What shall I wear?"

The captain resumed his gardening operations by no means perturbed at the
prophecy.  Much as he disliked the young man he gave him credit for a
certain amount of decency, and his indignation was proportionately great
the following evening when Bella announced Mr. Hardy.  He made a genial
remark about Shylock and a pound of flesh, but finding that it was only
an excellent conversational opening, the subject of Shakespeare's plays
lapsed into silence.

It was an absurd situation, but he was host and Hardy allowed him to see
pretty plainly that he was a guest.  He answered the latter's remarks
with a very ill grace, and took covert stock of him as one of a species
he had not encountered before.  One result of his stock-taking was that
he was spared any feeling of surprise when his visitor came the following
evening.

"It's the thin end of the wedge," said Miss Nugent, who came into the
room after Hardy had departed; "you don't know him as well as I do."

"Eh?" said her father, sharply.

"I mean that you are not such a judge of character as I am," said Kate;
"and besides, I have made a special study of young men.  The only thing
that puzzles me is why you should have such an extraordinary fascination
for him."

"You talk too much, miss," said the captain, drawing the tobacco jar
towards him and slowly filling his pipe.

Miss Nugent sighed, and after striking a match for him took a seat on the
arm of his chair and placed her hand on his shoulder.  "I can quite
understand him liking you," she said, slowly.

The captain grunted.

"And if he is like other sensible people," continued Miss Nugent, in a
coaxing voice, "the more he sees of you the more he'll like you.  I do
hope he has not come to take you away from me."

[Illustration: "I do hope he has not come to take you away from me."]

The indignant captain edged her off the side of his chair; Miss Nugent,
quite undisturbed, got on again and sat tapping the floor with her foot.
Her arm stole round his neck and she laid her cheek against his head and
smiled wickedly.

"Nice-looking, isn't he?" she said, in a careless voice.

"I don't know anything about his looks," growled her father.

Miss Nugent gave a little exclamation of surprise.  "First thing I
noticed," she said, with commendable gravity.  "He's very good-looking
and very determined.  What are you going to give him if he gets poor Jack
out of this miserable business?"

"Give him?" said her father, staring.

"I met Jack yesterday," said Kate, "and I can see that he is as wretched
as he can be.  He wouldn't say so, of course.  If Mr. Hardy is successful
you ought to recognize it.  I should suggest one of your new photos in an
eighteenpenny frame."

She slipped off the chair and quitted the room before her father could
think of a suitable retort, and he sat smoking silently until the
entrance of Mrs. Kingdom a few minutes later gave him an opportunity of
working off a little accumulated gall.

While the junior partner was thus trying to obtain a footing at Equator
Lodge the gravest rumours of the senior partner's health were prevalent
in the town.  Nathan Smith, who had been to see him again, ostensibly to
thank him for his efforts on his behalf, was of opinion that he was
breaking up, and in conversation with Mr. Kybird shook his head over the
idea that there would soon be one open-handed gentleman the less in a
world which was none too full of them.

"We've all got to go some day," observed Mr. Kybird, philosophically.
"'Ow's that cough o' yours getting on, Nat?"

Mr. Smith met the pleasantry coldly; the ailment referred to was one of
some standing and had been a continual source of expense in the way of
balsams and other remedies.

"He's worried about 'is money," he said, referring to Mr. Swann.

"Ah, we sha'n't 'ave that worry," said Mr. Kybird.

"Nobody to leave it to," continued Mr. Smith.  "Seems a bit 'ard, don't
it?"

"P'r'aps if 'e 'ad 'ad somebody to leave it to 'e wouldn't 'ave 'ad so
much to leave," observed Mr. Kybird, sagely; "it's a rum world."

He shook his head over it and went on with the uncongenial task of
marking down wares which had suffered by being exposed outside too long.
Mr. Smith, who always took an interest in the welfare of his friends,
made suggestions.

"I shouldn't put a ticket marked 'Look at this!' on that coat," he said,
severely.  "It oughtn't to be looked at."

"It's the best out o' three all 'anging together," said Mr. Kybird,
evenly.

"And look 'ere," said Mr. Smith.  "Look what an out-o'-the-way place
you've put this ticket.  Why not put it higher up on the coat?"

"Becos the moth-hole ain't there," said Mr. Kybird.

Mr. Smith apologized and watched his friend without further criticism.

Of these tribes, the Goths settled in the provinces to the south;
the Burgundians, in the east, around the Jura; while the Franks,
coming over the rivers in its unprotected north-eastern corner, and
making themselves masters of a far wider territory, broke up into
two kingdoms--that of the Eastern Franks in what is now Germany,
and that of the Western Franks reaching from the Rhine to the
Atlantic.

These Franks subdued all the other Teutonic conquerors of Gaul, while
they adopted the religion, the language, and some of the civilization
of the Romanized Gauls who became their subjects.

Under the second Frankish dynasty, the Empire was renewed in the West,
where it had been for a time put an end to by these Teutonic
invasions, and the then Frankish king, Charles the Great, took his
place as Emperor at its head.

Smith's inscrutable eyes glistened into something as nearly
approaching a twinkle as they were capable.  "That'll settle the five
'undred," he said, warmly.  "Are you goin' to send Cap'n Nugent an invite
for the wedding?"

[Illustration: "Are you goin' to send Cap'n Nugent an invite for the
wedding?"]

"They'll 'ave to be asked, o' course," said Mr. Kybird, with an attempt
at dignity, rendered necessary by a certain lightness in his friend's
manner.  "The old woman don't like the Nugent lot, but she'll do the
proper thing."

"O' course she will," said Mr. Smith, soothingly.  "Come over and 'ave a
drink with me, Dan'l it's your turn to stand."