And the red weasel answered:

"Her strength, for she hath conquered her own evil thoughts, and put them
away forever."

So the spirit of the young bride reached the gates of paradise spent and
wounded, and there upon the threshold stood an angel holding his hand to
draw her in.

When his holy touch fell upon her, she rose whole and beautiful, and her
breast was full of joy for the moment.

Now, the spirit of the young bride had been but a brief day in the golden
place of paradise, when she heard a far voice call upon her name in
anguish; three times did it call upon her, and at each cry a sharp sorrow
struck her heart, as though a knife had entered therein.

When President McKinley died, our Nation in turn received from every quarter
of the British Empire expressions of grief and sympathy no less sincere.

The death of the Empress Dowager Frederick of Germany also aroused the
genuine sympathy of the American people; and this sympathy was cordially
reciprocated by Germany when the President was assassinated. Indeed, from
every quarter of the civilized world we received, at the time of the
President's death, assurances of such grief and regard as to touch
the hearts of our people.And there upon his bed he lay in danger of death,
and as he turned in his anguish he called ever upon her name, so her heart
knew no longer the peace of paradise, and she became as one of the lost.

Therefore did she rise up and approach the throne where the saints and
angels knelt in continual devotion. But she could not see the golden seat,
nor HIM who sat thereon. For around and above, and circling ever with
rainbow wings, went the seraphim and cherubim in eternal worship, so it
was as though a great wheel of light turned continually.

Now, when the spirit of the little bride saw this wonder, she was full of
fear and dared not approach, but turned away weeping; and there, as she
wept, she saw before her the seat of Mary, the Queen of Heaven, and ran
towards it with unfaltering feet.

"For," quoth she, "she, too, had but one love, and, being woman, will
understand."

So she knelt at the feet of Mary, and cried to her: "Pray for me, Mother
of Christ." And the Virgin turned to her in wonder at her tears.

"Art thou not happy," said she, "in heaven?"

And the spirit of the little bride said: "Nay, for the cries of my beloved
come upward from the earth and call to me in his anguish, so I fear he is
in danger of death."

"And why doth thou fear death for him," said the Virgin Mary, "since it
may bring to him the happiness of heaven?"

"Alas!" said the little bride, "were it thus, his cries would not hurt my
heart so that I cannot hear the song of the angels. He does not tell
us what the owner is going to do with the gold and the bronze and
the girls, any more than he tells us what is to be done with the
iron.

Such information was rather in the nature of a luxury than a necessity.
"I can stand between him and the flames," said she, "and hold my hand
beneath the burning waters that would fall upon his body."

And then she lay silent.

Then the Virgin looked upon her with eyes that were all pitiful and had
much understanding.

"Thou wilt suffer," saith she, as though remembering something, "to walk
by his side and see his anguish, but thou wouldst suffer more wert thou
forbidden this."

The island is thriving as never before, and it is being administered
efficiently and honestly. Its people are now enjoying liberty and order
under the protection of the United States, and upon this fact we
congratulate them and ourselves.And to the little
bride, who crouched afraid on the fragrant floor, it seemed as though a
great wonder of bees had settled on some hidden sweet; countless wings
glistened and flashed in the strange light that glowed from the opening
flowers that formed the floor about the throne.

