Produced by David Widger


THE STAIRCASE AT THE HEARTS DELIGHT.

By Anna Katharine Green (Mrs. Charles Rohlfs)

Copyright, 1894, by Anna Katharine Green


AS TOLD BY MR. GRYCE.

"In the spring of 1840, the attention of the New York police was
attracted by the many cases of well-known men found drowned in the
various waters surrounding the lower portion of our great city. Among
these may be mentioned the name of Elwood Henderson, the noted tea
merchant, whose remains were washed ashore at Redhook Point; and of
Christopher Bigelow, who was picked up off Governor's Island after
having been in the water for five days, and of another well-known
millionaire whose name I cannot now recall, but who, I remember, was
seen to walk towards the East River one March evening, and was not met
with again till the 5th of April, when his body floated into one of the
docks near Peck Slip.

"As it seemed highly improbable that there should have been a concerted
action among so many wealthy and distinguished men to end their
lives within a few weeks of each other, and all by the same method of
drowning, we soon became suspicious that a more serious verdict than
that of suicide should have been rendered in the case of Henderson,
Bigelow and the other gentleman I have mentioned. Yet one fact, common
to all these cases, pointed so conclusively to deliberate intention on
the part of the sufferers that we hesitated to take action.

"This was, that upon the body of each of the above-mentioned persons
there were found, not only valuables in the shape of money and jewelry,
but papers and memoranda of a nature calculated to fix the identity
of the drowned man, in case the water should rob him of his personal
characteristics. Consequently, we could not ascribe these deaths to a
desire for plunder on the part of some unknown person.

"I was a young man in those days, and full of ambition. So, though I
said nothing, I did not let this matter drop when the others did, but
kept my mind persistently upon it and waited, with odd results as you
will hear, for another victim to be reported at police headquarters.

"Meantime I sought to discover some bond or connection between the
several men who had been found drowned, which would serve to explain
their similar fate. But all my efforts in this direction were fruitless.
There was no bond between them, and the matter remained for a while an
unsolved mystery.

"Suddenly one morning a clew was placed, not in my hands, but in those
of a superior official who at that time exerted a great influence over
the whole force. He was sitting in his private room, when there
was ushered into his presence a young man of a dissipated but not
unprepossessing appearance, who, after a pause of marked embarrassment,
entered upon the following story:

"I don't know whether or no, I should offer an excuse for the
communication I am about to make; but the matter I have to relate is
simply this: Being hard up last night (for though a rich man's son I
often lack money), I went to a certain pawn-shop in the Bowery where I
had been told I could raise money on my prospects. This place--you
may see it sometime, so I will not enlarge upon it--did not strike me
favorably; but, being very anxious for a certain definite sum of money,
I wrote my name in a book which was brought to me from some unknown
quarter, and proceeded to follow the young woman who attended me into
what she was pleased to call her good master's private office. "And you
didn't say it when you came!--and you actually gave her to him!--and
you saved his life!--and oh! you, you CAPTAIN of a man!"
Thus Doome spoke and was comforted.

And Bertha went up to her old sweetheart and kissed him, saying, she
thought she knew of a better wife for him than she could ever have
made,--for, now that Ernest (the French officer) had suffered so
much for her sake, she had no right to leave him.

And, indeed, they were re-married that day.

It was after Bertha had said she knew of a better wife for him, that
Daniel looked at Doome, who, picking up that pipe of his, handed it to
him.

"Will you take care of it, Doome?"
"Save when you want it."
"Oh! I mean to come with it."
"'Tis the handsomest pipe in all Germany,--and--and I won't part with it
till I part with you."
Hence, you see, there were two marriages that morning. Doome parted
with the pipe a good deal,--for Daniel loved the sea as heartily as
he had loved Bertha and grew to love Doome, who assured him many times
that she was a far better wife for him than Bertha would have made.
Whereupon Daniel would kiss her,--so you can draw your own conclusion as
to his motive. For my part, I say first love is only heart-love,--and
you see the heart is not so wise as the head.

By the time the long war was over,--with Waterloo for the last act, --Ernest
had made not a little money; so he and Bertha--now a grand lady--came
to Rügen.

Ernest learned German, perfectly, from his own children and Doome's,
and turned his sword into a ploughshare.

As for Daniel,--he gave up the sea and took a wine-shop.

Those four people are now still alive; and if Bertha and Daniel did not
marry, their children have,--though it was rather lowering to those
grand young ladies and gentlemen, Bertha's children.

Those four, when they meet and clapper their friendly old tongues, can
hardly believe that once upon a time they were all at sixes and sevens,--and
that Ernest himself was once in that very place a Prisoner of War.

THE "WASHING OF THE FEET," ON HOLY THURSDAY, IN ST. PETER'S.

Once more the temple-gates lie open wide:
Onward, once more, Advance the Faithful, mounting like a tide That
climbs the shore.

What seek they? Blank the altars stand today, As tombstones bare:
Christ of his raiment was despoiled; and they His livery wear.

Today the puissant and the proud have heard The "mandate new":[1] That
which He did, their Master and their Lord, They also do.

Today the mitred foreheads, and the crowned, In meekness bend:
New tasks today the sceptred hands have found; The poor they tend.

Today those feet which tread in lowliest ways, Yet follow Christ, Are by
the secular lords of power and praise Both washed and kissed.

Hail, ordinance sage of hoar antiquity, Which She retains, That Church
who teaches man how meek should be The head that reigns!

[Footnote 1: _Mandatum Novum_:--hence the name of "Maundy Thursday."]

* * * * *

PHYSICAL COURAGE.

The Romans had a military machine, called a _balista_, a sort of
vast crossbow, which discharged huge stones. It is said, that, when
the first one was exhibited, an athlete exclaimed, "Farewell
henceforth to all courage!" Montaigne relates, that the old knights,
in his youth, were accustomed to deplore the introduction of
fencing-schools, from a similar apprehension. Pacific King James
predicted, but with rejoicing, the same result from iron armor.
"It was an excellent thing," he said,--"one could get no harm in
it, nor do any." And, similarly, there exists an opinion now, that
the combined powers of gunpowder and peace are banishing physical
courage, and the need of it, from the world.
Peace is good, but this result of it would be sad indeed. Life is
sweet, but it would not be sweet enough without the occasional
relish of peril and the luxury of daring deeds. Amid the changes
of time, the monotony of events, and the injustice of mankind, there
is always accessible to the poorest this one draught of
enjoyment,--danger.
"In boyhood," said the Norwegian enthusiast, Ole Bull, "I loved to
be far out on the ocean in my little boat, for it was dangerous,
and in danger one draws near to God." Perhaps every man sometimes
feels this longing, has his moment of ardor, when he would fain
leave politics and personalities, even endearments and successes,
behind, and would exchange the best year of his life for one hour
at Balaklava with the "Six Hundred." It is the bounding of the
Berserker blood in us, --the murmuring echo of the old death-song
of Regnar Lodbrog, as he lay amid vipers in his dungeon:--"What is
the fate of a brave man, but to fall amid the foremost?"'No,' I returned, 'not on my own business, but on that of a young
gent----'

"'Anyone whose name is written here?' she interposed, reaching towards
me the famous book, over the top of which, however, she was careful to
lay her arm.

"I glanced down the page she had opened and instantly detected that
of the young gentleman on whose behalf I was supposed to be there, and
nodded 'Yes,' with all the assurance of which I was capable.

"'Very well, then,' said she, 'come!' and she ushered me without much
ado into a den of discomfort where sat a man, with a great beard and
such heavy overhanging eyebrows that I could hardly detect the twinkle
of his eyes, keen and incisive as they were.

"Smiling upon him, but not in the same way I had upon the girl, I
glanced behind me at the open door, and above me at the partitions,
which failed to reach the ceiling. Then I shook my head and drew a step
nearer.

"'I have come,' I insinuatingly whispered, 'on behalf of a certain party
who left this place in a huff a day or so ago, but who since then has
had time to think the matter over, and has sent me with an apology which
he hopes'--here I put on a diabolical smile, copied, I declare to you,
from the one I saw at that moment on his own lips--'you will accept.'

"The old wretch regarded me for full two minutes in a way to unmask
me had I possessed less confidence in my disguise and in my ability to
support it.

"'And what is this young gentleman's name?' he finally asked.

"For reply, I handed him a slip of paper. He took it and read the few
lines written on it, after which he began to rub his palms together with
a snaky unction eminently in keeping with the stray glints of light that
now and then found their way through his' bushy eyebrows.

"'And so the young gentleman had not the courage to come again himself?'
he softly suggested, with just the suspicion of an ironical laugh.
'Thought, perhaps, I would exact too much commission; or make him pay
too roundly for his impertinent assurance.'

"I shrugged my shoulders, but vouchsafed no immediate reply, and he saw
that he had to open the business himself. He did it warily and with many
an incisive question which would have tripped me up if I had not been
very much on my guard; but it all ended, as such matters usually do,
in mutual understanding, and a promise that if the young gentleman was
willing to sign a certain paper, which, by the way, was not shown me,
he would in exchange give him an address which, if made proper use of,
would lead to my patron finding himself an independent man within a very
few days.

"As this address was the thing above all others which I most desired, I
professed myself satisfied with the arrangement, and proceeded to hunt
up my patron, as he was called. Informing him of the result of my visit,
I asked if his interest in ferreting out these criminals was strong
enough to lead him to sign the vile document which the Jew would
probably have in readiness for him on the morrow; and being told it was,
we separated for that day, with the understanding that we were to meet
the next morning at the spot chosen by the Jew for the completion of his
nefarious bargain.

"Being certain that I was being followed in all my movements by the
agents of this adept in villainy, I took care, upon leaving Mr. L----,
to repair to the hotel of the sporting man I was personifying. Making
myself square with the proprietor, I took up my quarters in the room
of my sporting friend, and, the better to deceive any spy who might be
lurking about, I received his letters and sent out his telegrams, which,
if they did not create confusion in the affairs of 'The Plunger,' must
at least have occasioned him no little work the next day.

"Promptly at ten o'clock on the following morning I met my patron at the
place of rendezvous appointed by the old Jew; and when I tell you that
this was no other than the old cemetery of which a portion is still to
be seen off Chatham Square, you will understand the uncanny nature of
this whole adventure, and the lurking sense there was in it of brooding
death and horror. The scene, which in these days is disturbed by
elevated railroad trains and the flapping of long lines of parti-colored
clothes strung high up across the quiet tombstones, was at that time one
of peaceful rest, in the midst of a quarter devoted to everything for
which that rest is the fitting and desirable end; and as we paused among
the mossy stones, we found it hard to realize that in a few minutes
there would be standing beside us the concentrated essence of all that
was evil and despicable in human nature.

"He arrived with a smile on his countenance that completed his ugliness,
and would have frightened any honest man from his side at once. Merely
glancing my way, he shuffled up to my companion, and leading him aside,
drew out a paper which he laid on a flat tombstone with a gesture
significant of his desire that the other should affix to it the required
signature.

"Meantime I stood guard, and while attempting to whistle a light air,
was carelessly taking in the surroundings, and conjecturing, as best I
might, the reasons which had induced the old ghoul to make use of this
spot for his diabolical business, and had about decided that it was
because he was a ghoul, and thus felt at home among the symbols of
mortality, when I caught sight of two or three young fellows, who were
lounging on the other side of the fence.

"These were so evidently accomplices that I wondered if the two sly boys
I had engaged to stand by me through this affair had spotted them, and
would know enough to follow them back to their haunts.

"A few minutes later, the old rascal came sneaking towards me, with a
gleam of satisfaction in his half-closed eyes.

"'You are not wanted any longer,' he grunted. 'The young gentleman told
me to say that he could look out for himself now.'

"'The young gentleman had better pay me the round fifty he promised
me,' I grumbled in return, with that sudden change from indifference
to menace which I thought best calculated to further my plans; and
shouldering the miserable wretch aside, I stepped up to my companion,
who was still lingering in a state of hesitation among the gravestones.

"'Quick! Tell me the number and street which he has given you!
'I whispered, in a tone strangely in contrast with the angry and
reproachful air I had assumed.

"He was about to answer, when the old fellow came sidling up behind us.
Instantly the young man before me rose to the occasion, and putting on
an air of conciliation said in a soothing tone:

"'There, there, don't bluster. Do one thing more for me, and I will
add another fifty to those I promised you. Conjure up an anonymous
letter--you know how--and send it to my father, saying that if he wants
to know where his son loses his hundreds, he must go to the place on the
dock, opposite 5 South Street, some night shortly after nine. It would
not work with most men, but it will with my father, and when he has been
in and out of that place, and I succeed to the fortune he will leave me,
then I will remember you, and----'

"'Say, too,' a sinister voice here added in my ear, 'that if he wishes
to effect an entrance into the gambling den which his son haunts,
he must take the precaution of tying a bit of blue ribbon in his
button-hole. It is a signal meaning business, and must not be
forgotten,' chuckled the old fellow, evidently deceived at last into
thinking I was really one of his own kind.

"I answered by a wink, and taking care to attempt no further
communication with my patron, I left the two, as soon as possible,
and went back to the hotel, where I dropped 'the sport,' and assumed a
character and dress which enabled me to make my way undetected to the
house of my young patron, where for two days I lay low, waiting for
a suitable time in which to make my final attempt to penetrate this
mystery.

"I knew that for the adventure I was now contemplating considerable
courage was required. But I did not hesitate. The time had come for me
to show my mettle. In the few communications I was enabled to hold with
my superiors I told them of my progress and arranged with them my
plan of work. As we all agreed that I was about to encounter no common
villainy, these plans naturally partook of finesse, as you will see if
you will follow my narrative to the end.

"Early in the evening of a cool November night I sallied forth into the
streets, dressed in the habiliments and wearing the guise of the wealthy
old gentleman whose secret guest I had been for the last few days. As he
was old and portly, and I young and spare, this disguise had cost me no
little thought and labor. But assisted as I was by the darkness, I had
but little fear of betraying myself to any chance spy who might be upon
the watch, especially as Mr. L---- had a peculiar walk, which, in my
short stay with him, I had learned to imitate perfectly. Jodoque seized
the idea, as though it were the white rabbit,--this was the French officer
who had escaped yesterday, endeavoring to hide himself in Bertha's
house.

Jodoque did not instantly rush forward to re-arrest this prisoner;
but it struck him there must be a reward for the recapture; so,
determining upon taking the prisoner and the basket at one fell
swoop, he tore away to the burgomaster's to inform him of the
discovery.

He reached the official residence, and drew the pompous little burgomaster
to his bedroom-window in a moment. The burgomaster was rather scandalized
that such a respectable man as Jodoque should be out at such an hour;
but when he heard the information, he grew considerably cold, and
rather wished the French fleet would successfully challenge the place
at once, and relieve him of his admirable chance of the halter.

Was ever burgomaster in such a fix? He wished his ardent longing for
that position had been strangled at his birth. No,--he had saved his
neck from the French, he thought to himself, by conniving at the escape
of a French officer the day previous, and now his neck was in danger
for having very properly tried to save it on that previous day.

But action, action! Whatever came of it, he must appear a patriotic
burgomaster; so he took his night-cap off, and, in spite of the energetic
remonstrances of the burgomaster's lady, was soon down in the street,
surrounded by half a dozen men, and making for Bertha's eventful little
mansion--
Within which was passing a terrible scene.

The fact is, that, when the false Daniel arrived at the fleet and reported
himself, he found that he had escaped with only part of himself, and
rather wanted the rest; and as at that time the French navy was allowed
a liberty which it has not now, the young officer laid a statement of the
whole case before his commander. That daring personage thus recommended:--A
French boat to start away for shore with this young officer, and
several more in her; that it should touch near Bertha's house; that
Bertha should receive the merest hint, and then take passage for
the French fleet herself.

The French officer, attended by half-a-dozen more youths, came back to the
shore, and, just as day was peeping, came up to the little right-hand
window; and as no one answered his tap, he raised the sash and jumped
lightly in.

This Jodoque saw and reported to the burgomaster; but he could not tell
the remainder.

For Daniel, waked by the tapping on the window-pane, saw who it was, and
believing that he had come to steal his wife from him, he clenched his
fists, and, as the slim young man jumped down into the room, crushed
him almost dead in his strong arms.

"Not a word, or I'll stifle you!"
"Daniel! Daniel!"
"Not a word,--and don't Daniel me, you thief!"
"Thief?"
"Don't speak loud."
"How thief?"
"You would steal my wife from me."
"How your wife?"
"Why, Bertha;--she promised to marry me six long years ago, and she would
have married me, if _you_ had not come and stolen her heart."
"Why, you yourself gave her to me!"
"Ah! I owed you a debt I had to pay. 'Tis paid now. I thought you gone,
and the marriage knocked on the head; but now, you've come back, and
won't go again!"

"But, Daniel"--
"Don't Daniel _me_, I say, and don't speak loud; at least, _she_ sha'n't
see you taken off. Lie quiet for her sake, and show your love for
her that way."

"And so you'll give me up, old friend, whose life _I_ saved?"
"Saved!--you saved it once, and I saved yours. You took away my
hope when you robbed me of my wife;--now I give you a like return."
"And you yourself, Daniel, who harbored me yesterday"--
"That's nothing to you.--Lie still till some one passes."
For the strong sailor had tipped the officer on to the mattress.
There he lay,--not from want of courage, but because he did not
know what to do.
The sailor felt for his pipe, but he remembered that all the tobacco
was smoked up; so he set the pipe down again and bit his nails.They were large and powerful figures in the contracted space
of this long and narrow room, and my heart gave a bound of joy as I
recognized on them certain marks by which I was to know friend from foe
in this possible den of thieves and murderers.

"Two sailors at the bar were bona fide habitués of the place, and so
I judged to be the one or two other specimens of water-side character
whose backs I could faintly discern in one of the dim corners. Meantime
a man was approaching me.

"Let me see if I can describe him. He was about thirty, and had the
complexion and figure of a consumptive, but his eye shone with the
yellow glare of a beast of prey, and in the cadaverous hollows of his
ashen cheeks and amid the lines about his thin drawn lips there lay for
all his conciliatory smile, an expression so cold and yet so ferocious
that I spotted him at once as the man to whose genius we were indebted
for the new scheme of murder which I was jeopardizing my life to
understand. But I allowed none of the repugnance with which he inspired
me to appear in my manner, and, greeting him with half a nod, waited
for him to speak. His voice had that smooth quality which betrays the
hypocrite.

"'Has the gentleman an appointment here?' he asked, letting his glance
fall for the merest instant on the lapel of my coat.

"I returned a decided affirmative. Or rather, I went on, with a meaning
look he evidently comprehended, 'my son has, and I have made up my mind
to know just what deviltry he is up to these days. You see I can make it
worth your while to give me the opportunity.'

"'O, I see,' he assented with a glance at the pocketbook I had just
drawn out. 'You want a private room from which you can watch the young
scapegrace. I understand, I understand. But the private rooms are above.
Gentlemen are not comfortable here.'

"'I should say not,' I murmured, and drew from the pocketbook a bill
which I slid quietly into his hand. 'Now take me where I shall be
safe,' I suggested, 'and yet in full sight of the room where the young
gentlemen play. I wish to catch him at his tricks. Afterwards----'

"'All will be well,' he finished smoothly, with another glance at my
blue ribbon. 'You see I do not ask you the young gentleman's name.
I take your money and leave all the rest to you. Only don't make a
scandal, I pray, for my house has the name of being quiet.'

"'Yes,' thought I, 'too quiet!' and for an instant felt my spirits fail
me. But it was only for an instant. I had friends about me and a
pistol at half cock in the pocket of my overcoat. Why should I fear any
surprise, prepared as I was for every emergency?

"'I will show you up in a moment,' said he; and left me to put up a
heavy board-shutter over the window opening on the river. Was this a
signal or a precaution? I glanced towards my two friends playing cards,
took another note of their broad shoulders and brawny arms, and prepared
to follow my host, who now stood bowing at the other end of the room,
before a covered staircase which was manifestly the sole means of
reaching the floor above.

"The staircase was quite a feature in the room. It ran from back to
front, and was boarded all the way up to the ceiling. On these boards
hung a few useless bits of chain, wire and knotted ends of tarred ropes,
which swung to and fro as the sharp November blast struck the building,
giving out a weird and strangely muffled sound. Why did this sound, so
easily to be accounted for, ring in my ears like a note of warning? I
understand now, but I did not then, full of expectation as I was for
developments out of the ordinary.

"Crossing the room, I entered upon the staircase, in the wake of my
companion. Though the two men at cards did not look up as I passed them,
I noticed that they were alert and ready for any signal I might choose
to give them. But I was not ready to give one yet. I must see danger
before I summoned help, and there was no token of danger yet.

"When we were about half-way up the stairs the faint light which had
illuminated us from below suddenly vanished, and we found ourselves in
total darkness. The door at the foot had been closed by a careful hand,
and I felt, rather than heard, the stealthy pushing of a bolt across it.

"My first impulse was to forsake my guide and rush back, but I
subdued the unworthy impulse and stood quite still, while my companion
exclaiming, 'Damn that fellow! What does he mean by shutting the door
before we're half-way up!' struck a match and lit a gas jet in the room
above, which poured a flood of light upon the staircase. Drawing my hand
from the pocket in which I had put my revolver, I hastened after him
into the small landing at the top of the stairs. An open door was before
me, in which he stood bowing, with the half-burnt match in his hand.
'This is the place, sir,' he announced, motioning me in.

"I entered and he remained by the door, while I passed quickly about the
room, which was bare of every article of furniture save a solitary table
and chair. There was not even a window in it, with the exception of one
small light situated so high up in the corner made by the jutting-up
staircase that I wondered at its use, and was only relieved of extreme
apprehension at the prison-like appearance of the place by the gleam
of light which came through this dusty pane, showing that I was not
entirely removed from the presence of my foes if I was from that of my
friends.

"'Ah, you have spied the window,' remarked my host, advancing toward me
with a countenance he vainly endeavored to make reassuring and friendly.
'That is your post of observation, sir,' he whispered, with a great show
of mystery. 'By mounting on the table you can peer into the room where
my young friends sit securely at play.'

"As it was not part of my scheme to show any special mistrust, I merely
smiled a little grimly, and cast a glance at the table on which stood a
bottle of brandy and one glass.

"'Very good brandy,' he whispered, 'Not such stuff as we give those
fellows down-stairs.'

"I shrugged my shoulders and he slowly backed towards the door.

"'The young men you bid me watch are very quiet,' I suggested, with a
careless wave of my hand towards the room he had mentioned.

"'Oh, there is no one there yet. They begin to straggle in about ten
o'clock.'

"'Ah,' was my quiet rejoinder, 'I am likely, then, to have use for your
brandy.'

"He smiled again and made a swift motion towards the door.

"'If you want anything,' said he, 'just step to the foot of the
staircase and let me know. The whole establishment is at your service.'
And with one final grin that remains in my mind as the most threatening
and diabolical I have ever witnessed, he laid his hand on the knob of
the door and slid quickly out.

"It was done with such an air of final farewell, that I felt my
apprehensions take a positive form. Rushing towards the door through
which he had just vanished, I listened and heard, as I thought, his
stealthy feet descend the stair. But when I sought to follow, I found
myself for the second time overwhelmed by darkness. The gas jet, which
had hitherto burned with great brightness in the small room, had been
turned off from below, and beyond the faint glimmer which found its way
through the small window of which I have spoken, not a ray of light now
disturbed the heavy gloom of this gruesome apartment.

"I had thought of every contingency but this, and for a few minutes
my spirits were dashed. But I soon recovered some remnants of
self-possession, and began feeling for the knob I could no longer see.
Finding it after a few futile attempts, I was relieved to discover that
this door at least was not locked; and, opening it with a careful hand,
I listened intently, but could hear nothing save the smothered sound of
men talking in the room below.

"Should I signal for my companions? No, for the secret was not yet mine
as to how men passed from this room into the watery grave which was the
evident goal for all wearers of the blue ribbon.

"Stepping back into the middle of the room, I carefully pondered my
situation, but could get no further than the fact that I was somehow,
and in some way, in mortal peril. Fritz?"
"Surely, Mistress! You will soon hear the cannon;--'tis not more than two
miles, and he left the shore a good hour ago."
So she went up to the window.

"I suppose, Mistress, if he did not come back for six years, you
would forget him,--wouldn't you?""None of the gentlemen who had been found drowned had shown any marks of
violence on their bodies, so it was not attack I was to fear, but some
mysterious, underhanded treachery which would rob me of consciousness
and make the precipitation of my body into the water both safe and easy.
Perhaps it was in the bottle of brandy that the peril lay; perhaps--but
why speculate further! I would watch till midnight and then, if nothing
happened, signal my companions to raid the house.

"Meantime a peep into the next room might help me towards solving the
mystery. Setting the bottle and glass aside, I dragged the table across
the floor, placed it under the lighted window, mounted, and was about to
peer through, when the light in that apartment was put out also. But
when the tobacco-pouch was empty, and the pipe was cold, the sailor
fell asleep in his chair; and though he had done a good act the preceding
day, he did not sleep well, but sighed heavily as he slumbered on.

And now it was that Jodoque, the Discomfited, again came upon
the stage. Having been laughed at by every soul in the village, that
poor bachelor went to his lonely house, took a small mug of consolatory
weak beer, felt convinced that all women were deceivers, vowed that
from that time forth he would think no more of matrimony, and went to
bed in the dark,--prompted thereto by the power of economy in candles.
He had fallen asleep, and slept soundly, when thrift prompted him to
remember that one piece of cloth, several balls of wool, and one white
rabbit,--his property,--were at that moment at the deceiver Bertha's.

Why should he, the deceived, make the married pair happy, with one piece
of cloth, several balls of wool, and a white rabbit? And Jodoque woke
up to the terrible truth in a cold sweat. The articles in question were
at the deceiver Bertha's. At the first break of day he would go and
demand his property.

Being unable to sleep through the remainder of the dark hours, he presented
but a disreputable appearance when he clapped to the little door of
his house.

It was barely light, and it was not an overpowering distance for
Jodoque to walk from his house to Bertha's.But the matches soon
gave out and with them my patience, if not my courage, and I determined
to end the suspense by knocking at the door beneath.

"This resolution taken, I pulled open the door before me and stepped
out. Though I could see nothing, I remembered the narrow landing at the
top of the stairs, and, stretching out my arms, I felt for the boarding
on either hand, guilding myself by it, and began to descend, when
something rising, as it were, out of the cavernous darkness before me
made me halt and draw back in mingled dread and horror.

"But the impression, strong as it was, was only momentary, and, resolved
to be done with the matter, I precipitated myself downward, when
suddenly, at about the middle of the staircase, my feet slipped and I
slid forward, plunging and reaching out with hands whose frenzied grasp
found nothing to cling to, down a steep inclined plane--or what to my
bewildered senses appeared such,--till I struck a yielding surface and
passed with one sickening plunge into the icy waters of the river which
in another moment had closed dark and benumbing above my head.

"It was all so rapid I did not think of uttering a cry. But happily for
me the splash I made told the story, and I was rescued before I could
sink a second time.

"It was a full half hour before I had sufficiently recovered from the
shock to relate my story. But when once I had made it known, you can
imagine the gusto with which the police prepared to enter the house
and confound the obliging host with a sight of my dripping garments and
accusing face. And indeed in all my professional experience I have never
beheld a more sudden merging of the bully into a coward than was to be
seen in this slick villain's face, when I was suddenly pulled from the
crowd and placed before him, with the old man's wig gone from my head,
and the tag of blue ribbon still clinging to my wet coat.

"His game was up, and he saw it; and Ebenezer Gryce's career had begun.

"Like all destructive things the device by which I had been run into the
river was simple enough when understood. In the first place it had been
constructed to serve the purpose of a stairway and chute. The latter was
in plain sight when it was used by the sailmakers to run the finished
sails into the waiting yawls below. At the time of my adventure, and for
some time before, the possibilities of the place had been discovered by
mine host, who had ingeniously put a partition up the entire stairway,
dividing the steps from the smooth runway. At the upper part of the
runway he had built a few steps, wherewith to lure the unwary far enough
down to insure a fatal descent. To make sure of his game he had likewise
ceiled the upper room all around, including the enclosure of the stairs.
The door to the chute and the door to the stairs were side by side, and
being made of the same boards as the wainscoting, were scarcely visible
when closed, while the single knob that was used, being transferable
from one to the other, naturally gave the impression that there was but
one door. When this adroit villain called my attention to the little
window around the corner, he no doubt removed the knob from the stairs'
door and quickly placed it in the one opening upon the chute. At this
moment the sound of a cannon-shot swept over the little cottage, and
Daniel, running to the window, and putting his hand out to feel the breeze,
declared that it was fired east-ward.
Now Bertha was at the window, and, as the sailor spoke, he looked
into her face."The mystery was solved, and my footing on the force secured; but to
this day--and I am an old man now--I have not forgotten the horror of
the moment when my feet slipped from under me, and I felt myself sliding
downward, without hope of rescue, into a pit of heaving waters, where so
many men of conspicuous virtue had already ended their valuable lives.

"Myriad thoughts flashed through my brain in that brief interval, and
among them the whole method of operating this death-trap, together with
every detail of evidence that would secure the conviction of the entire
gang."