My uncle might have gone on speaking for the rest of the day, and had it
all his own way. The unfortunate lieutenant stared at him, crushed and
dumbfounded by this astounding revelation. All at once, and without
waiting to hear any more, he turned on his heels, and beat a precipitate
retreat by the door.

The late Barbassou indulged in a smile at this very intelligible
discomfiture of his adversary. He had finished his madeira, and we went
out to get our horses again.

Directly he had mounted into the saddle, he said to me, reverting to the
subject of our interrupted conversation:

"Do you know, I think it's all up with the Madeira vines; but as to
those of the Douro, with careful grafting, we might still pull them
through!"

"I hope so, uncle!" I replied.

And, as a matter of fact, I think he is right. Perhaps we shall soon
know.


Come, I must tell you about a new occurrence which is already
influencing my romance in the most unexpected manner.

I don't suppose you have forgotten our Captain Picklock and the famous
story of the camels which were recovered through his good offices. Well,
the captain, having returned from Aden with the fever, and being at
Paris on his way home, accepted the hospitality of Baron de Villeneuve,
late consul at Pondicherry, whom you know. Two days ago we were invited
to a farewell dinner, given in his honour. It was quite a love-feast:
half a dozen friends, all of whom had been several times round the
world, and had met each other in various latitudes. The ladies consisted
of the amiable Baroness de Villeneuve, Mrs. Picklock, and my aunt. You
may imagine what a number of old recollections they discussed during
dinner. After the coffee we went into the drawing-room, where a
card-table was being set out for whist, when my uncle said:

"By the bye, what has become of our good friend Montague?"

"Oh, Montague," answered the baron; "he is in Paris. He has been
prevented from dining with us by an invitation to his ambassador's; but
he will look in this evening, and you will see him."

"Ah, that's capital!" exclaimed my uncle; "I shall be delighted to see
him again."

When I heard this name mentioned, I pricked up my ears. Still there was
nothing to indicate that the Montague spoken of was the commodore. I
listened with curiosity.

"Will he stay in Paris any length of time?" my uncle continued.

"The whole winter," replied the baroness. "He has come to pick up his
daughters, whom he had left in my charge two years ago, before he went
off to the North Pole."

"Ah, yes! little Maud and Suzannah," observed my uncle.

"Yes, captain; only your _little_ Maud and Suzannah are now grown-up
young ladies," added the baroness with a laugh.

It was impossible for me to entertain any more doubts; and I confess my
mind was far from easy when I heard this. At the thought of meeting the
commodore, my first idea was to get away at once, before he arrived.
Although I was confident of the perfect security of my secret, and
although it was the merest chance that had brought about the intimacy
which I could not have foreseen between Kondjé-Gul and his daughters, I
could not conceal from myself the embarrassment which I should feel in
his presence. As bad luck would have it, I was already seated at the
card-table. I lost my tricks as fast as I could in order to shorten the
game, swearing inwardly at the captain and my uncle, who were both of
them playing with a provoking deliberation, and lecturing me upon my
careless play. At last, having succeeded in losing my three rubbers, I
got up from the table, alleging a sudden attack of head-ache, when at
this very moment, in the next drawing-room where the baroness was
sitting, the servant announced,

"Commodore Montague!"

Just imagine my stupefaction, Louis, when I saw the commodore come in,
followed by his two daughters and Kondjé-Gul, whom he introduced to the
baroness and to my aunt as a schoolfellow of his daughters, Maud and
Suzannah!

You may guess what a state of confusion I was thrown into by this
spectacle. Whatever would happen? My chances of retreat being now
completely cut off, I withdrew myself to the midst of a group who were
talking together in a corner of the room. Kondjé-Gul was listening
timidly to the baroness's compliments, and I heard the latter say:

"I am much indebted, mademoiselle, to our friend the commodore who has
done us the favour of bringing you with him; Maud and Suzannah had
already spoken to me so often about you, that I had a great desire to
make your acquaintance."

The striking beauty of the young foreigner had created quite a
sensation, and feeling that all their eyes were fixed on her, she did
not venture to look about her. 'But you wanted another year before trying
for the scholarship.'
'Yes; I have no chance there.'
'He will not do it! He cannot mean it!'
'I do then. I will get my own living, and not be a burthen, where my
brother cannot forgive a broken glass or a moment's fright,' said
Leonard; and she felt that his calm resentment was worse than his
violence.

'He will be cooler, and then--'
'I will have no more said to him. It is plain that we cannot live together,
and there's an end of it.Our encounters in the Bois, during our
morning rides, had fortunately trained her already for this necessary
piece of dissimulation: and she had sufficient self-control not to
betray our secret. My aunt turned round at that very moment, and seeing
me standing by her chair, said to me:

"Oh, André, come and let me introduce you to this young lady!"

Kondjé-Gul blushed when I bowed to her, and returned my bow very
prettily. I was introduced in the same way to the commodore and his
daughters. There was a vacant chair close to them on which the baroness
made me sit down, and I soon found myself engaged in a general
conversation with them; I may add that the liveliness of the Montague
girls rendered our conversation much easier than I had expected. Having
been brought up in the American way, they possessed that youthful
independence of spirit which is stifled in our own girls by a more
strict and formal education, on the false ground of the requirements of
modesty. Kondjé-Gul, although rather reserved at first, expanded
gradually, and I was astonished at the change which had been effected in
her whole bearing. Certainly one could still guess that she was a
foreigner, but she had acquired quite a new ease in her deportment and
in her language. Being reassured by her behaviour against the risks of
this encounter, which I had at first so much dreaded, I freely accepted
the peculiar position in which I was placed. There was a positive charm
about this mystery, the pleasure of which I can hardly explain to you.

Although this was quite a small and friendly party, there were now
enough young people to get up a "hop," so the baroness instructed me to
lead off with Miss Suzannah, which I did very willingly, asking her for
a polka.

"What do you think of my friend Kondjé-Gul?" she said to me, when we sat
down after a few turns.

"She is remarkably pretty," I replied.

"I suppose you'll ask her for a dance with you?" she continued, with a
smile.

"I shall certainly not fail in this duty to a friend of yours and Miss
Maud's!"

"Miss Maud and I thank you very much for the attention," she said, with
a ceremonious bow; "only," she added, smiling maliciously at me, "I must
prepare you for a disappointment, which you will, no doubt, feel very
much afflicted by--our friend does not dance!"

"What, never?"

"We have given several little parties at my father's rooms, and have
never been able to persuade her to."

"Ah! that's no doubt because she only knows her oriental dances."

"You're quite wrong there! She has taken lessons just as we have, and
waltzes splendidly; but she won't even dance with the professor; it's
always Maud or I who act as her partners. She has some principles on
this subject which appear to be rooted in her, and which we have not yet
succeeded in overcoming."

"If you would help me this evening," I said, "perhaps we can succeed
between us."

"What, is it to be a conspiracy?"

"Quite a friendly one, for you must admit that it is for her own
interest."

"I won't deny it," she replied, with a laugh; "but how are we to force
her?"

Then I noticed poor Kondjé-Gul, who was watching us, and seemed to envy
us.

"Listen!" I said, as if a sudden idea had struck me. "I know of a likely
way."

"Well?"

"Let us take my aunt into our confidence; I see them over there talking
Turkish together. My aunt will perhaps be able to exercise sufficient
influence over your friend to convince her that she may conform to our
usages without committing any offence."

"Yes, that's the way to manage it!" exclaimed Miss Suzannah, in delight.
"Our conspiracy is making progress; but how shall we get at your aunt?"

"Does Mademoiselle Kondjé-Gul understand English?" I asked her.

"No, not a word."

"Then it's a very simple matter," I added. "After this polka I'll take
you back to your seat; you then communicate our scheme to my aunt in
English, and ask for her assistance; I come up, as if by chance, and try
my luck with her for the next waltz."

We did as we said. I watched from the distance this important
conference, all the details of which I guessed. While Miss Suzannah was
addressing my aunt in English, I saw her laugh in a sly manner, casting
a glance at me. She at once understood our request; then turned her
attention again to Kondjé-Gul, and continued, quite undisturbed, the
subject which she had last commenced talking about with her. I had so
perfectly anticipated all the phases of this scene, that I seemed to
hear what she said. By Kondjé-Gul's face I could tell the moment my aunt
approached her on our subject, and the negative gesture with which she
replied was so decisive--I was nearly saying so full of horror--that,
fearing lest she should cut off her retreat completely, I deemed it
advisable to intervene as quickly as possible.

I advanced, therefore, without any more ado, joined their group, and
addressing myself to the handsome young foreigner, I said to her:

"I should not like you to think me indifferent to the pleasure of
dancing with you, mademoiselle; I meant to have asked you for the first
waltz; but, alas! Miss Suzannah tells me that you do not dance!"

"You have come to the rescue, André," chimed in my aunt. "I was just
endeavouring to convert the young lady to our customs by telling her
that she would be taken for a little savage."

At this expression, which she had so often heard me utter, Kondjé-Gul
smiled and cast a furtive glance at me. Miss Suzannah supported my aunt,
and the victory was already won. They were beginning to play a waltz, so
Maud took her hand and forced it into mine; I clasped her by the waist
and led her off. During the first few turns Kondjé-Gul trembled with
excitement; I felt her heart beating violently against my bosom, and I
confess I was nearly losing my own self-possession. Once we found
ourselves some way removed from the rest, and, with her head resting on
my shoulder, she whispered in my ear:

"Do you still love me, dear? Are you satisfied with me?"

"Yes, but take care!" I answered hurriedly: "you are too beautiful, and
all their eyes are fixed upon us."

"If they only knew!"----she added, with a laugh.

I stopped a moment, to let her take breath. Each time any couple came
near us, we appeared to be engaged in one of those ball-room
conversations the only characteristic of which is their frivolity, and
as soon as they were out of hearing, we talked together in a low voice.

"You naughty fellow," she said, "I have not seen you in the Bois for
three days!"

"It was from motives of prudence," I replied. "And now prepare yourself
for a surprise. Your new house is ready and you can go there the day
after to-morrow."

"Do you really mean it?" exclaimed she, "Oh! what happiness! Then you
find me sufficiently Europeanized?"

"You coquette! you are adorable!----What a nice fan you have,
mademoiselle!" added I, changing my manner as Maud came close to us.

"Do you think so," she answered, "Is it Chinese or Japanese?"

Maud having passed we resumed our conversation, overjoyed at the idea of
constantly seeing each other again. The waltz was just ending and I was
obliged to conduct Kondjé-Gul back to my aunt.

"Listen!" she remarked, "whenever I put my fan up to my lips, that will
mean 'I love you'----You must come back soon to invite me for another
dance, won't you?"

"My dear girl, I can't."

"Why?"

"Because it is not usual, and would be remarked," I replied.

"But I don't want to dance with anyone else!" she said, almost with a
terrified look.

I had not for once thought of this very natural consequence of our
little adventure, and I must confess that the idea of anyone else asking
her after me took me quite by surprise--like some improbability which no
mortal could conceive.

"What shall I do?" she said.

It was necessary at all costs to repair the effects of our imprudence. 
Quickly Margaret made out papa; but he was too real a soldier to evince
consciousness of being at his own door, before the eyes of his wife and
daughter; and Aubrey's young face was made up in imitation of his
impassiveness.I know very well, my dear fellow, that you will cry out against me when
I tell you of this strange feeling which pierced me suddenly like a
thorn in the heart, at the notion of seeing Kondjé-Gul dance with
another man. But how could I help it?

I simply relate to you a psychological fact and nothing more.

You may tell me, if you like, that this is a ridiculous exaggeration,
and that I am giving myself the morose airs of a jealous sultan. The
truth is that in my harem life, I have contracted prudish alarms and
real susceptibilities which are excited by things which would not have
affected me formerly. Contact with the outside world will, no doubt,
restore me to the calm frame of mind enjoyed by every good husband.
Perhaps some day I may even be able to feel pride as I watch my wife
with naked arms and shoulders whirling round the room in the amorous
embrace of a hussar. At present my temper is less complaisant: my love
is a master's love, and the notion that any man could venture to press
my Kondjé-Gul's little finger would be enough to throw me into a fit of
rage. That's what we Orientals are like, you know!

However that be, I led Kondjé-Gul back to my aunt's side, and she did
not dance any more.

From a corner of the drawing-room I saw some half-a-dozen of my friends
march up to get introduced to her, anxiously longing to obtain the same
favour as I had, and I laughed at their discomfiture.

Meanwhile the commodore, who, by the way, is a highly educated and
thoroughly good-natured man, had marked me out, and was so kind in his
attentions to me, that I felt constrained, in spite of my scruples, to
accept his advances. His relations with my uncle, moreover, might have
made the cold reserve which I had so far maintained appear singular.
Finally, towards the middle of the entertainment, when he was going away
with his daughters and Kondjé-Gul, whom he had to see home to Madame
Montier's, I had, without meaning it, so completely won his good
opinion, that I found myself invited to accompany my aunt who was dining
with him the next day but one.

Although it was only a fatality that had led to this extraordinary
complication, I must own that, when I began to think over it and to
contemplate the possible consequences, I felt a considerable anxiety.
Hitherto, by a compromise with conscience, which Kondjé-Gul's childlike
simplicity rendered almost excusable, I had been enabled to deceive
myself about the consequences of this school-friendship with two
American girls who were strangers to me. This, I thought, would never be
more than a chance companionship, and when her time with them was over,
the Misses Maud and Suzannah would remain ignorant of her real position,
which they had no occasion for suspecting. But I could not fail to
perceive that our relations with the commodore must aggravate our
difficulties to a remarkable extent.

Our society affords shelter, certainly, to many a hidden romance: we
have both honest loves and shady intrigues confused and interlaced in
its mazes so that they escape all notice. Yet, certain as I felt that
nothing could occur to betray our extraordinary secret, I was troubled
all the same at the part which I should have to play in this family with
which my uncle was on such intimate terms.

Placed face to face with the inexorable logic of facts, I could not long
deceive myself as to the course which the most elementary sense of
delicacy prescribed to me. I could see clearly during this last evening
party, that Kondjé-Gul had no further need of Madame Montier's lessons
to complete her social education. Count Térals house being now ready to
receive her, I need only settle her there with her mother in order to
commence at once the happy life of which we had so often dreamed. Then
it would be easy to withdraw gradually from the society of the Montague
girls, and thus banish all future risks.

Having decided upon this course, I wrote the same evening to Kondjé-Gul
to ask her to prepare for her return.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XI.


You know, my dear Louis, that whenever I have formed any plan, whether a
reckless one or even a wise one, I go straight at it with the
stubbornness of a mule. This, perhaps, explains many of my follies.
According to my view (as a believer in free-will), man is himself a will
or independent power served by his organs; he is a kind of manifestation
of the spirit of nature created to control matter. Any man who abdicates
his rights, or gives way before obstacles, abandons his mission and
returns to the rank of the beasts. His is a lost power, which has
evaporated into space. Such is my opinion.

This highly philosophical prelude was necessary, as you will see, in
order to fix my principles before proceeding any further; and, above
all, in order to defend myself beforehand against any rash accusation of
fickleness in my plans. Science has mysterious paths, along which we
feel our way, without seeing clearly our destination. The consequence of
which is that, just when we fancy that we have reached the end, new and
immense horizons open out before us.

But I am getting tired of my metaphor.

It all amounts to this--that having the honour of being my uncle's
nephew, nothing happens to me in the same way as to other mortals, and
that consequently all the careful arrangements that I made in regard to
Kondjé-Gul have eventuated in a manner completely opposed to my express
intentions. But although my objective has been considerably enlarged, it
remains substantially the same, as I think you will remark.

Kondjé-Gul and her mother are now settled down in Count Téral's house;
and it is hardly necessary for me to describe to you the joy which she
felt at the termination of her educational seclusion. The first few days
after her return were days of frenzied delight, and we spent them almost
entirely together. Her metamorphosis was now so complete, that I felt as
if I were witnessing one of the fabulous Indian _avatars_, and that
another soul had taken up its dwelling in this divinely beautiful body
of hers. I could not tire of watching her as she walked, and listening
to her as she spoke. In her Oriental costume, which she occasionally
resumes, in order to please me, the American girl's ways, which she has
picked up from Suzannah and Maud, produce a most remarkable effect. And
with all this was mingled that exquisitely blended aroma of youth,
beauty, and dignity, which permeated her and surrounded her like the
sweet perfume of some strange Oriental blossom!

The general tone of his memoranda at this time, particularly in 1813,
shows him _pleased with every body and every thing_.

After having praised Moore, he speaks highly of Lord Ward, afterward
Lord Dudley:-- 
"I like Ward," he says, and adds, "by Mohammed!Confiding in the sanctity
of a tie which her religion legitimizes, she is aware that we must
conceal it from the eyes of the world, like any secret marriage.
Besides, what advantage would there be in lifting the veil of mystery,
and taking the poetry out of this romantic union--thus reducing it to
the vulgar level of an ordinary intrigue? If I were to treat my Kondjé
like a common mistress, would not that be degrading her?

When I tried to console her for the dulness which this constraint must
cause her, she exclaimed, with vehemence--

"Be so good as not to calumniate my woman's heart! What do I care for
your country, and its laws, so long as you love me? I don't care to know
either your society, or its customs, or its conventionalities. I belong
to you, and I love you; that is all I see, all I feel. I am neither your
wife, nor your mistress. From the depths of my soul I feel that I am
more than either. I am your slave, and I wish to preserve my bonds.
Command me, do what you like with me; and when you love me no longer,
kill me, that's all!"

"Yes, dear!" I replied, laughing at her rhapsodies, "I will sew you up
in a sack, and go and throw you in the Bosphorus some evening!"

She received this remark with a peal of childish laughter.

"Goodness me!" she said, in her confusion; "why, I was quite forgetting
that I am civilised!"

Count Téral's house has been quite a find for us; it seems just as if it
had been built expressly for Kondjé-Gul and her mother. On the
ground-floor, approached by a short flight of eight steps, is a
drawing-room, which opens into a sort of hall, resembling an artist's
studio. The latter serves as picture-gallery, library, and concert-room.
Above the wainscoting the eye is relieved by silk hangings, of a large
grey-striped pattern on white ground, in contrast with which is the rich
garnet of a velvet-covered suite of furniture. There are some curious
old cabinets in carved ebony, set out with statuettes, vases, flowers,
and nick-nacks. The general effect is lively, enchanting, and luxurious;
in fact, just what the home of a young lady of patrician birth, who
confines herself to a small circle of friends, should be. On the first
floor are the private apartments, and on the second the servants' rooms.
The establishment is maintained on the elegant, yet simple scale, which
seems proper for members of good society; they keep three horses, and a
neat brougham: nothing more. Their luxuries, in short, are all in the
well-considered style suitable for a rich foreign lady and her daughter,
who mix in Parisian society with the reserve and delicate taste of two
women anxious to avoid attracting too much attention.

Kondjé-Gul's private life is contrived, as well as everything else, to
preserve her against solitude or dulness. She is completing her
"civilisation" with industrious zeal. Every morning, from eight o'clock
to twelve, is devoted to work; governesses from Madame Montier's come to
continue her course of lessons; then from one to two she practises on
the piano. Her curious mind, with its mixture of ardent imagination and
youthful intelligence, is really producing a wonderful intellectual
structure upon its original foundation of native belief and
superstitions. I am often quite surprised by hearing her display, on the
subject of our social contradictions, an amount of observation and a
grasp of view which would do credit to a philosopher.

After two o'clock she dresses, and takes a walk or a ride, or makes
calls with her friends, the Montague girls; for in spite of all my
excellent intentions, their intimacy has only increased since they were
all emancipated from the restraints of school life. Kondjé-Gul being now
under her mother's protection, the most regular position she could have
in the world, it would have been difficult indeed to find a pretext for
breaking it off. Moreover, I had come to the conclusion that, owing to
my having been introduced to the commodore's family by my uncle, there
could be no danger in these encounters with Kondjé-Gul at their house.
It was by Maud and Suzannah that I had been presented to their fair
foreign companion, and who would suspect it was not at Madame de
Villeneuve's party that I had first spoken to her? Consequently, if any
unforeseen circumstance should some day betray our secret, I could at
least rest assured that Commodore Montague would never think of accusing
me of anything more than a romantic adventure, resulting by a natural
train of circumstances from that introduction.

Nothing, as you perceive, could be more correct from the worldly point
of view. I am well aware that as a rigid moralist you would not neglect
the opportunity, if I gave it you, of lecturing me upon the rashness of
my course. Well, for my part, I maintain that our respect for the
proprieties consists chiefly in our respect for ourselves. Chance, which
led us into the society of the foreign colony, together with
Kondjé-Gul's charming manner, have naturally created for her a number of
pleasant acquaintances, which I should never perhaps have aimed at
obtaining for her. All that was needed to secure her this advantage was
that we should both pay to the world this tribute of mystery to which it
is entitled. Our society is so mixed that I do not think you would have
been scandalised if you had met Kondjé-Gul at the ball at the British
Embassy, where she went the other night with her mother, and Commodore
Montague. The admiration which she excited as she passed must certainly
have disarmed your objections.

Being always about with the Montague girls, Kondjé-Gul soon got invited
with them to the balls to which the commodore took his daughters. Having
been admitted to two or three aristocratic drawing-rooms, such as that
of Princess B---- and Marchioness d'A----, she obtained the entry to all
the others. With your knowledge of the infatuations of our fashionable
world, you can imagine the extravagant style of admiring gossip with
which such a beautiful rising star is greeted wherever she goes. I
should add that the young sinner understands it all very well, and is
very much flattered by it.

The mystery which surrounds her increases the peculiarity of our
situation. Being always chaperoned by her mother, whose foreign type of
features creates an imposing impression, Kondjé-Gul is taken for one of
those young ladies who are models of filial respect. The style of their
house and of their dress, and that refined elegance which stamps them as
ladies of distinction, designate them no less indisputably the
possessors of a large fortune and of high rank. All this, you will
perceive, formed a crowning justification for the success which
Kondjé-Gul's remarkable beauty had of itself sufficed to achieve for
her. Then of course the fashionable reporters of the official receptions
fulfilled their duty by heralding the advent of this brilliant star.
They only made the mistake--one of those mistakes so common with
journalists--of describing her as a Georgian.

Confident in the security of our mystery, Kondjé-Gul and I find nothing
more delightful than the manoeuvres by which we deceive them all. We
have invented a code of signs, the meaning of which we keep to
ourselves, and which leads to some very amusing by-play between us.

Thus the other evening, at Madame de T----'s, she was sitting by Maud
and Suzannah, surrounded by a number of admirers, when the young Duke de
Marandal, one of the most ardent of my acknowledged rivals, was
lavishing upon her his most seductive attentions. Kondjé was listening
to him with a charming smile on her face. Now that evening, I must tell
you, she had resolved upon a bit of fun; and knowing that in France
unmarried girls are not supposed to wear jewellery, she had fastened on
her wrist a heavy gold bracelet as a token of her servitude. So while
the young duke was talking, she looked at me, playing carelessly the
while with what she calls her "slave's ring." You may guess how we
laughed together over it.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]


CHAPTER XII.


I have to inform you, my dear fellow, that my uncle, who has always been
admired so far for his virtuous conduct, and whom I should certainly
have been ready to quote as a paragon of husbands, seems just now on the
way to forfeiting his character.

Here is what I have to relate:

Two days ago I went to the Theâtre des Variétés to see for the second
time the play which is just now the rage. Not having obtained a good
place, I left my stall at the end of the first act with the intention of
not returning, when, as I passed a rather closely-curtained stage-box,
I was quite surprised by seeing Barbassou-Pasha, who had pretended to be
going out that evening to an important dinner with some business
friends. He was accompanied by a lady whose features were obscured by
the darkness.

Being a discreet and respectful nephew, I was about to turn my eyes the
other way, when he beckoned me with an imperative gesture to join him in
his box. I immediately obeyed this peremptory summons, and, going round
by the passage, got the box-opener to usher me in.

"Come in, and sit down," said my uncle, pointing out to me a chair
behind him.

Once more I obeyed him, bowing politely to the lady, whose features I
could not clearly distinguish. I was hardly seated when I recognised the
fair heroine of the fainting fit last week.

Exquisitely attired in a perfectly ravishing costume, Madame Jean
Bonaffé replied to my compliments by a charming smile, and a pretty
glance from her fine Spanish eyes, which showed me clearly that she was
troubled by no remnants of that sudden indisposition which the too
unexpected encounter with my uncle had produced.

Our conversation turned upon the play. As she spoke French rather badly
(although she understood it very well), she asked my uncle from time to
time to tell her the words she was in need of. This he did, pronouncing
them with grammatical deliberation, and then leaving us to talk alone,
while he surveyed the audience like one superior to such frivolities as
feminine smalltalk.

My companion was very gay, and was crunching bonbons all the time.

I, as you may be sure, was gallant and attentive, and I followed her
example with the bonbons.

My former aunt, Christina de Portero, is at the happy age of between
twenty-eight and thirty. Or, possibly, she is as old as thirty-two. Her
figure is slender and supple, with those bold expansions of the hips
which, in dancing the fandango, make short work of the skirt. Add to
these fascinating details the accurate information with which I have
already supplied you on the subject of her exuberant bust, and you can
picture her very well for yourself.

She has a fine erect head, clear and singularly expressive features, a
warm complexion, a Grecian nose, with quivering nostrils, and a mouth
adorned with pearly teeth, with a soft, black, downy growth on her upper
lip. She is an Andalusian, overflowing with life and spirits, whose
exuberance, however, is tempered by her graceful and truly refined
demeanour. One can guess what a fire of passion smoulders within her.

My uncle was in perfection that evening. From time to time he discarded
his philosophic calm in order to take a look at us and reply in Spanish
to his fair friend's questions. He addressed her as "querida," in that
indulgent tone which is peculiar to him, like a pasha who is signifying
his approbation.

During the course of our conversation I discovered that things had gone
on like this between them since the day after that famous scene at
Villebon, whose lively incidents had doubtless conduced to this friendly
reconciliation. How had my uncle managed to get round the ferocious
native of Toulon? That I could never discover. However this may have
been, after the play was over, we went off, all three of us, to the Café
Anglais.

We had a capital supper, during which Madame Jean Bonaffé, feeling more
at her ease under these intimate circumstances, gave free play to her
fascinations. I could soon perceive that in her pleasure at forgetting
her regrettable escapades of the past, her grief over her supposed
widowhood, and also the short-lived and illegal marriage which she had
contracted by mistake, she expected that my uncle would settle her at
Paris. She appeared to speak of this happy prospect as of something upon
which her mind was set, and it gave rise to a number of beautiful
castles in the air.

I meant to have been a girl, and now I must be a woman, that's all; and
I dare say Aubrey will be the happier for it-- boys always
are.'
'If you don't like it, I wish you would let me speak to papa.'
'Richard, have you these five years been the safety-valve for my
murmurs without knowing what they amount to?'
'I thought no one complained unless to get a thing remedied.'
'Exactly so. That is man! And experience never shows man that woman's
growls relieve her soul, and that she dreads nothing more than their
being acted on!About two o'clock in the morning, we took a brougham, drove back my
aunt to the Rue de l'Arcade, where she occupies a splendidly furnished
suite of rooms, and then returned home.

"What do you think of all that, my dear Louis? Hum!"


Our little circle has been augmented by a very pleasant and genial
addition, Mr. Edward Wolsey, a nephew of the commodore's, who may very
likely be engaged to Maud.

As I have become quite intimate with Commodore Montague's party, I
generally join their group, without the smallest fear of raising a
suspicion regarding these encounters. The attention which I pay to
Kondjé-Gul and to Suzannah have caused no little envy, for, as you know,
Kondjé-Gul pretends she does not dance. This peculiarity, together with
her original fascinations with which a certain childish simplicity is
mingled, give rise to the most extraordinary conjectures. What is the
cause of all this reserve? men ask. Is it modesty, bashfulness, or
pride? They know that she can dance splendidly, for she has been seen
dancing occasionally at private parties with Maud and Suzannah. They
think it must be due to some jealous _fiancé_, her betrothal to whom is
kept secret, and to whom she is devoted.

Lent having interrupted the course of public entertainments, our private
parties which usually took place at Teral House, became the gainers by
it. Maud and Suzannah felt more free and easy there, and Kondjé-Gul
experienced quite a childish delight in holding what she called her
"receptions." Our small circle was soon augmented by a dozen select
friends, picked carefully from the ranks of their young ball-room
acquaintances. There were one or two mothers among them whose presence
did not interfere with the harmony of these charming gatherings, and the
tone of elegant distinction which prevailed in no respect interfered
with their exuberant gaiety.

