Physiology and Hygiene for Secondary Schools


by Francis M. Walters, A.M.


Edition 1, (November 15, 2005)


                     D.C. Heath and Co. - Publishers

                         Original copyright 1909


    "It is quite possible to give instruction in this subject in such
    a manner as not only to confer knowledge which is useful in
    itself, but to serve the purpose of a training in accurate
    observation, and in the methods of reasoning of physical
    science."--_Huxley._


PREFACE


The aim in the preparation of this treatise on the human body has been,
first, to set forth in a _teachable_ manner the actual science of
physiology; and second, to present the facts of hygiene largely as
_applied physiology_. The view is held that "right living" consists in the
harmonious adjustment of one's habits to the nature and plan of the body,
and that the best preparation for such living is a correct understanding
of the physical self. It is further held that the emphasizing of
physiology augments in no small degree the educative value of the subject,
greater opportunity being thus afforded for exercise of the reasoning
powers and for drill in the _modus operandi_ of natural forces. In the
study of physiology the facts of anatomy have a place, but in an
elementary course these should be restricted to such as are necessary for
revealing the general structure of the body.

Although no effort has been spared to bring this work within the
comprehension of the pupil, its success in the classroom will depend
largely upon the method of handling the subject by the teacher. It is
recommended, therefore, that the _relations_ which the different organs
and processes sustain to each other, and to the body as a whole, be given
special prominence. The pupil should be impressed with the essential unity
of the body and should see in the diversity of its activities the serving
of a common purpose. In creating such an impression the introductory
paragraphs at the beginning of many of the chapters and the summaries
throughout the book, as well as the general arrangement of the
subject-matter, will be found helpful.

Since the custom largely prevails of teaching physiology in advance of the
sciences upon which it rests--biology, physics, and chemistry--care should
be exercised to develop correct ideas of the principles and processes
derived from these sciences. Too much latitude has been taken in the past
in the use of comparisons and illustrations drawn from "everyday life." To
teach that the body is a "house," "machine," or "city"; that the nerves
carry "messages"; that the purpose of oxygen is to "burn up waste"; that
breathing is to "purify the blood," etc., may give the pupil phrases which
he can readily repeat, but teaching of this kind does not give him correct
ideas of his body.

The method of teaching, however, that uses the pupil's experience as a
basis upon which to build has a value not to be overlooked. The fact that
such expressions as those quoted above are so easily remembered proves the
value of connecting new knowledge with the pupil's experience. Hildesheimer,
are two illustrated by M. E. Edwards and J. C. Staples, "Told in the
Twilight" (1883); and "Song of the Bells" (1884); and one by M. E. Edwards
only, "Two Children"; others by Jane M. Dealy, "Sixes and Sevens" (1882),
and "Little Miss Marigold" (1884); "Nursery Land," by H. J. Maguire
(1888), and "Sunbeams," by E. K. Johnson and Ewart Wilson (1887).

F. D.

Bedford, who illustrated and decorated "The Battle of the Frogs and
Mice" (Methuen), has produced this year one of the most satisfactory
books with coloured illustrations. In "Nursery Rhymes" (Methuen), the
pictures, block-printed in colour by Edmund Evans, are worthy to be
placed beside the best books he has produced.

Of all lady illustrators--the phrase is cumbrous, but we have no other--Miss
A. B.

Woodward stands apart, not only by the vigour of her work, but by its
amazing humour, a quality which is certainly infrequent in the work of
her sister-artists. The books she has illustrated are not very
many, but all show this quality. "Banbury Cross," in Messrs. Dent's Series
is among the first.

In "To Tell the King the Sky is Falling" (Blackie, 1896) there is a store
of delicious examples, and in "The Brownies" (Dent, 1896), the vigour of
the handling is very noticeable.
In "Eric, Prince of Lorlonia" (Macmillan, 1896), we have further proof
that these characteristics are not mere accidents, but the result
of carefully studied intention, which is also apparent in the clever
designs for the covers of Messrs. Blackie's Catalogue, 1896-97. This year,
in "Red Apple and Silver Bells," Miss Woodward shows marked advance.

The book, with its delicious rhymes by Hamish Hendry, is one to treasure,
as is also her "Adventures in Toy Land," designs marked by the
_diablerie_ of which she, alone of lady artists, seems to have the
secret. In this the wooden, inane expression of the toys contrasts
delightfully with the animate figures.

Mr. Charles Robinson is one of the youngest recruits to the army
of illustrators, and yet his few years' record is both lengthy and
kept at a singularly high level. In the first of his designs which
attracted attention we find the half-grotesque, half-real child
that he has made his own--fat, merry little people, that are bubbling
over with the joy of mere existence.Magers, Instructor in Physiology and Bacteriology,
State Normal School, Ypsilanti, Michigan, has been especially helpful, and
many practical suggestions from the high school teachers of physiology of
Kansas City, Missouri, Professor C.H. Nowlin, Central High School, Dr.
John W. Scott, Westport High School, and Professor A.E. Shirling, Manual
Training High School, all of whom read both manuscript and proofs, have
been incorporated. Considerable material for the Practical Work, including
the respiration experiment (page 101) and the reaction time experiment
(page 323), were contributed by Dr. Scott. Professor Nowlin's suggestions
on subject-matter and methods of presentation deserve special mention. To
these and many others the author makes grateful acknowledgment.

                                                                    F.M.W.

MISSOURI STATE NORMAL SCHOOL,
SECOND DISTRICT, May 1, 1909.


who's spilt the syrup?"

"Spilt
it?"
"Syrup?"
   "No; it don't seem to be
   spilt, either." He patted the ground
   with his hand.
   
   "You don't mean that new
   can--"
   "Not a drop in it." He
   turned it upside down.
   
   Every eye went to Kaviak. He was sitting on his
   cricket by the fire waiting for dinner. He returned
   the accusing looks of the company with
   self-possession.

   "Come here." He got up and
   trotted over to "Farva."
   "Have you been to the
   syrup?"
   Kaviak shook his head.
   
   "You _must_ have been."
   "No."
   "You sure?"
   He nodded.

"How did it go--all away--Do you know?"

Again the silent denial.

Kaviak looked over his shoulder at the dinner preparations, and
then went back to his cricket.

It was the best place from which to keep a strict eye on the
cook.
"The gintlemin don't feel conversaytional wid a pint o' surrup in
his inside."
"I tell you he'd be currled up with colic if he--"
"Well," said O'Flynn hopefully, "bide a bit. He ain't lookin' very
brash." 
"Come here."
Kaviak got up a second time, but with less alacrity.
"Have you got a pain?" 
He stared.
"Does it hurt you there?" Kaviak doubled up suddenly.
"He's awful ticklish," said the Boy.
Mac frowned with perplexity, and Kaviak retired to the cricket.
"Does the can leak anywhere?"
"That excuse won't hold water 'cause the can will." The Colonel had
just applied the test.
"Besides, it would have leaked on to something," Mac agreed.
"Oh, well, let's mosy along with our dinner," said Potts.
"It's gettin' pretty serious," remarked the Colonel.
