Fanny's eyes again shot fire at the word "banished", but she answered,
very quietly, and even with a smile,

"No, uncle; but I want you to ask him here again. I might tell him the
rest myself."

"But, Fanny, dear," said the countess, "your uncle couldn't do it: you
know, he told him to go away before. Besides, I really don't think he'd
come; he's so taken up with those horrid horses, and that Mr Blake, who
is worse than any of 'em. Really, Fanny, Kilcullen says that he and Mr
Blake are quite notorious."

"I think, aunt, Lord Kilcullen might be satisfied with looking after
himself. If it depended on him, he never had a kind word to say for
Lord Ballindine."

"But you know, Fanny," continued the aunt, "he knows everybody; and if
he says Lord Ballindine is that sort of person, why, it must be so,
though I'm sure I'm very sorry to hear it."

Lord Cashel saw that he could not trust any more to his wife: that last
hit about Kilcullen had been very unfortunate; so he determined to put
an end to all Fanny's yearnings after her lover with a strong hand, and
said,

"If you mean, Fanny, after what has passed, that I should go to Lord
Ballindine, and give him to understand that he is again welcome to
Grey Abbey, I must at once tell you that it is absolutely--absolutely
impossible. If I had no personal objection to the young man on any
prudential score, the very fact of my having already, at your request,
desired his absence from my house, would be sufficient to render it
impossible. I owe too much to my own dignity, and am too anxious for
your reputation, to think of doing such a thing. But when I also
remember that Lord Ballindine is a reckless, dissipated gambler--I
much fear, with no fixed principle, I should consider any step towards
renewing the acquaintance between you a most wicked and unpardonable
proceeding."

Many Southern white leaders of thought are to-day CONVINCED, not FORCED
believers in the principle; and that is a great omen.

Limitations have come about, it is true, and were to be expected as the
back-currents of the revolution. Laws providing for educational and
property qualifications as a prerequisite to the exercise of the
suffrage have been passed in all the Southern States, and have
operated to exclude from the ballot large numbers of both white and
colored citizens, who on account of ignorance or poverty are unable
to meet the tests.

These provisions, whatever the opinion entertained as to the wisdom
of such laws, are well within the principle laid down by the Fifteenth
Amendment.

But several Southern States have gone a step further, and by means
of the so-called 'grandfather laws,' have exempted certain ignorant
white men from the necessity of meeting the educational and property
tests.

These unfair 'grandfather laws,' however, in some of the states adopting
them, have now expired by limitation.

Let me then lay down this general proposition:--
Nowhere in the South to-day is the Negro cut off LEGALLY, as a Negro,
from the ballot. Legally, to-day, any Negro who can meet the comparatively
slight requirements as to education, or property, or both, can
cast his ballot on a basis of equality with the white man.

I have emphasized the word legally, for I know the PRACTICAL difficulties
which confront the Negro votes in many parts of the South. The
point I wish to make is that legally the Negro is essentially the
political equal of the white man; but that practically, in the enforcement
of the law, the legislative ideal is still pegged out far beyond the
actual performance.

Now, then, if we are interested in the problem of democracy, we have
two courses open to us.

We may think the laws are unjust to the Negro, and incidentally to the
'poor white' man as well. If we do, we have a perfect right to agitate
for changes; and we can do much to disclose, without heat, the actual
facts regarding the complicated and vexatious legislative situation in
the South, as regards the suffrage. Every change in the legislation
upon this subject should, indeed, be jealously watched, that the
principle of political equality between the races be not legally
curtailed.

The doctrine laid down in the Fifteenth Amendment must, at any hazard,
be maintained.

He had already taken steps to
borrow the thirty thousand pounds, and had, indeed, empowered his son
to receive it: he had also pledged himself for the other fifty; and
then, after all, that perverse fool of a girl would insist on being in
love with that scapegrace, Lord Ballindine! This, however, might wear
away, and he would take very good care that she should hear of his
misdoings. It would be very odd if, after all, his plans were to be
destroyed, and his arrangements disconcerted by his own ward, and
niece--especially when he designed so great a match for her!

He could not, however, make himself quite comfortable, though he had
great confidence in his own diplomatic resources.


XV.  HANDICAP LODGE


Lord Ballindine left Grey Abbey, and rode homewards, towards Handicap
Lodge, in a melancholy and speculative mood. His first thoughts were
all of Harry Wyndham. Frank, as the accepted suitor of his sister, had
known him well and intimately, and had liked him much; and the poor
young fellow had been much attached to him. He was greatly shocked to
hear of his death. It was not yet a month since he had seen him shining
in all the new-blown splendour of his cavalry regimentals, and Lord
Ballindine was unfeignedly grieved to think how short a time the lad
had lived to enjoy them. His thoughts, then, naturally turned to
his own position, and the declaration which Lord Cashel had made to
him respecting himself. Could it be absolutely true that Fanny had
determined to give him up altogether?--After all her willing vows, and
assurances of unalterable affection, could she be so cold as to content
herself with sending him a formal message, by her uncle, that she
did not wish to see him again? Frank argued with himself that it was
impossible; he was sure he knew her too well. But still, Lord Cashel
would hardly tell him a downright lie, and he had distinctly stated
that the rejection came from Miss Wyndham herself.

Then, he began to feel indignant, and spurred his horse, and rode a
little faster, and made a few resolutions as to upholding his own
dignity. He would run after neither Lord Cashel nor his niece; he would
not even ask her to change her mind, since she had been able to bring
herself to such a determination as that expressed to him. But he would
insist on seeing her; she could not refuse that to him, after what had
passed between them, and he would then tell her what he thought of her,
and leave her for ever. But no; he would do nothing to vex her, as long
as she was grieving for her brother. Poor Harry!--she loved him so
dearly! Perhaps, after all, his sudden rejection was, in some manner,
occasioned by this sad event, and would be revoked as her sorrow grew
less with time. Assuredly there would be no race problem, anywhere, were
there no contact with others unlike ourselves!

The unlikeness of the unlike is everywhere its indispensable foundation.
But we get nowhither unless we carefully distinguish between the
foundation of the problem and the problem itself. There is nothing in
the unlikeness of the unlike that is necessarily problematical;
it may be simply accepted and dealt with as a fact, like any other fact.
The problem arises only when the people of one race are minded to
adopt and act upon some policy more or less oppressive or repressive
in dealing with the people of another race. In the absence of some
such policy, there has never been a race problem since the world
began. It is the existence of such a policy become traditional, and
supported by immovable conviction, which constitutes the race problem
of the Southern states.

There was an immensely tragic race problem distressing the South fifty
years ago; but who will suggest that it was the problem of "living
with human beings who are not like us?" The problem then was, clearly,
how to make good a certain conviction concerning the unlike, how
to maintain a certain policy in dealing with them. What else is it
today?

The problem, How to maintain the institution of chattel slavery,
ceased to be at Appomattox; the problem, How to maintain the social,
industrial, and civic inferiority of the descendants of chattel slaves,
succeeded it, and is the race problem of the South at the present
time. There is no other.

Whether the policy adopted by the white South, and supported,
as I have said, by immovable conviction, is expedient or inexpedient,
wise or unwise, righteous or unrighteous, these are questions which
I have not sought to answer one way or another in this article.

Perhaps they cannot be answered at all in our time. Certain
is it, that their only real and satisfactory answer will be many
years ahead of the present generation.

In the mean time, nothing could be more unwarranted, than to suppose
that the race problem of one section of this country is peculiar
to that section, because its white inhabitants are themselves in
some sense peculiar; because they are peculiarly prejudiced, because
they are peculiarly behind the hour which the high clock of
civilization has struck.He reflected that a hundred thousand pounds would
work a wondrous change and improvement at Kelly's Court--and that, if
he was before prepared to marry Fanny Wyndham in opposition to the
wishes of her guardian, he should now be doubly determined to do so,
even though all Grey Abbey had resolved to the contrary. The last idea
in his mind, as he got off his horse at his friend's door was, as to
what Dot Blake would think, and say, of the tidings he brought home
with him?

It was dark when he reached Handicap Lodge, and, having first asked
whether Mr Blake was in, and heard that he was dressing for dinner, he
went to perform the same operation himself. When he came down, full of
his budget, and quite ready, as usual, to apply to Dot for advice, he
was surprised, and annoyed, to find two other gentlemen in the room,
together with Blake. What a bore! to have to make one of a dinner-party
of four, and the long protracted rubber of shorts which would follow
it, when his mind was so full of other concerns! However, it was not to
be avoided.

The guests were, the fat, good-humoured, ready-witted Mat Tierney, and
a little Connaught member of Parliament, named Morris, who wore a wig,
played a very good rubber of whist, and knew a good deal about selling
hunters. He was not very bright, but he told one or two good stories of
his own adventures in the world, which he repeated oftener than was
approved of by his intimate friends; and he drank his wine plentifully
and discreetly--for, if he didn't get a game of cards after consuming a
certain quantum, he invariably went to sleep.

There was something in the manner in which the three greeted him, on
entering the room, which showed him that they had been speaking of him
and his affairs. Dot was the first to address him.

"Well, Frank, I hope I am to wish you joy. I hope you've made a good
morning's work of it?"

Frank looked rather distressed: before he could answer, however, Mat
Tierney said,

"Well, Ballindine, upon my soul I congratulate you sincerely, though,
of course, you've seen nothing at Grey Abbey but tears and cambric
handkerchiefs. I'm very glad, now, that what Kilcullen told me wasn't
true. He left Dublin for London yesterday, and I suppose he won't hear
of his cousin's death before he gets there."

"Upon my honour, Lord Ballindine," said the horse-dealing member, "you
are a lucky fellow. I believe old Wyndham was a regular golden nabob,
and I suppose, now, you'll touch the whole of his gatherings."

Dot and his guests had heard of Harry Wyndham's death, and Fanny's
accession of fortune; but they had not heard that she had rejected her
lover, and that he had been all but turned out of her guardian's house.
Nor did he mean to tell them; but he did not find himself pleasantly
situated in having to hear their congratulations and listen to
their jokes, while he himself felt that the rumour which he had so
emphatically denied to Mat Tierney, only two days since, had turned out
to be true.

Not one of the party made the slightest reference to the poor brother
from whom Fanny's new fortune had come, except as the lucky means of
conveying it to her. There was no regret even pretended for his early
death, no sympathy expressed with Fanny's sorrow. And there was,
moreover, an evident conviction in the minds of all the three, that
Frank, of course, looked on the accident as a piece of unalloyed
good fortune--a splendid windfall in his way, unattended with any
disagreeable concomitants. This grated against his feelings, and made
him conscious that he was not yet heartless enough to be quite fit for,
the society in which he found himself.

The party soon went into the dining-room; and Frank at first got a
little ease, for Fanny Wyndham seemed to be forgotten in the willing
devotion which was paid to Blake's soup; the interest of the fish,
also, seemed to be absorbing; and though conversation became more
general towards the latter courses, still it was on general subjects,
as long as the servants were in the room. At the present time the
fundamental principles which underlie popular government, and
especially the whole matter of popular suffrage, are much in the
public mind.

     The tendency of government throughout the entire civilized world
                   is strongly in the direction of placing more and
                   more power in the hands of the people. In
                   our own country we are enacting a remarkable group of laws providing
for direct primaries in the nomination of public officials, for
direct election of United States Senators, and for direct legislation
by means of the initiative and referendum; and we are even going
to the point, in many cities, of permitting the people to recall
an elected official who is unsatisfactory.

The principle of local option, which is nothing but that of direct
government by the people, is being everywhere accepted.

All these changes affect, fundamentally, the historic structure of our
government, making it less republican and more democratic.

Still more important and far-reaching in its significance is the
tendency of our government, especially our Federal Government, to
regulate or to appropriate great groups of business enterprises
formerly left wholly in private hands.

More and more, private business is becoming public business.

Now, then, as the weight of responsibility upon the popular vote
is increased, it becomes more and more important that the ballot
should be jealously guarded and honestly exercised.

In the last few years, therefore, a series of extraordinary new precautions
have been adopted:
the Australian ballot, more stringent registration systems, the stricter
enforcement of naturalization laws to prevent the voting of crowds of
unprepared foreigners, and the imposition by several states, rightly
or wrongly, of educational and property tests.

It becomes a more and more serious matter every year to be an
American citizen, more of an honor, more of a duty.

At the close of the Civil War, in a time of intense idealistic
emotion, some three-quarters of a million of Negroes, the mass of
them densely ignorant and just out of slavery, with the iron of
slavery still in their souls, were suddenly given the political
rights of free citizens.

A great many people, and not in the South alone, thought then, and
still think, that it was a mistake to bestow the high powers and
privileges of a wholly unrestricted ballot--a ballot which is the
symbol of intelligent self-government--upon the Negro.

Other people, of whom I am one, believe that it was a necessary concomitant
of the revolution; it was itself a revolution, not a growth, and
like every other revolution it has had its fearful reaction.

Revolutions, indeed, change names, but they do not at once change
human relationships.
A Repealer would never go down at Grey Abbey."

"Morris'll never let his politics harm him," said Tierney. "Repeal's a
very good thing the other side of the Shannon; or one might, carry it
as far as Conciliation Hall, if one was hard pressed, and near an
election. Were you ever in Conciliation Hall yet, Morris?"

"No, Mat; but I'm going next Thursday. Will you go with me?"

"Faith, I will not: but I think you should go; you ought to do
something for your country, for you're a patriot. I never was a public
man."

"Well, when I can do any good for my country, I'll go there. Talking of
that, I saw O'Connell in town yesterday, and I never saw him looking so
well. The verdict hasn't disturbed him much. I wonder what steps the
Government will take now? They must be fairly bothered. I don't think
they dare imprison him."

"Not dare!" said Blake--'and why not? When they had courage to indict
him, you need not fear but what they'll dare to go on with a strong
hand, now they have a verdict."

"I'll tell you what, Dot; if they imprison the whole set," said Mat,
"and keep them in prison for twelve months, every Catholic in Ireland
will be a Repealer by the end of that time."

"And why shouldn't they all be Repealers?" said Morris. "It seems to me
that it's just as natural for us to be Repealers, as it is for you to
be the contrary."

"I won't say they don't dare to put them in prison," continued Mat;
"but I will say they'll be great fools to do it. The Government have
so good an excuse for not doing so: they have such an easy path out
of the hobble. There was just enough difference of opinion among the
judges--just enough irregularity in the trial, such as the omissions of
the names from the long panel--to enable them to pardon the whole set
with a good grace."

"If they did," said Blake, "the whole high Tory party in this
country--peers and parsons--would be furious. They'd lose one set of
supporters, and wouldn't gain another. My opinion is, they'll lock the
whole party up in the stone jug--for some time, at least."

"Why," said Tierney, "their own party could not quarrel with them for
not taking an advantage of a verdict, as to the legality of which there
is so much difference of opinion even among the judges. I don't know
much about these things, myself; but, as far as I can understand, they
would have all been found guilty of high treason a few years back, and
probably have been hung or beheaded; and if they could do that now, the
country would be all the quieter. But they can't: the people will have
their own way; and if they want the people to go easy, they shouldn't
put O'Connell into prison. Rob them all of the glories of martyrdom,
and you'd find you'll cut their combs and stop their crowing."

"It's not so easy to do that now, Mat," said Morris. "You'll find that
the country will stick to O'Connell, whether he's in prison or out
of it;--but Peel will never dare to put him there. They talk of the
Penitentiary; but I'll tell you what, if they put him there, the people
of Dublin won't leave one stone upon another; they'd have it all down
in a night."

"You forget, Morris, how near Richmond barracks are to the
Penitentiary."

"No, I don't. Not that I think there'll be any row of the kind, for
I'll bet a hundred guineas they're never put in prison at all."

"Done," said Dot, and his little book was out--"put that down, Morris,
and I'll initial it: a hundred guineas, even, that O'Connell is not in
prison within twelve months of this time."

But, personally,--and I am here voicing a profound conviction,--I
think our emphasis at present should be laid upon the practical
rather than upon the legal aspect of the problem; I think we should
take advantage of the widely prevalent feeling in the South that
the question of suffrage has been settled, legally, for some time
to come: of the desire on the part of many Southern people, both
white and colored, to turn aside from the discussion of the political
status of the Negro.

In short, let us for the time being accept the laws as they are, and
build upward from that point. Let us turn our attention to the
practical task of finding out why it is that the laws we already have
are not enforced, and how best to secure an honest vote for every
Negro and equally for every 'poor white' man, who is able to meet the
requirements, but who for one reason or another does not or cannot
now exercise his rights.

I include the disfranchised white man as well as the Negro, because I
take it that we are interested, first of all, in democracy, and
unless we can arouse the spirit of democracy, South and North, we
can hope for justice neither for Negroes, nor for the poorer class
of white men, nor for the women of the factories and shops, nor for
the children of the cottonmills.

Taking up this side of the problem we shall discover two entirely
distinct difficulties:--
First, we shall find many Negroes, and indeed hundreds of thousands
of white men as well, who might vote, but who, through ignorance, or
inability or unwillingness to pay the poll-taxes, or from mere
lack of interest, disfranchise themselves.

The second difficulty is peculiar to the Negro. It consists in open
or concealed intimidation on the part of the white men who control
the election machinery.

In many places in the South to-day no Negro, how well qualified, would
dare to present himself for registration; when he does, he is
rejected for some trivial or illegal reason.

Thus we have to meet a vast amount of apathy and ignorance and poverty
on the one hand, and the threat of intimidation on the other.

First of all, for it is the chief injustice as between white and colored
men with which we have to deal,--an injustice which the law already
makes illegal and punishable,--how shall we meet the matter of
intimidation?

As I have already said, the door of the suffrage is everywhere legally
open to the Negro, but a certain sort of Southerner bars the
passage-way.

He stands there and, law or no law, keeps out many Negroes who might vote;
and he represents in most parts of the South the prevailing public
opinion.

Shall we meet this situation by force? What force is available? Shall
the North go down and fight the South?

You and I know that the North to-day has no feeling but friendship for
the South.

More than that--and I say it with all seriousness, because it
represents what I have heard wherever I have gone in the North to
make inquiries regarding the Negro problem--the North, wrongly or
rightly, is to-day more than half convinced that the South is right
in imposing some measure of limitation upon the franchise.

There is now, in short, no disposition anywhere in the North to interfere
in internal affairs in the South--not even with the force of public
opinion.

What other force, then, is to be invoked? Shall the Negro revolt? Shall
he migrate? Shall he prosecute his case in the courts? The very asking
of these questions suggests the inevitable reply.

We might as well, here and now, dismiss the idea of force, express or
implied. There are times of last resort which call for force; but this
is not such a time.

What other alternatives are there?

Accepting the laws as they are, then, there are two methods of procedure,
neither sensational nor exciting. I have no quick cure to suggest,
but only old and tried methods of commonplace growth.

The underlying causes of the trouble in the country being plainly ignorance
and prejudice, we must meet ignorance and prejudice with their antidotes,
education and association.

"Not a house in Claremorris belongs to me," said Lord Ballindine, again
rather sulky, "or ever did to any of my family. I would as soon own
Claremorris, though, as I would Castleblakeney. Your own town is quite
as shattered-looking a place."

"That's quite true--but I have some hopes that Castleblakeney will be
blotted out of the face of creation before I come into possession."

"But I was saying about Savy O'Leary," again interposed Morris, "did
you ever hear what he did?"

But Blake would not allow his guest the privilege of another story. "If
you encourage Morris," said he, "we shall never get our whist," and
with that he rose from the table and walked away into the next room.

They played high. Morris always played high if he could, for he made
money by whist. Tierney was not a gambler by profession; but the men he
lived among all played, and he, therefore, got into the way of it, and
played the game well, for he was obliged to do so in his own defence.
Blake was an adept at every thing of the kind; and though the
card-table was not the place where his light shone brightest, still he was
quite at home at it.

As might be supposed, Lord Ballindine did not fare well among the
three. He played with each of them, one after the other, and lost with
them all. Blake, to do him justice, did not wish to see his friend's
money go into the little member's pocket, and, once or twice, proposed
giving up; but Frank did not second the proposal, and Morris was
inveterate. The consequence was that, before the table was broken up,
Lord Ballindine had lost a sum of money which he could very ill spare,
and went to bed in a very unenviable state of mind, in spite of the
brilliant prospects on which his friends congratulated him.


XVI.  BRIEN BORU


The next morning, at breakfast, when Frank was alone with Blake, he
explained to him how matters really stood at Grey Abbey. He told him
how impossible he had found it to insist on seeing Miss Wyndham so soon
after her brother's death, and how disgustingly disagreeable, stiff and
repulsive the earl had been; and, by degrees, they got to talk of other
things, and among them, Frank's present pecuniary miseries.

"There can be no doubt, I suppose," said Dot, when Frank had consoled
himself by anathematising the earl for ten minutes, "as to the fact of
Miss Wyndham's inheriting her brother's fortune?"

"Faith, I don't know; I never thought about her fortune if you'll
believe me. I never even remembered that her brother's death would in
any way affect her in the way of money, until after I left Grey Abbey."

"Oh, I can believe you capable of anything in the way of imprudence."

"Ah, but, Dot, to think of that pompous fool--who sits and caws in
that dingy book-room of his, with as much wise self-confidence as an
antiquated raven--to think of him insinuating that I had come there
looking for Harry Wyndham's money; when, as you know, I was as ignorant
of the poor fellow's death as Lord Cashel was himself a week ago.
Insolent blackguard! I would never, willingly, speak another word to
him, or put my foot inside that infernal door of his, if it were to get
ten times all Harry Wyndham's fortune."

Thus we disagree, and government is the resultant of all these diverse
views and forces.

No one can say dogmatically how far democracy should go in distributing
the enormously important powers of active government.

Democracy is not a dogma; it is not even a dogma of free suffrage.
Democracy is a life, a spirit, a growth. The primal necessity of any
sort of government, democracy or otherwise, whether it be more
unjust or less unjust toward special groups of its citizens, is to
exist, to be a going concern, to maintain upon the whole a stable
and peaceful administration of affairs.

If a democracy cannot provide such stability, then the people go
back to some form of oligarchy.

Having secured a fair measure of stability, a democracy proceeds with
caution toward the extension of the suffrage to more and more
people--trying foreigners, trying women, trying Negroes.

And no one can prophesy how far a democracy will ultimately go in
the matter of suffrage.

We know only the tendency. We know that in the beginning, even in
America, the right to vote was a very limited matter.

In the early years, in New England, only church-members voted; then the
franchise was extended to include property-owners; then it was enlarged
to include all white adults; then to include Negroes; then, in several
Western States, to include women.

     Thus the line has been constantly advancing, but with many fluctuations,
eddies, and back-currents--like any other stream of progress.

[FOOTNOTE 28: bon gré--(French) with the consent of]

"But what ought I to do? I can't go to the man's house when he told me
expressly not to do so."

"Oh, yes, you can: not immediately, but by and by--in a month or six
weeks. I'll tell you what I should do, in your place; and remember,
Frank, I'm quite in earnest now, for it's a very different thing
playing a game for twenty thousand pounds, which, to you, joined to a
wife, would have been a positive irreparable loss, and starting for
five or six times that sum, which would give you an income on which you
might manage to live."

"Well, thou sapient counsellor--but, I tell you beforehand, the chances
are ten to one I sha'n't follow your plan."

"Do as you like about that: you sha'n't, at any rate, have me to blame.
I would in the first place, assure myself that Fanny inherited her
brother's money."

"There's no doubt about that. Lord Cashel said as much."

"Make sure of it however. A lawyer'll do that for you, with very little
trouble. Then, take your name off the turf at once; it's worth your
while to do it now. You may either do it by a _bona fide_ sale of the
horses, or by running them in some other person's name. Then, watch
your opportunity, call at Grey Abbey, when the earl is not at home, and
manage to see some of the ladies. If you can't do that, if you can't
effect an _entrée_, write to Miss Wyndham; don't be too lachrymose, or
supplicatory, in your style, but ask her to give you a plain answer
personally, or in her own handwriting."

"And if she declines the honour?"

"If, as you say and as I believe, she loves, or has loved you, I don't
think she'll do so. She'll submit to a little parleying, and then
she'll capitulate. But it will be much better that you should see her,
if possible, without writing at all."

"I don't like the idea of calling at Grey Abbey. I wonder whether
they'll go to London this season?"

"If they do, you can go after them. The truth is simply this,
Ballindine; Miss Wyndham will follow her own fancy in the matter, in
spite of her guardian; but, if you make no further advances to her, of
course she can make none to you. The Ferry fell into our hands again,
but as a ruin. As for the elaborate bridge approaching it, its history
is the history of the Potomac campaign: three times has it been
destroyed by the Confederates, and twice by the Unionists.

Eight times it has been carried away by freshets.

An earlier interest, yet intimately connected with the rebellion,
belongs to Harper's Ferry. From the car window you see the old
engine-house where John Brown fortified himself, and was wounded and
captured, while these wooded hills were bathed with October red
in 1859.

The breaches in the walls where he stood his siege are still apparent,
filled in with new brickwork.

No single life could have been so effectually paid out as his was, for
he cemented in the cause of the North the whole abolition sentiment of
the civilized world, and gained our army unnumbered recruits.

Truly said the slaves when he died, "Massa Brown is not buried: he
is planted."

Of the site of all these storied ruins we can only say again and
again that it is beautiful.

The rocky steeps that enclose the town have a Scottish air, and
traveled visitors, beholding them, are fain to allude to the Trosachs;
but the river that rolls through the mountains, and has whirled
them into a hollow as the potter turns a vase, is continental in
its character, and plunges through the landscape with a swell of
eddy and a breadth of muscle that are like nothing amid the basking
Scottish waters.

On an eminence immediately overlooking Harper's Ferry, and some four
hundred feet thereabove, is the enormous turtle-shaped rock, curiously
blocked up over a fissure, on which Jefferson once inscribed his
name.

Chimney Rock, a detached column on the Shenandoah near by, is a sixty-foot
high natural tower, described by Jefferson in his _Notes on Virginia_.
Upon the precipice across the river, on the Maryland side, the fancy
of the tourist has discovered a figure of Napoleon: it forms a bas-relief
of stupendous proportions, having the broad cliff for background,
and clearly defining the hair, the Corsican profile and the bust,
with an epaulette on the shoulder. The Blue Ridge, as it traverses
from this point the breadth of Virginia, breaks into various natural
eccentricities--the Peaks of Otter, rising a mile above the sea,
the Natural Bridge, Weyer's Cave, Madison's Cave--and gives issue to
those rich heated and mineralized springs for which the State is
famous.

[Illustration: SCENE AMONG THE MARYLAND ALLEGHANIES.]
The tinge of regret with which we leave Harper's Ferry is mitigated
by the hope that greater wonders may lie beyond. In two miles the
railroad, as if willing to carve out a picture-frame in which the
heroic river may be viewed, excavates the "Potomac Tunnel," as it
is named, through which the water is seen like a design in _repoussé_
silver, with two or three emerald islands in it for jewel-work.

The perforation is eighty feet through, but in contrast with its
rocky breadth our picture-frame is not too deep: whenever we shift
our position, the view seems to increase in art-beauty, and as a
final comprehensive picture it recedes and crowds under the spandrels
of the arch the whole mountain-pass, with the confluence of the two
rivers in the finest imaginable aspect.

Poor Martinsburg! during the rebellion a mere sieve, through which the
tide of war poured back and forth in the various fluctuations of
our fortune! It is said to have been occupied by both armies, alternately,
fifteen times. The passenger sees it as a mere foreground of big
restaurant and platform, with a conglomeration of village houses in the
rear--featureless as the sheep which the painter of Wakefield put in
for nothing. One incident, however, supervenes.
Did I ask you for your precious time, or anything else?
You're always afraid that you're going to be done. Now, you might make
a distinction between me and some of your other friends, and remember
that I am not in the habit of doing anybody."

"Why, I own I don't think it very likely that I, or indeed anyone else,
should suffer much from you in that way, for your sin is not too much
sharpness."

"Then why do you talk about what you can afford to do?"

"Because it's necessary. I made a proposal which you thought an unfair
one. You mayn't believe me, but it is a most positive fact, that my
only object in making that proposal was, to benefit you. You will find
it difficult to get rid of your horses on any terms; and yet, with the
very great stake before you in Miss Wyndham's fortune, it would be
foolish in you to think of keeping them; and, on this account, I
thought in what manner I could take them from you. If they belong to my
stables I shall consider myself bound to run them to the best
advantage, and"--

"Well, well--for heaven's sake don't speechify about it."

"Stop a moment, Frank, and listen, for I must make you understand. I
must make you see that I am not taking advantage of your position, and
trying to rob my own friend in my own house. I don't care what most
people say of me, for in my career I must expect people to lie of me. I
must, also, take care of myself. But I do wish you to know, that though
I could not disarrange my schemes for you, I would not take you in."

"Why, Dot--how can you go on so? I only thought I was taking a leaf out
of your book, by being careful to make the best bargain I could."

"Well, as I was saying--I would run the horses to the best
advantage--especially Brien, for the Derby: by doing so, my whole book
would be upset: I should have to bet all round again--and, very likely,
not be able to get the bets I want. I could not do this without a very
strong interest in the horse. Besides, you remember that I should have
to go over with him to England myself, and that I should be obliged to
be in England a great deal at a time when my own business would require
me here."

"My dear fellow," said Frank, "you're going on as though it were
necessary to defend yourself. I never accused you of anything."

"Never mind whether you did or no. You understand me now: if it will
suit you, you can take my offer, but I should be glad to know at once."

While this conversation was going on, the two young men had left the
house, and sauntered out into Blake's stud-yard. Here were his stables,
where he kept such horses as were not actually in the trainer's
hands--and a large assortment of aged hunters, celebrated
timber-jumpers, brood mares, thoroughbred fillies, cock-tailed colts,
and promising foals. They were immediately joined by Blake's stud
groom, who came on business intent, to request a few words with his
master; which meant that Lord Ballindine was to retreat, as it was full
time for his friend to proceed to his regular day's work. Blake's groom
was a very different person in appearance, from the sort of servant in
the possession of which the fashionable owner of two or three horses
usually rejoices. He had no diminutive top boots; no loose brown
breeches, buttoned low beneath the knee; no elongated waistcoat with
capacious pockets; no dandy coat with remarkably short tail. Our
registration and ballot laws eliminate hundreds of thousands of voters;
and finally, we bar out everywhere the defective and criminal classes
of our population. We do not realize, sometimes, I think, how limited
the franchise really is, even in America. We forget that out of
nearly ninety million people in the United States, fewer than fifteen
million cast their votes for President in 1908--or about one in
every six.
Thus the practice of a restricted suffrage is very deeply implanted
in our system of government.He was, therefore, a treasure to
Blake; and he knew it, and valued himself accordingly.

"Well, John," said his master, "I suppose I must desert Lord Ballindine
again, and obey your summons. Your few words will last nearly till
dinner, I suppose?"

"Why, there is a few things, to be sure, 'll be the better for being
talked over a bit, as his lordship knows well enough. NEGRO SUFFRAGE
IN A DEMOCRACY by Ray Stannard Baker

In this paper I endeavor to lay down the fundamental principles
which should govern the Negro franchise in a democracy, and to
outline a practical programme for the immediate treatment of the
problem.

He had laughed at
that joke a thousand times; and, in the best of humours, he wasn't a
merry man.

