This eBook was produced by Tapio Riikonen
and David Widger, widger@cecomet.net


CHAPTER VII.

THE RAPE OF THE MATTRESS.

That Mr. Grabman slept calmly that night is probable enough, for his gin-
bottle was empty the next morning; and it was with eyes more than usually
heavy that he dozily followed the movements of Beck, who, according to
custom, opened the shutters of the little den adjoining his sitting-room,
brushed his clothes, made his fire, set on the kettle to boil, and laid
his breakfast things, preparatory to his own departure to the duties of
the day.  Stretching himself, however, and shaking off slumber, as the
remembrance of the enterprise he had undertaken glanced pleasantly across
him, Grabman sat up in his bed and said, in a voice that, if not maudlin,
was affectionate, and if not affectionate, was maudlin,--

"Beck, you are a good fellow.  You have faults, you are human,--humanism
est errare; which means that you some times scorch my muffins.  But, take
you all in all, you are a kind creature.  Beck, I am going into the
country for some days.  I shall leave my key in the hole in the wall,--
you know; take care of it when you come in.  You were out late last
night, my poor fellow.  Very wrong!  Look well to yourself, or who knows?
You may be clutched by that blackguard resurrection-man, No. 7.  Well,
well, to think of that Jason's foolhardiness!  But he's the worse devil
of the two.  Eh! what was I saying?  And always give a look into my room
every night before you go to roost. The place swarms with cracksmen, and
one can't be too cautious.  Lucky dog, you, to have nothing to be robbed
of!"

Beck winced at that last remark.  Grabman did not seem to notice his
confusion, and proceeded, as he put on his stockings: "And, Beck, you are
a good fellow, and have served me faithfully; when I come back, I will
bring you something handsome,--a backey-box or--who knows?--a beautiful
silver watch.  Meanwhile, I think--let me see--yes, I can give you this
elegant pair of small-clothes.  Put out my best,--the black ones.  And
now, Beck, I'll not keep you any longer."

The poor sweep, with many pulls at his forelock, acknowledged the
munificent donation; and having finished all his preparations, hastened
first to his room, to examine at leisure, and with great admiration, the
drab small-clothes.  "Room," indeed, we can scarcely style the wretched
enclosure which Beck called his own.  It was at the top of the house,
under the roof, and hot--oh, so hot--in the summer!  It had one small
begrimed window, through which the light of heaven never came, for the
parapet, beneath which ran the choked gutter, prevented that; but the
rain and the wind came in.  So sometimes, through four glassless frames,
came a fugitive tom-cat.  As for the rats, they held the place as their
own.  Accustomed to Beck, they cared nothing for him.

They were the Mayors of that Palace; he only le roi faineant.  They ran
over his bed at night; he often felt them on his face, and was convinced
they would have eaten him, if there had been anything worth eating upon
his bones; still, perhaps out of precaution rather than charity, he
generally left them a potato or two, or a crust of bread, to take off the
edge of their appetites.  But Beck was far better off than most who
occupied the various settlements in that Alsatia,--he had his room to
himself.  That was necessary to his sole luxury,--the inspection of his
treasury, the safety of his mattress; for it he paid, without grumbling,
what he thought was a very high rent.  To this hole in the roof there was
no lock,--for a very good reason, there was no door to it.  You went up a
ladder, as you would go into a loft.  Now, it had often been matter of
much intense cogitation to Beck whether or not he should have a door to
his chamber; and the result of the cogitation was invariably the same,--
he dared not!  What should he want with a door,--a door with a lock to
it?  For one followed as a consequence to the other.  Such a novel piece
of grandeur would be an ostentatious advertisement that he had something
to guard.  He could have no pretence for it on the ground that he was
intruded on by neighbours; no step but his own was ever caught by him
ascending that ladder; it led to no other room.  All the offices required
for the lodgment he performed himself.  His supposed poverty was a better
safeguard than doors of iron.  Besides this, a door, if dangerous, would
be superfluous; the moment it was suspected that Beck had something worth
guarding, that moment all the picklocks and skeleton keys in the
neighbourhood would be in a jingle.  And a cracksman of high repute
lodged already on the ground-floor.  So Beck's treasure, like the bird's
nest, was deposited as much out of sight as his instinct could contrive;
and the locks and bolts of civilized men were equally dispensed with by
bird and Beck.

On a rusty nail the sweep suspended the drab small-clothes, stroked them
down lovingly, and murmured, "They be 's too good for I; I should like to
pop 'em!  But vould n't that be a shame?  Beck, be n't you be a
hungrateful beast to go for to think of nothin' but the tin, ven your
'art ought to varm with hemotion?  I vill vear 'em ven I vaits on him.
Ven he sees his own smalls bringing in the muffins, he will say, 'Beck,
you becomes 'em!'"

Fraught with this noble resolution, the sweep caught up his broom, crept
down the ladder, and with a furtive glance at the door of the room in
which the cracksman lived, let himself out and shambled his way to his
crossing.  Grabman, in the mean while, dressed himself with more care
than usual, shaved his beard from a four days' crop, and while seated at
his breakfast, read attentively over the notes which Varney had left to
him, pausing at times to make his own pencil memoranda.  He then packed
up such few articles as so moderate a worshipper of the Graces might
require, deposited them in an old blue brief-bag, and this done, he
opened his door, and creeping to the threshold, listened carefully.
Below, a few sounds might be heard,--here, the wail of a child; there,
the shrill scold of a woman in that accent above all others adapted to
scold,--the Irish.  Farther down still, the deep bass oath of the
choleric resurrection-man; but above, all was silent.  Only one floor
intervened between Grabman's apartment and the ladder that led to Beck's
loft.  And the inmates of that room gave no sound of life.  Grabman took
courage, and shuffling off his shoes, ascended the stairs; he passed the
closed door of the room above; he seized the ladder with a shaking hand;
he mounted, step after step; he stood in Beck's room.

Now, O Nicholas Grabman! some moralists may be harsh enough to condemn
thee for what thou art doing,--kneeling yonder in the dim light, by that
curtainless pallet, with greedy fingers feeling here and there, and a
placid, self-hugging smile upon thy pale lips.  That poor vagabond whom
thou art about to despoil has served thee well and faithfully, has borne
with thine ill-humours, thy sarcasms, thy swearings, thy kicks, and
buffets; often, when in the bestial sleep of drunkenness he has found
thee stretched helpless on thy floor, with a kindly hand he has moved
away the sharp fender, too near that knavish head, now bent on his ruin,
or closed the open window, lest the keen air, that thy breath tainted,
should visit thee with rheum and fever.  Small has been his guerdon for
uncomplaining sacrifice of the few hours spared to this weary drudge from
his daily toil,--small, but gratefully received.  And if Beck had been
taught to pray, he would have prayed for thee as for a good man, O
miserable sinner!  And thou art going now, Nicholas Grabman, upon an
enterprise which promises thee large gains, and thy purse is filled; and
thou wantest nothing for thy wants or thy swinish luxuries.  Why should
those shaking fingers itch for the poor beggar-man's hoards?

But hadst thou been bound on an errand that would have given thee a
million, thou wouldst not have left unrifled that secret store which thy
prying eye had discovered, and thy hungry heart had coveted.  No; since
one night,--fatal, alas! to the owner of loft and treasure, when, needing
Beck for some service, and fearing to call aloud (for the resurrection-
man in the floor below thee, whose oaths even now ascend to thine ear,
sleeps ill, and has threatened to make thee mute forever if thou
disturbest him in the few nights in which his dismal calling suffers him
to sleep at all), thou didst creep up the ladder, and didst see the
unconscious miser at his nightly work, and after the sight didst steal
down again, smiling,--no; since that night, no schoolboy ever more
rootedly and ruthlessly set his mind upon nest of linnet than thine was
set upon the stores in Beck's mattress.

And yet why, O lawyer, should rigid moralists blame thee more than such
of thy tribe as live, honoured and respectable, upon the frail and the
poor?  Who among them ever left loft or mattress while a rap could be
wrung from either?  Matters it to Astraea whether the spoliation be made
thus nakedly and briefly, or by all the acknowledged forms in which, item
on item, six-and-eightpence on six-and-eightpence, the inexorable hand
closes at length on the last farthing of duped despair?  Not--Heaven
forbid!--that we make thee, foul Nicholas Grabman, a type for all the
class called attorneys-at-law!  Noble hearts, liberal minds, are there
amongst that brotherhood, we know and have experienced; but a type art
thou of those whom want and error and need have proved--alas! too well--
the lawyers of the poor.  And even while we write, and even while ye
read, many a Grabman steals from helpless toil the savings of a life.

Ye poor hoards,--darling delights of your otherwise joyless owner,--how
easily has his very fondness made ye the prey of the spoiler!  How
gleefully, when the pence swelled into a shilling, have they been
exchanged into the new bright piece of silver, the newest and brightest
that could be got; then the shillings into crowns, then the crowns into
gold,--got slyly and at a distance, and contemplated with what rapture;
so that at last the total lay manageable and light in its radiant
compass.  And what a total! what a surprise to Grabman!  Had it been but
a sixpence, he would have taken it; but to grasp sovereigns by the
handful, it was too much for him; and as he rose, he positively laughed,
from a sense of fun.

But amongst his booty there was found one thing that specially moved his
mirth: it was a child's coral, with its little bells.  Who could have
given Beck such a bauble, or how Beck could have refrained from turning
it into money, would have been a fit matter for speculation.  But it was
not that at which Grabman chuckled; he laughed, first because it was an
emblem of the utter childishness and folly of the creature he was leaving
penniless, and secondly, because it furnished his ready wit with a
capital contrivance to shift Beck's indignation from his own shoulders to
a party more liable to suspicion.  He left the coral on the floor near
the bed, stole down the ladder, reached his own room, took up his brief-
bag, locked his door, slipped the key in the rat-hole, where the trusty,
plundered Beck alone could find it, and went boldly downstairs; passing
successively the doors within which still stormed the resurrection-man,
still wailed the child, still shrieked the Irish shrew, he paused at the
ground-floor occupied by Bill the cracksman and his long-fingered,
slender, quick-eyed imps, trained already to pass through broken window-
panes, on their precocious progress to the hulks.

The door was open, and gave a pleasant sight of the worthy family within.
Bill himself, a stout-looking fellow with a florid, jolly countenance,
and a pipe in his mouth, was sitting at his window, with his brawny legs
lolling on a table covered with the remains of a very tolerable
breakfast. Four small Bills were employed in certain sports which, no
doubt, according to the fashionable mode of education, instilled useful
lessons under the artful guise of playful amusement.  Against the wall,
at one corner of the room, was affixed a row of bells, from which were
suspended exceedingly tempting apples by slender wires.  Two of the boys
were engaged in the innocent entertainment of extricating the apples
without occasioning any alarm from the bells; a third was amusing himself
at a table, covered with mock rings and trinkets, in a way that seemed
really surprising; with the end of a finger, dipped probably in some
glutinous matter, he just touched one of the gewgaws, and lo, it
vanished!--vanished so magically that the quickest eye could scarcely
trace whither; sometimes up a cuff, sometimes into a shoe,--here, there,
anywhere, except back again upon the table.  The fourth, an urchin
apparently about five years old,--he might be much younger, judging from
his stunted size; somewhat older, judging from the vicious acuteness of
his face,--on the floor under his father's chair, was diving his little
hand into the paternal pockets in search for a marble sportively hidden
in those capacious recesses.  On the rising geniuses around him Bill the
cracksman looked, and his father's heart was proud.  Pausing at the
threshold, Grabman looked in and said cheerfully, "Good-day to you; good-
day to you all, my little dears."

"Ah, Grabman," said Bill, rising, and making a bow,--for Bill valued
himself much on his politeness,--"come to blow a cloud, eh?  Bob," this
to the eldest born, "manners, sir; wipe your nose, and set a chair for
the gent."

"Many thanks to you, Bill, but I can't stay now; I have a long journey to
take.  But, bless my soul, how stupid I am!  I have forgotten my clothes-
brush.  I knew there was some thing on my mind all the way I was coming
downstairs.  I was saying, 'Grabman, there is something forgotten! '"

"I know what that 'ere feelin' is," said Bill, thoughtfully; "I had it
myself the night afore last; and sure enough, when I got to the ----.
But that's neither here nor there.  Bob, run upstairs and fetch down Mr.
Grabman's clothes-brush.  'T is the least you can do for a gent who saved
your father from the fate of them 'ere innocent apples.  Your fist,
Grabman.  I have a heart in my buzzom; cut me open, and you will find
there `Halibi, and Grabman!'  Give Bob your key."

"The brush is not in my room," answered Grabman; "it is at the top of the
house, up the ladder, in Beck's loft,--Beck, the sweeper.  The stupid dog
always keeps it there, and forgot to give it me.  Sorry to occasion my
friend Bob so much trouble."

"Bob has a soul above trouble; his father's heart beats in his buzzom.
Bob, track the dancers.  Up like a lark, and down like a dump."

Bob grinned, made a mow at Mr. Grabman, and scampered up the stairs.

"You never attends our free-and-easy," said Bill; "but we toasts you with
three times three, and up standing.  "'T is a hungrateful world!  But
some men has a heart; and to those who has a heart, Grabman is a trump!"

"I am sure, whenever I can do you a service, you may reckon on me.
Meanwhile, if you could get that cursed bullying fellow who lives under
me to be a little more civil, you would oblige me."

"Under you?  No. 7?  No. 7, is it?  Grabman, h-am I a man?  Is this a h-
arm, and this a bunch of fives?  I dares do all that does become a man;
but No. 7 is a body-snatcher!  No. 7 has bullied me, and I bore it!  No.
7 might whop me, and this h-arm would let him whop!  He lives with graves
and churchyards and stiff 'uns, that damnable No. 7!  Ask some'at else,
Grabman.  I dares not touch No. 7 any more than the ghostesses."

Grabman sneered as he saw that Bill, stout rogue as he was, turned pale
while he spoke; but at that moment Bob reappeared with the clothes-brush,
which the ex-attorney thrust into his pocket, and shaking Bill by the
hand, and patting Bob on the head, he set out on his journey.

Bill reseated himself, muttering, "Bully a body-snatcher!  Drot that
Grabman, does he want to get rid of poor Bill?"

Meanwhile Bob exhibited slyly, to his second brother, the sight of Beck's
stolen coral.  The children took care not to show it to their father.
They were already inspired by the laudable ambition to set up in business
on their own account.


CHAPTER VIII.

PERCIVAL VISITS LUCRETIA.

Having once ascertained the house in which Helen lived, it was no
difficult matter for St. John to learn the name of the guardian whom Beck
had supposed to be her mother.  No common delight mingled with Percival's
amaze when in that name he recognized one borne by his own kinswoman.
Very little indeed of the family history was known to him.  Neither his
father nor his mother ever willingly conversed of the fallen heiress,--it
was a subject which the children had felt to be proscribed; but in the
neighbourhood, Percival had of course heard some mention of Lucretia as
the haughty and accomplished Miss Clavering, who had, to the astonishment
of all, stooped to a mesalliance with her uncle's French librarian.  That
her loss of the St. John property, the succession of Percival's father,
were unexpected by the villagers and squires around, and perhaps set down
to the caprice of Sir Miles, or to an intellect impaired by apoplectic
attacks, it was not likely that he should have heard.  The rich have the
polish of their education, and the poor that instinctive tact, so
wonderful amongst the agricultural peasantry, to prevent such unmannerly
disclosures or unwelcome hints; and both by rich and poor, the Vernon St.
Johns were too popular and respected for wanton allusions to subjects
calculated to pain them.  All, therefore, that Percival knew of his
relation was that she had resided from infancy with Sir Miles; that after
their uncle's death she had married an inferior in rank, of the name of
Dalibard, and settled abroad; that she was a person of peculiar manners,
and, he had heard somewhere, of rare gifts.  He had been unable to learn
the name of the young lady staying with Madame Dalibard; he had learned
only that she went by some other name, and was not the daughter of the
lady who rented the house.  Certainly it was possible that this last
might not be his kinswoman, after all.  The name, though strange to
English ears, and not common in France, was no sufficient warrant for
Percival's high spirits at the thought that he had now won legitimate and
regular access to the house; still, it allowed him to call, it furnished
a fair excuse for a visit.

How long he was at his toilet that day, poor boy!  How sedulously, with
comb and brush, he sought to smooth into straight precision that
luxuriant labyrinth of jetty curls, which had never cost him a thought
before!  Gil Blas says that the toilet is a pleasure to the young, though
a labour to the old; Percival St. John's toilet was no pleasure to him
that anxious morning.

At last he tore himself, dissatisfied and desperate, from the glass,
caught his hat and his whip, threw himself on his horse, and rode, at
first very fast, and at last very slowly, to the old, decayed, shabby,
neglected house that lay hid, like the poverty of fallen pride, amidst
the trim villas and smart cottages of fair and flourishing Brompton.

The same servant who had opened the gate to Ardworth appeared to his
summons, and after eying him for some moments with a listless, stupid
stare, said: "You'll be after some mistake!" and turned away.

"Stop, stop!" cried Percival, trying to intrude himself through the gate;
but the servant blocked up the entrance sturdily.  "It is no mistake at
all, my good lady.  I have come to see Madame Dalibard, my--my relation!"

"Your relation!" and again the woman stared at Percival with a look
through the dull vacancy of which some distrust was dimly perceptible.
"Bide a bit there, and give us your name."

Percival gave his card to the servant with his sweetest and most
persuasive smile.  She took it with one hand, and with the other turned
the key in the gate, leaving Percival outside.  It was five minutes
before she returned; and she then, with the same prim, smileless
expression of countenance, opened the gate and motioned him to follow.

The kind-hearted boy sighed as he cast a glance at the desolate and
poverty-stricken appearance of the house, and thought within himself:
"Ah, pray Heaven she may be my relation; and then I shall have the right
to find her and that sweet girl a very different home!"  The old woman
threw open the drawing-room door, and Percival was in the presence of his
deadliest foe!  The armchair was turned towards the entrance, and from
amidst the coverings that hid the form, the remarkable countenance of
Madame Dalibard emerged, sharp and earnest, directly fronting the
intruder.

"So," she said slowly, and, as it were, devouring him with her keen,
steadfast eyes,--"so you are Percival St. John!  Welcome!  I did not know
that we should ever meet.  I have not sought you, you seek me!  Strange--
yes, strange--that the young and the rich should seek the suffering and
the poor!"

Surprised and embarrassed by this singular greeting, Percival halted
abruptly in the middle of the room; and there was something inexpressibly
winning in his shy, yet graceful confusion.  It seemed, with silent
eloquence, to apologize and to deprecate.  And when, in his silvery
voice, scarcely yet tuned to the fulness of manhood, he said feelingly,
"Forgive me, madam, but my mother is not in England," the excuse evinced
such delicacy of idea, so exquisite a sense of high breeding, that the
calm assurance of worldly ease could not have more attested the chivalry
of the native gentleman.

"I have nothing to forgive, Mr. St. John," said Lucretia, with a softened
manner.  "Pardon me rather that my infirmities do not allow me to rise to
receive you.  This seat,--here,--next to me.  Pedro ran across the street,
and there under a small heap of snow, what do you think he found?

A little black and white dog, shivering with cold, and nearly starved.
Pedro opened his jacket, and put the dog inside to keep it warm.

"You will have to go to the church alone, Little Brother," Pedro said.

"I must take this little dog back to the farm, and give it food, else
it will die."
"But I don't want to go alone, Pedro," said Little Brother.

"Won't you please go and put my gift on the altar, Little Brother? I
wish so much to have it there to-night."
"Yes, Pedro, I will," said Little Brother.

He took the gift and started toward the church. Pedro turned and went
home.

When Little Brother came to the great stone church and looked up at the
high tower, he felt that he could not go in alone. He stood outside a
long time watching the people as they passed in. At last he entered quietly
and took a seat in a corner.

III

When Little Brother went into the church, all the people were seated.
They sat quietly hoping that at last the bells would ring again as
in the days of old.

The organ pealed out a Christmas hymn. The choir and the people
arose, and all sang the grand old anthem.

Then a solemn voice said, "Bring now your gifts to the altar."
The king arose and went forward with stately tread. Bowing before the
altar, he laid upon it his golden crown. Then he walked proudly back to
his seat. All the people listened, but the bells did not ring.

Then the queen arose and with haughty step walked to the front. She took
from her neck and wrists her beautiful jewels and laid them upon
the altar. All the people listened, but the bells did not ring.

Then the soldiers came marching proudly forward. They took their jeweled
swords from their belts and laid them upon the altar. All the people
listened, but the bells did not ring.

Then the rich men came hurrying forward. They counted great sums of
gold and laid them in a businesslike way upon the altar. All the people
listened, but the bells did not ring.

"Can I go all alone to the front of the church and lay this small
gift on the altar?"

said Little Brother. "Oh, how can I? how can I?"
Then he said, "But I told Pedro I would, and I must."
So he slipped slowly around by the outer aisle. He crept quietly up to
the altar and softly laid the silver piece upon the very edge.

And listen! What do you think was heard? The bells, the bells!

Oh, how happy the people were! And how happy Little Brother was! He ran
out of the church and down the road toward the farm.

Pedro had warmed the dog and fed it, and was now on the way to the
city.

He hoped that he might see the people come out of the church.

Down the road Little Brother came running. Throwing himself into
Pedro's arms, he cried, "Oh, Pedro, Pedro! The bells, the bells! I wish
you could have heard them; and they rang when I laid your gift on the
altar."
"I did hear them, Little Brother," said Pedro.

"Their sound came to me over the snow,--the sweetest music I ever
heard."
Long years after, when Pedro grew to be a man, he was a great musician.

Many, many people came to hear him play.

Some one said to him one day, "How can you play so sweetly? I never heard
such music before."
"Ah," said Pedro, "but you never heard the Christmas bells as I
heard them that Christmas night years and years ago."

--OLD TALE RETOLD.

[Illustration: Family at prayer at the table]
GOD BLESS THE MASTER OF THIS HOUSE
God bless the master of this house, The mistress, also, And all the
little children That round the table go:
And all your kin and kinsfolk, That dwell both far and near; I wish
you a merry Christmas And a happy new year.

--OLD ENGLISH RIME.

SQUEAKY AND THE SCARE BOX
I

Once upon a time a family of mice lived in the pantry wall. There was a
father mouse, there was a mother mouse, and there were three little baby
mice.

One little mouse had sharp bright eyes and could see everything, even in
the darkest holes. He was called Sharpeyes. His brother could sniff and
smell anything, wherever it might be hidden, and he was called Sniffy.
The baby mouse had such a squeaky little voice that he was called Squeaky.
He was always singing, "Ee-ee-ee!"
Mother mouse was very wise, and she had taught her babies to run and hide
when they saw the old cat coming.

She had also taught them not to go near a trap. The little mice obeyed
their mother, and they were happy in their home in the pantry wall.

They had many good times together. I could not tell you about all of
these, but I am going to tell you about their Christmas party and
what happened to Squeaky.

It was the night before Christmas. The stockings hung by the chimney, and
the tall tree was standing in the parlor. The children were asleep, and
the father and mother had gone upstairs to bed.

In the pantry wall, the little mice were all wide-awake.

"Ee-ee-ee!" squeaked Squeaky; "why can't we creep into the big room
and see the tall Christmas tree? The children have talked about it
for days, and we have never seen one. Mother, please let us go and see
it."
"Yes," said Sniffy, "do let us go. Everything smells so good. The children
and the cook made long strings of pop corn to-day. I found a little
on the pantry floor, and I want some more."
"I peeped out of our hole," said Sharpeyes, "and I saw cake and candy all
ready for the children. Oh, I do want a bite of those good things!

Please let us have a Christmas party."
"Well," said mother mouse, "I will ask your father. If he says it
is safe, we will go."
When mother mouse asked father mouse, he said, "I will go out first and
look all about. If it is safe, I will come back for you."
So father mouse crept softly through the pantry, down the long hall, and
into the parlor. The cat was nowhere to be seen. Father mouse ran back
to the pantry and cried, "The cat is not near; come and see the tree."

II

Then all the mice came scampering from the hole in the wall. They crept
through the pantry, down the long hall, and into the parlor. When they saw
the tall Christmas tree, they squeaked again and again in their joy.
Then they ran around and around the tree to see what was on it.

[Illustration: The mice look at the Christmas tree]
On the floor they saw a wonderful doll's house. "How fine it would be
to live there!" they squeaked.

They ran up and down the stairs, sat on the chairs, and lay down in the
beds. Oh, they had a merry time!

Then Sniffy said, "I smell that good pop corn again.

Let's climb up into the Christmas tree and get some."
They climbed up into the tree. They nibbled the pop corn; they nibbled the
candy; they nibbled the nuts; and they nibbled the cakes.

Soon Sharpeyes cried out, "Come here, I see a mouse! I see a mouse!
But he doesn't look like our family at all."
"I should say not," sniffed Sniffy; "and how good he smells!"
"Why, he is good to eat!" squeaked Squeaky; and they all began to eat the
chocolate mouse.

Then they found another candy mouse--a pretty pink one. They were so
busy eating it that they forgot to watch and listen; then--bang! The door
was opened, and the lights were turned on.

With a squeak, the mice scampered down from the tree; then they ran along
the hall, through the pantry, and back to their home. There was the
father mouse, and the mother mouse, and Sharpeyes, and Sniffy. But where
was Squeaky?

III

Now, as Squeaky tried to run down the tree, he fell heels over head.
Down, down, down, he fell until he was caught in a funny box. An ugly man
with black hair and black whiskers seemed to be hopping out of the box.

When Squeaky saw the lights turned on, he hid under the dress of this queer
man. He lay very, very still, for he had been taught to be still when
danger was near. He heard voices. The father and mother had come
back.

"Yes," the father was saying; "it would have been a shame to forget
this train. I would like it to come right out from under the tree. Help
me put the track down, mother."
When the train was just where it should be, the mother turned
to the beautiful tree.

"Why, look at that Jack-in-the-box," she said. "The man is hanging out.
That will never do. I will shut the box. Teddy must see the man jump out."

The mother pushed the man with the black hair down, down, into the box
and shut the lid. Poor Squeaky felt the springs close down on him and
squeaked, "Ee-ee-"
"That was a fine squeak," said the father. "The toys are wonderful these
days."
"Yes," said the mother, as she turned off the light. "When I was a
child, we did not have such toys."
"I am in a trap," said poor Squeaky, "but there isn't even a bit of cheese
in it. I wonder what kind of trap it is; nothing seems to hurt me.
Well, I am safe for a while, and I hope I shall soon get out."
Squeaky lay in the box all night, and wondered what Sniffy and Sharpeyes
were doing. The next morning, he heard children calling, "Merry
Christmas!

Merry Christmas!" And soon the toys were taken down, one by one. Then
such a noise was heard--drums beating, horns tooting, children shouting.
You should have heard it.

[Illustration: The mother is surprised as Squeaky escapes]
"See our new doll's house!" cried one child.

"See my new train! How fast it goes!" cried another.

"And see my beautiful dolly!" cried another. "She can open and shut her
eyes."
By and by the mother took the box from the tree. "Come here, Teddy," she
said. "Here is a scare box. We will have some fun. Watch me open
the lid."
Teddy stood by his mother and watched closely.

"Are you ready?" asked his mother. "Well, let us count. One, two, three!"

The lid flew open, and out jumped the man with the black hair and
black whiskers. And with a squeak of joy, out jumped the mouse.

"Ee-ee-ee!" he cried, as he ran away.

"Ee!" said the Jack-in-the-box.

"Whee-ee-ee!" cried the boy with delight.

"Oh,--a mouse! a mouse!" cried the mother. Then she threw the box on the
floor and jumped up on her chair.

"Where? where?" cried all the children.

But they saw only the tip of Squeaky's tail as he ran across the
hall to the pantry. Another moment and he was safe in the hole in
the pantry wall.
The children's father laughed as he helped their mother climb down
from the chair.
"Well," he said, "how did _you_ enjoy Teddy's scare box?"
--GEORGENE FAULKNER.

THE GLAD NEW YEAR
It's coming, boys, It's almost here.
It's coming, girls, The grand New Year.
A year to be glad in, Not to be sad in; A year to live in, To gain
and give in.
A year for trying, And not for sighing; A year for striving And
healthy thriving.

It's coming, boys, It's almost here.
It's coming, girls, The grand New Year.

--MARY MAPES DODGE.
[Illustration: The goose and the hen] 
MAKING THE BEST OF IT
"What a dreary day it is!" grumbled the old gray goose to the brown
hen.
They were standing at the henhouse window watching the falling snow
which covered every nook and corner of the farmyard.
"Yes, indeed," said the brown hen. "I should almost be willing to
be made into a chicken pie on such a day."
She had scarcely stopped talking when Pekin duck said fretfully,
"I am so hungry that I am almost starved."
A little flock of chickens all huddled together wailed in sad tones,
"And we are so thirsty!"
In fact, all the feathered folk in the henhouse seemed cross and
fretful. It is no wonder they felt that way, for they had had nothing
to eat or drink since early in the morning. The cold wind howled
around their house. Hour after hour went by, but no one came near
the henhouse.
The handsome white rooster, however, seemed as happy as usual. That
is saying a great deal, for a jollier old fellow than he never lived
in a farmyard. Sunshine, rain, or snow were all the same to him,
and he crowed quite as merrily in stormy weather as in fair.
"Well," he said, laughing, as he looked about the henhouse, "you
all seem to be having a fit of dumps."
Nobody answered the white rooster, but a faint cluck or two came
from some of the hens. They immediately put their heads back under
their wings, however, as if ashamed of having spoken at all.
This was too much for the white rooster. He stood first on one
yellow foot and then on the other. Turning his head from side to
side, he said, "What's the use of looking so sad? Any one would
think that you expected to be eaten by a band of hungry foxes."

Just then a brave little white bantam rooster hopped down from his
perch. He strutted over to the big rooster and caused quite a flutter
in the henhouse by saying:
"We're lively enough when our crops are full, but when we are
starving, it is a wonder that we can hold our heads up at all. If
I ever see that farmer's boy again, I'll--I'll--I'll peck his foot!"

"You won't see him until he feeds us," said the white rooster, "and
then I guess you will peck his corn."
"Oh, oh!" moaned the brown hen. "Don't speak of a peck of corn."

"Madam," said the white rooster, bowing very low, "your trouble is
my own,--that is, I'm hungry, too. But we might be worse off. We
might be in a box on our way to market. It is true that we haven't
had anything to eat to-day, but we at least have room enough to
stretch our wings."
"Why, that is a fact," clucked the brown hen. And all the feathered
family--even the smallest chickens--stretched their wings, and
looked a little more cheerful.
"Now, then," went on the rooster, "suppose we have a little music
to cheer us and help pass the hours until roosting time. Let us all
crow.
There, I beg your pardon, ladies; I am sorry you can't crow. Let
us sing a happy song. Will you be kind enough to start a merry tune,
Mrs. Brown Hen?"
The brown hen shook herself proudly, tossed her head back and
began,--"Ca-ca-ca-ca-ca-ca!" In less than two minutes every one in
the henhouse had joined her. The white rooster was the loudest of
all, and the little bantam rooster stretched his neck and did the
best he could.
Now, the horses, cows, and sheep were not far away. They heard the
happy voices, and they, too, joined in the grand chorus. The pigs
did their best to sing louder than all the rest.
Higher and higher, stronger and stronger, rose the chorus. Louder
and louder quacked the ducks. Shriller and shriller squealed the
pigs.
They were all so happy that they quite forgot their hunger until
the door of the henhouse burst open, and in came three chubby
children. Each was carrying a dish of hot chicken food.
"Don't stop your music, Mr. Rooster," said the little girl, who was
bundled up until you could scarcely see her dear little
face.

[Illustration: The children arrive with food]
"You see, we were so lonesome that we didn't know what to do. We
heard you folk singing out here, and we laughed and laughed until
we almost cried. Then we went to tell Jack about you. He was lonesome,
too, for he's sick with a sore throat, you know. He said, 'Why,
those poor hens!
They haven't been fed since morning! Go and feed them.' And so we
came."
"Cock-a-doodle-doo!" said the white rooster. "This comes of making
the best of things. Cock-a-doodle-doo!" And nobody asked him to
stop crowing.

--FRANCES M. FOX.

THE ANIMALS AND THE MIRROR
I
Aunt Susan sent an old-fashioned looking-glass to the barn to be
stored in the loft, with other old furniture.As, in the studies of her youth,
she had adopted the Machiavelism of ancient State-craft as a rule
admissible in private life, so she seemed scarcely to admit as a crime
that which was but the removal of a barrier between her aim and her end.
Before she had become personally acquainted with Percival she had
rejected all occasion to know him.  She had suffered Varney to call upon
him as the old protege of Sir Miles, and to wind into his intimacy,
meaning to leave to her accomplice, when the hour should arrive, the
dread task of destruction.  This not from cowardice, for Gabriel had once
rightly described her when he said that if she lived with shadows she
could quell them, but simply because, more intellectually unsparing than
constitutionally cruel (save where the old vindictive memories thoroughly
unsexed her), this was a victim whose pangs she desired not to witness,
over whose fate it was no luxury to gloat and revel.  She wished not to
see nor to know him living, only to learn that he was no more, and that
Helen alone stood between Laughton and her son.  Now that he had himself,
as if with predestined feet, crossed her threshold, that he, like Helen,
had delivered himself into her toils, the hideous guilt, before removed
from her hands, became haunting, fronted her face to face, and filled her
with a superstitious awe.

Meanwhile, her outward manner to both her meditated victims, if moody and
fitful at times, was not such as would have provoked suspicion even in
less credulous hearts.  From the first entry of Helen under her roof she
had been formal and measured in her welcome,--kept her, as it were,
aloof, and affected no prodigal superfluity of dissimulation; but she had
never been positively harsh or unkind in word or in deed, and had coldly
excused herself for the repulsiveness of her manner.

"I am irritable," she said, "from long suffering, I am unsocial from
habitual solitude; do not expect from me the fondness and warmth that
should belong to our relationship.  Do not harass yourself with vain
solicitude for one whom all seeming attention but reminds more painfully
of infirmity, and who, even thus stricken down, would be independent of
all cares not bought and paid for.  Be satisfied to live here in all
reasonable liberty, to follow your own habits and caprices uncontrolled.
Regard me but as a piece of necessary furniture.  You can never displease
me but when you notice that I live and suffer."

If Helen wept bitterly at these hard words when first spoken, it was not
with anger that her loving heart was so thrown back upon herself.  On the
contrary, she became inspired with a compassion so great that it took the
character of reverence.  She regarded this very coldness as a mournful
dignity.  She felt grateful that one who could thus dispense with, should
yet have sought her.  She had heard her mother say that she had been
under great obligations to Lucretia; and now, when she was forbidden to
repay them even by a kiss on those weary eyelids, a daughter's hand to
that sleepless pillow; when she saw that the barrier first imposed was
irremovable, that no time diminished the distance her aunt set between
them, that the least approach to the tenderness of service beyond the
most casual offices really seemed but to fret those excitable nerves, and
fever the hand that she ventured timorously to clasp,--she retreated into
herself with a sad amaze that increased her pity and heightened her
respect.  To her, love seemed so necessary a thing in the helplessness of
human life, even when blessed with health and youth, that this rejection
of all love in one so bowed and crippled, struck her imagination as
something sublime in its dreary grandeur and stoic pride of independence.
She regarded it as of old a tender and pious nun would have regarded the
asceticism of some sanctified recluse,--as Theresa (had she lived in the
same age) might have regarded Saint Simeon Stylites existing aloft from
human sympathy on the roofless summit of his column of stone; and with
this feeling she sought to inspire Percival.  He had the heart to enter
into her compassion, but not the imagination to sympathize with her
reverence.  Even the repugnant awe that he had first conceived for Madame
Dalibard, so bold was he by temperament, he had long since cast off; he
recognized only the moroseness and petulance of an habitual invalid, and
shook playfully his glossy curls when Helen, with her sweet seriousness,
insisted on his recognizing more.

To this house few, indeed, were the visitors admitted.  The Miverses,
whom the benevolent officiousness of Mr. Fielden had originally sent
thither to see their young kinswoman, now and then came to press Helen to
join some party to the theatre or Vauxhall, or a picnic in Richmond Park;
but when they found their overtures, which had at first been politely
accepted by Madame Dalibard, were rejected, they gradually ceased their
visits, wounded and indignant.

Certain it was that Lucretia had at one time eagerly caught at their
well-meant civilities to Helen,--now she as abruptly declined them.  Why?
It would be hard to plumb into all the black secrets of that heart.  It
would have been but natural to her, who shrank from dooming Helen to no
worse calamity than a virgin's grave, to have designed to throw her into
such uncongenial guidance, amidst all the manifold temptations of the
corrupt city,--to have suffered her to be seen and to be ensnared by
those gallants ever on the watch for defenceless beauty; and to contrast
with their elegance of mien and fatal flatteries the grossness of the
companions selected for her, and the unloving discomfort of the home into
which she had been thrown.  But now that St. John had appeared, that
Helen's heart and fancy were steeled alike against more dangerous
temptation, the object to be obtained from the pressing courtesy of Mrs.
Mivers existed no more.  The vengeance flowed into other channels.

The only other visitors at the house were John Ardworth and Gabriel
Varney.

Madame Dalibard watched vigilantly the countenance and manner of Ardworth
when, after presenting him to Percival, she whispered: "I am glad you
assured me as to your sentiments for Helen.  She had found there the
lover you wished for her,--'gay and handsome as herself.'"

And in the sudden paleness that overspread Ardworth's face, in his
compressed lips and convulsive start, she read with unspeakable rage the
untold secret of his heart, till the rage gave way to complacency at the
thought that the last insult to her wrongs was spared her,--that her son
(as son she believed he was) could not now, at least, be the successful
suitor of her loathed sister's loathed child.  Her discovery, perhaps,
confirmed her in her countenance to Percival's progressive wooing, and
half reconciled her to the pangs it inflicted on herself.

At the first introduction Ardworth had scarcely glanced at Percival.  He
regarded him but as the sleek flutterer in the sunshine of fortune.  And
for the idle, the gay, the fair, the well-dressed and wealthy, the sturdy
workman of his own rough way felt something of the uncharitable disdain
which the laborious have-nots too usually entertain for the prosperous
haves.  But the moment the unwelcome intelligence of Madame Dalibard was
conveyed to him, the smooth-faced boy swelled into dignity and
importance.

Yet it was not merely as a rival that that strong, manly heart, after the
first natural agony, regarded Percival.  No, he looked upon him less with
anger than with interest,--as the one in whom Helen's happiness was
henceforth to be invested.  And to Madame Dalibard's astonishment,--for
this nature was wholly new to her experience,--she saw him, even in that
first interview, composing his rough face to smiles, smoothing his bluff,
imperious accents into courtesy, listening patiently, watching benignly,
and at last thrusting his large hand frankly forth, griping Percival's
slender fingers in his own; and then, with an indistinct chuckle that
seemed half laugh and half groan, as if he did not dare to trust himself
further, he made his wonted unceremonious nod, and strode hurriedly from
the room.

But he came again and again, almost daily, for about a fortnight.
Sometimes, without entering the house, he would join the young people in
the garden, assist them with awkward hands in their playful work on the
garden, or sit with them in the ivied bower; and warming more and more
each time he came, talk at last with the cordial frankness of an elder
brother.  There was no disguise in this; he began to love Percival,--what
would seem more strange to the superficial, to admire him.  Genius has a
quick perception of the moral qualities; genius, which, differing thus
from mere talent, is more allied to the heart than to the head,
sympathizes genially with goodness.  Ardworth respected that young,
ingenuous, unpolluted mind; he himself felt better and purer in its
atmosphere.  Much of the affection he cherished for Helen passed thus
beautifully and nobly into his sentiments for the one whom Helen not
unworthily preferred.  And they grew so fond of him,--as the young and
gentle ever will grow fond of genius, however rough, once admitted to its
companionship!

Percival by this time had recalled to his mind where he had first seen
that strong-featured, dark-browed countenance, and he gayly reminded
Ardworth of his discourtesy, on the brow of the hill which commanded the
view of London.  That reminiscence made his new friend writhe; for then,
amidst all his ambitious visions of the future, he had seen Helen in the
distance,--the reward of every labour, the fairest star in his horizon.
But he strove stoutly against the regret of the illusion lost; the
vivendi causae were left him still, and for the nymph that had glided
from his clasp, he clung at least to the laurel that was left in her
place.  In the folds of his robust fortitude Ardworth thus wrapped his
secret.  Neither of his young playmates suspected it.  He would have
disdained himself if he had so poisoned their pleasure.  That he suffered
when alone, much and bitterly, is not to be denied; but in that masculine
and complete being, Love took but its legitimate rank amidst the passions
and cares of man.  It soured no existence, it broke no heart; the wind
swept some blossoms from the bough, and tossed wildly the agitated
branches from root to summit, but the trunk stood firm.

In some of these visits to Madame Dalibard's, Ardworth renewed with her
the more private conversation which had so unsettled his past convictions
as to his birth, and so disturbed the calm, strong currents of his mind.
He was chiefly anxious to learn what conjectures Madame Dalibard had
formed as to his parentage, and what ground there was for belief that he
was near in blood to herself, or that he was born to a station less
dependent on continuous exertion; but on these points the dark sibyl
preserved an obstinate silence.  She was satisfied with the hints she had
already thrown out, and absolutely refused to say more till better
authorized by the inquiries she had set on foot.  Artfully she turned
from these topics of closer and more household interest to those on which
she had previously insisted, connected with the general knowledge of
mankind, and the complicated science of practical life.  To fire his
genius, wing his energies, inflame his ambition above that slow,
laborious drudgery to which he had linked the chances of his career, and
which her fiery and rapid intellect was wholly unable to comprehend--save
as a waste of life for uncertain and distant objects--became her task.
And she saw with delight that Ardworth listened to her more assentingly
than he had done at first. In truth, the pain shut within his heart, the
conflict waged keenly between his reason and his passion, unfitted him
for the time for mere mechanical employment, in which his genius could
afford him no consolation.  Now, genius is given to man, not only to
enlighten others, but to comfort as well as to elevate himself.  Thus, in
all the sorrows of actual existence, the man is doubly inclined to turn
to his genius for distraction.  Harassed in this world of action, he
knocks at the gate of that world of idea or fancy which he is privileged
to enter; he escapes from the clay to the spirit.  And rarely, till some
great grief comes, does the man in whom the celestial fire is lodged know
all the gift of which he is possessed.  At last Ardworth's visits ceased
abruptly.  He shut himself up once more in his chambers; but the law
books were laid aside.

Varney, who generally contrived to call when Ardworth was not there,
seldom interrupted the lovers in their little paradise of the garden; but
he took occasion to ripen and cement his intimacy with Percival.
Sometimes he walked or (if St. John had his cabriolet) drove home and
dined with him, tete-a-tete, in Curzon Street; and as he made Helen his
chief subject of conversation, Percival could not but esteem him amongst
the most agreeable of men.  With Helen, when Percival was not there,
Varney held some secret conferences,--secret even from Percival.  Two or
three times, before the hour in which Percival was accustomed to come,
they had been out together; and Helen's face looked more cheerful than
usual on their return.  It was not surprising that Gabriel Varney, so
displeasing to a man like Ardworth, should have won little less favour
with Helen than with Percival; for, to say nothing of an ease and suavity
of manner which stole into the confidence of those in whom to confide was
a natural propensity, his various acquisitions and talents, imposing from
the surface over which they spread, and the glitter which they made, had
an inevitable effect upon a mind so susceptible as Helen's to admiration
for art and respect for knowledge.  But what chiefly conciliated her to
Varney, whom she regarded, moreover, as her aunt's most intimate friend,
was that she was persuaded he was unhappy, and wronged by the world of
fortune.  Varney had a habit of so representing himself,--of dwelling
with a bitter eloquence, which his natural malignity made forcible, on
the injustice of the world to superior intellect.  He was a great accuser
of Fate.  It is the illogical weakness of some evil natures to lay all
their crimes, and the consequences of crime, upon Destiny.  There was a
heat, a vigour, a rush of words, and a readiness of strong, if trite,
imagery in what Varney said that deceived the young into the monstrous
error that he was an enthusiast,--misanthropical, perhaps, but only so
from enthusiasm.  How could Helen, whose slightest thought, when a star
broke forth from the cloud, or a bird sung suddenly from the copse, had
more of wisdom and of poetry than all Varney's gaudy and painted seemings
ever could even mimic,--how could she be so deceived?  Yet so it was.
Here stood a man whose youth she supposed had been devoted to refined and
elevating pursuits, gifted, neglected, disappointed, solitary, and
unhappy.  She saw little beyond.  You had but to touch her pity to win
her interest and to excite her trust. Of anything further, even had
Percival never existed, she could not have dreamed.  It was because a
secret and undefinable repugnance, in the midst of pity, trust, and
friendship, put Varney altogether out of the light of a possible lover,
that all those sentiments were so easily kindled.  This repugnance arose
not from the disparity between their years; it was rather that nameless
uncongeniality which does not forbid friendship, but is irreconcilable
with love.  To do Varney justice, he never offered to reconcile the two.
Not for love did he secretly confer with Helen; not for love did his
heart beat against the hand which reposed so carelessly on his murderous
arm.


CHAPTER X.

THE RATTLE OF THE SNAKE.

The progress of affection between natures like those of Percival and
Helen, favoured by free and constant intercourse, was naturally rapid.
It was scarcely five weeks from the day he had first seen Helen, and he
already regarded her as his plighted bride.  During the earlier days of
his courtship, Percival, enamoured and absorbed for the first time in his
life, did not hasten to make his mother the confidante of his happiness.
He had written but twice; and though he said briefly, in the second
letter, that he had discovered two relations, both interesting and one
charming, he had deferred naming them or entering into detail.  This not
alone from that indescribable coyness which all have experienced in
addressing even those with whom they are most intimate, in the early,
half-unrevealed, and mystic emotions of first love, but because Lady
Diary's letters had been so full of her sister's declining health, of her
own anxieties and fears, that he had shrunk from giving her a new subject
of anxiety; and a confidence full of hope and joy seemed to him unfeeling
and unseasonable.  He knew how necessarily uneasy and restless an avowal
that his heart was seriously engaged to one she had never seen, would
make that tender mother, and that his confession would rather add to her
cares than produce sympathy with his transports.  But now, feeling
impatient for his mother's assent to the formal proposals which had
become due to Madame Dalibard and Helen, and taking advantage of the
letter last received from her, which gave more cheering accounts of her
sister, and expressed curiosity for further explanation as to his half
disclosure, he wrote at length, and cleared his breast of all its
secrets.  It was the same day in which he wrote this confession and
pleaded his cause that we accompany him to the house of his sweet
mistress, and leave him by her side, in the accustomed garden.  Within,
Madame Dalibard, whose chair was set by the window, bent over certain
letters, which she took, one by one, from her desk and read slowly,
lifting her eyes from time to time and glancing towards the young people
as they walked, hand in hand, round the small demesnes, now hid by the
fading foliage, now emerging into view.  Those letters were the early
love-epistles of William Mainwaring.  She had not recurred to them for
years.  Perhaps she now felt that food necessary to the sustainment of
her fiendish designs.  It was a strange spectacle to see this being, so
full of vital energy, mobile and restless as a serpent, condemned to that
helpless decrepitude, chained to the uneasy seat, not as in the resigned
and passive imbecility of extreme age, but rather as one whom in the
prime of life the rack has broken, leaving the limbs inert, the mind
active, the form as one dead, the heart with superabundant vigour,--a,
cripple's impotence and a Titan's will!  What, in that dreary
imprisonment and amidst the silence she habitually preserved, passed
through the caverns of that breast, one can no more conjecture than one
can count the blasts that sweep and rage through the hollows of
impenetrable rock, or the elements that conflict in the bosom of the
volcano, everlastingly at work.  She had read and replaced the letters,
and leaning her cheek on her hand, was gazing vacantly on the wall, when
Varney intruded on that dismal solitude.

He closed the door after him with more than usual care; and drawing a
seat close to Lucretia, said, "Belle-mere, the time has arrived for you
to act; my part is wellnigh closed."

"Ay," said Lucretia, wearily, "what is the news you bring?"

"First," replied Varney, and as he spoke, he shut the window, as if his
whisper could possibly be heard without,--"first, all this business
connected with Helen is at length arranged.  You know when, agreeably to
your permission, I first suggested to her, as it were casually, that you
were so reduced in fortune that I trembled to regard your future; that
you had years ago sacrificed nearly half your pecuniary resources to
maintain her parents,--she of herself reminded me that she was entitled,
when of age, to a sum far exceeding all her wants, and--"

"That I might be a pensioner on the child of William Mainwaring and Susan
Mivers," interrupted Lucretia.  "I know that, and thank her not.  Pass
on."

"And you know, too, that in the course of my conversation with the girl I
let out also incidentally that, even so, you were dependent on the
chances of her life; that if she died (and youth itself is mortal) before
she was of age, the sum left her by her grandfather would revert to her
father's family; and so, by hints, I drew her on to ask if there was no
mode by which, in case of her death, she might insure subsistence to you.
So that you see the whole scheme was made at her own prompting.  I did
but, as a man of business, suggest the means,--an insurance on her life."

"Varney, these details are hateful.  I do not doubt that you have done
all to forestall inquiry and elude risk.  The girl has insured her life
to the amount of her fortune?"

"To that amount only?  Pooh!  Her death will buy more than that.  As no
one single office will insure for more than 5,000 pounds, and as it was
easy to persuade her that such offices were liable to failure, and that
it was usual to insure in several, and for a larger amount than the sum
desired, I got her to enter herself at three of the principal offices.
The amount paid to us on her death will be 15,000 pounds.  It will be
paid (and here I have followed the best legal advice) in trust to me for
your benefit.  Hence, therefore, even if our researches fail us, if no
son of yours can be found, with sufficient evidence to prove, against the
keen interests and bought advocates of heirs-at-law, the right to
Laughton, this girl will repay us well, will replace what I have taken,
at the risk of my neck, perhaps,--certainly at the risk of the hulks,--
from the capital of my uncle's legacy, will refund what we have spent on
the inquiry; and the residue will secure to you an independence sufficing
for your wants almost for life, and to me what will purchase with
economy," and Varney smiled, "a year or so of a gentleman's idle
pleasures.  Are you satisfied thus far?"

"She will die happy and innocent," muttered Lucretia, with the growl of
demoniac disappointment.

"Will you wait, then, till my forgery is detected, and I have no power to
buy the silence of the trustees,--wait till I am in prison, and on a
trial for life and death?  Reflect, every day, every hour, of delay is
fraught with peril.  But if my safety is nothing compared to the
refinement of your revenge, will you wait till Helen marries Percival St.
John?  You start!  But can you suppose that this innocent love-play will
not pass rapidly to its denouement?  It is but yesterday that Percival
confided to me that he should write this very day to his mother, and
communicate all his feelings and his hopes; that he waited but her assent
to propose formally for Helen.  Now one of two things must happen.
Either this mother, haughty and vain as lady-mothers mostly are, may
refuse consent to her son's marriage with the daughter of a disgraced
banker and the niece of that Lucretia Dalibard whom her husband would not
admit beneath his roof--"

"Hold, sir!" exclaimed Lucretia, haughtily; and amidst all the passions
that darkened her countenance and degraded her soul, some flash of her
ancestral spirit shot across her brow.  But it passed quickly, and she
added, with fierce composure, "You are right; go on!"

"Either-and pardon me for an insult that comes not from me--either this
will be the case: Lady Mary St. John will hasten back in alarm to London;
she exercises extraordinary control over her son; she may withdraw him
from us altogether, from me as well as you, and the occasion now
presented to us may be lost (who knows?) forever,--or she may be a weak
and fond woman; may be detained in Italy by her sister's illness; may be
anxious that the last lineal descendant of the St. Johns should marry
betimes, and, moved by her darling's prayers, may consent at once to the
union.  Or a third course, which Percival thinks the most probable, and
which, though most unwelcome to us of all, I had wellnigh forgotten, may
be adopted.  She may come to England, and in order to judge her son's
choice with her own eyes, may withdraw Helen from your roof to hers.  At
all events, delays are dangerous,--dangerous, putting aside my personal
interest, and regarding only your own object,--may bring to our acts new
and searching eyes; may cut us off from the habitual presence either of
Percival or Helen, or both; or surround them, at the first breath of
illness, with prying friends and formidable precautions.  The birds now
are in our hands.  Why then open the cage and bid them fly, in order to
spread the net?  This morning all the final documents with the Insurance
Companies are completed.  It remains for me but to pay the first
quarterly premiums.  For that I think I am prepared, without drawing
further on your hoards or my own scanty resources, which Grabman will
take care to drain fast enough."

"And Percival St. John?" said Madame Dalibard.  "We want no idle
sacrifices.  If my son be not found, we need not that boy's ghost amongst
those who haunt us."

"Surely not," said Varney; "and for my part, he may be more useful to me
alive than dead.  There is no insurance on his life, and a rich friend
(credulous greenhorn that he is!) is scarcely of that flock of geese
which it were wise to slay from the mere hope of a golden egg.  Percival
St. John is your victim, not mine; not till you give the order would I
lift a finger to harm him."

"Yes, let him live, unless my son be found to me," said Madame Dalibard,
almost exultingly,--"let him live to forget yon fair-faced fool, leaning
now, see you, so delightedly on his arm, and fancying eternity in the
hollow vows of love; let him live to wrong and abandon her by
forgetfulness, though even in the grave; to laugh at his boyish dreams,--
to sully her memory in the arms of harlots!  Oh, if the dead can suffer,
let him live, that she may feel beyond the grave his inconstancy and his
fall.  Methinks that that thought will comfort me if Vincent be no more,
and I stand childless in the world!"

"It is so settled, then," said Varney, ever ready to clinch the business
that promised gold, and relieve his apprehensions of the detection of his
fraud.  "And now to your noiseless hands, as soon as may be, I consign
the girl; she has lived long enough!"


CHAPTER XI.

LOVE AND INNOCENCE.

During this conference between these execrable and ravening birds of
night and prey, Helen and her boy-lover were thus conversing in the
garden; while the autumn sun--for it was in the second week of October--
broke pleasantly through the yellowing leaves of the tranquil shrubs, and
the flowers, which should have died with the gone summer, still fresh by
tender care, despite the lateness of the season, smiled gratefully as
their light footsteps passed.

"Yes, Helen," said Percival,--"yes, you will love my mother, for she is
one of those people who seem to attract love, as if it were a property
belonging to them.  Even my dog Beau (you know how fond Beau is of me!)
always nestles at her feet when we are at home.  I own she has pride, but
it is a pride that never offended any one.  You know there are some
flowers that we call proud.  The pride of the flower is not more harmless
than my mother's.  But perhaps pride is not the right word,--it is rather
the aversion to anything low or mean, the admiration for everything pure
and high.  Ah, how that very pride--if pride it be--will make her love
you, my Helen!"

"You need not tell me," said Helen, smiling seriously, "that I shall love
your mother,--I love her already; nay, from the first moment you said you
had a mother, my heart leaped to her.  Your mother,--if ever you are
really jealous, it must be of her!  But that she should love me,--that is
what I doubt and fear.  For if you were my brother, Percival, I should be
so ambitious for you.  A nymph must rise from the stream, a sylphid from
the rose, before I could allow another to steal you from my side.  And if
I think I should feel this only as your sister, what can be precious
enough to satisfy a mother?"

"You, and you only," answered Percival, with his blithesome laugh,--"you,
my sweet Helen, much better than nymph or sylphid, about whom, between
ourselves, I never cared three straws, even in a poem.  How pleased you
will be with Laughton!  Do you know, I was lying awake all last night to
consider what room you would like best for your own?  And at last I have
decided.  Come, listen,--it opens from the music-gallery that overhangs
the hall.  From the window you overlook the southern side of the park,
and catch a view of the lake beyond.  There are two niches in the wall,--
one for your piano, one for your favourite books.  It is just large
enough to hold four persons with ease,--our mother and myself, your aunt,
whom by that time we shall have petted into good humour; and if we can
coax Ardworth there,--the best good fellow that ever lived,--I think our
party will be complete.  By the way, I am uneasy about Ardworth, it is so
long since we have seen him; I have called three times,--nay, five,--but
his odd-looking clerk always swears he is not at home.  Tell me, Helen,
now you know him so well,--tell me how I can serve him?  You know, I am
so terribly rich (at least, I shall be in a month or two), I can never
get through my money, unless my friends will help me.  And is it not
shocking that that noble fellow should be so poor, and yet suffer me to
call him 'friend,' as if in friendship one man should want everything,
and the other nothing?  Still, I don't know how to venture to propose.
Come, you understand me, Helen; let us lay our wise heads together and
make him well off, in spite of himself."

It was in this loose boyish talk of Percival that he had found the way,
not only to Helen's heart, but to her soul.  For in this she (grand,
undeveloped poetess!) recognized a nobler poetry than we chain to
rhythm,--the poetry of generous deeds.  She yearned to kiss the warm hand
she held, and drew nearer to his side as she answered: "And sometimes,
dear, dear Percival, you wonder why I would rather listen to you than to
all Mr. Varney's bitter eloquence, or even to my dear cousin's aspiring
ambition.  They talk well, but it is of themselves; while you--"

Percival blushed, and checked her.

"Well," she said,--"well, to your question.  Alas! you know little of my
cousin if you think all our arts could decoy him out of his rugged
independence; and much as I love him, I could not wish it.  But do not
fear for him; he is one of those who are born to succeed, and without
help."

"How do you know that, pretty prophetess?" said Percival, with the
superior air of manhood.  "I have seen more of the world than you have,
and I cannot see why Ardworth should succeed, as you call it; or, if so,
why he should succeed less if he swung his hammock in a better berth than
that hole in Gray's Inn, and would just let me keep him a cab and groom."

Had Percival talked of keeping John Ardworth an elephant and a palaquin,
Helen could not have been more amused.  She clapped her little hands in a
delight that provoked Percival, and laughed out loud.  Then, seeing her
boy-lover's lip pouted petulantly, and his brow was overcast, she said,
more seriously,--

"Do you not know what it is to feel convinced of something which you
cannot explain?  Well, I feel this as to my cousin's fame and fortunes.
Surely, too, you must feel it, you scarce know why, when he speaks of
that future which seems so dim and so far to me, as of something that
belonged to him."

"Very true, Helen," said Percival; "he lays it out like the map of his
estate.  One can't laugh when he says so carelessly: 'At such an age I
shall lead my circuit; at such an age I shall be rich; at such an age I
shall enter parliament; and beyond that I shall look as yet--no farther.'
And, poor fellow, then he will be forty-three!  And in the mean while to
suffer such privations!"

"There are no privations to one who lives in the future," said Helen,
with that noble intuition into lofty natures which at times flashed from
her childish simplicity, foreshadowing what, if Heaven spare her life,
her maturer intellect may develop; "for Ardworth there is no such thing
as poverty.  He is as rich in his hopes as we are in--"  She stopped
short, blushed, and continued, with downcast looks: "As well might you
pity me in these walks, so dreary without you.  I do not live in them, I
live in my thoughts of you."

Her voice trembled with emotion in those last words.  She slid from
Percival's arm, and timidly sat down (and he beside her) on a little
mound under the single chestnut-tree, that threw its shade over the
garden.

Both were silent for some moments,--Percival, with grateful ecstasy;
Helen, with one of those sudden fits of mysterious melancholy to which
her nature was so subjected.

He was the first to speak.  "Helen," he said gravely, "since I have known
you, I feel as if life were a more solemn thing than I ever regarded it
before.  It seems to me as if a new and more arduous duty were added to
those for which I was prepared,--a duty, Helen, to become worthy of you!
Will you smile?  No, you will not smile if I say I have had my brief
moments of ambition.  Sometimes as a boy, with Plutarch in my hand,
stretched idly under the old cedar-trees at Laughton; sometimes as a
sailor, when, becalmed on the Atlantic, and my ears freshly filled with
tales of Collingwood and Nelson, I stole from my comrades and leaned
musingly over the boundless sea.  But when this ample heritage passed to
me, when I had no more my own fortunes to make, my own rank to build up,
such dreams became less and less frequent.  Is it not true that wealth
makes us contented to be obscure?  Yes; I understand, while I speak, why
poverty itself befriends, not cripples, Ardworth's energies.  But since I
have known you, dearest Helen, those dreams return more vividly than
ever.  He who claims you should be--must be--something nobler than the
crowd.  Suddenly he laughed out loud and said, "Well, that's the worst
dancing I have ever seen!"
The fairies were astonished and angry, and they all began to talk
at the same time.

"We have a man among us!" cried one.

"Let us hang him!" cried another.

"Cut his head off!" cried a third.

But the queen stepped out among them and said, "Leave him to me."
Then she called Donal to her.

Now Donal was a wee bit frightened, but he knew where to wear his
smile, you remember.

So he went up to the queen, smiling and bowing.

"You say our dancing is the worst you have ever seen," she said. "Now,
show us that you can do better."

Donal smiled again and bowed low.

Then he began to dance.

Such dancing the elves had never seen! They clapped their hands and made
him dance again and again. Finally, Donal was exhausted, and after
making a low bow to the queen, sat down on the ground.

The fairies crowded around him.

"Give him our silver!"

cried one.

"Make it gold!" cried another.

"Diamonds!" cried a third.

But the queen said, "Leave it to me."
She went up to the old, old elf who had been playing for the dance.
Taking his violin from him, she gave it to Donal. You see, the queen
knew the dearest wish of his heart.

Then Donal was a happy lad, indeed! He thanked the queen and went home
playing on his new violin.

II

There lived near Donal's home a lad named Conal. He was not such a fine
lad as Donal, nor such a gay one. He was a greedy lad, and the dearest
wish of his heart was to be rich. And he did not know where to wear his
smile. If he had one, he kept it in his pocket.

When Conal heard what had happened to Donal, he wished to know all about
it. So he went to him and said, "Donal, man, how did you get that beautiful
violin?"
Donal told the story backward and forward, and forward and backward, from
beginning to end, until Conal knew it by heart.

Then Conal said to himself, "I will go to the hollow tree and dance
for the elves; but I shall not be so foolish as Donal.

I will take their gold and silver, and their diamonds, too."

That night Conal went to the hollow tree and waited until the elves
appeared. Then he crept out and watched them dance. And he said, just as
Donal had, "Well, that's the worst dancing I have ever seen!"
The fairies were astonished and angry again, and again they all began
to talk at once.

"Another man among us!" cried one.

"Let us hang him!" cried another.

"Cut off his head!" cried a third.

But the queen said, "Leave it to me."
Then she called Conal to her.

Now Conal did not know where to wear his smile, you remember; he always
kept it in his pocket. So he went up to the queen with a very sour face.

The queen said to him, as she had to Donal, "You say our dancing is the
worst you have ever seen. Now, show us that you can do better."
Conal began to dance, and he could dance well.

The elves were delighted.
They clapped their hands and asked him to dance again, but he said
roughly, "No, that is enough. Do you expect me to dance all night?"
The elves were silent then, and the queen's face was stern. But she was a
just queen, and she said, "You have danced well. Will you have some of
our silver?"

"Yes," said Conal, without a word of thanks; and he filled his coat
pockets.

"Will you have gold?" asked the queen.

"Yes," said Conal greedily, as he filled the pockets in his trousers.

"Will you have some of our diamonds?"

the queen asked, and her face was dark with anger.

"Yes, yes," cried Conal.

"You shall not have them, you greedy lad!" cried the queen; "you shall
have nothing."
Just then a cloud passed across the moon, and the elves vanished.

"Oh, well," said Conal, "I have the gold and silver."
He plunged his hands into his pockets and lo! the gold and silver had
turned to stones. Then Conal went home a sadder and a wiser lad.

--IRISH TALE.

[Illustration: A bird singing]
WHO TOLD THE NEWS?

Oh, the sunshine told the bluebird, And the bluebird told the brook, That
the dandelions were peeping From the woodland's sheltered nook.

Then the brook was blithe and happy, And it babbled all the way, As it
ran to tell the river Of the coming of the May.

Soon the river told the meadow, And the meadow told the bee, That the
tender buds were swelling On the old horse-chestnut tree.

And the bee shook off its torpor, And it spread each gauzy wing, As it
flew to tell the flowers Of the coming of the spring.

THE BIRDS OF KILLINGWORTH
I

It was spring. The apple trees and the cherry trees were pink and white
with blossoms. They filled the air with fragrance.

The maples were red, and on the oak and poplar the buds were swelling.
The brooklets were rushing and leaping on toward the sea.

It was spring everywhere. The robin and the bluebird were piping sweetly
in the blossoming orchard. The sparrows were chirping, and hungry crows
were calling loudly for food. The farmers of Killingworth were plowing
the fields, and the broken clods, too, told of spring.

A farmer heard the cawing of the crows and the song of the birds.

He said, "Did one ever see so many birds?

Why, when we plant our seeds, these birds will take them all. When the
fruit ripens, they will destroy it.

I, for one, wish there were no birds, and I say kill them all."
Another farmer said, "Yes, let us call a meeting of the people of the
village and decide what is to be done with the pests."
The meeting was called, and all came: the squire, the preacher, the
teacher, and the farmers from the country round about.

Up rose the farmer who had said he wished there were no birds.

"Friends," he said, "the crows are about to take my field of corn.
I put up scarecrows, but the birds fly by them and seem to laugh at
them. The robins are as saucy as they can be. Soon they will eat all the
cherries we have.

I say kill all birds; they are a pest."
"So say I," said another farmer.

"And I," said another.

"And I," "And I," came from voices in every part of the hall.

The teacher arose and timidly said:

"My friends, you know not what you do. You would put to death the birds
that make sweet music for us in our dark hours: the thrush, the oriole,
the noisy jay, the bluebird, the meadow lark.

"You slay them all, and why?

Because they scratch up a little handful of wheat or corn, while searching
for worms or weevils.

"Do you never think who made them and who taught them their songs of love?
Think of your woods and orchards without birds!

"And, friends, would you rather have insects in the hay? You call the birds
thieves, but they guard your farms. They drive the enemy from your
cornfields and from your harvests.

"Even the blackest of them, the crow, does good. He crushes the beetle
and wages war on the slug and the snail.

"And, what is more, how can I teach your children gentleness and mercy when
you contradict the very thing I teach?"
But the farmers only shook their heads and laughed. "What does the
teacher know of such things?" they asked. And they passed a law to have
the birds killed.

So the dreadful war on birds began. They fell down dead, with bloodstains
on their breasts. Some fluttered, wounded, away from the sight of man,
while the young died of starvation in the nests.

II

The summer came, and all the birds were dead. The days were like hot
coals. In the orchards hundreds of caterpillars fed. In the fields and
gardens hundreds of insects of every kind crawled, finding no foe
to check them.

At last the whole land was like a desert.

From the trees caterpillars dropped down upon the women's bonnets, and
they screamed and ran. At every door, the women gathered and talked.

"What will become of us?" asked one. "The men were wrong,--something must
be done."
"The teacher was right," said another.

At last, the farmers grew ashamed of having killed the birds. They met
and did away with the wicked law, but it was too late.

[Illustration: The wagon filled with branches and cages]
Harvest time came, but there was no harvest. In many a home there was
want and sorrow.

The next spring a strange sight was seen--a sight never seen before or
since. Through the streets there went a wagon filled with great branches
of trees. Upon them were hung cages of birds that were making sweet
music.

From all the country round these birds had been brought by order of the
farmers. The cages were opened, and once more the woods and
fields were filled with the beautiful birds, who flew about singing their
songs of joy. And again the harvests grew in the fields and filled to
overflowing the farmers' barns.

--_Adapted from_ LONGFELLOW.

THE TRAILING ARBUTUS
I

Many, many moons ago, in a lodge in a forest, there lived an old man.
His hair was white as the snowdrift. All the world was winter; snow and
ice were everywhere, and the old man wore heavy furs.

The winds went wildly through the forest searching every bush and
tree for birds to chill.

The old man looked in vain in the deep snow for pieces of wood to keep
up the fire in his lodge.

Then he sat down by his dull and low fire.

Shaking and trembling he sat there, hearing nothing but the tempest
as it roared through the forest, seeing nothing but the snowstorm
as it whirled and hissed and drifted.

All the coals became white with ashes, and the fire was slowly dying.

Suddenly the wind blew aside the door of the lodge, and there came
in a most beautiful maiden.

Her cheeks were like the wild rose, her eyes were soft and glowed like the
stars in springtime; and her hair was as brown as October's nuts.

Her dress was of ferns and sweet grasses, her moccasins were of white
lilies, on her head was a wreath of wild flowers, and in her hands
were beautiful blossoms. When she breathed, the air became warm and
fragrant.

"Ah, my daughter," exclaimed the old man. "Happy are my eyes to see you.
Sit here on the mat beside me; sit here by the dying embers. Tell me
of your strange adventures, and I will tell you of my deeds of
wonder."
From his pouch he drew his peace pipe, very old and strangely fashioned.

He filled the pipe with bark of willow, and placed a burning coal upon
it.

Then he said, "I am Manito, the Mighty. When I blow my breath about me,
the rivers become motionless and the waters hard as stone."
The maiden smiling said, "When I blow my breath about me, flowers spring
up over all the meadows. And all the rivers rush onward, singing songs
of joy."
"When I shake my hoary tresses," said the old man, darkly frowning,
"all the ground is covered with snow. All the leaves fade and
wither."
"When I shake my flowing ringlets," said the maiden, "the warm rains fall
over all the land."
Then proudly the old man replied, "When I walk through the forest,
everything flees before me. The animals hide in their holes. The
birds rise from the lakes and the marshes, and fly to distant
regions."
Softly the maiden answered, "When I walk through the forest, all
is bright and joyous. The animals come from their holes. The birds
return to the lakes and marshes. The leaves come back to the trees.
The plants lift up their heads to kiss the breezes. And where-ever
my footsteps wander, all the meadows wave their blossoms, all the
woodlands ring with music." 

II
While they talked, the night departed. From his shining lodge of
silver came the sun. The air was warm and pleasant; the streams
began to murmur; the birds began to sing. And a scent of growing
grasses was wafted through the lodge.
The old man's face dropped upon his breast, and he slept. Then the
maiden saw more clearly the icy face before her--saw the icy face
of winter.
Slowly she passed her hands above his head. Streams of water ran
from his eyes, and his body shrunk and dwindled till it faded into
the air--vanished into the earth--and his clothing turned to green
leaves.
The maiden took from her bosom the most precious flowers. Kneeling
upon the ground, she hid them all about among the leaves.
[Illustration: The maiden hides the flowers among the leaves]
"I give you my most precious flowers and my sweetest breath," she
said, "but all who would pluck you must do so upon bended knee."

Then the maiden moved away--through the forest and over the waking
fields; and wherever she stepped, and nowhere else in all the land,
grows the trailing arbutus.

--INDIAN LEGEND.

HIDDEN TREASURE
I
Once upon a time there was an old farmer named John Jacobs. He had
heard that treasures were found in odd places. He thought and thought
about such treasures until he could think of nothing else; and he
spent all his time hunting for them. How he wished he could find a
pot of gold!
One morning he arose with a bright face and said to his wife, "At
last, Mary, I've found the treasure."
"No, I cannot believe it," she said.
"Yes," he answered; "at least it is as good as found. I am only
waiting until I have my breakfast. Then I will go out and bring it
in." 
"Oh, how did you find it?" asked the wife.
"I was told about it in a dream," said he.

"Where is it?"
"Under a tree in our orchard," said John.
"Oh, John, let us hurry and get it."
So they went out together into the orchard.
"Which tree is it under?" asked the wife.
John scratched his head and looked silly.
"I really do not know," he said.
"Oh, you foolish man," said the wife. "Why didn't you take the
trouble to notice?"
"I did notice," said he. "I saw the exact tree in my dream, but
there are so many trees, here that I am confused. There is only one
thing to do now. I must begin with the first tree and keep on digging
until I come to the one with the treasure under it."
This made the wife lose all hope. There were eighty apple trees and
a score of peach trees.
She sighed and said, "I suppose if you must, you must, but be careful
not to cut any of the roots."
By this time John was in a very bad humor. He went to work saying,
"What difference does it make if I cut all the roots? The whole
orchard will not bear one bushel of good apples or peaches. I don't
know why, for in father's time it bore wagonloads of choice fruit."

"Well, John," said his wife, "you know father used to give the trees
a great deal of attention."
But John grumbled to himself as he went on with his digging. He dug
three feet deep around the first tree, but no treasure was there.
He went to the next tree, but found nothing; then to the next and
the next, until he had dug around every tree in the orchard. He dug
and dug, but no pot of gold did he find.

II
The neighbors thought that John was acting queerly. They told other
people, who came to see what he was doing.
They would sit on the fence and make sly jokes about digging for
hidden treasure. They called the orchard "Jacobs' folly."
Soon John did not like to be seen in the orchard. He did not like
to meet his neighbors. They would laugh and say, "Well, John, how
much money did you get from the holes?"
This made John angry. At last he said, "I will sell the place and
move away."
"Oh, no," said the wife, "this has always been our home, and I
cannot think of leaving it. Go and fill the holes; then the neighbors
will stop laughing. Perhaps we shall have a little fruit this year,
too. The heaps of earth have stood in wind and frost for months,
and that will help the trees."
John did as his wife told him. He filled the holes with earth and
smoothed it over as level as before. By and by everybody forgot
"Jacobs' folly."
Soon the spring came. April was warm, and the trees burst into
bloom.
"Mary," said John one bright spring day, "don't you think the
blossoms are finer than usual this year?"
"Yes, they look as they did when your father was alive," said his
wife.

[Illustration: John's trees full of fruit]
By and by, the blooms fell, leaving a million little green apples
and peaches. Summer passed and autumn followed. The branches of the
old trees could hardly hold up all the fine fruit on them.
Now the neighbors came, not to make fun, but to praise. "How did
you do it?" they asked.
"The trees were old and needed attention," said John. "By turning
the soil and letting in the air, I gave them strength to bear fruit.
I have found the treasure after all, and I have learned a lesson.
Tilling the soil well is the way to get treasure from it."
--GRIMM.

THE LITTLE BROWN BROTHER
Little brown brother, oh! little brown brother, Are you awake in
the dark?
Here we lie cozily, close to each other; Hark to the song of the
lark--
"Waken!" the lark says, "waken and dress you; Put on your green
coats and gay, Blue sky will shine on you, sunshine caress you--
Waken! 'tis morning--'tis May!"
Little brown brother, oh! little brown brother, What kind of flower
will you be?
I'll be a poppy--all white, like my mother; Do be a poppy like
me.
What! you're a sunflower? How I shall miss you When you're grown
golden and high!
But I shall send all the bees up to kiss you; Little brown brother,
good-by!

--EMILY NESBIT.

HOW THE FLOWERS GROW
This is how the flowers grow; I have watched them and I know:
First, above the ground is seen A tiny blade of purest green,
Reaching up and peeping forth East and west, and south and north.
Then the sunbeams find their way To the sleeping bud and say, "We
are children of the sun Sent to wake thee, little one."So be it with the fantasy of
each!  Wisdom that is infallible, and love that never sleeps, watch over
the darkness, and bid darkness be, that we may dream!

"Alas!" said the young listener, "what reproof do you not convey to
those, like me, who, devoid of the power which gives results to every
toil, have little left to them in life, but to idle life away.  All have
not the gift to write, or harangue, or speculate, or--"

"Friend," interrupted Ardworth, bluntly, "do not belie yourself.  There
lives not a man on earth--out of a lunatic asylum--who has not in him the
power to do good.  What can writers, haranguers, or speculators do more
than that?  Have you ever entered a cottage, ever travelled in a coach,
ever talked with a peasant in the field, or loitered with a mechanic at
the loom, and not found that each of those men had a talent you had not,
knew some things you knew not?  The most useless creature that ever
yawned at a club, or counted the vermin on his rags under the suns of
Calabria, has no excuse for want of intellect.  What men want is not
talent, it is purpose,--in other words, not the power to achieve, but the
will to labour.  You, Percival St. John,--you affect to despond, lest you
should not have your uses; you, with that fresh, warm heart; you, with
that pure enthusiasm for what is fresh and good; you, who can even admire
a thing like Varney, because, through the tawdry man, you recognize art
and skill, even though wasted in spoiling canvas; you, who have only to
live as you feel, in order to diffuse blessings all around you,--fie,
foolish boy! you will own your error when I tell you why I come from my
rooms at Gray's Inn to see the walls in which Hampden, a plain country
squire like you, shook with plain words the tyranny of eight hundred
years."

"Ardworth, I will not wait your time to tell me what took you yonder.  I
have penetrated a secret that you, not kindly, kept from me.  This
morning you rose and found yourself famous; this evening you have come to
gaze upon the scene of the career to which that fame will more rapidly
conduct you--"

"And upon the tomb which the proudest ambition I can form on earth must
content itself to win!  A poor conclusion, if all ended here!"

"I am right, however," said Percival, with boyish pleasure.  "It is you
whose praises have just filled my ears.  You, dear, dear Ardworth!  How
rejoiced I am!"

Ardworth pressed heartily the hand extended to him: "I should have
trusted you with my secret to-morrow, Percival; as it is, keep it for the
present.  A craving of my nature has been satisfied, a grief has found
distraction.  As for the rest, any child that throws a stone into the
water with all his force can make a splash; but he would be a fool indeed
if he supposed that the splash was a sign that he had turned a stream."

Here Ardworth ceased abruptly; and Percival, engrossed by a bright idea,
which had suddenly occurred to him, exclaimed,--

"Ardworth, your desire, your ambition, is to enter parliament; there must
be a dissolution shortly,--the success of your book will render you
acceptable to many a popular constituency.  All you can want is a sum for
the necessary expenses.  Borrow that sum from me; repay me when you are
in the Cabinet, or attorney-general.  It shall be so!"

A look so bright that even by that dull lamplight the glow of the cheek,
the brilliancy of the eye were visible, flashed over Ardworth's face.  He
felt at that moment what ambitious man must feel when the object he has
seen dimly and afar is placed within his grasp; but his reason was proof
even against that strong temptation.

He passed his arm round the boy's slender waist, and drew him to his
heart with grateful affection as he replied,--"And what, if now in
parliament, giving up my career,--with no regular means of subsistence,--
what could I be but a venal adventurer?  Place would become so vitally
necessary to me that I should feed but a dangerous war between my
conscience and my wants.  In chasing Fame, the shadow, I should lose the
substance, Independence.  Why, that very thought would paralyze my
tongue.  No, no, my generous friend.  As labour is the arch elevator of
man, so patience is the essence of labour.  First let me build the
foundation; I may then calculate the height of my tower.  First let me be
independent of the great; I will then be the champion of the lowly.
Hold!  Tempt me no more; do not lure me to the loss of self-esteem.  And
now, Percival," resumed Ardworth, in the tone of one who wishes to plunge
into some utterly new current of thought, "let us forget for awhile these
solemn aspirations, and be frolicsome and human.  'Nemo mortalium omnibus
horis sapit.'  'Neque semper arcum tendit Apollo.'  What say you to a
cigar?"

Percival stared.  He was not yet familiarized to the eccentric whims of
his friend.

"Hot negus and a cigar!" repeated Ardworth, while a smile, full of
drollery, played round the corners of his lips and twinkled in his deep-
set eyes.

"Are you serious?"

"Not serious; I have been serious enough," and Ardworth sighed, "for the
last three weeks.  Who goes 'to Corinth to be sage,' or to the Cider
Cellar to be serious?"

"I subscribe, then, to the negus and cigar," said Percival, smiling; and
he had no cause to repent his compliance as he accompanied Ardworth to
one of the resorts favoured by that strange person in his rare hours of
relaxation.

For, seated at his favourite table, which happened, luckily, to be
vacant, with his head thrown carelessly back, and his negus steaming
before him, John Ardworth continued to pour forth, till the clock struck
three, jest upon jest, pun upon pun, broad drollery upon broad drollery,
without flagging, without intermission, so varied, so copious, so ready,
so irresistible that Percival was transported out of all his melancholy
in enjoying, for the first time in his life, the exuberant gayety of a
grave mind once set free,--all its intellect sparkling into wit, all its
passion rushing into humour.  And this was the man he had pitied,
supposed to have no sunny side to his life!  How much greater had been
his compassion and his wonder if he could have known all that had passed,
within the last few weeks, through that gloomy, yet silent breast, which,
by the very breadth of its mirth, showed what must be the depth of its
sadness!


CHAPTER XIII.

THE LOSS OF THE CROSSING.

Despite the lateness of the hour before he got to rest, Percival had
already breakfasted, when his valet informed him, with raised,
supercilious eyebrows, that an uncommon ragged sort of a person insisted
that he had been told to call.  Though Beck had been at the house before,
and the valet had admitted him, so much thinner, so much more ragged was
he now, that the trim servant--no close observer of such folk--did not
recognize him.  However, at Percival's order, too well-bred to show
surprise, he ushered Beck up with much civility; and St. John was
painfully struck with the ravages a few weeks had made upon the sweeper's
countenance.  The lines were so deeply ploughed, the dry hair looked so
thin, and was so sown with gray that Beck might have beat all Farren's
skill in the part of an old man.

The poor sweeper's tale, extricated from its peculiar phraseology, was
simple enough, and soon told.  He had returned home at night to find his
hoards stolen, and the labour of his life overthrown.  How he passed that
night he did not very well remember.  We may well suppose that the little
reason he possessed was wellnigh bereft from him.  No suspicion of the
exact thief crossed his perturbed mind.  Bad as Grabman's character might
be, he held a respectable position compared with the other lodgers in the
house.  Bill the cracksman, naturally and by vocation, suggested the hand
that had despoiled him: how hope for redress or extort surrender from
such a quarter?  Mechanically, however, when the hour arrived to return
to his day's task, he stole down the stairs, and lo, at the very door of
the house Bill's children were at play, and in the hand of the eldest he
recognized what he called his "curril."

"Your curril!" interrupted St. John.

"Yes, curril,--vot the little 'uns bite afore they gets their teethin'."

St. John smiled, and supposing that Beck had some time or other been
puerile enough to purchase such a bauble, nodded to him to continue.  To
seize upon the urchin, and, in spite of kicks, bites, shrieks, or
scratches, repossess himself of his treasure, was the feat of a moment.
The brat's clamour drew out the father; and to him Beck (pocketing the
coral, that its golden bells might not attract the more experienced eye
and influence the more formidable greediness of the paternal thief)
loudly, and at first fearlessly, appealed.  Him he charged and accused
and threatened with all vengeance, human and divine.  Then, changing his
tone, he implored, he wept, he knelt.  As soon as the startled cracksman
recovered his astonishment at such audacity, and comprehended the nature
of the charge against himself and his family, he felt the more indignant
from a strange and unfamiliar consciousness of innocence.  Seizing Beck
by the nape of the neck, with a dexterous application of hand and foot he
sent him spinning into the kennel.

"Go to Jericho, mud-scraper!" cried Bill, in a voice of thunder; "and if
ever thou sayst such a vopper agin,--'sparaging the characters of them
'ere motherless babes,--I'll seal thee up in a 'tato-sack, and sell thee
for fiv'pence to No. 7, the great body-snatcher.  Take care how I ever
sets eyes agin on thy h-ugly mug!"

With that Bill clapped to the door, and Beck, frightened out of his wits,
crawled from the kennel and, bruised and smarting, crept to his crossing.
But he was unable to discharge his duties that day; his ill-fed,
miserable frame was too weak for the stroke he had received.  Long before
dusk he sneaked away, and dreading to return to his lodging, lest, since
nothing now was left worth robbing but his carcass, Bill might keep his
word and sell that to the body-snatcher, he took refuge under the only
roof where he felt he could sleep in safety.

And here we must pause to explain.  In our first introduction of Beck we
contented ourselves with implying to the ingenious and practised reader
that his heart might still be large enough to hold something besides his
crossing.  Now, in one of the small alleys that have their vent in the
great stream of Fleet Street there dwelt an old widow-woman who eked out
her existence by charing,--an industrious, drudging creature, whose sole
occupation, since her husband, the journeyman bricklayer, fell from a
scaffold, and, breaking his neck, left her happily childless as well as
penniless, had been scrubbing stone floors and cleaning out dingy houses
when about to be let,--charing, in a word.  And in this vocation had she
kept body and soul together till a bad rheumatism and old age had put an
end to her utilities and entitled her to the receipt of two shillings
weekly from parochial munificence.  Between this old woman and Beck there
was a mysterious tie, so mysterious that he did not well comprehend it
himself.  Sometimes he called her "mammy," sometimes "the h-old crittur."
But certain it is that to her he was indebted for that name which he
bore, to the puzzlement of St. Giles's.  Becky Carruthers was the name of
the old woman; but Becky was one of those good creatures who are always
called by their Christian names, and never rise into the importance of
the surname and the dignity of "Mistress;" lopping off the last syllable
of the familiar appellation, the outcast christened himself "Beck."

"And," said St. John, who in the course of question and answer had got
thus far into the marrow of the sweeper's narrative, "is not this good
woman really your mother?"

"Mother!" echoed Beck, with disdain; "no, I 'as a gritter mother nor she.
Sint Poll's is my mother.  But the h-old crittur tuk care on me."

"I really don't understand you.  St. Paul's is your mother?  How?"

Beck shook his head mysteriously, and without answering the question,
resumed the tale, which we must thus paraphrastically continue to
deliver.

When he was a little more than six years old, Beck began to earn his own
livelihood, by running errands, holding horses, scraping together pence
and halfpence.  Betimes, his passion for saving began; at first with a
good and unselfish motive,--that of surprising "mammy" at the week's end.
But when "mammy," who then gained enough for herself, patted his head and
called him "good boy," and bade him save for his own uses, and told him
what a great thing it would be if he could lay by a pretty penny against
he was a man, he turned miser on his own account; and the miserable
luxury grew upon him.  At last, by the permission of the police
inspector, strengthened by that of the owner of the contiguous house, he
made his great step in life, and succeeded a deceased negro in the
dignity and emoluments of the memorable crossing.  From that hour he felt
himself fulfilling his proper destiny.  But poor Becky, alas! had already
fallen into the sere and yellow leaf; with her decline, her good
qualities were impaired.  She took to drinking,--not to positive
intoxication, but to making herself "comfortable;" and, to satisfy her
craving, Beck, waking betimes one morning, saw her emptying his pockets.
Then he resolved, quietly and without upbraiding her, to remove to a
safer lodging.  To save had become the imperative necessity of his
existence.  But to do him justice, Beck had a glimmering sense of what
was due to the "h-old crittur."  Every Saturday evening he called at her
house and deposited with her a certain sum, not large even in proportion
to his earnings, but which seemed to the poor ignorant miser, who grudged
every farthing to himself, an enormous deduction from his total, and a
sum sufficient for every possible want of humankind, even to satiety.
And now, in returning, despoiled of all save the few pence he had
collected that day, it is but fair to him to add that not his least
bitter pang was in the remembrance that this was the only Saturday on
which, for the first time, the weekly stipend would fail.

But so ill and so wretched did he look when he reached her little room
that "mammy" forgot all thought of herself; and when he had told his
tale, so kind was her comforting, so unselfish her sympathy, that his
heart smote him for his old parsimony, for his hard resentment at her
single act of peculation.  Had not she the right to all he made?  But
remorse and grief alike soon vanished in the fever that now seized him;
for several days he was insensible; and when he recovered sufficiently to
be made aware of what was around him, he saw the widow seated beside him,
within four bare walls.  Everything, except the bed he slept on, had been
sold to support him in his illness.  As soon as he could totter forth,
Beck hastened to his crossing.  Alas! it was preoccupied.  His absence
had led to ambitious usurpation.  A one-legged, sturdy sailor had mounted
his throne, and wielded his sceptre.  The decorum of the street forbade
altercation to the contending parties; but the sailor referred discussion
to a meeting at a flash house in the Rookery that evening.  There a jury
was appointed, and the case opened.  By the conventional laws that
regulate this useful community, Beck was still in his rights; his
reappearance sufficed to restore his claims, and an appeal to the
policeman would no doubt re-establish his authority.  "After all that I
have suffered, I am at last made into beautiful linen.
How strong and fine I am, and how long and white! This is even better than
being a plant bearing flowers. I have never been happier than I am
now."
After some time the linen was cut into pieces and sewed with needles.
That was not pleasant; but at last there were twelve pretty white
aprons.

"See," said the flax, "I have been made into something. Now I shall be
of some use in the world. That is the only way to be happy."

II

Years passed by, and the linen was so worn that it could hardly hold
together.

"The end must come soon," said the flax.

At last the linen did fall into rags and tatters; it was torn into
shreds and boiled in water. The flax thought the end had come.

But no, the end was not yet.

After being made into pulp and dried, the flax became beautiful white
paper.

"This is a surprise, a glorious surprise," it said.

"I am finer than ever, and I shall have fine things written on me. How
happy I am!"
And sure enough, the most beautiful stories and verses were written upon
it. People read the stories and verses, and they were made wiser
and better.

Their children and their children's children read them, too, and so the
song was not ended.

--HANS CHRISTIAN ANDERSEN.

[Illustration: Girl reading a book]

THE WONDERFUL WORLD

Great, wide, beautiful, wonderful World, With the wonderful water round
you curled, And the wonderful grass upon your breast, World, you
are beautifully drest.

The wonderful air is over me, And the wonderful wind is shaking the
tree-- It walks on the water, and whirls the mills, And talks to
itself on the top of the hills.

You friendly Earth, how far do you go, With the wheat-fields that
nod and the rivers that flow, With cities and gardens, and cliffs
and isles, And people upon you for thousands of miles?

Ah! you are so great, and I am so small, I hardly can think of you, World,
at all; And yet, when I said my prayers to-day, A whisper within
me seemed to say, "You are more than the Earth, though you are such
a dot!

You can love and think, and the Earth cannot!"
--William Brighty Rands.

[Illustration: The Hillman at the housewife's door]
THE HILLMAN AND THE HOUSEWIFE

As every one knows, fairies are always just. They are kind to others,
and in return they expect others to be kind to them. In some countries
across the sea there are fairies called Hillmen.

Now, there once lived a certain housewife who liked to make bargains.
She gave away only those things for which she had no use, and then
expected always to get something in return.

One day a Hillman knocked at her door.

"Can you lend us a saucepan?" he asked. "There's a wedding on the hill,
and all the pots are in use."
"Is he to have one?" whispered the servant who opened the door.

"Aye, to be sure," answered the housewife; "one must be neighborly.
Get the saucepan for him, lass."
The maid turned to take a good saucepan from the shelf, but the housewife
stopped her.

"Not that, not that," she whispered. "Get the old one out of the cupboard.
It leaks, but that doesn't matter. The Hillmen are so neat and are such
nimble workers that they are sure to mend it before they send it
home. I can oblige the fairies and save sixpence in tinkering,
too."

The maid brought the old saucepan that had been laid by until the tinker's
next visit, and gave it to the Hillman. He thanked her and went away.

When the saucepan was returned, it had been neatly mended, just as the
housewife thought it would be.

At night the maid filled the pan with milk and set it on the fire
to heat for the children's supper.

In a few moments the milk was so smoked and burnt that no one would touch
it. Even the pigs refused to drink it.

"Ah, you good-for-nothing!" cried the housewife. "There's a quart of milk
wasted at once."
"And that's twopence," cried a queer little voice that seemed to
come from the chimney.

The housewife filled the saucepan again and set it over the fire. It
had not been there more than two minutes before it boiled over and was
burnt and smoked as before.

"The pan must be dirty," muttered the woman, who was very much vexed.
"Two full quarts of milk have been wasted."

"And that's fourpence!" added the queer little voice from the chimney.

The saucepan was scoured; then it was filled with milk the third time
and set over the fire. Again the milk boiled over and was spoiled.

Now the housewife was quite vexed. "I have never had anything like this
to happen since I first kept house," she exclaimed. "Three quarts of milk
wasted!"

"And that's sixpence," cried the queer little voice from the
chimney.

"You didn't save the tinkering after all, mother!"
With that the Hillman himself came tumbling from the chimney and
ran off laughing.

But from that time, the saucepan was as good as any other.

--JULIANA H. EWING.

[Illustration: The Hillman running off from the fire]

[Illustration: The Elf and the Dormouse under the toadstool]
THE ELF AND THE DORMOUSE

Under a toad stool Crept a wee Elf, Out of the rain To shelter
himself.

Under the toad stool Sound asleep, Sat a big Dormouse All in a heap.

Trembled the wee Elf Frightened, and yet Fearing to fly away Lest he get
wet.

To the next shelter-- Maybe a mile!
Sudden the wee Elf Smiled a wee smile;
Tugged till the toad stool Toppled in two; Holding it over him, Gayly he
flew.

Soon he was safe home, Dry as could be.
Soon woke the Dormouse-- "Good gracious me!

"Where is my toad stool?" Loud he lamented.
And that's how umbrellas First were invented.

--OLIVER HERFORD.

[Illustration: The elf flying away with the toadstool as the Dormouse
watches]

THE BELL OF ATRI
I

Good King John of Atri loved his people very much and wished to see them
happy. He knew, however, that some were not; he knew that many suffered
wrongs which were not righted. This made him sad.

One day the king thought of a way to help his people. He had a great bell
hung in a tower in the market place. He had the rope made so long that a
child could reach it.

Then the king sent heralds through the streets to tell the people why
he had put the bell in the market place. The heralds blew their trumpets
long and loud, and the people came from their homes to hear the message.

"Know ye," cried a herald, "that whenever a wrong is done to any man, he
has but to ring the great bell in the square. A judge will go to the tower
to hear the complaint, and he will see that justice is done."
"Long live our good king!" shouted the people. "Now our wrongs shall be
righted."
And so it was. Whenever anyone was wronged, he rang the bell in the
tower. The judge put on his rich robes and went there. He listened to
the complaint, and the guilty were punished.

The people in Atri were now very happy, and the days went swiftly by.

The bell hung in its place year after year, and it was rung many
times.
By and by the rope became so worn that one could scarcely reach it.

The king said, "Why, a child could not reach the rope now, and a wrong
might not be righted. I must put in a new one."
So he ordered a rope from a distant town. In those days it took a long
time to travel from one town to another. What should they do if somebody
wished to ring the bell before the new rope came?

"We must mend the rope in some way," said a man.

"Here," said another; "take this piece of grapevine and fasten it to the
rope. Then it will be long enough for any one to reach."
This was done, and for some time the bell was rung in that way.

II

One hot summer noon everything was very still. All the people were
indoors taking their noonday rest.

Suddenly they were awakened by the arousing bell:

Some one--hath done--a wrong, Hath done--a wrong!
Hath done--a wrong!

The judge started from a deep sleep, turned on his couch, and
listened.
                       Could it be the bell of justice?

Again the sound came:

Some one--hath done--a wrong!
Hath done--a wrong!

Hath done--a wrong!

It was the bell of justice. The judge put on his rich robes and, panting,
hurried to the market place.

There he saw a strange sight: a poor steed, starved and thin, tugging
at the vines which were fastened to the bell. A great crowd had gathered
around.

"Whose horse is this?" the judge asked.

"It is the horse of the rich soldier who lives in the castle," said a
man. "He has served his master long and well, and has saved his
life many times. Now that the horse is too old to work, the master turns
him out. He wanders through the lanes and fields, picking up such food as
can be found."
"His call for justice shall be heard," said the judge. "Bring the soldier
to me."
The soldier tried to treat the matter as a jest. Then he grew angry and
said in an undertone, "One can surely do what he pleases with his
own."

[Illustration: The judge sees the horse in the market place]
"For shame!" cried the judge. "Has the horse not served you for many
years? And has he not saved your life? You must build a good shelter for
him, and give him the best grain and the best pasture. Take the horse
home and be as true to him as he has been to you."
The soldier hung his head in shame and led the horse away. The people
shouted and applauded.

"Great is King John," they cried, "and great the bell of Atri!"
--ITALIAN TALE.

A DUMB WITNESS

One day at noontime a poor man was riding along a road. He was tired and
hungry, and wished to stop and rest.

Finding a tree with low branches, he tied his horse to one of them. Then
he sat down to eat his dinner.

Soon a rich man came along and started to tie his horse to the same
tree.

"Do not fasten your horse to that tree," cried the poor man.

"My horse is savage and he may kill yours. Fasten him to another tree."

"I shall tie my horse where I wish," the rich man replied; and he tied his
horse to the same tree.

Then he, too, sat down to eat.

Very soon the men heard a great noise.

They looked up and saw that their horses were kicking and fighting.
Both men rushed to stop them, but it was too late; the rich man's horse
was dead.

"See what your horse has done!" cried the rich man in an angry voice.
"But you shall pay for it! You shall pay for it!"
Then he dragged the man before a judge.

"Oh, wise judge," he cried, "I have come to you for justice. I had a
beautiful, kind, gentle horse which has been killed by this
man's savage horse. Make the man pay for the horse or send him to prison."

"Not so fast, my friend," the judge said. "There are two sides to every
case."
He turned to the poor man. "Did your horse kill this man's horse?" he
asked.

The poor man made no reply.

The judge asked in surprise, "Are you dumb? Can you not talk?"
But no word came from the poor man's lips.

Then the judge turned to the rich man.

"What more can I do?" he asked. "You see for yourself this poor man cannot
speak."

"Oh, but he can," cried the rich man. "He spoke to me."
"Indeed!" said the judge. "When?"
"He spoke to me when I tied my horse to the tree."
"What did he say?" asked the judge.

"He said, 'Do not fasten your horse to that tree. My horse is savage
and may kill yours.'"
"0 ho!" said the judge. "This poor man warned you that his horse was
savage, and you tied your horse near his after the warning. This puts a
new light on the matter. You are to blame, not he."
The judge turned to the poor man and said, "My man, why did you not answer
my questions?"
"Oh, wise judge," said the poor man, "if I had told you that I
warned him not to tie his horse near mine, he would have denied it.

Then how could you have told which one of us to believe? I let him tell his
own story, and you have learned the truth."
This speech pleased the judge.

He praised the poor man for his wisdom, and sent the rich man away without
a penny.

--ARABIAN TALE.

[Illustration: Workers leaving a reaped field]
GIVING THANKS

For the hay and the corn and the wheat that is reaped, For the labor well
done, and the barns that are heaped, For the sun and the dew and
the sweet honeycomb, For the rose and the song, and the harvest
brought home-- Thanksgiving!

Thanksgiving!

[Illustration: A house]
For the trade and the skill and the wealth in our land, For the cunning
and strength of the working-man's hand, For the good that our artists and
poets have taught, For the friendship that hope and affection have
brought-- Thanksgiving! Thanksgiving!

For the homes that with purest affection are blest, For the season
of plenty and well-deserved rest, For our country extending from
sea to sea, The land that is known as "The Land of the Free"--
Thanksgiving!

Thanksgiving!

THE HARE AND THE HEDGEHOG
I

PLACE: A farmer's cabbage field.

TIME: A fine morning in spring.

(The hedgehog is standing by his door looking at the cabbage field which
he thinks is his own.)

HEDGEHOG: Wife, have you dressed the children yet?

WIFE: Just through, my dear.

HEDGEHOG: Well, come out here and let us look at our cabbage
patch.

(Wife comes out.)
HEDGEHOG: Fine crop, isn't it? We should be happy.
WIFE: The cabbage is fine enough, but I can't see why we should be
so happy.
[Illustration: The hare and the hedgehog with a cabbage]
HEDGEHOG: Why, my dear, there are tears in your voice. What is the
matter?
WIFE: I suppose I ought not to mind it, but those dreadful hares
nearly worry the life out of me.
HEDGEHOG: What are they doing now?
WIFE: Doing? What are they not doing? Why, yesterday I brought my
pretty babies out here to get some cabbage leaves. We were eating
as well-behaved hedgehogs always eat, and those horrid hares almost
made us cry.

HEDGEHOG: What did they do?
WIFE: They came to our cabbage patch and they giggled and said,
"Oh, see the little duck-legged things! Aren't they funny?" Then
one jumped over a cabbage just to hurt our feelings.
HEDGEHOG: Well, they are mean, I know, but we won't notice them.
I'll get even with them one of these days. Ah, there comes one of
them now.
WIFE: Yes, and he laughed at me yesterday. He said, "Good-morning,
Madam Shortlegs." I won't speak to him. I'll hide till he goes
by.

(Wife hides behind a cabbage.)
HEDGEHOG: Good-morning, sir.

HARE: Are you speaking to me?
HEDGEHOG: Certainly; do you see any one else around?
HARE: How dare you speak to me?
HEDGEHOG: Oh, just to be neighborly.
HARE: I shall ask you not to speak to me hereafter. I think myself
too good to notice hedgehogs.

HEDGEHOG: Now, that is strange.
HARE: What is strange?
HEDGEHOG: Why, I have just said to my wife that we wouldn't notice
you.
HARE: Wouldn't notice me, indeed, you silly, short-legged, duck-legged
thing!

HEDGEHOG: Well, my legs are quite as good as yours, sir.
HARE: As good as mine! Who ever heard of such a thing? Why, you can
do little more than crawl.
HEDGEHOG: That may be as you say, but I'll run a race with you any
day.
HARE: Ha, ha, ha! Ho, ho, ho! A race with a hedgehog! Well, well,
well!

HEDGEHOG: Are you afraid to run with me?
HARE: Of course not. It will be no race at all, but I'll run just
to show you how silly you are.
HEDGEHOG: Good! You run in that furrow; I will run in this. We shall
see who gets to the fence first. Let's start from the far end of
the furrow.
HARE: I will run to the brook and back while you are getting there.
Go ahead.

HEDGEHOG: I wouldn't stay too long if I were you.
HARE: Oh, I'll be back before you reach the end of the furrow.
(The hare runs off to the brook.) 

II
HEDGEHOG: Wife, wife, did you hear what I said to the hare?
WIFE: Did I hear? I should say I did. What are you thinking of?
Have you lost your senses?
HEDGEHOG: You shouldn't speak that way to me. What do you know about
a man's business? Come here and let me whisper something to you.
(He whispers and then walks to far end of the furrow. His wife
laughs.)
WIFE: Ha, ha! I see. I see. Nothing wrong with your brains.
"Short legs, long wit, Long legs, not a bit,"
as my grandmother used to say. The hare will find that out today.
(She stoops down in the near end of the furrow. The hare returns
and takes his place.) 
HARE: Well, are you ready?
HEDGEHOG: Of course I am,--ready and waiting.
HARE: One for the money, Two for the show, Three to make ready, And
here we go!
(The hare runs as swiftly as the wind. The hedgehog starts with
him, but stops and stoops low in the furrow. When the hare reaches
the other end, the hedgehog's wife puts up her head.)
WIFE: Well, here I am.

HARE: What does this mean?
WIFE: It means what it means.
HARE: We'll try again. Are you ready?

WIFE: Of course I am.
HARE: One for the money, Two for the show, Three to make ready, And
here we go!
(The hare runs swiftly back again. Wife starts, but stops and stoops
low. The hare reaches the other end. The hedgehog puts up his head.)
HEDGEHOG: Here I am.

HARE: I can't understand this.
HEDGEHOG: It is very clear to me.
HARE: Well, we'll try again. Are you ready?
HEDGEHOG: I'm always ready.
HARE: One for the money, Two for the show, Three to make ready, And
here we go!
(Again the wife puts up her head and the hare is bewildered.)
[Illustration: The hare racing as the hedhog looks on]
WIFE: You see I am here.

HARE: I just can't believe it.
WIFE: A perfectly simple thing.
HARE: We'll try once more. You can't beat me another time.
WIFE: Don't boast. You had better save your breath for the race;
you will need it.
HARE: One for the money, Two for the show, Three to make ready, And
here we go!
(When the hare reaches the other end of the field, the hedgehog
puts up his head.) 
HARE: This is very strange.
HEDGEHOG: Shall we run again? You seem a little tired, but I am
perfectly fresh.

HARE (_panting_): No, no! The race is yours.
HEDGEHOG: Will you call my wife and children names any more?
HARE: No, no! I'll never do that again.
HEDGEHOG: Very well. And if you wish a race at any time, friend
hare, just call by for me.
HARE (_walking off shaking his head_): It's very strange. I hope
none of the other hares will hear of this race.
WIFE (_as she meets the hedgehog_): I thought I should hurt myself
laughing. As my grandmother used to say,
"Short legs, long wit, Long legs, not a bit." 
--GRIMM.
EPAMINONDAS
Epaminondas had a good kind granny, who cooked at "the big house."
Epaminondas liked to go to see her, for she always gave him something
to take home with him.
One day when Epaminondas went to see granny, she was baking a cake,
and she gave Epaminondas a piece to eat. As he was leaving, granny
said, "Epaminondas, you may take a slice home to your mammy."

Epaminondas took it in his little hands and squeezing it just as
tight as he could, ran all the way home. When his mammy saw him,
she said, "What's that, Epaminondas?"
"Cake, mammy. Granny sent it to you."
"Cake!" cried his mammy. "Epaminondas, don't you know that's no way
to carry cake? When your granny gives you cake, put it in your hat;
then put your hat on your head and come home. You hear me, Epaminondas?"
"Yes, mammy."
The next time Epaminondas went to see his granny, she was churning,
and she gave him a pat of fresh butter to carry to his mammy.
Epaminondas said to himself, "What was it mammy said? Oh, yes! I
know.
She said, 'Put it in your hat and put the hat on your head and come
home.' I'll do just what she told me."
Epaminondas put the pat of butter in his hat, put his hat on his
head, and went home.
It was a hot day, and soon the butter began to melt. Drip, drip,
drip, it went into his ears. Drip, drip, drip, it went into his
eyes. Drip, drip, drip, it went down his back. When Epaminondas
reached home, he had no butter in his hat. It was all on him.
Looking at him hard, his mammy said, "Epaminondas, what in the world
is that dripping from your hat?"
"Butter, mammy. Granny sent it to you."
"Butter!" cried his mammy. "Oh, Epaminondas! Don't you know how to
carry butter? You must wrap it in a cabbage leaf, and take it to
the spring.
Then you must cool it in the water, and cool it in the water, and
cool it in the water. When you have done this, take the butter in
your hands and come home. You hear me, Epaminondas?"
"Yes, mammy."
The next time Epaminondas went to see his granny, she wasn't baking
cake and she wasn't churning. She was sitting in a chair knitting.
She said, "Epaminondas, look in the woodshed, and you'll see something
you like."
Epaminondas looked in the woodshed, and there he found four little
puppies. He played with them all the afternoon, and when he started
home, his granny gave him one.
Epaminondas remembered what his mammy had told him. He wrapped the
puppy in a big cabbage leaf, and took it to the spring. He cooled
it in the water, and cooled it in the water, and cooled it in the
water. Then he took it in his hands, and went home.
When his mammy saw him, she said, "Epaminondas, what is that in
your hands?" 
"A puppy dog, mammy."Mivers a short sketch of poor Becky's history
and misfortunes, and so contrived to interest her in behalf of the nurse
that she willingly promised to become Percival's almoner, to execute his
commission, to improve the interior of Becky's abode, and distribute
weekly the liberal stipend he proposed to settle on the old widow.  They
had grown, indeed, quite friendly and intimate by the time he reached the
smart plate-glazed mahogany-coloured facade within which the flourishing
business of Mr. Mivers was carried on; and when, knocking at the private
door, promptly opened by a lemon-coloured page, she invited him upstairs,
it so chanced that the conversation had slid off to Helen, and Percival
was sufficiently interested to bow assent and to enter.

Though all the way up the stairs Mrs. Mivers, turning back at every other
step, did her best to impress upon her young visitor's mind the important
fact that they kept their household establishment at their "willer," and
that their apartments in Fleet Street were only a "conwenience," the
store set by the worthy housewife upon her goods and chattels was
sufficiently visible in the drugget that threaded its narrow way up the
gay Brussels stair-carpet, and in certain layers of paper which protected
from the profanation of immediate touch the mahogany hand-rail.  And
nothing could exceed the fostering care exhibited in the drawing-room,
when the door thrown open admitted a view of its damask moreen curtains,
pinned back from such impertinent sunbeams as could force their way
through the foggy air of the east into the windows, and the ells of
yellow muslin that guarded the frames, at least, of a collection of
coloured prints and two kit-kat portraitures of Mr. Mivers and his lady
from the perambulations of the flies.

But Percival's view of this interior was somewhat impeded by his portly
guide, who, uttering a little exclamation of surprise, stood motionless
on the threshold as she perceived Mr. Mivers seated by the hearth in
close conference with a gentleman whom she had never seen before.  At
that hour it was so rare an event in the life of Mr. Mivers to be found
in the drawing-room, and that he should have an acquaintance unknown to
his helpmate was a circumstance so much rarer still, that Mrs. Mivers may
well be forgiven for keeping St. John standing at the door till she had
recovered her amaze.

Meanwhile Mr. Mivers rose in some confusion, and was apparently about to
introduce his guest, when that gentleman coughed, and pinched the host's
arm significantly.  Mr. Mivers coughed also, and stammered out: "A
gentleman, Mrs. M.,--a friend; stay with us a day or two.  Much honoured,
hum!"

Mrs. Mivers stared and courtesied, and stared again.  But there was an
open, good-humoured smile in the face of the visitor, as he advanced and
took her hand, that attracted a heart very easily conciliated.  Seeing
that that was no moment for further explanation, she plumped herself into
a seat and said,--

"But bless us and save us, I am keeping you standing, Mr. St. John!"

"St. John!" repeated the visitor, with a vehemence that startled Mrs.
Mivers.  "Your name is St. John, sir,--related to the St. Johns of
Laughton?"

"Yes, indeed," answered Percival, with his shy, arch smile.  "Laughton at
present has no worthier owner than myself."

The gentleman made two strides to Percival and shook him heartily by the
hand.

"This is pleasant indeed!" he exclaimed.  "You must excuse my freedom;
but I knew well poor old Sir Miles, and my heart warms at the sight of
his representative."

Percival glanced at his new acquaintance, and on the whole was
prepossessed in his favour.  He seemed somewhere on the sunnier side of
fifty, with that superb yellow bronze of complexion which betokens long
residence under Eastern skies.  Deep wrinkles near the eyes, and a dark
circle round them, spoke of cares and fatigue, and perhaps dissipation.
But he had evidently a vigour of constitution that had borne him passably
through all; his frame was wiry and nervous; his eye bright and full of
life; and there was that abrupt, unsteady, mercurial restlessness in his
movements and manner which usually accompanies the man whose sanguine
temperament prompts him to concede to the impulse, and who is blessed or
cursed with a superabundance of energy, according as circumstance may
favour or judgment correct that equivocal gift of constitution.

Percival said something appropriate in reply to so much cordiality paid
to the account of the Sir Miles whom he had never seen, and seated
himself, colouring slightly under the influence of the fixed, pleased,
and earnest look still bent upon him.

Searching for something else to say, Percival asked Mrs. Mivers if she
had lately seen John Ardworth.

The guest, who had just reseated himself, turned his chair round at that
question with such vivacity that Mrs. Mivers heard it crack.  Her chairs
were not meant for such usage.  A shade fell over her rosy countenance as
she replied,--

"No, indeed (please, sir, them chairs is brittle)!  No, he is like Madame
at Brompton, and seldom condescends to favour us now.  It was but last
Sunday we asked him to dinner.  I am sure he need not turn up his nose at
our roast beef and pudding!"

Here Mr. Mivers was taken with a violent fit of coughing, which drew off
his wife's attention.  She was afraid he had taken cold.

The stranger took out a large snuff-box, inhaled a long pinch of snuff,
and said to St. John,--

"This Mr. John Ardworth, a pert enough jackanapes, I suppose,--a limb of
the law, eh?"

"Sir," said Percival, gravely, "John Ardworth is my particular friend.
It is clear that you know very little of him."

"That's true," said the stranger,--"'pon my life, that's very true.  But
I suppose he's like all lawyers,--cunning and tricky, conceited and
supercilious, full of prejudice and cant, and a red-hot Tory into the
bargain.  I know them, sir; I know them!"

"Well," answered St. John, half gayly, half angrily, "your general
experience serves you very little here; for Ardworth is exactly the
opposite of all you have described."

"Even in politics?"

"Why, I fear he is half a Radical,--certainly more than a Whig," answered
St. John, rather mournfully; for his own theories were all the other way,
notwithstanding his unpatriotic forgetfulness of them in his offer to
assist Ardworth's entrance into parliament.

"I am very glad to hear it," cried the stranger, again taking snuff.
"And this Madame at Brompton--perhaps I know her a little better than I
do young Mr. Ardworth--Mrs. Brad--I mean Madame Dalibard!" and the
stranger glanced at Mr. Mivers, who was slowly recovering from some
vigorous slaps on the back administered to him by his wife as a counter-
irritant to the cough.  "Is it true that she has lost the use of her
limbs?"

Percival shook his head.

"And takes care of poor Helen Mainwaring the orphan?  Well, well, that
looks amiable enough.  I must see; I must see!"

"Who shall I say inquired after her, when I see Madame Dalibard?" asked
Percival, with some curiosity.

"Who?  Oh, Mr. Tomkins.  She will not recollect him, though,"--and the
stranger laughed, and Mr. Mivers laughed too; and Mrs. Mivers, who,
indeed, always laughed when other people laughed, laughed also.  So
Percival thought he ought to laugh for the sake of good company, and all
laughed together as he arose and took leave.

He had not, however, got far from the house, on his way to his cabriolet,
which he had left by Temple Bar, when, somewhat to his surprise, he found
Mr. Tomkins at his elbow.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. St. John, but I have only just returned to
England, and on such occasions a man is apt to seem curious.  This young
lawyer ----  You see the elder Ardworth, a good-for-nothing scamp, was a
sort of friend of mine,--not exactly friend, indeed, for, by Jove, I
think he was a worse friend to me than he was to anybody else; still I
had a foolish interest for him, and should be glad to hear something more
about any one bearing his name than I can coax out of that droll little
linen draper.  You are really intimate with young Ardworth, eh?"

"Intimate! poor fellow, he will not let any one be that; he works too
hard to be social.  But I love him sincerely, and I admire him beyond
measure."

"The dog has industry, then;--that's good.  And does he make debts, like
that rascal, Ardworth senior?"

"Really, sir, I must say this tone with respect to Mr. Ardworth's father-
-"

"What the devil, sir!  Do you take the father's part as well as the
son's?"

"I don't know anything about Mr. Ardworth senior," said Percival,
pouting; "but I do know that my friend would not allow any one to speak
ill of his father in his presence; and I beg you, sir, to consider that
whatever would offend him must offend me."

"Gad's my life!  He's the luckiest young rogue to have such a friend.
Sir, I wish you a very good-day."

Mr. Tomkins took off his hat, bowed, and passing St. John with a rapid
step, was soon lost to his eye amongst the crowd hurrying westward.

But our business being now rather with him than Percival, we leave the
latter to mount his cabriolet, and we proceed with Mr. Mivers's mercurial
guest on his eccentric way through the throng.  There was an odd mixture
of thoughtful abstraction and quick observation in the soliloquy in which
this gentleman indulged, as he walked briskly on.

"A pretty young spark that St. John!  A look of his father, but
handsomer, and less affected.  I like him.  Fine shop that, very!  London
wonderfully improved.  A hookah in that window,--God bless me!--a real
hookah!  This is all very good news about that poor boy, very.  After
all, he is not to blame if his mother was such a damnable--I must
contrive to see and judge of him myself as soon as possible.  Can't trust
to others; too sharp for that.  What an ugly dog that is, looking after
me!  It is certainly a bailiff.  Hang it, what do I care for bailiffs?
Hem, hem!"  And the gentleman thrust his hands into his pockets, and
laughed, as the jingle of coin reached his ear through the din without.
"Well, I must make haste to decide; for really there is a very
troublesome piece of business before me.  Plague take her, what can have
become of the woman?  I shall have to hunt out a sharp lawyer.  But
John's a lawyer himself.  No, attorneys, I suppose, are the men.  Gad!
they were sharp enough when they had to hunt me.  What's that great bill
on the wall about?  'Down with the Lords!' Pooh, pooh!  Master John Bull,
you love lords a great deal too much for that.  A prettyish girl!
English women are very good-looking, certainly.  That Lucretia, what
shall I do, if ----  Ah, time enough to think of her when I have got over
that mighty stiff if!"

In such cogitations and mental remarks our traveller whiled away the time
till he found himself in Piccadilly.  There, a publisher's shop (and he
had that keen eye for shops which betrays the stranger in London), with
its new publications exposed at the window, attracted his notice.
Conspicuous amongst the rest was the open title-page of a book, at the
foot of which was placed a placard with the enticing words, "FOURTH
EDITION; JUST OUT," in red capitals.  The title of the work struck his
irritable, curious fancy; he walked into the shop, asked for the volume,
and while looking over the contents with muttered ejaculations, "Good!
capital!  Why, this reminds one of Horne Tooke!  What's the price?  Very
dear; must have it though,--must.  Ha, ha! home-thrust there!"--while
thus turning over the leaves, and rending them asunder with his
forefinger, regardless of the paper cutter extended to him by the
shopman, a gentleman, pushing by him, asked if the publisher was at home;
and as the shopman, bowing very low, answered "Yes," the new-comer darted
into a little recess behind the shop.  Mr. Tomkins, who had looked up
very angrily on being jostled so unceremoniously, started and changed
colour when he saw the face of the offender.  "Saints in heaven!" he
murmured almost audibly, "what a look of that woman; and yet--no--it is
gone!"

"Who is that gentleman?" he asked abruptly, as he paid for his book.

The shopman smiled, but answered, "I don't know, sir."

"That's a lie!  You would never bow so low to a man you did not know!"

The shopman smiled again.  "Why, sir, there are many who come to this
house who don't wish us to know them."

"Ah, I understand; you are political publishers,--afraid of libels, I
dare say.  Always the same thing in this cursed country; and then they
tell us we are 'free!'  So I suppose that gentleman has written something
William Pitt does not like.  But William Pitt--ha--he's dead!  Very true,
so he is!  Sir, this little book seems most excellent; but in my time, a
man would have been sent to Newgate for printing it."  While thus running
on, Mr. Tomkins had edged himself pretty close to the recess within which
the last-comer had disappeared; and there, seated on a high stool, he
contrived to read and to talk at the same time, but his eye and his ear
were both turned every instant towards the recess.

The shopman, little suspecting that in so very eccentric, garrulous a
person he was permitting a spy to encroach upon the secrets of the house,
continued to make up sundry parcels of the new publication which had so
enchanted his customer, while he expatiated on the prodigious sensation
the book had created, and while the customer himself had already caught
enough of the low conversation within the recess to be aware that the
author of the book was the very person who had so roused his curiosity.

Not till that gentleman, followed to the door by the polite publisher,
had quitted the shop, did Mr. Tomkins put this volume in his pocket, and,
with a familiar nod at the shopman, take himself off.

He was scarcely in the street when he saw Percival St. John leaning out
of his cabriolet and conversing with the author he had discovered.  He
halted a moment irresolute; but the young man, in whom our reader
recognizes John Ardworth, declining St. John's invitation to accompany
him to Brompton, resumed his way through the throng; the cabriolet drove
on; and Mr. Tomkins, though with a graver mien and a steadier step,
continued his desultory rambles.  Meanwhile, John Ardworth strode
gloomily back to his lonely chamber.

There, throwing himself on the well-worn chair before the crowded desk,
he buried his face in his hands, and for some minutes he felt all that
profound despondency peculiar to those who have won fame, to add to the
dark volume of experience the conviction of fame's nothingness.  For some
minutes he felt an illiberal and ungrateful envy of St. John, so fair, so
light-hearted, so favoured by fortune, so rich in friends,--in a mother's
love, and in Helen's half-plighted troth.  And he, from his very birth,
cut off from the social ties of blood; no mother's kiss to reward the
toils or gladden the sports of childhood; no father's cheering word up
the steep hill of man!  And Helen, for whose sake he had so often, when
his heart grew weary, nerved himself again to labour, saying, "Let me be
rich, let me be great, and then I will dare to tell Helen that I love
her!"--Helen smiling upon another, unconscious of his pangs!  What could
fame bestow in compensation?  What matter that strangers praised, and the
babble of the world's running stream lingered its brief moment round the
pebble in its way.  In the bitterness of his mood, he was unjust to his
rival.  All that exquisite but half-concealed treasure of imagination and
thought which lay beneath the surface of Helen's childlike smile he
believed that he alone--he, soul of power and son of genius--was worthy
to discover and to prize.  In the pride not unfrequent with that
kingliest of all aristocracies, the Chiefs of Intellect, he forgot the
grandeur which invests the attributes of the heart; forgot that, in the
lists of love, the heart is at least the equal of the mind.  In the
reaction that follows great excitement, Ardworth had morbidly felt, that
day, his utter solitude,--felt it in the streets through which he had
passed; in the home to which he had returned; the burning tears, shed for
the first time since childhood, forced themselves through his clasped
fingers.  At length he rose, with a strong effort at self-mastery, some
contempt of his weakness, and much remorse at his ungrateful envy.  He
gathered together the soiled manuscript and dingy proofs of his book, and
thrust them through the grimy bars of his grate; then, opening his desk,
he drew out a small packet, with tremulous fingers unfolding paper after
paper, and gazed, with eyes still moistened, on the relics kept till then
in the devotion of the only sentiment inspired by Eros that had ever,
perhaps, softened his iron nature.  These were two notes from Helen, some
violets she had once given him, and a little purse she had knitted for
him (with a playful prophecy of future fortunes) when he had last left
the vicarage.  Nor blame him, ye who, with more habitual romance of
temper, and richer fertility of imagination, can reconcile the tenderest
memories with the sternest duties, if he, with all his strength, felt
that the associations connected with those tokens would but enervate his
resolves and embitter his resignation.  You can guess not the extent of
the sacrifice, the bitterness of the pang, when, averting his head, he
dropped those relics on the hearth.  The evidence of the desultory
ambition, the tokens of the visionary love,--the same flame leaped up to
devour both!  It was as the funeral pyre of his youth!

"So," he said to himself, "let all that can divert me from the true ends
of my life consume!  Labour, take back your son."

An hour afterwards, and his clerk, returning home, found Ardworth
employed as calmly as usual on his Law Reports.


CHAPTER XVI.

THE INVITATION TO LAUGHTON.

That day, when he called at Brompton, Percival reported to Madame
Dalibard his interview with the eccentric Mr. Tomkins.  Lucretia seemed
chafed and disconcerted by the inquiries with which that gentleman had
honoured her, and as soon as Percival had gone, she sent for Varney.  He
did not come till late; she repeated to him what St. John had said of the
stranger.  Varney participated in her uneasy alarm.  The name, indeed,
was unknown to them, nor could they conjecture the bearer of so ordinary
a patronymic; but there had been secrets enough in Lucretia's life to
render her apprehensive of encountering those who had known her in
earlier years; and Varney feared lest any rumour reported to St. John
might create his mistrust, or lessen the hold obtained upon a victim
heretofore so unsuspicious.  They both agreed in the expediency of
withdrawing themselves and St. John as soon as possible from London, and
frustrating Percival's chance of closer intercourse with the stranger,
who had evidently aroused his curiosity.

The next day Helen was much indisposed; and the symptoms grew so grave
towards the evening that Madame Dalibard expressed alarm, and willingly
suffered Percival (who had only been permitted to see Helen for a few
minutes, when her lassitude was so extreme that she was obliged to retire
to her room) to go in search of a physician.  He returned with one of the
most eminent of the faculty.  On the way to Brompton, in reply to the
questions of Dr. ---- , Percival spoke of the dejection to which Helen
was occasionally subject, and this circumstance confirmed Dr. ---- ,
after he had seen his patient, in his view of the case.  In addition to
some feverish and inflammatory symptoms which he trusted his
prescriptions would speedily remove, he found great nervous debility, and
willingly fell in with the casual suggestion of Varney, who was present,
that a change of air would greatly improve Miss Mainwaring's general
health, as soon as the temporary acute attack had subsided.  He did not
regard the present complaint very seriously, and reassured poor Percival
by his cheerful mien and sanguine predictions.  Percival remained at the
house the whole day, and had the satisfaction, before he left, of hearing
that the remedies had already abated the fever, and that Helen had fallen
into a profound sleep.  Walking back to town with Varney, the last said
hesitatingly,--

"You were saying to me the other day that you feared you should have to
go for a few days both to Vernon Grange and to Laughton, as your steward
wished to point out to you some extensive alterations in the management
of your woods to commence this autumn.  As you were so soon coming of
age, Lady Mary desired that her directions should yield to your own.
Now, since Helen is recommended change of air, why not invite Madame
Dalibard to visit you at one of these places?  I would suggest Laughton.
My poor mother-in-law I know longs to revisit the scenes of her youth,
and you could not compliment or conciliate her more than by such an
invitation."

"Oh," said Percival, joyfully, "it would realize the fondest dream of my
heart to see Helen under the old roof-tree of Laughton; but as my mother
is abroad, and there is therefore no lady to receive them, perhaps--"

"Why," interrupted Varney, "Madame Dalibard herself is almost the very
person whom les bienseances might induce you to select to do the honours
of your house in Lady Mary's absence, not only as kinswoman to yourself,
but as the nearest surviving relative of Sir Miles,--the most immediate
descendant of the St. Johns; her mature years and decorum of life, her
joint kindred to Helen and yourself, surely remove every appearance of
impropriety."

"If she thinks so, certainly; I am no accurate judge of such formalities.
You could not oblige me more, Varney, than in pre-obtaining her consent
to the proposal.  Helen at Laughton!  Oh, blissful thought!"

"And in what air would she be so likely to revive?" said Varney; but his
voice was thick and husky.

The ideas thus presented to him almost banished anxiety from Percival's
breast. In a thousand delightful shapes they haunted him during the
sleepless night; and when, the next morning, he found that Helen was
surprisingly better, he pressed his invitation upon Madame Dalibard with
a warmth that made her cheek yet more pale, and the hand, which the boy
grasped as he pleaded, as cold as the dead.  But she briefly consented,
and Percival, allowed a brief interview with Helen, had the rapture to
see her smile in a delight as childlike as his own at the news he
communicated, and listen with swimming eye when he dwelt on the walks
they should take together amidst haunts to become henceforth dear to her
as to himself.  Fairyland dawned before them.

The visit of the physician justified Percival's heightened spirits.  All
the acuter symptoms had vanished already.  He sanctioned his patient's
departure from town as soon as Madame Dalibard's convenience would
permit, and recommended only a course of restorative medicines to
strengthen the nervous system, which was to commence with the following
morning, and be persisted in for some weeks.  He dwelt much on the effect
to be derived from taking these medicines the first thing in the day, as
soon as Helen woke.  Varney and Madame Dalibard exchanged a rapid glance.
Charmed with the success that in this instance had attended the skill of
the great physician, Percival, in his usual zealous benevolence, now
eagerly pressed upon Madame Dalibard the wisdom of consulting Dr. ----
for her own malady; and the doctor, putting on his spectacles and drawing
his chair nearer to the frowning cripple, began to question her of her
state.  But Madame Dalibard abruptly and discourteously put a stop to all
interrogatories: she had already exhausted all remedies art could
suggest; she had become reconciled to her deplorable infirmity, and lost
all faith in physicians.  Some day or other she might try the baths at
Egra, but till then she must be permitted to suffer undisturbed.

The doctor, by no means wishing to undertake a case of chronic paralysis,
rose smilingly, and with a liberal confession that the German baths were
sometimes extremely efficacious in such complaints, pressed Percival's
outstretched hand, then slipped his own into his pocket, and bowed his
way out of the room.

Relieved from all apprehension, Percival very good-humouredly received
the hint of Madame Dalibard that the excitement through which she had
gone for the last twenty-four hours rendered her unfit for his society,
and went home to write to Laughton and prepare all things for the
reception of his guests.  Varney accompanied him.  Percival found Beck in
the hall, already much altered, and embellished, by a new suit of livery.
The ex-sweeper stared hard at Varney, who, without recognizing, in so
smart a shape, the squalid tatterdemalion who had lighted him up the
stairs to Mr. Grabman's apartments, passed him by into Percival's little
study, on the ground-floor.

"Well, Beck," said Percival, ever mindful of others, and attributing his
groom's astonished gaze at Varney to his admiration of that gentleman's
showy exterior, "I shall send you down to the country to-morrow with two
of the horses; so you may have to-day to yourself to take leave of your
nurse.  I flatter myself you will find her rooms a little more
comfortable than they were yesterday."

Beck heard with a bursting heart; and his master, giving him a cheering
tap on the shoulder, left him to find his way into the streets and to
Becky's abode.

He found, indeed, that the last had already undergone the magic
transformation which is ever at the command of godlike wealth.  Mrs.
Mivers, who was naturally prompt and active, had had pleasure in
executing Percival's commission.  Early in the morning, floors had been
scrubbed, the windows cleaned, the ventilator fixed; then followed
porters with chairs and tables, and a wonderful Dutch clock, and new
bedding, and a bright piece of carpet; and then came two servants
belonging to Mrs. Mivers to arrange the chattels; and finally, when all
was nearly completed, the Avatar of Mrs. Mivers herself, to give the last
finish with her own mittened hands and in her own housewifely apron.

The good lady was still employed in ranging a set of teacups on the
shelves of the dresser when Beck entered; and his old nurse, in the
overflow of her gratitude, hobbled up to her foundling and threw her arms
round his neck.

"That's right!" said Mrs. Mivers, good-humouredly, turning round, and
wiping the tear from her eye.  "You ought to make much of him, poor lad,-
-he has turned out a godsend indeed; and, upon my word, he looks very
respectable in his new clothes.  But what is this,--a child's coral?" as,
opening a drawer in the dresser, she discovered Beck's treasure.  "Dear
me, it is a very handsome one; why, these bells look like gold!" and
suspicion of her protege's honesty for a moment contracted her thoughtful
brow.  "However on earth did you come by this, Mrs. Becky?"

"Sure and sartin," answered Becky, dropping her mutilated courtesy, "I
be's glad it be found now, instead of sum days afore, or I might have
been vicked enough to let it go with the rest to the pop-shop; and I'm
sure the times out of mind ven that 'ere boy was a h-urchin that I've
risted the timtashung and said, 'No, Becky Carruthers, that maun't go to
my h-uncle's!'"

"And why not, my good woman?"

"Lor' love you, marm, if that curril could speak, who knows vot it might
say,--eh, lad, who knows?  You sees, marm, my good man had not a long
been dead; I could not a get no vork no vays.  'Becky Carruthers,' says
I, 'you must go out in the streets a begging!'  I niver thought I should
a come to that.  But my poor husband, you sees, marm, fell from a
scaffol',--as good a man as hever--"

"Yes, yes, you told me all that before," said Mrs. Mivers, growing
impatient, and already diverted from her interest in the coral by a new
cargo, all bright from the tinman, which, indeed, no less
instantaneously, absorbed the admiration both of Beck and his nurse.  And
what with the inspection of these articles, and the comments each
provoked, the coral rested in peace on the dresser till Mrs. Mivers, when
just about to renew her inquiries, was startled by the sound of the Dutch
clock striking four,--a voice which reminded her of the lapse of time and
her own dinner-hour.  So, with many promises to call again and have a
good chat with her humble friend,  she took her departure, amidst the
blessings of Becky, and the less noisy, but not less grateful,
salutations of Beck.

Very happy was the evening these poor creatures passed together over
their first cup of tea from the new bright copper kettle and the almost
forgotten luxury of crumpets, in which their altered circumstances
permitted them without extravagance to indulge.  In the course of
conversation Beck communicated how much he had been astonished by
recognizing the visitor of Grabman, the provoker of the irritable grave-
stealer, in the familiar companion of his master; and when Becky told him
how often, in the domestic experience her vocation of charing had
accumulated, she had heard of the ruin brought on rich young men by
gamblers and sharpers, Beck promised to himself to keep a sharp eye on
Grabman's showy acquaintance.  "For master is but a babe, like," said he,
majestically; "and I'd be cut into mincemeat afore I'd let an 'air on his
'ead come to 'arm, if so be's h-as 'ow I could perwent it."

We need not say that his nurse confirmed him in these good resolutions.

"And now," said Beck, when the time came for parting, "you'll keep from
the gin-shop, old 'oman, and not shame the young master?"

"Sartin sure," answered Becky; "it is only ven vun is down in the vorld
that vun goes to the Ticker-shop.  Now, h-indeed,"--and she looked round
very proudly,--"I 'as a 'spectable stashion, and I vould n't go for to
lower it, and let 'em say that Becky Carruthers does not know how to
conduct herself.  The curril will be safe enuff now; but p'r'aps you had
best take it yourself, lad."

"Vot should I do vith it?  I've had enuff of the 'sponsibility.  Put it
up in a 'ankerchiff, and p'r'aps ven master gets married, and 'as a babby
vots teethin', he vil say, 'Thank ye, Beck, for your curril.' Vould not
that make us proud, mammy?"

Chuckling heartily at that vision, Beck kissed his nurse, and trying hard
to keep himself upright, and do credit to the dignity of his cloth,
returned to his new room over the stables.


CHAPTER XVII.

THE WAKING OF THE SERPENT.

And how, O Poet of the sad belief, and eloquence "like ebony, at once
dark and splendid [It was said of Tertullian that "his style was like
ebony, dark and splendid"]," how couldst thou, august Lucretius, deem it
but sweet to behold from the steep the strife of the great sea, or, safe
from the peril, gaze on the wrath of the battle, or, serene in the
temples of the wise, look afar on the wanderings of human error?  Is it
so sweet to survey the ills from which thou art delivered?  Shall not the
strong law of SYMPATHY find thee out, and thy heart rebuke thy
philosophy?  Not sweet, indeed, can be man's shelter in self when he says
to the storm, "I have no bark on the sea;" or to the gods of the battle,
"I have no son in the slaughter;" when he smiles unmoved upon Woe, and
murmurs, "Weep on, for these eyes know no tears;" when, unappalled, he
beholdeth the black deeds of crime, and cries to his conscience, "Thou
art calm."  Then she ran to the spring house and got yellow butter and
rich milk. She had some fresh eggs that had been laid by her own hens.
These she dropped into boiling water. Last of all she cut thin slices of
delicious ham.

When everything was ready, Betty went to the porch and invited the
strangers in. Her cheeks were now the color of the red rose by the
gate.

The visitors ate heartily of all the good things Betty had prepared. As
the tall, handsome gentleman rose to go, he leaned over and kissed
her.
"My pretty little cook," he said, "you may tell your brother Robert that
you saw Washington before he did, and that he kissed you, too."
You may believe that Betty did tell it. She told it to her children, and
they told it to their children, and I am telling it to you to-day.

--MRS. L.A. McCORKLE.

ROCK-A-BY, HUSH-A-BY, LITTLE PAPOOSE

Rock-a-by, hush-a-by, little papoose, The stars come into the sky, The
whip-poor-will's crying, the daylight is dying, The river runs murmuring
by.

The pine trees are slumbering, little papoose, The squirrel has gone to
his nest, The robins are sleeping, the mother bird's keeping The little
ones warm with her breast.

The roebuck is dreaming, my little papoose, His mate lies asleep at his
side, The breezes are pining, the moonbeams are shining All over the prairie
wide.

Then hush-a-by, rock-a-by, little papoose, You sail on the river of dreams;
Dear Manitou loves you and watches above you Till time when the morning
light gleams.

--CHARLES MYALL.

THE TAR WOLF
I

Many hundreds of moons ago, there was a great drought. The streams and
lakes were drying up. Water was so scarce that the animals held a
council to decide what they should do.

"I hope it will rain soon and fill the streams and lakes," Great Bear
said.

"If it does not, all the animals will have to go to a land where there
is more water."

"I know where there is plenty of water," said Wild Goose.

"I do, too," said Wild Duck.

Most of the animals did not wish to go away. "It is well enough for
the ducks and geese to go," said Wild Cat; "they like to move about.

It is well enough for Great Bear to go; he can sleep through the
winter in one hollow tree as soundly as in another.

But we do not wish to leave our hunting grounds."

"If we go to a new country," said Gray Wolf, "we shall have to make
new trails."

"And we shall have to clear new land," said Big Beaver, who had to cut
down the trees when land was cleared.

All this time the Rabbit said nothing. "Brother Rabbit," Great Bear asked,
"what do you think about this matter?"
Brother Rabbit did not answer. His eyes were shut, and he seemed
too sleepy to think about anything.
Great Bear asked again, "What do you think about it, Brother
Rabbit?
Shall we go to the place the ducks and geese have found, where there
is plenty of water?"
"Oh," answered Brother Rabbit, "I do not mind the drought. I drink
the dew on the grass in the early morning; I do not need to go where
there is more water." 
And he shut his eyes again.
"Well," said Red Deer, "if there is dew enough for Brother Rabbit
every morning, there is dew enough for us. We need not go to another
country." 
"Those are wise words, my brother," said Brown Terrapin.
All the others said, "Those are wise words, my brother," and the
council was over. The animals were happy because they thought they
need not go away from their homes.
Days passed, and still it did not rain. The animals found that the
dew did not keep them from suffering from thirst. They were afraid
that, after all, they would have to go to another country.
Still the Rabbit looked sleek and fat. He declared that he got all
the water he needed from the dew on the grass in the early
morning.
"You sleep too late," he said. "By the time you get up, the sun has
dried the dew." 

II
After that, the animals came out earlier than before, but they could
not get water enough from the morning dew. They did not understand
why the Rabbit looked so well.
One day Gray Wolf said to Wild Cat, "Let us watch the Rabbit and
see where he gets so much dew that he is never thirsty."
That night they stayed in the woods near Rabbit's wigwam, so as to
follow him on the trail.A Lancashire Distich.]

"And when you sat up with Mr. Varney's uncle, did you feel no fear in the
dead of the night,--that corpse before you, no fear?"

"Young Mr. Varney said I should come to no harm.  Oh, he's a clever man!
What should I fear, ma'am?" answered Martha, with a horrid simplicity.

"You have belonged to a very religious sect, I think I have heard you
say,--a sect not unfamiliar to me; a sect to which great crime is very
rarely known?"

"Yes, ma'am, some of 'em be tame enough, but others be weel [whirlpool]
deep!"

"You do not believe what they taught you?"

"I did when I was young and silly."

"And what disturbed your belief?"

"Ma'am, the man what taught me, and my mother afore me, was the first I
ever kep' company with," answered Martha, without a change in her florid
hue, which seemed fixed in her cheek, as the red in an autumn leaf.
"After he had ruined me, as the girls say, he told me as how it was all
sham!"

"You loved him, then?"

"The man was well enough, ma'am, and he behaved handsome and got me a
husband.  I've known better days."

"You sleep well at night?"

"Yes, ma'am, thank you; I loves my bed."

"I have done with you," said Madame Dalibard, stifling a groan, as now,
placed in her bed, she turned to the wall.  Martha extinguished the
candle, leaving it on the table by the bed, with a book and a box of
matches, for Madame Dalibard was a bad sleeper, and often read in the
night.  She then drew the curtains and went her way.

It might be an hour after Martha had retired to rest that a hand was
stretched from the bed, that the candle was lighted, and Lucretia
Dalibard rose; with a sudden movement she threw aside the coverings, and
stood in her long night-gear on the floor.  Yes, the helpless, paralyzed
cripple rose, was on her feet,--tall, elastic, erect!  It was as a
resuscitation from the grave.  Never was change more startling than that
simple action effected,--not in the form alone, but the whole character
of the face.  The solitary light streamed upward on a countenance on
every line of which spoke sinister power and strong resolve.  If you had
ever seen her before in her false, crippled state, prostrate and
helpless, and could have seen her then,--those eyes, if haggard still,
now full of life and vigour; that frame, if spare, towering aloft in
commanding stature, perfect in its proportions as a Grecian image of
Nemesis,--your amaze would have merged into terror, so preternatural did
the transformation appear, so did aspect and bearing contradict the very
character of her sex, uniting the two elements most formidable in man or
in fiend,--wickedness and power.

She stood a moment motionless, breathing loud, as if it were a joy to
breathe free from restraint; and then, lifting the light, and gliding to
the adjoining room, she unlocked a bureau in the corner, and bent over a
small casket, which she opened with a secret spring.

Reader, cast back your eye to that passage in this history when Lucretia
Clavering took down the volume from the niche in the tapestried chamber
at Laughton, and numbered, in thought, the hours left to her uncle's
life.  Look back on the ungrateful thought; behold how it has swelled and
ripened into the guilty deed!  There, in that box, Death guards his
treasure crypt.  There, all the science of Hades numbers its murderous
inventions.  As she searched for the ingredients her design had pre-
selected, something heavier than those small packets she deranged fell to
the bottom of the box with a low and hollow sound.  She started at the
noise, and then smiled, in scorn of her momentary fear, as she took up
the ring that had occasioned the sound,--a ring plain and solid, like
those used as signets in the Middle Ages, with a large dull opal in the
centre.  What secret could that bauble have in common with its ghastly
companions in Death's crypt?  This had been found amongst Olivier's
papers; a note in that precious manuscript, which had given to the hands
of his successors the keys of the grave, had discovered the mystery of
its uses.  At last he fell plump! down by the kitchen door. A little
boy caught him and carried him into the house.

Now only three birds were left. The sun no longer seemed bright to the
birds, and they did not sing so often.

In a little time the other birds learned to use their wings, and
they flew away and away. They found their own food and made their
own nests.
Then the old birds sat silent and looked at each other a long while.
At last the mother bird asked, "Why don't you sing?"How go back to the records of
the Borgias, and amidst all the scepticisms of times in which, happily,
such arts are unknown, unsuspected, learn from the hero of Machiavel how
a clasp of the hand can get rid of a foe!  Easier and more natural to
point to the living puncture in the skin, and the swollen flesh round it,
and dilate on the danger a rusty nail--nay, a pin--can engender when the
humours are peccant and the blood is impure!  The fabrication of that
bauble, the discovery of Borgia's device, was the masterpiece in the
science of Dalibard,--a curious and philosophical triumph of research,
hitherto unused by its inventor and his heirs; for that casket is rich in
the choice of more gentle materials: but the use yet may come.  As she
gazed on the ring, there was a complacent and proud expression on
Lucretia's face.

"Dumb token of Caesar Borgia," she murmured,--"him of the wisest head and
the boldest hand that ever grasped at empire, whom Machiavel, the
virtuous, rightly praised as the model of accomplished ambition!  
laughed the cat. "I certainly shall scream. They all think they are
handsomer than their reflections. Here comes the turkey gobbler. Let us
see what he does."
The gobbler walked slowly over to the mirror and looked at his
reflection.

"Now," he asked, "where in the world did they get you? You are an old,
bald-headed creature, and your feathers need oiling. You look like
a last year's turkey." And off he strutted.

The cat and the dog leaned against the barrels and laughed until the tears
ran down their faces.

"Keep still," said the dog. "Here comes speckled hen and her
chickens."
Speckled hen walked around, picking up bits of corn. Suddenly she
looked up and saw the mirror.
"There is a hen with a brood of chicks, but they are not so handsome
as mine," she said, walking toward the looking-glass.In the wondrous corruption to which her mind had descended, thus murmured
Lucretia.  Intellect had been so long made her sole god that the very
monster of history was lifted to her reverence by his ruthless intellect
alone,--lifted in that mood of feverish excitement when conscience, often
less silenced, lay crushed, under the load of the deed to come, into an
example and a guide.

Though at times, when looking back, oppressed by the blackest despair, no
remorse of the past ever weakened those nerves when the Hour called up
its demon, and the Will ruled the rest of the human being as a machine.

She replaced the ring, she reclosed the casket, relocked its depository;
then passed again into the adjoining chamber.

He slapped the tar wolf with the left front paw. That too, stuck fast.

Now Brother Rabbit was very angry. "Let me go, Gray Wolf," he cried.
"Let me go, I say!"
As Grey Wolf did not let him go, Brother Rabbit kicked the tar wolf, first
with one of his hind paws and then with the other. Both stuck fast, and
so he was held by all four paws.
Just then Gray Wolf and Wild Cat came from their hiding place.
"We have caught you, Brother Rabbit," they said.Thus darkly, through the darkness, went the Poisoner to her prey.