So the game of life proceeds, until Jerry Hawthorn, the rustic,
is fairly knocked up by all this excitement and is forced to go
home, and the last picture represents him getting into the coach
at the "White Horse Cellar," he being one of six inside;  whilst
his friends shake him by the hand;  whilst the sailor mounts on
the roof;  whilst the Jews hang round with oranges, knives, and
sealing-wax:  whilst the guard is closing the door.  Where are
they now, those sealing-wax vendors? where are the guards? where
are the jolly teams? where are the coaches? and where the youth
that climbed inside and out of them;  that heard the merry horn
which sounds no more;  that saw the sun rise over Stonehenge;
that rubbed away the bitter tears at night after parting as the
coach sped on the journey to school and London;  that looked out
with beating heart as the milestones flew by, for the welcome
corner where began home and holidays.

It is night now:  and here is home.  Gathered under the quiet
roof elders and children lie alike at rest.  In the midst of a
great peace and calm, the stars look out from the heavens.  The
silence is peopled with the past;  sorrowful remorses for sins
and shortcomings -- memories of passionate joys and griefs rise
out of their graves, both now alike calm and sad.  Eyes, as I
shut mine, look at me, that have long ceased to shine.  The town
and the fair landscape sleep under the starlight, wreathed in the
autumn mists.  Twinkling among the houses a light keeps watch
here and there, in what may be a sick chamber or two.  The clock
tolls sweetly in the silent air.  Here is night and rest.  An
awful sense of thanks makes the heart swell, and the head bow, as
I pass to my room through the sleeping house, and feel as though
a hushed blessing were upon it.


ROUND ABOUT THE CHRISTMAS TREE


The kindly Christmas tree, from which I trust every gentle reader
has pulled out a bonbon or two, is yet all aflame whilst I am
writing, and sparkles with the sweet fruits of its season.  You
young ladies, may you have plucked pretty giftlings from it;  and
out of the cracker sugar-plum which you have split with the
captain or the sweet young curate may you have read one of those
delicious conundrums which the confectioners introduce into the
sweetmeats, and which apply to the cunning passion of love.
Those riddles are to be read at your age, when I daresay they are
amusing.  As for Dolly, Merry, and Bell, who are standing at the
tree, they don't care about the love-riddle part, but understand
the sweet-almoned portion very well.  They are four, five, six
years old.  Patience, little people!  A dozen merry Christmases
more, and you will be reading those wonderful love-conundrums,
too.  As for us elderly folks, we watch the babies at their
sport, and the young people pulling at the branches:  and instead
of finding bonbons or sweeties in the packets which we pluck off
the boughs, we find enclosed Mr Carnifex's review of the
quarter's meat;  Mr Sartor's compliments, and little statement
for self and the young gentlemen;  and Madame de Sainte-
Crinoline's respects to the young ladies, who encloses her
account, and will sent on Saturday, please;  or we stretch our
hand out to the educational branch of the Christmas tree, and
there find a lively and amusing article from the Rev. Henry
Holyshade, containing our dear Tommy's exceedingly moderate
account for the last term's school expenses.

The tree yet sparkles, I say.  I am writing on the day before
Twelfth Day, if you must know;  but already ever so many of the
fruits have been pulled, and the Christmas lights have gone out.
Bobby Miseltow, who has been staying with us for a week (and who
has been sleeping mysteriously in the bath-room), comes to say he
is going away to spend the rest of the holidays with his
grandmother -- and I brush away the manly tear of regret as I
part with the dear child.  "Well, Bob, good-bye, since you will
go.  Compliments to grandmamma.  Thank her for the turkey.
Here's ----" (A slight pecuniary transaction takes place at this
juncture, and Bob nods and winks, and puts his hand in his
waistcoat pocket.)  "You have had a pleasant week?"

Bob. -- "Haven't I!"  (And exit, anxious to know the amount of the
coin which has just changed hands.)

He is gone, and as the dear boy vanishes through the door (behind
which I see him perfectly), I too cast up a little account of our
past Christmas week.  When Bob's holidays are over, and the
printer has sent me back this manuscript, I know Christmas will
be an old story.  All the fruit will be off the Christmas tree
then;  the crackers will have cracked off;  the almonds will have
been crunched;  and the sweet-bitter riddles will have been read;
the lights will have perished off the dark green boughs;  the
toys growing on them will have been distributed, fought for,
cherished, neglected, broken.  Ferdinand and Fidelia will each
keep out of it (be still, my gushing heart!) the remembrance of a
riddle read together, of a double almond munched together, and of
the moiety of an exploded cracker.... The maids, I say, will have
taken down all that holly stuff and nonsense about the clocks,
lamps, and looking-glasses, the dear boys will be back at school,
fondly thinking of the pantomime fairies whom they have seen;
whose gaudy gossamer wings are battered by this time;  and whose
pink cotton (or silk is it?) lower extremities are all dingy and
dusty.  Yet but a few days, Bob, and flakes of paint will have
cracked off the fairy flower-bowers, and the revolving temples of
adamantine lustre will be as shabby as the city of Pekin.  When
you read this, will Clown still be going on lolling his tongue
out of his mouth, and saying, "How are you to-morrow?"  To-
morrow, indeed!  He must be almost ashamed of himself (if that
cheek is still capable of the blush of shame) for asking the
absurd question.  To-morrow, indeed!  To-morrow the diffugient
snows will give place to spring; the snowdrops will lift their
heads;  Ladyday may be expected, and the pecuniary duties
peculiar to that feast;  in place of bonbons, trees will have an
eruption of light green knobs; the whitebait season will
bloom ... as if one need go on describing these vernal phenomena,
when Christmas is still here, though ending, and the subject of
my discourse!

We have all admired the illustrated papers, and noted how
boisterously jolly they become at Christmas time.  What wassail-
bowls, robin-redbreasts, waits, snow landscapes, bursts of
Christmas song!  And then to think that these festivities are
prepared months before -- that these Christmas pieces are
prophetic!  How kind of artists and poets to devise the
festivities beforehand, and serve them pat at the proper time!
We ought to be grateful to them, as to the cook who gets up at
midnight and sets the pudding a-boiling, which is to feast us at
six o'clock.  I often think with gratitude of the famous Mr
Nelson Lee -- the author of I don't know how many hundred
glorious pantomimes -- walking by the summer wave at Margate, or
Brighton perhaps, revolving in his mind the idea of some new
gorgeous spectacle of faery, which the winter shall see complete.
He is like cook at midnight (si parva licet).  He watches and
thinks.  He pounds the sparkling sugar of benevolence, the plums
of fancy, the sweetmeats of fun, the figs of -- well, the figs of
fairy fiction, let us say, and pops the whole in the seething
cauldron of imagination, and at due season serves up the
Pantomime.

Very few men in the course of nature can expect to see all the
pantomimes in one season, but I hope to the end of my life I
shall never forego reading about them in that delicious sheet of
The Times which appears on the morning after Boxing-day.  Perhaps
reading is even better than seeing.  The best way, I think, is to
say you are ill, lie in bed, and have the paper for two hours,
reading all the way down from Drury Lane to the Britannia at
Hoxton.  Bob and I went to two pantomimes.  One was at the
Theatre of Fancy, and the other at the Fairy Opera, and I don't
know which we liked the best.

At the Fancy, we saw "Harlequin Hamlet, or Daddy's Ghost and
Nunky's Pison," which is all very well -- but, gentlemen, if you
don't respect Shakspeare, to whom will you be civil?  The palace
and ramparts of Elsinore by moon and snowlight is one of
Loutherbourg's finest efforts.  The banqueting hall of the palace
is illuminated:  the peaks and gables glitter with the snow:  the
sentinels march blowing their fingers with the cold -- the
freezing of the nose of one of them is very neatly and
dexterously arranged:  the snow storm rises:  the winds howl
awfully along the battlements:  the waves come curling, leaping,
foaming to shore.  Hamlet's umbrella is whirled away in the
storm.  He and his two friends stamp on each other's toes to keep
them warm.  The storm-spirits rise in the air, and are whirled
howling round the palace and the rocks.  My eyes! what tiles and
chimney-pots fly hurtling through the air!  As the storm reaches
its height (here the wind instruments come in with prodigious
effect, and I compliment Mr Brumby and the violoncellos) -- as
the snow storm rises (queek, queek, queek, go the fiddles, and
then thrumpty thrump comes a pizzicato movement in Bob Major,
which sends a shiver into your very boot-soles), the thunder-
clouds deepen (bong, bong, bong, from the violoncellos).  The
forked lightning quivers through the clouds in a zig-zag scream
of violins -- and look, look, look! as the frothing, roaring
waves come rushing up the battlements, and over the reeling
parapet, each hissing wave becomes a ghost, sends the gun-
carriages rolling over the platform, and plunges into the water
again.

Hamlet's mother comes on to the battlements to look for her son.
The storm whips her umbrella out of her hands, and she retires
screaming in pattens.

The cabs on the stand in the great market-place at Elsinore are
seen to drive off, and several people are drowned.  The gas-lamps
along the street are wrenched from their foundations, and shoot
through the troubled air.  Whist, rush, hish! how the rain roars
and pours!  The darkness becomes awful, always deepened by the
power of the music -- and see -- in the midst of a rush, and
whirl, and scream of spirits of air and wave -- what is that
ghastly figure moving hither?  It becomes bigger, bigger, as it
advances down the platform -- more ghastly, more horrible,
enormous!  It is as tall as the whole stage.  It seems to be
advancing on the stalls and pit, and the whole house screams with
terror, as the Ghost of the Late Hamlet comes in, and begins to
speak.  Several people faint, and the light-fingered gentry pick
pockets furiously in the darkness.

