The next thing was that from the haven rode swiftly half a dozen
mounted men toward us, and the first glance told us that here were
warriors whose very war gear was new to us. Three of them had
close-fitting coats of ring mail, and wore burnished round helms of
bronze or steel; while the others, who were also helmed, had
jerkins of buff leather, gilded and cut in patterns on the edges of
the short sleeves and skirts. Have not our latter days beheld, with
awe, the ice-borne Muscovite[22] ride the fierce billows of the Polar
Sea?
Has not the Northern hunter seen the flag of England, o'er her
floating palaces, unfurled in his dominions crystalline?I had never seen such mail as
theirs, and straightway I began to wonder if I might not buy a suit
from them.

But most different from any arming of ours was that each had a
heavy axe either in his hand or slung to his saddle, and that their
swords were longer, with very handsome hilts. Only two had spears,
and these were somewhat shorter than ours and maybe heavier. They
were better armed warriors than ever I had seen before, even at
Winchester.

Some word passed among these men as they saw us; but they came on,
making no sign of enmity of any sort. Perhaps that was because,
being in hunting gear and with naught more than the short sword and
seax one always wears, we had no weapons, and were plainly on
peaceful business.

And as in spite of their arms they seemed peaceful enough also, my
cousin and I waited for them, so that they pulled up to speak to
us, that man who wore the bracelets being at their head.

"Friends," said my cousin quietly, as they stared at him, "there is
no war in the land, and we are wont to welcome strangers. No need
for all this weapon wearing."

"Faith, I am glad to hear it," said the leader, with a grim smile.
"We thought there might be need. There mostly is when we come
ashore."

One could understand him well enough, if his speech was rougher
than ours. The words were the same, if put together somewhat
differently and with a new way of speaking them. It was only a
matter of thinking twice, as it were, and one knew what he meant.
Also he seemed to understand us better than we him, doubtless by
reason of years of travelling and practice in different tongues of
the northern lands.

"The arms somewhat terrify our folk," said my cousin, not heeding
the meaning which might lie in the words of the chief. "But I
suppose you have put in for food and water."

"For ale and beef--that is more like it," said the Dane. "Having
found which we are going away again. The sooner we find it the
better, therefore, and maybe you will be glad to help us to what we
seek."

"Our folk tell me that you are helping yourselves somewhat freely
already," answered the thane. "One may suppose that, like honest
seamen, you mean to face the reckoning presently."

"Oh ay, we always pay, if we are asked," answered the chief; and as
he said it he hitched his sword hilt forward into reach in a way
which there was no mistaking.

"It is a new thing to us that seamen should hint that they will pay
for what they need with the cold steel. We are not such churls as
to withhold what a man would seek in his need."

"No man ever withholds aught from us, if so be we have set our
minds on it," said the chief, with a great laugh.

Then he turned to his men, who were all round us by this time,
listening.

"Here, take these two down to the ships, and see that they escape
not; they will be good hostages."

In a moment, before we had time so much as to spur our horses, much
less to draw sword, we were seized and pinioned by the men in spite
of the rearing of the frightened steeds. Plainly it was not the
first time they had handled men in that wise. Then, with a warrior
on either side of us, we were hurried seaward; and I thought it
best to hold my tongue, for there was not the least use in
protesting. So also thought my cousin, for he never said a word.

Along the rough wharves there was bustle and noise enough, for the
place swarmed with the mailed seamen, who had littered the roadway
with goods of all sorts from the houses and merchants' stores, and
were getting what they chose to take across the gang planks into
their ships. Cecilia has been chosen by musicians as their
patron saint; and the musicians of Paris, on the approach
of winter, always celebrate a mass, in music, to her honor, and
for the benefit of the distressed members of their body.
Next I saw that at the high stems and sterns of the ships stood
posted men, who seemed to be on watch, leaning on their spears, and
taking no part in the bustle. But every man worked with his arms
ready, and more men who had found horses rode out along the roads
as we came in. They were the pickets who would watch for the
raising of the country, or who would drive in the cattle from the
fields.

Twice I had seen border warfare with the west Welsh on the Devon
side of our country, and so I knew what these horsemen were about,
or rather guessed it. But at the time all the affair was a confused
medley to me, if I seem to see it plainly now as I look back. Maybe
I saw more from the ships presently, for we were hurried on board,
handed over to the ship guard and there left, while our captors
rode away again.

I only hoped that when the first messengers reached Beaduheard the
sheriff he would bring force enough with him. But I doubted it.

The guard took our weapons from us, bound us afresh but not very
tightly, and set us with our backs against the gunwale of the fore
deck of the ship they had us on board, which was that with the
raven flag. Over us towered a wonderful carven dragon's head,
painted green and gilded, and at the stern of the ship rose what
was meant for its carven tail. The other ships had somewhat the
same adornment to their stems and stern posts, but they were not so
high or so handsome. Plainly this was the chief's own ship.

Now I suppose that the presence of a captive or two was no new
thing to the men, for when they had secured us each to a ring bolt
with a short line, they paid little heed to us, but stood and
talked to one another with hardly a glance in our direction. Seeing
which my cousin spoke to me in a low voice.

But when do our parents and friends, when do we ourselves, dream
of what our lot is really to turn out? Those old notions have
nothing to do, if we could but think so, with the event.

Nor has my disgust any thing to do with my duty.
"I wanted to come, and there was no reason to think
that things would go thus. Even now I suppose we shall be let go
presently."

Elfric shook his head. I could see that he was far more deeply
troubled than he cared to show, and my heart sank.

"I cannot rightly make it all out," he said. "But these men are
certainly the northern strangers who have harried Wales, even as we
feared."

"Well," I said, "we shall have the sheriff here shortly."

"Beaduheard? I suppose so. Little help will be from him. It would
take three days to raise force enough to drive off these men, and
he is headstrong and hot tempered. His only chance is to scare them
away with a show of force, or, at best, to prevent their going
inland after plunder; for that is what they are here for."

"Maybe they will hold us to ransom."

"That is the best we can hope for. Of course I will pay yours."

The bustle went on, and I watched the stowing of the plunder after
this, for I had no more to say. I thought of my father, and of the
trouble he would be in if he knew my plight, and tried to think
what a tale I should have to tell him when I reached home again.

And then came an old warrior, well armed and handsome, with
iron-gray hair and beard, and he stepped on the deck and looked
curiously at us.

