Produced by Ted Garvin, William Flis
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


                          TOASTS

              AND FORMS OF PUBLIC ADDRESS

               FOR THOSE WHO WISH TO SAY

           THE RIGHT THING IN THE RIGHT WAY


                            BY

                     WILLIAM PITTENGER


CONTENTS


INTRODUCTION
AFTER-DINNER SPEECHES--ANCIENT AND MODERN
VALUE OF A GOOD STORY AND HOW TO INTRODUCE IT
PURPOSE OF AFTER-DINNER SPEAKING
SOME A B C DIRECTIONS FOR MAKING SPEECHES, TOASTS, AND RESPONSES
HOLIDAY SPEECHES
  Fourth of July
  Memorial Day
  Washington's Birthday
  Christmas
  Thanksgiving
PRESENTATION ADDRESSES
ADDRESSES OF WELCOME
WEDDING AND OTHER ANNIVERSARIES
TOASTS
  Sentiments Suggested by a Toast
  Miscellaneous Toasts
  Humorous Toasts
MISCELLANEOUS ADDRESSES
  Centennial or Semi-Centennial
  Dedication of a Monument or Unveiling a Statue
  Birthday Celebration
  Reception
  Responses to Toasts at a Dinner
  Responses to Toasts to The Navy
  Responses to Toasts to General Jackson
  Responses to Toasts to The Workingman
  Nominating a Candidate
  Accepting a Nomination
  Speech in a Political Canvass
  Speech after a Political Victory
  Speech after a Political Defeat
  A Chairman's or President's Speech
  For Any Occasion
ILLUSTRATIVE AND HUMOROUS ANECDOTES
INDEX OF TOASTS
INDEX OF ANECDOTES


INTRODUCTION


The author of this manual has at various intervals prepared several
treatises relating to the art of speech. Their wide circulation is an
indication of the demand for works upon this subject. They were intended
to embrace the principles which govern speech-making in the forum, in the
pulpit, or at the bar. While these do not differ essentially from the
principles applicable to occasions where the object is only entertainment,
yet there are certain well-defined differences which it is the purpose of
this little volume to point out. we are well met; it will be useless to attempt
disguise with me; look at this!" and he put into his hand the letter he
had the night before received.

Overwhelmed with consternation, the young man fell at his feet.

"Oh heaven!" he cried, "I am lost for ever--my father, my indulgent, my
honourable father, is heart-broken and disgraced by my villany. My mother!"
Here he became nearly inaudible, and hid his face in his hands.
"You," he continued, "are spared all participation in the agony your wretched
son is suffering."
"Boy, boy!" said the merchant, raising him, and quite melted at this show
of penitence, "listen to me! are the bills safe? if so, you may still
hope."
"They are," eagerly exclaimed the youth; "how fortunate that I did not
listen to the offers of that rapacious Jew. Here, sir, take them, I implore
you," pulling from his breast a large pocket-book; "they are untouched.
Spare but my life, and I will yet atone--Oh, spare me from a shameful death."

There was a pause, broken at last by Yansen's saying significantly
to his employer, "as per margin."

The merchant turned to the unhappy young man. "Take heart," said
he, "'Wenn die noth ist amgröszten die hülfe ist am nächsten.'[11]
There's an old German proverb for you. Sit down and hear what I have
to say. I think myself not a little fortunate in so soon being able to fulfil
the wishes of my English correspondents; your natural alarm did not suffer
you to finish their letter; you will perceive how generously they mean
to act; their house's credit saved, they intend not to punish you. Read,
read; and Yansen, order some eatables, and a bottle or two of my old
Heidelberg hock, trouble always makes me thirsty--three glasses, my good
Yansen."
[11] When things are at the worst they must mend.

Again the young Englishman hid his face, and sighed convulsively,
"I do not deserve this lenity.

My excellent father! this is a tribute to your virtue."
Von Kapell left his guest's reflections undisturbed, till a servant entered,
who placed refreshments on a well polished oak table; when she retired, he
resumed.

"And now, what devil tempted you to play the--runaway?"

swallowing the term he had intended to use. "Was it for the wenches, or the
dicing table?"
"Spare me, most kind and worthy sir, I intreat you! To my father I will
make full confession of all my faults; but he must be the first
to know the origin of my crimes."
"Well, well, take another glass of wine; you shall stay in my house
till we can find a passage for you. It was but last night my good
ship the Christine sailed for Batavia, and--"
"Under favour," interrupted Yansen, "she has not yet left the
harbour; the wind blew too fresh for her to venture on crossing the
sand-banks at night, and it is now only shifting round a point or
two."
"You are lucky, youngster;" quickly added the merchant, "the Christine
has noble accommodations; you shall aboard this evening. Put these
in the chest, good Yansen," handing him the bills, "and count me
out the two hundred louis d'or the boy is to have.He may glance over the outline of a speech altogether new and strange to
him, and endeavor to adapt it to his own use; or he may weave together
fragments of several speeches, or take the framework of one and construct
upon it a speech which will enable him to make a new departure. A writer
sometimes, after years of practice, finds it difficult to begin the
composition of some simple reception or commemorative address; but the
reading of a meagre outline, not one word or idea of which may be directly
used, serves to break the spell of intellectual sloth or inertia, and
starts him upon his work briskly and hopefully.

The field covered by the present volume is not entirely unoccupied. One of
the earliest publications in this line is an anonymous English work, very
dignified and conservative. The speeches it furnishes are painstaking, but
a trifle heavy, and savor so much of English modes of expression, as well
as thought and customs, as to be poorly adapted to this country. Two works
have appeared in this country, also, one being intended apparently for
wine parties only; the other, while containing a number of gem-like little
speeches, fails to give the aid which is sought by the ordinary tyro, and
is calculated rather to discourage him; giving him the impression that it
is more difficult to become an acceptable after-dinner speaker than he had
ever supposed. While a few of the best things in the latter volume are
availed of, a different method is pursued in the present work. Outlines
of speeches are preferred to those which are fully elaborated; and the
few plain rules, by which a thing so informal and easy as an after-dinner
speech may be produced, are so illustrated as to make their application
almost a matter of course. Good-humor and brevity, an outline and a
story--what more is needed, unless it be that serene self-confidence which
enables a speaker to say even foolish and absurd things, with the assurance
that all goes down at a public dinner? What if you are not the most
brilliant, humorous, and stirring speaker of the evening? Aim to fill your
place without discredit; observe closely those who make a great success;
the next time you may have a better outline or more telling story, and
become, before you know it, the leader of the evening.

It is not intended to give rules or directions for the order either
of drinking or feasting. That field is fully occupied. But the custom
of making addresses at the close of a feast has, been so thoroughly
established, and so frequent are these occasions, that a gentleman is not
fully equipped for a place in society, if he cannot gracefully offer or
respond to a toast, or preside at a gathering where toasts or other forms
of after-dinner speaking are expected. It is the aim of this manual to help
the beginner in this field.


AFTER-DINNER SPEECHES--ANCIENT AND MODERN


An idea of the real meaning of after-dinner speaking may be obtained from
the feudal feasts of earlier times. The old lord or baron of the Middle
Ages partook of his principal meal in the great hall of his castle,
surrounded by guests, each being assigned his place in formal order and
with no small degree of ceremony. This hall was the main feature of the
castle. There all the family and guests met on frequent festal occasions,
and after the feasting and the hour of ceremony and more refined
entertainment was over, retired to rest in comparatively small and humble
apartments adjoining, though sometimes they would simply wrap their cloaks
about them, and lie down to sleep on the rushes that littered the floor of
the great hall.

After the "rage of hunger was appeased"--which then, as in our day, and
back even as far as the time of the ancient Greeks, was the first business
in order--came the social hour, which meant much to the dwellers in those
dull, comfortless old barracks--for the great castles of that day were
little better than barracks. The chief gave the signal for talk, music, or
story, previous to which, any inquiries or conversation, other than the
briefest question and answer about the food or other necessary things,
would have been considered inappropriate and disrespectful. There probably
was present some guest, who came under circumstances that awakened the
strongest curiosity or who had a claim upon his entertainer. Such a guest
was placed at the board in a position corresponding to his rank.

After resting and partaking of the repast, it was pertinent to hear what
account he could give of himself, and courtesy permitted the host to
levy an intellectual tax upon him, as a contribution to the joy of the
hour. Seated at the head of the table the chief, or, in his absence, a
representative, made the opening speech--the address of welcome, to use the
term familiar to ourselves. This might be very brief or at considerable
length; it might suggest inquiries of any of the company or merely pledge
an attentive and courteous hearing to whatever the guest might utter; it
might refer to the past glory of the castle and its lord, or vaunt its
present greatness and active occupation.

But whatever form it might take it was sure to consist--as addresses of
welcome in all ages have done--of two words, by dexterously using which,
any man can make a good speech of this character. These two words are "We"
and "You;" and all else not connected with these is irrelevant and useless.
They do not constitute two parts of the same speech but ordinarily play
back and forth, like a game of battledore. Who "we" are; what "we" have
done; how "we" saw "you;" what "we" have heard of "you;" how great and good
"you" are thought to be; the joy at "your" coming; what "we" now want to
learn of "you;" what "we" wish "you" to do; how "we" desire a longer stay
or regret the need of an early departure--all is a variation of the one
theme--"we" and "you."

The old Baron probably said all of this and much more in a lordly way,
occupying a longer or shorter time, without ever dreaming that he was
making a speech. It was his ordinary after-dinner talk to those whom chance
or fortune brought within his walls. Or, if he prided himself upon being a
man of few words, scorning these as fit only for women and minstrels, he
would simply remind the guest that he was now at liberty to give such an
account of himself, and to prefer such requests as seemed agreeable to him.

The guest was then expected to respond, though this by no means was the
rule. The host might wish first to call out more of his own intellectual
treasures. This he would do by having other occupants of the castle speak
further words of welcome, or would call upon a minstrel to sing a song or
relate some deed of chivalry.

When the guest at last rises to speak, it is still the two pronouns with
slightly changed emphasis that play a conspicuous part. The "we" may become
"I;" but this is no essential change. Where "I" or "we" have been; what "I"
have done, suffered, or enjoyed; how and why "I" came here; how glad "I" am
to be here; what "I" have known and heard of "you;" how "we" may help each
other; what great enterprises "we" can enter upon; how thankful for the
good cheer and good words "we" hear.

In the baronial hall, which foreshadowed the family fireside of later
days, the drinking was free and copious whilst the other portions of the
entertainment were of a general character and quite protracted. Mirth,
song, the rude jest, anecdotes of the chase or of a battle, or a rehearsal
of the experiences of every-day life, were all in place. Sometimes, the
guests, overpowered by their libations, are said to have fallen under the
table and to have slumbered there till surprised by the pale morning light.
There was little need of ceremony in such feasts, and there is little need
of formality or constraint in the far different festal occasions of the
present time.

When no guest, either by chance or invitation came to the castle, less
variety could be given to the after-dinner entertainment, and many
expedients were required to pass the long hours that sometimes hung heavily
on their hands. Then the use of "Toasts" became an important feature. The
drinking also was expected to arouse interest, but if it went on in silence
and gloom or amid the buzz of trivial conversation in different parts
of the hall the unity of the hour was marred and the evening was voted
dull--the lord himself then having no more honor than his meanest vassal.
But the toast--no matter how it originated--remedied all this. A compliment
and a proverb, a speech and a response, however rude, fixed the attention
of every one at the table, and enabled the lord to retain the same
leadership at the feast that he had won in the chase or in battle. He might
himself propose a toast of his own choice or give another permission to
propose it. He might then designate some humorous or entertaining clansman
to respond; he might either stimulate or repress the zeal of the guests,
and give unity to each part of the entertainment and to the whole feast.
For these reasons the toast rose into popularity, and is now often
used--possibly it might be said generally used if our own country alone be
considered--even when no drinking at all is indulged in.

Let us now take a look at an after-dinner hour of the present day; one
of the very latest and most approved pattern. The contrast will not be
without interest and value. The fare at the dinner is always inviting. The
company is large. Good speakers are secured in advance. Each is given an
appropriate toast, either to propose or respond to. Suppose it is a New
England society celebrating Forefathers' Day in New York. The chairman (who
is usually the president of the society) rises, and by touching a bell,
rapping on the table, or in some other suitable manner, attracts all eyes
to himself. He then asks the meeting to come to order, or if he prefers the
form, to give attention. Then he utters a few graceful commonplaces, and
calls upon a guest to offer the leading toast--not always the chief or most
interesting one. When one is reached in which there is a lively interest,
some distinguished person such as Chauncey M. Depew, the prince of
after-dinner speakers, comes to the front. We give an outline of one of his
addresses on Forefathers' Day, delivered December 22d, 1882, in response to
the toast, "The Half Moon and the Mayflower."

To be sure; there has not been one yet.
_Dang_. It is the under-plot, isn't it?
_Puff_. Yes.--What, gentlemen, do you mean to go at once to the discovery
scene?
_Just_. If you please, sir.
_Puff_. Oh, very well!--Hark'ee, I don't choose to say anything more; but,
i'faith they have mangled my play in a most shocking manner.
_Dang_. It's a great pity!
_Puff_. Now, then, Mr. justice, if you please.
"_Just_. Are all the volunteers without?
_Const_. They are. Some ten in fetters, and some twenty drunk.
_Just_. Attends the youth, whose most opprobrious fame And clear convicted
crimes have stamp'd him soldier?
_Const_. He waits your pleasure; eager to repay The best reprieve
that sends him to the fields Of glory, there to raise his branded
hand In honour's cause.

_Just_. 'Tis well--'tis justice arms him! Oh! may he now defend his country's
laws With half the spirit he has broke them all! If 'tis your
worship's pleasure, bid him enter.
_Const_. I fly, the herald of your will. [_Exit._]" _Puff_.

Quick, sir.
_Sneer_. But, Mr. Puff, I think not only the justice, but the clown seems
to talk in as high a style as the first hero among them.
_Puff_. Heaven forbid they should not in a free country!-- Sir, I am
not for making slavish distinctions, and giving all the fine
language to the upper sort of people.

_Dang_. That's very noble in you, indeed.

"_Enter_ JUSTICE'S LADY." _Puff_. Now, pray mark this scene.
"_Lady_ Forgive this interruption, good my love; But as I just now
pass'd a prisoner youth, Whom rude hands hither lead, strange bodings
seized My fluttering heart, and to myself I said, An' if our Tom had lived,
he'd surely been This stripling's height!
_Just_. Ha! sure some powerful sympathy directs Us both-- _Enter_ CONSTABLE
_with_ Son.
What is thy name?
_Son_.

My name is Tom Jenkins--_alias_ have I none-- Though orphan'd, and without
a friend!
_Just_. Thy parents?
_Son_. My father dwelt in Rochester--and was, As I have heard--a
fishmonger--no more." _Puff_. What, sir, do you leave out the account of
your birth, parentage, and education?
_Son_ They have settled it so, sir, here.
_Puff_. Oh! oh!

"_Lady_. How loudly nature whispers to my heart Had he no other name?
_Son_. I've seen a bill Of his sign'd Tomkins, creditor.
_Just_. This does indeed confirm each circumstance The gipsy
told!--Prepare!
_Son_. I do.
_Just_. No orphan, nor without a friend art thou--I am thy father; here's thy
mother; there Thy uncle--this thy first cousin, and those Are all your
near relations!
_Lady_. O ecstasy of bliss!
_Son_. O most unlook'd for happiness!
_Just_. O wonderful event! [_They faint alternately in each other's
arms_.]" _Puff_. There, you see, relationship, like murder, will
out.

"_Just_. Now let's revive--else were this joy too much! But come--and
we'll unfold the rest within; And thou, my boy, must needs want rest and
food. Hence may each orphan hope, as chance directs, To find a father--where
he least expects!
[_Exeunt_.]" _Puff_. What do you think of that?
_Dang_. One of the finest discovery-scenes I ever saw!-- Why, this under-plot
would have made a tragedy itself.

_Sneer_. Ay! or a comedy either.
_Puff_. And keeps quite clear you see of the other.
"_Enter_ SCENEMEN, _taking away the seats_." _Puff_. The scene remains,
does it?

_Sceneman_. Yes, sir.
_Puff_. You are to leave one chair, you know.--But it is always awkward
in a tragedy, to have your fellows coming in in your play-house liveries
to remove things.--I wish that could be managed better.--So now for
my mysterious yeoman.
"_Enter_ BEEFEATER.
_Beef_. Perdition catch my soul, but I do love thee." _Sneer_. Haven't I
heard that line before?
_Puff_. No, I fancy not.--Where, pray?
_Dang_.

Yes, I think there is something like it in Othello.
_Puff_. Gad! now you put me in mind on't, I believe there is--but that's
of no consequence; all that can be said is, that two people happened to hit
upon the same thought--and Shakspeare made use of it first, that's all.
_Sneer_. Very true.
_Puff_. Now, sir, your soliloquy--but speak more to the pit, if you please--the
soliloquy always to the pit, that's a rule.
"_Beef_.

Though hopeless love finds comfort in despair, It never can endure a rival's
bliss! But soft--I am observed.
[_Exit_.]" _Dang_. That's a very short soliloquy.
_Puff_. Yes--but it would have been a great deal longer if he had not
been observed.
_Sneer_. A most sentimental Beefeater that, Mr. Puff!
_Puff_. Hark'ee--I would not have you be too sure that he is a
Beefeater.
_Sneer_. What, a hero in disguise?
_Puff_. No matter--I only give you a hint. But now for my principal
character. Here he comes--Lord Burleigh in person!
Pray, gentlemen, step this way--softly--I only hope the Lord High Treasurer
is perfect--if he is but perfect!
"_Enter_ LORD BURLEIGH, _goes slowly to a chair, and sits._" _Sneer_.
Mr. Puff!
_Puff_. Hush!--Vastly well, sir! vastly well!

a most interesting gravity.
_Dang_. What, isn't he to speak at all?
_Puff_. Egad, I thought you'd ask me that!--Yes, it is a very likely
thing--that a minister in his situation, with the whole affairs of the
nation on his head, should have time to talk!--But hush! or you'll put
him out.
_Sneer_. Put him out; how the plague can that be, if he's not going to say
anything?
_Puff_. There's the reason!

why, his part is to think; and how the plague do you imagine he can think
if you keep talking?
_Dang_. That's very true, upon my word!
"LORD BURLEIGH _comes forward, shakes his head, and exit_." _Sneer_. He is
very perfect indeed! Now, pray what did he mean by that?
_Puff_. You don't take it?
_Sneer_. No, I don't, upon my soul.
_Puff_. Why, by that shake of the head, he gave you to understand that even
though they had more justice in their cause, and wisdom in their
measures--yet, if there was not a greater spirit shown on the part of
the people, the country would at last fall a sacrifice to the
hostile ambition of the Spanish monarchy.

_Sneer_. The devil! did he mean all that by shaking his head?
_Puff_. Every word of it--if he shook his head as I taught him.
_Dang_. Ah! there certainly is a vast deal to be done on the stage by dumb
show and expressions of face; and a judicious author knows how much he may
trust to it.
_Sneer_. Oh, here are some of our old acquaintance.
"_Enter_ SIR CHRISTOPHER HATTON _and_ SIR WALTER RALEIGH.

_Sir Christ_. My niece and your niece too! By Heaven!
there's witchcraft in't.--He could not else Have gain'd their hearts.--But
see where they approach Some horrid purpose lowering on their brows!

_Sir Walt_. Let us withdraw and mark them. [_They withdraw_.]" _Sneer_. What
is all this?
_Puff_. Ah! here has been more pruning!--but the fact is, these two young
ladies are also in love with Don Whiskerandos.-- Now, gentlemen, this
scene goes entirely for what we call situation and stage effect, by
which the greatest applause may be obtained, without the assistance
of language, sentiment, or character: pray mark!
"_Enter the two_ NIECES.
_1st Niece_. Ellena here! She is his scorn as much as I-- that is Some
comfort still !" _Puff_. O dear, madam, you are not to say that to her
face!
--Aside, ma'am, aside.

--The whole scene is to be aside.

"_1st Niece_. She is his scorn as much as I--that is Some comfort still.
[_Aside_.] _2nd Niece_. I know he prizes not Pollina's love; But Tilburina
lords it o'er his heart. [_Aside_.] _1st Niece_. But see the proud destroyer
of my peace.
Revenge is all the good I've left. [_Aside_.] _2nd Niece_. He comes, the
false disturber of my quiet. Now vengeance do thy worst. [_Aside_.] _Enter_
DON FEROLO WHISKERANDOS.
_Whisk_. O hateful liberty--if thus in vain I seek my Tilburina!
_Both Nieces_. And ever shalt!
SIR CHRISTOPHER HATTON _and_ SIR WALTER RALEIGH _come forward_.
_Sir Christ. and Sir Walt_. Hold! we will avenge you.
_Whisk_. Hold _you_--or see your nieces bleed! [_The two_ NIECES _draw
their two daggers to strike_ WHISKERANDOS: _the two_ UNCLES _at
the instant, with their two swords drawn, catch their two_ NIECES'
_arms, and turn the points of their swords to_ WHISKERANDOS, _who
immediately draws two daggers, and holds them to the two_ NIECES'
_bosoms_.]"

_Puff._ There's situation for you! there's an heroic group!
--You see the ladies can't stab Whiskerandos--he durst not strike them,
for fear of their uncles--the uncles durst not kill him, because of their
nieces.--I have them all at a dead lock!--for every one of them is afraid
to let go first.
_Sneer._ Why, then they must stand there for ever!
_Puff._ So they would, if I hadn't a very fine contrivance for't.--Now
mind-- "_Enter_ BEEFEATER, _with his halbert_.
_Beef._ In the queen's name I charge you all to drop Your swords and
daggers!
[_They drop their swords and daggers_."] _Sneer._ That is a contrivance
indeed!
_Puff._ Ay--in the queen's name.
_Sir Christ._ Come, niece!
_Sir Walt._ Come, niece! [_Exeunt with the two_ NIECES.] _Whisk._
What's he, who bids us thus renounce our guard?
_Beef._ Thou must do more--renounce thy love!

_Whisk._ Thou liest--base Beefeater!
_Beef._ Ha! hell! the lie! By Heaven thou'st roused the lion in my heart!
Off, yeoman's habit!--base disguise! off! off!
[_Discovers himself by throwing off his upper dress, and appearing in a
very fine waistcoat._] Am I a Beefeater now? Or beams my crest as terrible
as when In Biscay's Bay I took thy captive sloop?" _Puff._ There, egad!
he comes out to be the very captain of the privateer who had taken Whiskerandos
prisoner--and was himself an old lover of Tilburina's.
_Dang._ Admirably managed, indeed!

_Puff._ Now, stand out of their way.
"_Whisk._ I thank thee, Fortune, that hast thus bestowed A weapon to
chastise this insolent. [_Takes up one of the swords_.] _Beef._ I take thy
challenge, Spaniard, and I thank thee, Fortune, too! [_Takes up the other
sword_.]" _Dang._ That's excellently contrived!--It seems as if the two
uncles had left their swords on purpose for them.
_Puff._ No, egad, they could not help leaving them.
"_Whisk_. Vengeance and Tilburina!
_Beef_.

Exactly so-- [_They fight--and after the usual number of wounds given_,
WHISKERANDOS _falls_.] _Whisk_. O cursed parry!--that last thrust in
tierce Was fatal.--Captain, thou hast fenced well!

And Whiskerandos quits this bustling scene For all eter-- _Beef_.--nity--he
would have added, but stern death Cut short his being, and the noun
at once!" _Puff_. Oh, my dear sir, you are too slow: now mind me.-- Sir,
shall I trouble you to die again?
"_Whisk_.

And Whiskerandos quits this bustling scene For all eter-- _Beef_.

--nity--he would have added,--" _Puff_. No, sir--that's not it--once more,
if you please.
_Whisk_. I wish, sir, you would practise this without me--I can't stay
dying here all night.
_Puff_. Very well; we'll go over it by-and-by.--[_Exit_ WHISKERANDOS.]
I must humour these gentlemen!

"_Beef_. Farewell, brave Spaniard! and when next--" _Puff_. Dear sir,
you needn't speak that speech, as the body has walked off.
_Beef_. That's true, sir--then I'll join the fleet.
_Puff_. If you please.--[Exit BEEFEATER.] Now, who comes on?
"_Enter_ GOVERNOR, _with his hair properly disordered_.
_Gov_. A hemisphere of evil planets reign!

And every planet sheds contagious frenzy! My Spanish prisoner is slain!
my daughter, Meeting the dead corse borne along, has gone Distract!

[_A loud flourish of trumpets_.] But hark! I am summoned to the fort:
Perhaps the fleets have met!

amazing crisis! O Tilburina! from thy aged father's beard Thou'st pluck'd
the few brown hairs which time had left! [Exit.]" _Sneer_. Poor
gentleman!
_Puff_. Yes--and no one to blame but his daughter!
_Dang_. And the planets-- _Puff_. True.--Now enter Tilburina!
_Sneer._ Egad, the business comes on quick here.

_Puff._ Yes, sir--now she comes in stark mad in white satin.
_Sneer._ Why in white satin?
_Puff._ O Lord, sir--when a heroine goes mad, she always goes into white
satin.--Don't she, Dangle?

_Dang._ Always--it's a rule.
_Puff._ Yes--here it is--[_Looking at the book_.] "Enter Tilburina
stark mad in white satin, and her confidant stark mad in white linen."
"_Enter_ TILBURINA _and_ CONFIDANT, _mad, according to custom_."
_Sneer._ But, what the deuce! is the confidant to be mad too?
_Puff._ To be sure she is: the confidant is always to do whatever
her mistress does; weep when she weeps, smile when she smiles, go
mad when she goes mad.--Now, Madam Confidant--but keep your madness
in the background, if you please.
"_Tilb._ The wind whistles--the moon rises--see, They have kill'd
my squirrel in his cage: Is this a grasshopper?--Ha! no; it is my
Whiskerandos--you shall not keep him--I know you have him in your
pocket--An oyster may be cross'd in love!--who says A whale's a
bird?--Ha! did you call, my love?--He's here! he's there!--He's
everywhere! Ah me! he's nowhere! [_Exit_.]" _Puff._ There, do you
ever desire to see anybody madder than that?
_Sneer._ Never, while I live!
_Puff._ You observed how she mangled the metre?
_Dang._ Yes,--egad, it was the first thing made me suspect she was
out of her senses!
_Sneer._ And pray what becomes of her?
_Puff._ She is gone to throw herself into the sea, to be sure--and
that brings us at once to the scene of action, and so to my
catastrophe--my sea-fight, I mean.
_Sneer._ What, you bring that in at last?
_Puff._ Yes, yes--you know my play is called _The Spanish Armada_;
otherwise, egad, I have no occasion for the battle at all.--Now
then for my magnificence!--my battle!--my noise!--and my procession!--You
are all ready?
_Und. Promp_. [_Within._] Yes, sir.
_Puff_. Is the Thames dressed?
"_Enter_ THAMES _with two_ ATTENDANTS." _Thames_. Here I am,
sir.
_Puff_. Very well, indeed!--See, gentlemen, there's a river for
you!--This is blending a little of the masque with my tragedy--a
new fancy, you know--and very useful in my case; for as there must
be a procession, I suppose Thames, and all his tributary rivers,
to compliment Britannia with a fête in honour of the victory.
_Sneer_. But pray, who are these gentlemen in green with him?
_Puff_. Those?--those are his banks.
_Sneer_. His banks?
_Puff_. Yes, one crowned with alders, and the other with a villa!--you
take the allusions?--But hey! what the plague!--you have got both
your banks on one side.--Here, sir, come round.-- Ever while you
live, Thames, go between your banks.--[_Bell rings._] There; so!
now for't!--Stand aside, my dear friends!--Away, Thames!
[_Exit_ THAMES _between his banks._] [_Flourish of drums, trumpets,
cannon, &c., &'c. Scene changes to the sea--the fleets engage--the
music plays--"Britons strike home."--Spanish fleet destroyed by
fire-ships, &c.--English fleet advances--music plays, "Rule
Britannia."--The procession of all the English rivers, and their
tributaries, with their emblems, &c., begins with Handel's water
music, ends with a chorus to the march in Judas' Maccabaeus.--During
this scene,_ PUFF _directs and applauds everything--then_ _Puff_.
Well, pretty well--but not quite perfect. So, ladies and gentlemen,
if you please, we'll rehearse this piece again to-morrow.
[_Curtain drops._]But
if, when a prospective speech-occasion looms up, you will reflect upon the
sentiment you wish to propose, or will get a friend to do a little planning
and suggest the easiest toast or topic, and then attempt to say just a
little, you will probably come off with flying colors.

6. When you rise, do not be in a hurry. A little hesitation has a better
effect than too much promptness and fluency, and a little stammering or
hesitation, it may be added, will have no bad effect. In beginning, your
manner can without disadvantage be altogether lost sight of, and if
you have something to say the substance of which is good, and has been
carefully prearranged, you will be able to give utterance to it in some
form; grammatical mistakes or mispronunciation, where there is no
affectation, as well as an occasional repetition, will rarely be noticed.

7. Above all, remember it may be assumed that your hearers are your
friends, and are ready to receive kindly what you have to say. This will
have a wonderfully steadying effect on your nerves. And if your speech
consists only of two or three sentences slowly and deliberately uttered,
they will at least applaud its brevity, and give you credit for having
filled your place on the programme respectably.


It has been often said that Americans are greatly ahead of the English in
general speech-making, but in pleasant after-dinner talking and addresses
they are much inferior. Probably this was once true, but if so, it is
true no longer. The reason of any former deficiency was simply want of
practice, without which no speech-making can be easy and effective. But
the importance of this kind of oratory is now recognized, and, with proper
efforts to cultivate and master it, Americans are taking the same high rank
as in other forms of intellectual effort. Lowell and Depew are acknowledged
as peers of any "toast-responder" or "after-dinner orator" the world has
ever seen. One of the chief elements of their charm consists in the good
stories they relate. Whoever has a natural faculty, be it ever so slight,
as a storyteller, will, if he gathers up and appropriates the good things
that he meets with, soon realize that he is making rapid progress in this
delightful field, and that he gains much more than mere pleasure by his
acquisitions.

The best entertainments are not those which merely make a display of wealth
and luxury. Quiet, good taste, and social attractions are far better. The
English wit, Foote, describes a banquet of the former character. "As to
splendor, as far as it went, I admit it: there was a very fine sideboard of
plate; and if a man could have swallowed a silversmith's shop, there was
enough to satisfy him; but as to all the rest, the mutton was white, the
veal was red, the fish was kept too long, the venison not kept long enough;
to sum up all, everything was cold except the ice, and everything sour
except the vinegar." Excellence in the quality of the viands is not to
be disregarded in the choicest company. A celebrated scholar and wit was
selecting some of the choicest delicacies on the table, when a rich friend
said to him, "What! do philosophers love dainties?" "Why not?" replied the
scholar; _"do you think all the good things of this world were made only
for blockheads?"_


HOLIDAY SPEECHES


FOURTH OF JULY


At a Fourth of July banquet, or celebration, toast may be offered to "The
Flag," to "The Day," to "Independence," to "Our Revolutionary Fathers," to
"The Nation," to any Great Man of the Past, to "Liberty," to "Free Speech,"
to "National Greatness," to "Peace," to "Defensive War," to any of the
States, to "Washington" or "Lafayette," to "Our Old Ally, France," to any
of the "Patriotic Virtues," to "The Army and The Navy," to the "Memory of
any of the Battles by Land or Sea." Appropriate sentiments for any of these
may easily be devised or may be found in the miscellaneous list in this
volume. "The Constitution and the Laws" or something similar should not be
omitted.


SOME ITEMS THAT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE IN RESPONDING TO THESE TOASTS.

Their order and character will depend upon the special topic.


Our present prosperity--the greatness and resources of our country as
compared with those of the Revolutionary epoch--the slow growth of the
colonies--the rapid growth of the States and the addition of new States
continually--what was gained by independence--did we do more than simply
prevent tyranny--the advantages an independent country possesses over a
colony, such as Canada--the perils of independence and the responsibility
of power--the romantic early history of the country--the wars that preceded
the Revolutionary conflict--the character of the struggle--the slenderness
of our resources compared with the mighty power of Britain--our ally,
France--what that nation gained and lost by joining in our quarrel--the
memories of Washington and Lafayette--the principles at stake in the
Revolution--the narrow view our fathers took of the issue at first, and
the manner in which they were led first to independence and then to
nationality--some phases of the struggle--its critical points--Trenton and
Valley Forge--Saratoga and Yorktown--our responsibilities and duties--the
questions of that day enumerated and compared with the burning questions
of the present day (which we do not enumerate here, but which the speaker
may describe or even argue if the nature of his audience, or time at his
disposal permits)--the future greatness of the nation--the probability of
the acquisition of new territory.

Laughable incidents either from history or illustrations from any source,
must not be forgotten, for if the speech be more than a few minutes long
they are absolutely indispensable.


OUTLINE OF A SPEECH IN RESPONSE TO THE TOAST "THE DAY WE CELEBRATE"

The Fourth of July has been a great day ever since 1776. Before that year
the Fourth of this month came and went like other days. But then a great
event happened: an event which made a great difference to the entire world;
the boundaries of many countries would be very different to-day if the
important event of that day had not transpired. It was a terrible blow to
the foes of humanity and even to many weak-kneed friends. The exhortation
of one of the signers of the Declaration on that day, "We must all hang
together," with the grim but very reasonable rejoinder, "If we do not, we
will assuredly hang separately." The bloodshed and suffering which followed
and which seem to be the only price at which human liberty and advancement
can be procured. We had to deal with our old friends the English very much
as the peace-loving Quaker did with the pirate who boarded his ship; taking
him by the collar Broad-brim dropped him over the ship's side into the
water, saying, "Friend, thee has no business on this ship." We have shown
that we own and can navigate the ship of State ourselves, and now we are
willing to welcome here not only John Bull but all nations of the world
when they have any friendly business with us.

The gunpowder that has been consumed. First, during the Revolutionary war
and the second war with England; and then the powder that has been exploded
by small and large boys in the hundred and odd Fourths that have followed.


OUTLINE OF A SPREAD-EAGLE SPEECH IN A FOREIGN LAND

We are so far from home that we can't hear the eagle scream or see the
lightning in his eye. Only from the almanac do we know that this is the day
of all days on which he disports himself. He was a small bird when born,
more than a hundred years ago, but has grown lively till his wings reach
from ocean to ocean, and it only requires a little faith to see him stretch
himself clear over the Western Hemisphere and the adjacent islands. Other
birds despised him on the first great Fourth, but these birds of prey,
vultures, condors and such like, with crows, as well as the smaller
Republican eagles born since, are humble enough to him now. The British
lion himself having been so often scratched and clawed by this fowl, has
learned to shake his mane and wag his tail rather amiably in our eagle's
presence, even if he has to give an occasional growl to keep his hand in.
We are proud of this bird, though we are far from home, and to-day send our
heartiest good wishes across the sea to the land we love the best.


OUTLINE OF A RESPONSE TO THE TOAST, "OUR COUNTRY"

The field here is very wide. All the history of the country is appropriate,
but can only be glanced at, though a good speech might be made by dwelling
at length on some romantic incident in its history. The size and richness
of the country from the green pine forests of Maine to the golden orange
groves of California; or the prophecy of the manifest greatness of coming
destiny. Here the old but laughable story can be brought in easily about
the raw Irishman who saw a pumpkin for the first time, and was told that it
was a mare's egg, and generously given one. He had the misfortune, however,
to drop it out of his cart, when it rolled down-hill, struck a stump, burst
and frightened a rabbit, which bounded away followed by Pat, shouting:
"Shtop my colt; sure and if he is so big and can run so fast now, when just
born, what a rousing horse he will be when grown up!"

But our country has more than merely a vast area. She has made advances in
science, art, literature, and culture of all kinds, and is destined to play
a chief part in the drama of the world's progress.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMORIAL DAY


The celebration of this day has become general and has assumed a special
and beautiful character. It might have been feared that angry passions
engendered by civil strife would predominate, but the very reverse of
this is true. Kindness and charity, tender memories of the sacrifices of
patriotism, the duty of caring for the living and of avoiding all that
might lead again to the sad necessity of war, are the sentiments nearly
always inculcated.

The following are a few of the toasts that may be given at celebrations, or
banquets, or at the exercises that form a part of the annual decorating of
soldiers' graves:

The Martyred Dead--the Regiments locally represented--the Army and
Navy--any Dead Soldier especially prominent--the Union Forever--the
Whole Country--Victory always for the Right--the Surviving Soldiers and
Sailors--Unbroken Peace--the Commander-in-Chief, and other officers locally
honored--any special battle whose field is near at hand--the Flag with all
its Stars undimmed.


SKETCH OF A SPEECH IN RESPONSE TO THE TOAST, "OUR HONORED DEAD"

Time in its rapid flight tests many things. Thirty years ago the Southern
Confederacy, like a dark cloud full of storm and thunderings, covered the
Southern heavens. Statesmen planned, preachers prayed, women wept, and
armies as brave as ever formed in line fought, for its establishment. Blood
flowed freely, and the roar of battle filled the whole land. Many wise men
thought it would continue for ages, but lo! it has disappeared. Nothing
remains to its adherents but a memory--mournful, pathetic, and bitter.

How different with the Old Flag that we love. It had been tested before,
but this was its supreme trial. It had been victorious in several wars. It
had sheltered new and expanding States, it had fostered higher forms of
civilization, and represented peoples and interests that were complex and
varied; but in our Civil War it was assailed as never before. The test was
crucial, but nobly was it borne. Men died in ranks as the forest goes down
before the cyclone. What sharp agony in death, and what long-continued
suffering and bereavement this implies. But the result was decisive--a
strengthening of the power and grandeur of the nation that sometimes seems
to be only too great and unquestioned.

We have no wish by any word of ours to revive bitter feeling or stir up
strife. This hallowed day has been from the first a peacemaker. Men,
standing with uncovered heads in the presence of the dead, do not care to
utter words of reproach for the irrevocable past. We, wearing the blue, can
say to the scarred veteran wearers of the gray: "You fought well for the
lost cause. But the case was fairly tried in the awful court of war. It
took four years for the jury to agree, but the verdict has been given--a
verdict against your cause--and there is no higher court and no appeal.
There is no resurrection for the dead Confederacy; but we can offer you
something better--an equal part in the life and destiny of the most
glorious nation time has yet produced." And on their side the gray can
reply, in the words of Colonel Grady, the eloquent orator of the South, in
his speech at Atlanta: "We can now see that in this conflict loss was gain,
and defeat real and substantial victory; that everything we hoped for and
fought for, in the new government we sought to establish, is given to us in
greater measure in the old government our fathers founded."

We do not meet on these Memorial Days to weep for the dead, as we did while
wounds were yet fresh. Time has healed the scars of war, and we can calmly
contemplate the great lesson of patriotic devotion, and rejoice that the
nation to which we belong produced men noble enough to die for that which
they valued so much. Neither do I care to say anything of human slavery,
the institution that died and was buried with the Confederacy. I had enough
to say about it while it was living. Let the dead past bury its dead.

But we are here to foster patriotism, in view of the most tremendous
sacrifice ever willingly made by a people on the altar of nationality. That
the sacrifices of the Civil War deserve this rank will appear from the
fact that they were made--in the main--by volunteers. We were not fighting
directly to defend our altars and our fires; we were not driven to arms
to repel an invading foe; we were not hurried to the field by king or
noble; but in the first flush of manhood we offered ourselves to preserve
unimpaired the unity, the purity, the glory of our nation. So far as I have
turned over the leaves of the volume of time, I have found nothing in all
the past like this. Therefore, standing before the highest manifestation of
earthly patriotism, viewing it crowned in all the glory of self-sacrifice,
by a faithfulness which was literally in the case of hundreds of thousands
"unto death," we ask: "What is there that justifies a nation in exacting or
accepting (when freely offered) such tribute of the life-blood of its
people?"

The two things of inestimable value which our government furnishes and
which we ought to preserve even with life itself, if the sacrifice is
needed, are liberty and law, or rather liberty _in_ law. The old world
gave law, without which human society cannot exist. But it was accompanied
with terrible suffering--as when "order reigned in Warsaw." Such law came
from masters, and made the mass of the people slaves. We have an equal
perfection of law, order, subordination, but it rises side by side with
liberty The people govern themselves--not in one form of government alone
but in affairs national, State, county, down to the smallest school
district and a thousand voluntary societies. In each the methods by which
the people's will may be made supreme in designated affairs are clearly
defined, so that the whole of united human effort is brought under the
dominion of law, even such things as general education, and yet each
affair is in the hands of the people directly concerned. For thousands of
years the principles of our complex and wonderful system of co-ordinated
government have been growing up till they have reached their fullest
perfection on our soil, and we breathe their beneficence as we breathe the
air of heaven. Men are willing to die by the tens of thousands that this
liberty under law may not perish from the world.

... Comrades and Citizens:--We move forward to new issues and new
responsibilities. Grave dangers are now upon us. God grant that they may
not need to be met and settled in the rude shock of war. The time for
wisdom, for clear-sighted patriotism is--_now_. Labor and capital, the
foundations of law and order; the complex civilization of a nation which
now talks by lightning, and is hurled by steam over plains and mountains,
and which, doubtless, will soon fly through the air--all these are to be
settled by the men now on the stage of action. We cannot do better than to
tell you, to settle them in the spirit of the men whose great sacrifices we
to-day commemorate.


OUTLINE OF A SPEECH BY CHAUNCEY M. DEPEW, ON A DECORATION [MEMORIAL] DAY.

This is one of the most interesting of national celebrations, appealing not
to pride, but to tender personal memories. But we must not give ourselves
up wholly to sadness or mourning. The story of issues and results must be
told.

Why did our heroes die? On account of the cancer of slavery and the
resulting doctrine of State Rights. Nationality and liberty, the opposite
view. The former was the party of action, and, therefore, though in a
minority, it was bolder and more determined. But the shell of materialism
dropped from the North, and it was aroused with electric energy when Sumter
was fired on; there was no passion, only such fervid resolve to preserve
our nation as the world never before saw. The struggle over, there were no
State trials, no prisons nor scaffolds, and the Republic, though bleeding
at every pore, said to the conquered enemy, "Come and share fully with us
all the blessings of our preserved institutions," and thus won a second
victory greater than the first.

The wonderful intelligence of the volunteer--story of Napoleon's
soldier--"Dead on the field of honor."

The Grand Army of the elect--the heroes of history, some of whom are
enumerated--the actual value to a nation of such heroism. To-day all that
belongs to the strife is forgiven, but its lessons are too noble and
precious ever to be forgotten. We can all, North and South, read with
enthusiasm the story of each varied and romantic campaign.

The Confederate women first began decorating the graves of their dead with
flowers, and did not pass by the Union graves near their late foes. This
touched the heart of the nation as nothing else could have done, and enmity
melted away, and the observance of the day has become universal.

The two great national heroes--Washington, with his wise, foresighted
"Farewell Address;" Lincoln, with his gentle spirit, his martyr death, and
his tender words, "With malice towards none, with charity for all."
The next day my worst fears were realised.

       In fact, during my temporary absence Nijinsky surpassed himself.

At eleven o'clock the General, supported by his Staff, rolled up
in his car and stopped at Nijinsky's post on his way into "neutral"
country.

The General, the G.S.O.1, the D.A.Q.M.G. and the A.D.C. got out,
shining, gorgeous and beflowered with foreign decorations, to chat
to the sentry (you've seen pictures of it; it's always being done),
Nijinsky, who had already turned back two innocuous Gunner Colonels
(armed with sporting guns) that morning, sauntered up, drunk with
newly acquired confidence, his rifle slung on his right shoulder
and his hat over one eye.

"All well here, sentry?" asked the General, towering over him in all his
glory.

"Pup-pass, please," said Nijinsky, ever on the look-out for some
cunning trick.

"Oh, that's all right; I'm General Blank."
The word "General" recalled Nijinsky to his senses.

He unslung his rifle, brought it to the order, brought it to the slope and
presented arms with great solemnity, and as only Nijinsky can.

"Oh--er--stand easy," said the General, when the meaning of these evolutions
was made manifest to him. "Wonderful days for you fellows here--what?
There have been times when the Rhine seemed a long way away, didn't it? And
now here you are, a victorious army guarding that very river!

It's a wonderful time for you, and no doubt you appreciate it?"

"Ger-grub's short," said Nijinsky.

"Rations?" said the D.A.Q.M.G. "I've had no complaints."
"Yiss. No spuds--taters, I mean."
"We must see to that," said the General. "Well, we'll go on, I think;"
and they got into the car.

"Pup-pass, please," said Nijinsky, spotting the trick at once.

"Oh, that's all right, my good fellow. Drive on."
"N-n-no," said Nijinsky sternly; "you ker-can't ger-go without a pup-pup-pass!"

"Come, come, don't be ridiculous. I'm your General; you know me perfectly
well."
"Yiss."
"Then let me through, do you hear? And let me have no more of this infernal
nonsense."
"It's ug-ug--"
"It's what?"
"Ug-against orders."
"_I_ know all about the orders, boy. I gave them myself."
"Yiss, and I'm ker-carrying them out, ain't I?" came with inexorable
logic.

"Well, now I give you orders to let me through. Do you see?"
"Yiss; but if I do they'll have me up for disobeying the fer-first one.
Pup-pass, please."
"Don't be ridiculous. We _must_ go through.

       Don't you realise we have our duty to perform?"

"Yiss, Sir, so have I."

"'Pon my soul, this is too preposterous.

My good boy, I'm very glad you know how to obey an order, but you must
use your discretion sometimes."
At the word "discretion" Nijinsky started. Then he broke all records and
winked--winked at a perfectly good General at eleven o'clock in the
morning.

"Oh, no, you der-don't," he grinned; "I've been her-had before. The Captain
says I'm ner-not to use my discretion; it only ger-gets me into a lot
of terouble."

The General got out of his car.

So did the G.S.O.1. So did the D.A.Q.M.G. So did the A.D.C. But the
spectacle was not so impressive as before. They advanced in artillery
formation upon the enemy. It was enough. Perish the General Staff! They
were mere phantoms of authority beside the vision of the company officer
and the words, "Escort and accused--halt. Left--turn. Private Nijinsky,
Sir." With his eyes bulging with excitement Nijinsky leapt back and assumed
the attitude of warlike defiance known as "coming on guard."
The General hesitated. He did not know Nijinsky, you see; he had
never seen him going sick before the battle, or heard him murmur
"ser-something for ner-nothing," as he took his medicine.
"Look here, my man, you are exceeding your duty and the consequences
will be very serious. I will _not_ be stopped in this outrageous
manner! There is a time to _obey_ orders and there is a time to
_use our discretion_. Confound it, we must _all_ of us use our
discretion at times."
"Then," said Nijinsky, "wer-will you per-please use yours, for. I
ker-can't let you through without a pup-pass."
The sun shone brightly on the car as it retired ignominiously,
leaving Nijinsky hot, happy and victorious, presenting arms faithfully
to the indignant Great Ones, and silence reigned on the battlefield.SELECTED OUTLINE OP AN EFFECTIVE LITTLE CHRISTMAS SPEECH

The speaker assumes that the observance of the day is becoming obsolete,
and that there are persons who wish it to die out. The assumption, though
rather strained, affords the opportunity to demolish this man of straw.
"All other kings may go, but no one can spare King Christmas, or St.
Nicholas, his prime minister. School-rooms and nurseries would rebel.
And plum pudding is too strongly entrenched in Church and State to be
dislodged. Washington Irving, with his _Sketch Book_, would protest.
Best argument of all is the worth of the Christmas entertainments. Here's
to the Festival of Festivals, and long may its honors be done by such hosts
as entertain us to-day."


THANKSGIVING

Coming at the beginning of the farmer's rest, when the harvest is all
gathered, this is a very joyous festival, and more than any other abounds
in family reunions. Any toast therefore is appropriate which tells of
the harvest, of fertility, of the closing year, of the family pride and
traditions, of pleasure to young and old. At dinner, turkey and mince or
pumpkin pie will of course be served, and these national favorites must not
be forgotten by the toastmaker.

This day, too, has an official and governmental flavor given to it by
the State and national proclamations which fix the date and invite its
observance. Usually, these enumerate the blessings enjoyed by the whole
country during the year, and suggest topics peculiarly fitting for
toasts. It is perhaps not too much to say that Thanksgiving is distinctly
_the_ American Festival, and should be honored accordingly.


TOASTS

To The Inventor of Pumpkin Pie--to Peace with all Nations--to The Rulers
of our Country--to The Farmer--to Full Stomachs and Merry Hearts--to
their Excellencies, the President and the Governor; may we obey all their
commands as willingly as when they tell us to feast--Abounding Plenty;
may we always remember the Source from which our benefits come--Our two
National Fowls, the American Eagle and the Thanksgiving Turkey; may the
one give us peace for all our States and the other a piece for all our
plates--The Turkey and the Eagle; we love to have the one soar high, but
wish the other to roost low--The Great American Birds; may we have them
where we love them best, the Turkeys on our tables and the Eagles in our
pockets.


THOUGHTS FOR A THANKSGIVING SPEECH

The manner in which the day was first instituted. The sore struggles and
the small beginnings of that day compared with the greatness and abounding
prosperity of the present. The warfare between Christmas and Thanksgiving,
the one being thought the badge of popery and prelacy. The Battle of the
Pies, pumpkin and mince, terminating in a treaty of peace and alliance;
and now we can enjoy the nightmare by feasting on both combined! The
national blessings of the year; the poorest have more now than kings and
emperors had five hundred years ago. Exemption from wars. Internal peace.
Willingness and habit of settling every domestic dispute by the ballot, and
not the bullet. The increasing tendency to arbitrate between nations, thus
avoiding the horrors of war. The beneficence of our government and the ease
with which its operations rest upon our shoulders. The wonderful progress
of science and invention, and the manner in which these have added to the
comfort of all the people.

SELECTED OUTLINE FOE A THANKSGIVING SPEECH

Why we ought to be grateful to the old Puritans, with all their faults.
Their unsuccessful warfare on plum pudding, which, like truth, "crushed
to earth," rose again. Their discovery and enshrining of Turkey. On this
day the Nation gathers as a family at the Thanksgiving board, and from all
parts of the world the wanderers come home to the family feast. The duty of
Happiness, joined to gratitude, is emphasized this day. The closing toast,
"The Federal Eagle and the Festal Turkey; may we always have peace under
the wings of the one, and be able to obtain a piece from the breast of the
other."


PRESENTATION ADDRESSES


Giving a present is a kind and graceful act, and should be accompanied by a
simple, short, and unaffected speech. "Take this" would have the merit of
brevity, but would fail in conveying any information as to _who_ gave,
why they gave _to the recipient_, and why _that_ present was
selected rather than another, and why _the speaker_ was chosen to
make the presentation. All of these items form a part of nearly every
presentation address, whilst some of them belong to all.

.

(4) That I was to fill up my A.Z.15 and trust in my stars (not the
things on my sleeve)."

"Well, what about it?" I continued.

"Personally," said John, "I think an advertisement in _The Daily
Telegraph_ is the correct thing. How's this?--
"'Anybody know of a decent war? Two young subs in France, Soldiers of Fortune
(so-called), would like to get in touch with anyone thinking of
starting a first-class war.

Send full particulars and rough strength of enemy to "Warriors," c/o _The
Daily Telegraph_.'"
Mine was much more modest:--
"An officer at present in France desires a good job in civil life. No
experience, no education, no languages, no money, no prospects and no
hope. What offers?"
"I don't think they'll bring much," said I. "You know, John, what we
really want is leave."
So we applied for leave.

John asked permission to remove his person to the U.K. for urgent and private
reasons. I stated that I had a position offered me, but an interview was
necessary, and asked their indulgence for the purpose.

John's chit came back three days later. "Will this officer state his
urgent and private reasons, please?"
"Ah!" said John, "enemy attitude hostile." Nevertheless he stated as
required.

Three days later it came back again with the request that this
officer further state his reasons, please.

"Enemy attitude distinctly hostile," said John, and committed himself
further.

Nothing happened for a week and John's hopes ran high. "It must be
through, old man," he declared, "or it would have been back before
now."
But when at the end of the week it came back for further information his
ardour cooled somewhat, and when, three days later, it turned up once more
with a request for his urgent and private reasons, John in a fit
of exasperation retorted that if the matter was kept much longer
it wouldn't be urgent, and if they enquired much further it wouldn't
be private. That finished him, and he got no leave.
My application was still on the tapis. Eventually it returned. "This
officer can be granted leave only on condition that he promises to
serve with the Rhine Army." 
"Go on," said John; "promise."
So I promised.
Now, looking over the situation, we find that it amounts to this:
John has no job and never will have till he can get leave to look
for one.
He can't get leave. That's John.
I have a job (I haven't really) if I can get leave to attend an
interview. I've got leave, but only on the understanding that when
I've got the job I refuse it because I've promised to serve on the
Rhine. That's me.

We are now thinking out the next move.
* * * * * 
THE MATERNAL INSTINCT.
_Mr. Crabbe Hermitage to Mrs. Bonnamy_.
_March 30th_.Better suffer the
extreme penalty of reading every anecdote in this volume, and of searching
for hours in other fields, than fail to get the right one; but if
unsuccessful invent one for the occasion!

The good qualities of the recipient must not be overlooked, especially
those in recognition of which the present is given. If anything in the
nature of the present itself can be made symbolic of these assumed good or
great qualities, it will be a happy circumstance. And while flattery should
not be excessive or too palpable, it is seldom indeed that a large dose
of "pleasant things" will not be well received by all parties on such an
occasion.

The expression of kindly feeling and good wishes always affords a favorable
opportunity for closing. Perhaps, however, a more striking conclusion can
be made by taking advantage of the very moment when the present is handed
over to the recipient, accompanying this act with a hearty wish for its
long retention and its happy use in the manner its nature indicates.
Wishing a ring to be worn as a memento of friendship, a watch to mark the
passage of happy hours, a cane not to be needed for support, but only as a
treasured ornament, a sword to be worn with honor and only to be unsheathed
at the call of duty or of patriotism, etc.

The reception of a gift is more easy than the presentation, but is at the
same time more embarrassing. The reception is easier, because the essential
part of the response is to say "Thank you," which are very easy words to
utter if the givers are real friends and the present is an appropriate one.
It is more embarrassing because it is always harder to receive a favor
gratefully than to give one. If the gift is a surprise, there is no harm
in saying so, though if it is not a surprise, it is not advisable to tell
an untruth about it. The recipient may say he is embarrassed, and his
embarrassment--whether real or feigned--will create sympathy for him.
Besides, he can ask for indulgence with more grace than the preceding
speaker, as he is supposed to be taken by surprise. He may be so overcome
with emotion as to break down altogether, and yet he will be loudly
applauded.

A still stronger reason for this disparity is that the speaker representing
the givers has been selected, probably out of a large company, to make
his speech, and is thus expected to do it well; but the receiver occupies
_his_ position for a reason that has no connection whatever with
his speech-making powers. If he succeeds in expressing his gratitude
and goodwill to those who have been so generous he will have served the
essential purpose of his speech; but if, in addition, he can gather up
the points made in the presentation speech, assenting to its general
principles, accepting the humorous charges for which he is to be watched,
caned, stoned (when a diamond or other stone is given), or put to the
sword, and gently deprecates the serious flattery offered, he will be
regarded as doing exceedingly well. One phrase he will not be likely to
omit, unless "he loses his head" altogether--"When I look upon this, I will
always remember the feelings of this hour, the kind words uttered, the
appreciation shown." This word "appreciation." with the reiteration of
thanks, will make a very fitting conclusion.


ADDRESSES OF WELCOME


In our country the number of voluntary associations that visit similar
associations, or meet at special times and places is very large. Often such
associations are furnished with free board and lodging by the people of the
place where the assemblage occurs. Facilities for assemblage and enjoyment
are offered and other privileges tendered that are highly appreciated.
Religious bodies, church and philanthropic societies, military and fire
companies, athletic and social clubs, various orders and educational
societies, political bodies, these form only a small proportion of the
endless number of organizations convening and gathering at different
centres, gatherings which serve to keep all parts of our country in close
touch.

It is needless to furnish model speeches for each of these, for the same
general line of remark is adapted to all. The changes of illustration
demanded by the character of the association to be welcomed, and for which
responses are to be made, will be readily understood, and a little study
of the name and character of the place of meeting will make the necessary
local allusions quite easy. The welcome and response for a fire company, or
a baseball club, will not differ much from that for a Christian Endeavor
Society. A few general hints and a little investigation by the novice will
put him on the right track in either case.


ADDRESS OF WELCOME

A clear statement about those who extend the welcome and of those who are
to be welcomed is appropriate. This may be expanded advantageously by
giving a few of the characteristics of each, greater latitude being allowed
in complimenting those who are welcomed than those who entertain. It is
bad taste to spend more time in telling our guests how good and great we
are than in expressing the exalted opinion we have of them for their noble
work, their great fame, or their high purpose; or in declaring the pleasure
we feel and the honor we have in entertaining them. The warmth of the
welcome extended should be expressed in the fullest manner, and as
this is the central purpose of the whole address, it will bear _one
repetition_. A good illustrative story, brief but pointed, may be worked
in somewhere, perhaps in connection with a modest depreciation of our own
fitness or ability adequately to express the strong feelings of those we
represent, though if one can be found having a connection with the visitors
themselves, it will be still better. What we wish our visitors to do while
with us may also be appropriately referred to. If there are places of
interest for them to visit, work for them to do, or special entertainments
provided,--here is additional matter for remark. All these items may be
run through in a few minutes, and then the address should close. The most
bungling and formal welcome, if short, will be enjoyed more and be more
applauded than the most graceful and eloquent one unduly prolonged. Should
however, in spite of this warning, more "filling in" be desired of an
appropriate character, it may be found almost without limit in setting
forth the claim of the cause which both the visitors and the entertainers
represent--athletic sports, religion, benevolence, education, or what not.


ADDRESS IN RESPONSE

This may be still more brief than the address of welcome. To say that the
reception is hearty, that it gives pleasure and is gratefully received
and appreciated, is all that is essential. An invitation to return the
visit should not be forgotten, if circumstances are such that it can be
appropriately made. Then the speaker has an opportunity to review any
portion of the preceding speech and express his indorsement of any of the
assertions made. He should not dissent from them, unless this dissent can
be made the means of a little adroit flattery by placing a higher estimate
upon the entertainers and their services than their own speaker has done,
or by modestly disclaiming some of the praise that has been given. The
novice must avoid being carried too far by this fascinating review, both as
to the quantity and the quality of the disagreement.

A closing sentence may be, "Allow me once more, most heartily, to thank
you for this generous welcome to--your homes--your headquarters--to the
hospitalities of your city," as the case may be.


WEDDING AND OTHER ANNIVERSARIES


Another wide field for the oratory of entertainment is to be found in the
various celebrations that mark the passage of specific or notable portions
of time--centennial, semi-centennial, and quadrennial; likewise weddings,
annual, tin, paper, crystal, silver, and golden. The speeches for these
differ widely in character. They may take the form of congratulatory
addresses, of toasts and responses, or more formal addresses. All
dedications come in the same category. Generally the shorter intervals call
for light and humorous speeches, while the longer ones demand something
more grave and thoughtful.

The following speech and response for a wooden (fifth) wedding anniversary
is taken from a volume of ready made speeches. It is a fine example of
that wit and play upon words which is never more suitable or more highly
appreciated than on such an occasion.


SPEECH FOR A WOODEN WEDDING

If it is a good maxim not to halloo till you are out of the woods, our kind
host and hostess must be very quiet this evening, for it seems to me that
they are in the thick of it. If their friends had been about to burn them
alive instead of to wish them joy on their fifth wedding-day, they could
scarcely have brought a greater quantity of combustible material to the
sacrifice. What shall we say to them on this ligneous occasion? Of course,
we must congratulate them on their willingness to renew their matrimonial
vows after five years of double-blessedness. In this age of divorce it is
something worthy of note, that a pair who have been one and inseparable for
even so short a period as the twentieth part of a century, should stand up
proudly before the world and propose to strengthen the original compact
with a new one. They look as happy and contented as if they had never heard
of Chicago, or seen those tempting little advertisements in the newspapers
that propose to separate man and wife with immediate dispatch for a
reasonable consideration. Instead of going to court to cut the nuptial bond
in twain, it appears that they have been _courting_ for five years
with the view of being remarried this evening. Vaccination, it is said,
wears out in seven years, but matrimony, we see, in this instance, at
least, takes a stronger hold of the parties inoculated as time rolls on;
and although in this case they are willing to go through the operation
again, it is not for the sake of making assurance doubly sure, but in order
to enjoy marriage as a luxury. With this happy specimen of a wooden wedding
before them our young unmarried friends will see that they can go into the
_joinery_ business with but little risk of getting into the wrong
box. In fact, it is because connubial bliss beats every other species
of felicity all hollow that we have met this evening to requite it with
hollow-ware. In the name of all their friends I affectionately congratulate
the doubly-married pair on their past happiness and future prospects, and
hope they may live to celebrate their fiftieth wedding day and receive a
_golden_ reward.


BRIDEGROOM IN REPLY

"For self and partner"--as men associated in business sometimes conclude
their letters--I offer to you and all our friends who have obliged us
with their presence, the thanks of the firm which renews its articles
of partnership this evening. We welcome you heartily to our home, well
knowing that your kind wishes are not like--your useful and elegant tokens
of remembrance--_hollow-ware_. When Birnam Wood came to Dunsinane,
Macbeth was conquered, and it seems to me that you have come almost as well
provided with timber as Macduff and Malcolm were. Your articles, however,
although of wood, are not of the Burn 'em kind, and I am not such a Dunce
inane as to decline accepting them. Indeed, my wife, who, notwithstanding
her matrimonial vows, has a _single eye_--to housekeeping--would not
permit me to refuse them were I so inclined. She knows their value better
than I do, and with the assistance of her kitchen cabinet will, I have no
doubt, employ them usefully.

The speech closes with thanks and good wishes in return.


TOASTS


A toast may be given either with or without sentiment attached, and in
either case a response equally fitting; but in the former the subject is
narrowed and defined by the nature of the sentiment. Yet the speaker need
not hold himself closely to the sentiment, which is often made rather a
point of departure even by the ablest speakers. Indeed, the latitude
accorded to after-dinner speeches is very great, and a sentiment which
gives unity and direction to the speech made in response to it is, on that
account, of great value.

To illustrate these points we will take the toast "Our Flag." A speech in
response would be practically unlimited in scope of treatment. Anything
patriotic, historical or sentimental, which brings in some reference to the
banner, would be appropriate. But let this sentiment be added: "May the
justness and benevolence which it represents ever charm the heart, as its
beauty charms the eye," and the outline of a speech is already indicated.
Has our nation always been just and kind? Where and how have these
qualities been most strikingly manifested? Why have we seemed sometimes
to come short of them, and how should such injustice or harsh dealing be
remedied, with as much rhetorical admixture of the waving folds and the
glittering stars as the speaker sees fit to employ.

From these considerations may be deduced the rule that when the proposer
of a toast wishes to leave the respondent the freedom of the whole subject
he will give the toast alone, or accompanied by a motto of the most
non-committal character. But if he wishes to draw him out in a particular
direction he will put the real theme in the sentiment that follows the
toast.


SENTIMENTS SUGGESTED BY A TOAST

Years ago a speaker provoked a controversy (maliciously and with no good
excuse) which scarcely came short of blows, by proposing as a toast the
name of a general of high rank, but who was unfortunate in arms. He was
several paces before his comrades, and had actually laid his hands on
the patrician standard, when one of our party, whom some misjudging friend
had entrusted with a couleau de chasse, or hanger, inspired with a zeal for
the honour of the corps worthy of Major Sturgeon himself, struck
poor Green-Breeks over the head with strength sufficient to cut him
down.

When this was seen, the casualty was so far beyond what had ever taken
place before, that both parties fled different ways, leaving poor
Green-Breeks, with his bright hair plentifully dabbled in blood,
to the care of the watchman, who (honest man) took care not to know
who had done the mischief.

The bloody hanger was flung into one of the Meadow ditches, and
solemn secrecy was sworn on all hands; but the remorse and terror
of the actor were beyond all bounds, and his apprehensions of the
most dreadful character.

The wounded hero was for a few days in the Infirmary, the case being
only a trifling one.

But, though inquiry was strongly pressed on him, no argument could
make him indicate the person from whom he had received the wound,
though he must have been perfectly well known to him.

When he recovered and was dismissed, the author and his brothers
opened a communication with him, through the medium of a popular
ginger-bread baker, of whom both parties were customers, in order
to tender a subsidy in name of smart-money.

The sum would excite ridicule were I to name it; but sure I am that the
pockets of the noted Green-Breeks never held as much money of his own. He
declined the remittance, saying that he would not sell his blood;
but at the same time reprobated the idea of being an informer, which
he said was clam, i.e. base or mean.

With much urgency he accepted a pound of snuff for the use of some old
woman--aunt, grandmother, or the like--with whom he lived.

We did not become friends, for the bickers were more agreeable to
both parties than any more pacific amusement; but we conducted them
ever after under mutual assurances of the highest consideration for
each other.

Such was the hero whom Mr. Thomas Scott proposed to carry to Canada, and
involve in adventures with the natives and colonists of that
country.

Perhaps the youthful generosity of the lad will not seem so great
in the eyes of others as to those whom it was the means of screening
from severe rebuke and punishment.

But it seemed to those concerned to argue a nobleness of sentiment far
beyond the pitch of most minds; and however obscurely the lad who showed
such a frame of noble spirit may have lived or died, I cannot help
being of opinion that, if fortune had placed him in circumstances
calling for gallantry or generosity, the man would have fulfilled
the promise of the boy.

Long afterwards, when the story was told to my father, he censured us
severely for not telling the truth at the time, that he might have
attempted to be of use to the young man in entering on life.

But our alarms for the consequences of the drawn sword, and the
wound inflicted with such a weapon, were far too predominant at the
time for such a pitch of generosity.

Perhaps I ought not to have inserted this schoolboy tale; but, besides the
strong impression made by the incident at the time, the whole
accompaniments of the story are matters to me of solemn and sad
recollection.

Of all the little band who were concerned in those juvenile sports
or brawls, I can scarce recollect a single survivor.

Some left the ranks of mimic war to die in the active service of their
country. Many sought distant lands to return no more. Others, dispersed
in different paths of life,'my dim eyes now seek for in vain.'

Of five brothers, all healthy and promising in a degree far beyond one whose
infancy was visited by personal infirmity, and whose health after this
period seemed long very precarious, I am, nevertheless, the only
survivor.

The best loved, and the best deserving to be loved, who had destined
this incident to be the foundation of literary composition, died
'before his day' in a distant and foreign land; and trifles assume
an importance not their own when connected with those who have been
loved and lost.

NOTES

NOTE I

LONG the oracle of the country gentlemen of the high Tory party.

The ancient News-Letter was written in manuscript and copied by clerks, who
addressed the copies to the subscribers.

The politician by whom they were compiled picked up his intelligence
at coffee-houses, and often pleaded for an additional gratuity in
consideration of the extra expense attached to frequenting such
places of fashionable resort.

NOTE 2
There is a family legend to this purpose, belonging to the knightly
family of Bradshaigh, the proprietors of Haigh Hall, in Lancashire,
where, I have been told, the event is recorded on a painted glass
window.

The German ballad of the Noble Moringer turns upon a similar topic.

But undoubtedly many such incidents may have taken place, where,
the distance being great and the intercourse infrequent, false
reports concerning the fate of the absent Crusaders must have been
commonly circulated, and sometimes perhaps rather hastily credited
at home.

NOTE 3
The attachment to this classic was, it is said, actually displayed
in the manner mentioned in the text by an unfortunate Jacobite in
that unhappy period.

He escaped from the jail in which he was confined for a hasty trial
and certain condemnation, and was retaken as he hovered around the
place in which he had been imprisoned, for which he could give no
better reason than the hope of recovering his favourite Titus Livius.

I am sorry to add that the simplicity of such a character was found
to form no apology for his guilt as a rebel, and that he was condemned
and executed.

NOTE 4

Nicholas Amhurst, a noted political writer, who conducted for many
years a paper called the Craftsman, under the assumed name of Caleb
D'Anvers.

He was devoted to the Tory interest, and seconded with much ability
the attacks of Pulteney on Sir Robert Walpole.

He died in 1742, neglected by his great patrons and in the most miserable
circumstances.

'Amhurst survived the downfall of Walpole's power, and had reason
to expect a reward for his labours.

If we excuse Bolingbroke, who had only saved the shipwreck of his fortunes,
we shall be at a loss to justify Pulteney, who could with ease
have given this man a considerable income.

The utmost of his generosity to Amhurst that I ever heard of was a
hogshead of claret!

He died, it is supposed, of a broken heart; and was buried at the
charge of his honest printer, Richard Francklin.'

--Lord Chesterfield's Characters Reviewed, p. 42.

NOTE 5
I have now given in the text the full name of this gallant and
excellent man, and proceed to copy the account of his remarkable
conversion, as related by Doctor Doddridge.

'This memorable event,' says the pious writer, 'happened towards the
middle of July 1719.

The major had spent the evening (and, if I mistake not, it was the Sabbath)
in some gay company, and had an unhappy assignation with a married
woman, whom he was to attend exactly at twelve.

The company broke up about eleven, and, not judging it convenient to
anticipate the time appointed, he went into his chamber to kill
the tedious hour, perhaps with some amusing book, or some other way.

But it very accidentally happened that he took up a religious book,
which his good mother or aunt had, without his knowledge, slipped
into his portmanteau.

It was called, if I remember the title exactly, The Christian Soldier, or
Heaven taken by Storm, and it was written by Mr.

Thomas Watson.

Guessing by the title of it that he would find some phrases of his own
profession spiritualised in a manner which he thought might afford
him some diversion, he resolved to dip into it, but he took no
serious notice of anything it had in it; and yet, while this book
was in his hand, an impression was made upon his mind (perhaps God
only knows how) which drew after it a train of the most important
and happy consequences.

He thought he saw an unusual blaze of light fall upon the book which
he was reading, which he at first imagined might happen by some
accident in the candle, but, lifting up his eyes, he apprehended
to his extreme amazement that there was before him, as it were
suspended in the air, a visible representation of the Lord Jesus
Christ upon the cross, surrounded on all sides with a glory; and
was impressed as if a voice, or something equivalent to a voice,
had come to him, to this effect (for he was not confident as to the
words), "Oh, sinner!

did I suffer this for thee, and are these thy returns?" Struck with so amazing
a phenomenon as this, there remained hardly any life in him, so
that he sunk down in the arm-chair in which he sat, and continued,
he knew not how long, insensible.'

'With regard to this vision,' says the ingenious Dr. Hibbert, 'the
appearance of our Saviour on the cross, and the awful words repeated,
can be considered in no other light than as so many recollected
images of the mind, which probably had their origin in the language
of some urgent appeal to repentance that the colonel might have
casually read or heard delivered.

From what cause, however, such ideas were rendered as vivid as actual
impressions, we have no information to be depended upon.

This vision was certainly attended with one of the most important
of consequences connected with the Christian dispensation--the
conversion of a sinner.

And hence no single narrative has, perhaps, done more to confirm the
superstitious opinion that apparitions of this awful kind cannot
arise without a divine fiat.'

Doctor Hibbert adds in a note--'A short time before the vision, Colonel
Gardiner had received a severe fall from his horse.

Did the brain receive some slight degree of injury from the accident,
so as to predispose him to this spiritual illusion?'

--Hibbert's Philosophy of Apparitions, Edinburgh, 1824, p. 190.

NOTE 6
The courtesy of an invitation to partake a traveller's meal, or at
least that of being invited to share whatever liquor the guest
called for, was expected by certain old landlords in Scotland even
in the youth of the author.

In requital mine host was always furnished with the news of the
country, and was probably a little of a humorist to boot.

The devolution of the whole actual business and drudgery of the inn upon the
poor gudewife was very common among the Scottish Bonifaces.

There was in ancient times, in the city of Edinburgh, a gentleman of good
family who condescended, in order to gain a livelihood, to become the nominal
keeper of a coffee-house, one of the first places of the kind which
had been opened in the Scottish metropolis.

As usual, it was entirely managed by the careful and industrious Mrs. B--;
while her husband amused himself with field sports, without troubling
his head about the matter.

Once upon a time, the premises having taken fire, the husband was
met walking up the High Street loaded with his guns and fishing-rods,
and replied calmly to someone who inquired after his wife, 'that
the poor woman was trying to save a parcel of crockery and some
trumpery books'; the last being those which served her to conduct
the business of the house.

There were many elderly gentlemen in the author's younger days who still
held it part of the amusement of a journey 'to parley with mine
host,' who often resembled, in his quaint humour, mine Host of the
Garter in the Merry Wives of Windsor; or Blague of the George in
the Merry Devil of Edmonton.

Sometimes the landlady took her share of entertaining the company. In
either case the omitting to pay them due attention gave displeasure,
and perhaps brought down a smart jest, as on the following occasion:
A jolly dame who, not 'Sixty Years Since,' kept the principal
caravansary at Greenlaw, in Berwickshire, had the honour to receive
under her roof a very worthy clergyman, with three sons of the same
profession, each having a cure of souls; be it said in passing,
none of the reverend party were reckoned powerful in the pulpit.

After dinner was over, the worthy senior, in the pride of his heart,
asked Mrs.

  Buchan whether she ever had had such a party
    in her house before. 'Here sit I,' he said, 'a
    placed minister of the Kirk of Scotland,
  and here sit my three sons, each a placed minister of the same kirk.

Confess, Luckie Buchan, you never had such a party in your house
before.'

  The question was not premised by any
   invitation to sit down and take
     a glass of wine or the like, so
   Mrs. B. answered drily, 'Indeed, sir, I
   cannot just say that ever I had such
     a party in my house before, except once in the forty-five, when I
had a Highland piper here, with his three sons, all Highland pipers;
and deil a spring they could play amang them.'

NOTE 7
There is no particular mansion described under the name of Tully- Veolan;
but the peculiarities of the description occur in various old
Scottish seats.

The House of Warrender upon Bruntsfield Links and that of Old Ravelston,
belonging, the former to Sir George Warrender, the latter to Sir Alexander
Keith, have both contributed several hints to the description in
the text.

The House of Dean, near Edinburgh, has also some points of resemblance with
Tully-Veolan.

The author has, however, been informed that the House of Grandtully
resembles that of the Baron of Bradwardine still more than any of
the above.

  NOTE 8
     I am ignorant how long the
  ancient and established custom of
     keeping fools has been disused in England.

Swift writes an epitaph on the Earl of Suffolk's fool--

Whose name was Dickie Pearce

In Scotland, the custom subsisted till late in the last century; at Glamis
Castle is preserved the dress of one of the jesters, very handsome,
and ornamented with many bells.

It is not above thirty years since such a character stood by the sideboard
of a nobleman of the first rank in Scotland, and occasionally mixed
in the conversation, till he carried the joke rather too far, in
making proposals to one of the young ladies of the family, and
publishing the bans betwixt her and himself in the public church.

NOTE 9
After the Revolution of 1688, and on some occasions when the spirit
of the Presbyterians had been unusually animated against their
opponents, the Episcopal clergymen, who were chiefly nonjurors,
were exposed to be mobbed, as we should now say, or rabbled, as the
phrase then went, to expiate their political heresies.

But notwithstanding that the Presbyterians had the persecution in Charles
II and his brother's time to exasperate them, there was little
mischief done beyond the kind of petty violence mentioned in the
text.

NOTE 10
I may here mention that the fashion of compotation described in the
text was still occasionally practised in Scotland in the author's
youth.

A company, after having taken leave of their host, often went to finish the
evening at the clachan or village, in 'womb of tavern.'

Their entertainer always accompanied them to take the stirrup-cup,
which often occasioned a long and late revel.

  The poculum potatorium of the valiant Baron, his blessed
  Bear, has a prototype at the fine old Castle of Glamis, so rich
in memorials of ancient times; it is a massive beaker of silver,
double gilt, moulded into the shape of a lion, and holding about
an English pint of wine.

This "one romance of
the Revolution" is a thrilling tale, and all adornment is given to it.
The account of the struggle to save André's life gives the interest of
controversy, as does the defense of Washington's course. The anecdote and
the illustrative parallel are both supplied by the case of Captain Nathan
Hale, executed by the English as an American spy. The address closes with a
fitting tribute to André's three captors, whose modest monument marked the
spot, and a very effective quotation of William of Orange's heroic oath at
his coronation, "I will maintain."


OUTLINE OF SPEECH BY GOVERNOR FORAKER AT THE DEDICATION OF OHIO'S MONUMENT
TO THE ANDREWS RAIDERS, AT CHATTANOOGA

Why this monument and this dedication. The story of the raid, the suffering
of the raiders, and heroism of those who died.

The controversial part covered two points--the military value of the raid,
and the manner in which the raiders had been treated by the enemy while
prisoners.

The illustrative setting was the historic background of Chattanooga and the
contrasts of war and peace.


OUTLINE OF ADDRESS BY CHAUNCEY M. DEPEW AT DINNER ON THE 70TH BIRTHDAY OF
JOHN JAY

Not on the programme--pleasantry with Mr. Choate (President) about his
railroad fees. Mr. Choate wants it made the rule for all ex-presidents
of the club to have a dinner on their 70th birthday. This will help them
to live at least that long, as Gladstone and Bismarck, when they had an
object, have lived on in spite of the doctors!

Depew, a native of the same county as three generations of Jays. Services
of the Revolutionary Jay.

_The Anecdote_.--General Sherman yesterday told a beautiful young
girl--Generals always interested in beautiful young girls--that he would be
willing to throw away all he was doing or had done to start at her time of
life again. But the nation could not permit that, nor could it in the case
of John Jay--closing words of tribute and esteem to the guest of the
evening.


OUTLINE OF ADDRESS BY CHAUNCEY M. DEPEW AT THE RECEPTION TO HENRY M.
STANLEY BY THE LOTUS CLUB

The speaker jests about his own locks whitened by the cares of railroading,
and the raven hair of the reporters--where do they get their dye?

Stanley's lecture fee, $250.--Lotus Club gets one for only the price of a
dinner!

Stanley a great artist in his descriptions as well as a great traveler.

Americans a nation of travelers.--This makes railroads prosperous! What
some reporters have done.

The motive makes heroism.--Livingstone the missionary--his rescue by
Stanley.

The civilized Africa of the future with Stanley for its Columbus.


SPEECHES AT A DINNER GIVEN TO THE RELIGIOUS PRESS

Toast.--"The Religious Press and Literature."

First, what are sound views of literature; second, what is a religious
paper? The speaker used two illustrations bound in one. A great book is
the Nilometer which measures intellectual life as the original Nilometer
measured the life and fertility of the land of Egypt. A description of
the rise of the Nile and of the _Divine Comedy_ of Dante, as such a
measurer of the life of the Middle Ages, made up the speech.

Toast.--"Religious Press and Questions of the Day."

Eternity begins _here_. The paper must show on which side of any
question the right lies. It should go even further than this. It should
cover a wider range of topics and aim to secure the attention of the
general public to the questions it discusses and so entitle it to circulate
more widely.

Toast.--"Should Religious Papers Make Money?"

If I may make the paying papers, anybody may make the others. Money
losing--soon comes, _hic jacet_. Money making proves usefulness and
renders the issue of a paper possible. Letter from the oldest editor of New
York in which he says the editor is under life sentence to hard labor.

Toast.--"The Religious Paper and Scholarship."

He laments that he has no letter from an editor to read (like the last
speaker), and tells a story of a Methodist, on request, praying for rain;
and when a terrible storm came, the man who asked, was heard to murmur:
"How these Methodists do exaggerate." This was to show the excellence of
the dinner. Two other stories were used by the speaker, about the length
and discursiveness of his talk. The people need and will read deep,
accurate, and scholarly productions. There ought to be a general paper for
such. Something has been done in that direction by two religious papers.

The speaker treated his topic by giving a semi-humorous review of the
preceding speeches. He showed how denominational traits affected each
item in the work of the paper. He did not make just the kind of a paper
_he_ liked best, for some people were of the same taste as Artemus
Ward, who always ordered _hash_ at a restaurant, because he then knew
what he was getting! The speaker also referred ironically to the mistaken
idea that church papers could not pay, and gave striking instances to the
contrary. He concluded that denominational papers may be as successful in
their line as those purely undenominational and independent.


RESPONSE TO THE TOAST, "THE NAVY: OUR COUNTRY'S BEST WALL OF DEFENSE"

1. The disasters which different ports of our country have experienced from
invading forces during three great wars. No foe now on this continent which
we need fear--our enemies, if any, will come by sea.

2. The defense by fortified harbors cannot be relied on, for when one place
is defended another may be attacked, and the coast-line is so great that an
unguarded spot may be found. But our glorious navy will seek the foe at any
and every point.

3. Past glory of the Navy. Paul Jones in the Revolutionary War singeing
John Bull's beard at his own fireside. 1812. The ships of iron that kept
the Confederate States engirdled and forbade outside meddling with domestic
troubles.

4. The Navy, by showing the world that we are impregnable, should be the
best promoter of a solid peace.


RESPONSE TO THE TOAST, "GENERAL JACKSON: A DIAMOND IN THE ROUGH, BUT A
DIAMOND"

1. The hero of New Orleans, though rough, was a strong and great man.
Stories about him always popular. His indorsing State papers "O.K." when he
approved them, and saying that these letters meant "_oll korrect_."
The victor and the spoils.

2. His connection with great questions, such as the currency and
nullification. Popularity with his own party.

3. Proved to be a great commander by the manner in which he used his very
slender resources at the battle of New Orleans--the backwoods riflemen and
the breastworks of cotton.


RESPONSE TO THE TOAST, "THE WORKING MAN: MAY HE LOVE HIS WORK AND HAVE
PLENTY OF IT, WITH GOOD WAGES PROMPTLY PAID"

1. For a healthy man a reasonable amount of work is no misfortune, but
a blessing. Idleness is a curse, and leads to all kinds of evil. (See
story in Anecdote No. 21 at end of this volume--of the tramp who earned
seventy-five cents and quit work because he feared that he could not bear
the curse of riches! Not many of us have this kind of fear.)

2. Toil with pen and brain as real, and may be as exhausting as with the
hand and foot.

3. But to defraud a workman of one cent of his earnings is a peculiarly
atrocious crime. How this may be done indirectly. All persons who believe
in this toast should deal justly and fairly, and try to hold others to the
same rule.

4. The true workman wants work and fair play; not patronage and flattery,
but sympathy and friendship.


A NOMINATING SPEECH

The great conventions that nominate candidates for the Presidency of the
United States furnish examples on the largest scale of the nominating
speech. But officers of societies of almost any character may be nominated
in addresses that are very similar. The following outline of a speech of
general character may be easily modified to suit any case in which such
help is desired.

_Mr. Chairman_: It gives me great pleasure to place before you, the
name of a candidate who is so well qualified and so fully deserving of
this honor, and of every other, that may be conferred upon him, as ----.
In giving him your votes, you can make no mistake. [Here state previous
offices held, or trusts filled, or other evidences of fitness for the post
in view.] In addition, I am happy to state that he represents [here name
locality, section, class, or opinion, being careful to adduce only those
which will be pleasing to the persons whose votes are sought.] On his
behalf, I can promise faithful service, and the prompt discharge of every
duty. Others may have as much zeal for the cause: some may have as long
a training for the duties of this office; a few may possibly have as
legitimate a claim upon any honors or rewards in your gift, but where
else can you find such a combination of claims?

The illustrative anecdote will naturally be of the candidate himself, of
his popularity, availability, or other good quality, or of some person or
element strongly supporting him.


SPEECH ACCEPTING A NOMINATION

1. An honor of which any man must be deeply sensible as well as proud. The
importance or high character of the body making the nomination.

2. The degree of surprise felt that the candidate should be preferred to
so many worthy competitors. W by the honor is especially prized, and the
reasons, if any; why the candidate would have preferred a different
selection.

3. The motives which make him willing to bear the burdens entailed by this
nomination.

4. The hope of being able to support his competitors for other offices, or
other terms of this office.

5. With all his sense of unworthiness, the candidate dares not set up his
judgment against that of the honorable body which has named him, for the
office of ----, and he therefore bows to their decision and gratefully
accepts the [unexpected?] honor conferred upon him. Should the people--not
for his sake, but for the sake of the cause represented--have the
intelligence and good judgment [of which there is not a shadow of doubt?]
to indorse the nomination, he will exert all the power he possesses, to
faithfully fill the position their choice has bestowed upon him.


SPEECH IN A POLITICAL CANVASS

No form of speech is so easy as a political address in a hot campaign. The
people know enough of the general argument in advance, to appreciate a
strong statement of it, or the addition of new items. They already have
much of that interest in the theme that other classes of speakers must
first seek to arouse. The tyro makes his feeble beginnings in the sparsely
settled portions of the country, but the polished orator is welcomed by
large audiences at the centres of population, and wins money, fame, and
possibly a high office. Americans have many opportunities of hearing good
speeches of this character, and not only become competent judges, but learn
to emulate such examples.

1. A bright story, a personal incident, a local "hit," or, best of all, a
quick, shrewd caricature of some feature of the opposing party, will gain
attention and half win the battle. A speaker was once called upon to make
an address after a political opponent had taken his seat. This man at
one time strongly indorsed a measure to which his own party was bitterly
opposed. The measure was defeated notwithstanding his opposition, and he
was obliged to sanction his party's action. The audience being familiar
with this, the speaker referred to it by saying: "Oh! _he_ approves,
does he! Imagine a kicked, cuffed, pounded, and dragged across a road,
bracing himself at every step, but forced over at last and tied to a
post; then imagine _that mule_ straightening himself up and saying,
'Thank Heaven, we crossed that road, didn't we?' It was difficult to move
the mule, he was obstinate, but it made no difference. My opponent was
obstinate too, but what did it avail!"

2. The criticism of our opponents' platform or principles. Their fallacies,
mistakes, and misrepresentations.

3. Their history. How they have carried out all their bad and dangerous
doctrines, but have slurred over and allowed to drop out of sight their
promises of good.

4. The contrast. Plain statement [and there is nothing more effective in a
speech than a plain, dear, and condensed statement] of the opposing issues.

5. The man. [The personal element in a canvas nearly always overshadows
political doctrine, except when a new party or new measure is rising into
prominence.] Our men brilliant, able, safe. Our opponents the opposite.
[Public character only should be criticized. Gossip, scandal, slander
are abominable, and seldom well received by any audience. Poison, the
assassin's dagger, and the spreading of infamous stories do not belong to
honorable warfare.]


SPEECH AFTER A POLITICAL VICTORY. SELECTED

1. We are masters of the field. Completeness of victory [told in military
language].

2. Sympathy for the defeated. We will treat their leaders with Good
Samaritan generosity, but we invite the rank and file to enlist with us,
unless they prefer to go home and pray for better luck next time.

3. Only by joining us can they get a nibble at the spoils. Probably they
will, for many of them are men of seven principles--five loaves and two
fishes. The "cohesive power of public plunder."

4. We must not be careless after victory, but reorganize, be vigilant, keep
our powder dry. The "outs" are hungry, and an enemy will fight terribly for
rations. "Brag is a good dog, but Holdfast is a better."

5. Now let us all rejoice over the defeat of a party many of whose members
we respect personally, but which, as a whole, we regard as an immense
nuisance.


SPEECH AFTER A POLITICAL DEFEAT. SELECTED

My Political Brethren: You seem to be in the dumps! Don't like the figures;
wish they were a cunningly devised fable. How did it happen? Big vote and
intolerable cheating cooked our goose. But we are india-rubber and steel
springs, and no amount of hard usage can take the fight out of us.

Let our opponents laugh! We are not savage--would not hurt a hair of their
heads personally, but politically will skin them alive next time. But we
prefer to convert them, and hope they will hear our speakers as often as
possible before the next election.


A CHAIRMAN'S OR PRESIDENT'S SPEECH

At a public meeting some one interested in the object for which it has
convened calls the assembly to order. After securing attention he proposes
the name of some person as chairman or president. When the nomination is
seconded he takes the vote and announces the election. It will then be in
order for the person chosen to take a position facing the assembly and to
make a brief speech.

"Ladies and Gentlemen: I have no wish to disparage your judgment, although
I think it might have been exercised to better advantage by electing some
of the able persons I see before me. But I thank you for this honor, which
I appreciate the more highly and accept the more readily because of say
deep interest in the question of ----, which is now before us. First,
however, please nominate a secretary."

When, however, the president or chairman elected is himself a prime mover
in the business for which the meeting is called, it will be perfectly
proper for him to extend his speech, upon accepting the chair, by stating
clearly but briefly the object of the meeting; or, if he prefers, he may
ask some one in whose powers of plausible and persuasive statement he has
confidence to do this in his place. Formal argument is not advisable in
the opening speech; but the best argument consists in giving a compact
statement and ample information. In this way the cause may be half won by
the chairman's speech or the speech of his proxy.


A GENERAL OUTLINE FOE ALL OCCASIONS

_The Introduction_. The speaker's modesty or inability, the lateness
of the hour, the merit of preceding speeches, the literary treats that are
to follow, the character of the dinner, personal allusion to the president
or to the audience--_but not all of these in one address_.

_The Discussion_. Here refer to the toast or theme--be sure to put in
a humorous anecdote. Make it as appropriate as possible, but don't fail to
bring it in. Get up a short controversy: set up a man of straw if you can
find nobody else, and then make an onslaught upon him; but _be sure he
has no friends in the audience_!

_Conclusion_. A graceful compliment to some one, a reference to an
expected speaker, or a word indicating the part of your subject of which
you will not treat, or give a _very_ quick summary of what you have
already said.


ILLUSTRATIVE AND HUMOROUS ANECDOTES


With a number of the following anecdotes a few suggestions are given as
to the manner in which they may be used. The habit of thinking how a good
story may be brought into an address should be formed, after which these
hints will be superfluous. At the outset they may help to form the habit.


1. INDEPENDENCE OF A MONOPOLY

[A good illustration of complete independence. It can be used as a humorous
description of a monopoly or as a compliment to a man who has complete
control of his own affairs.]

An inquisitive passenger on a railroad recently had the following dialogue:

"Do you use the block system on this road?" inquired the passenger.

"No, sir," replied the conductor, "we have no use for it."

"Do you use the electric or pneumatic signals?"

"No, sir."

"Have you a double track?"

"No."

"Well, of course, you have a train dispatcher, and run all trains by
telegraph?"

"No."

"I see you have no brakeman. How do you flag the rear of your train if you
are stopped from any cause between stations?"'

"We don't flag."

"Indeed! What a way to run a railroad! A man takes his life in his hand
when he rides on it. This is criminally reckless!"

"See here, mister! If you don't like this railroad you can get off and
walk. I am president of this road and its sole owner. I am also board
of directors, treasurer, secretary, general manager, superintendent,
paymaster, trackmaster, general passenger agent, general freight agent,
master mechanic, ticket agent, conductor, brakeman, and boss. This is
the Great Western Railroad of Kentucky, six miles long, with termini at
Harrodsburg and Harrodsburg Junction. This is the only train on the road of
any kind, and ahead of us is the only engine. We never have collisions. The
engineer does his own firing, and runs the repair shop and round-house all
by himself. He and I run this railway. It keeps us pretty busy, but we've
always got time to stop and eject a sassy passenger. So you want to behave
yourself and go through with us, or you will have your baggage set off here
by the haystack!"


2. EXPLANATION

[To ridicule extravagant explanations that do not explain--or unreasonable
pretensions to antiquity.]


An old Scotch lady, who had no relish for modern church music, was
expressing her dislike to the singing of an anthem in her own church one
day, when a neighbor said: "Why, that is a very old anthem! David sang that
anthem to Saul." To this the old lady replied: "Weel, weel! I noo for the
first time understan' why Saul threw his javelin at David when the lad sang
for him."


3. RIDING A HOBBY

[To illustrate hobby-riding--very appropriate where many toasts and
speeches run in one line.]

A boy in Buffalo, N. Y., who was asked to write out what he considered an
ideal holiday dinner _ménu_, evolved the following:

  Furst Corse.
  Mince pie.
  Second Corse.
  Pumpkin pie and turkey.
  Third Corse.
  Lemon pie, turkey, and cranberries
  Fourth Corse.
  Custard pie, apple pie, chocolate cake and plum pudding.
  Dessert.
  Pie.


4. HOBSON'S CHOICE

[Suitable caricature for any one who tries to make merit of doing what he
cannot help.]

"If my employer does not retract what he said to me this morning I shall
leave his store." "Why, what did he say?" "He told me to look for another
place."


5. WHEN TO BE SILENT

[A silent guest might tell this to show that he had found a way to be of
greatest service at a banquet.]

Mrs. Penfield--"My husband has found a way by which he says I am of the
greatest help to him in his literary work."

Mrs. Hillaire--"How nice that must be for you, my dear! But how are you
able to do it?"

Mrs. Penfield--"As soon as I see him at his desk I go into another room and
keep perfectly quiet until he has finished."


6. PAYING FOR YOUR WHISTLE

[Would be a good answer to one who gave a compliment, and tried in that way
to shove off a speech or other duty upon the one complimented.]


McSwatters--"It's very funny."

Mrs. McSwatters--"What is?"

McSwatters--"Why, when the doctor treats me I always have to pay for it."


7. GOOSE-CHASE

[Would come in well after several had declined to speak, the goose being
the one who finally consents and tells the story.]

A lady had been looking for a friend for a long time without success.
Finally, she came upon her in an unexpected way. "Well," she exclaimed,
"I've been on a perfect wild-goose chase all day long, but, thank goodness,
I've found you at last."


8. THE PERPLEXED SAGE

[To show that the chairman may safely confide in his own power to manage
such poor material as the person who tells the story assumes himself to
be.]

"And now what is it?" asked the sage, as the young man timidly approached.
"Pray, tell me," asked the youth, "does a woman marry a man because of
her confidence in the man, or because of her confidence in her ability to
manage him?" For once the sage had to take the question under advisement.


9. QUICK THOUGHT

[The following illustrates the advantages of a happy retort, the importance
of a felicitous phrase, or of quick thought and ready speech. It might be
said that the preceding speaker was as ready as:]

When Napoleon (then a student at Brienne) was asked how he would supply
himself with provisions in a closely-invested town, he answered, without a
moment's hesitation, "From the enemy," which so pleased the examiners that
they passed him without further questions.


10. [The Russian General Suvaroff is said to have promoted one of his
sergeants for giving substantially the same answer.]

The Emperor Paul, of Russia, was so provoked by the awkwardness of an
officer on review that he ordered him to resign at once and retire to his
estate. "But he has no estate," the commander ventured. "Then give him
one!" thundered the despot, whose word was law, and the man gained more by
his blunders than he could have done by years of the most skillful service.

11. [The anger of an actor took the same turn as that of the Czar.]

Colley Cibber once missed his "cue," and the confusion that followed
spoiled the best passage of Betterton, who was manager as well as actor. He
rushed behind the scenes in a towering passion, and exclaimed, "Forfeit,
Master Colley; you shall be fined for such stupidity!" "It can't be done,"
said a fellow-actor, "for he gets no salary." "Put him down for ten
shillings a week and fine him five!" cried the furious manager.


12. INSIGNIFICANT THINGS

[The need of accuracy, or how insignificant things sometimes change the
meaning, is shown by the following.]

A merchant of London wrote his East India factor to send him 2 or 3 apes;
but he forgot to write the "r" in "or," and the factor wrote that he had
sent 80, and would send the remainder of the 2 0 3 as soon as they could be
gathered in.


13. A very well-known writer had a similar experience. He was selling
copies of his first literary venture, and telegraphed to the publisher to
send him "three hundred books at once." He answered. "Shall I send them on
an emigrant train, or must they go first-class? Had to scour the city over
to get them. You must be going into the hotel business on a great scale to
need so many Cooks." I was bewildered; but all was explained when a copy of
the dispatch showed that the telegraph clerk had mistaken the small "b" for
a capital "C."


14. MAKING AN EXCUSE; OR, JOHNNY PEEP

[A guest pleading to be excused from a speech or a song might say that he
wanted to be accounted as "Johnny Peep" in the following story which Allan
Cunningham tells of Robert Burns.]

Strolling one day in Cumberland the poet lost his friends, and thinking to
find them at a certain tavern he popped his head in at the door. Seeing no
one there but three strangers, he apologized, and was about to retire, when
one of the strangers called out, "Come in, Johnny Peep." This invitation
the convivial poet readily accepted, and spent a very pleasant time with
his newly-found companions. As the conversation began to flag, it was
proposed that each should write a verse, and place it, together with
two-and-six pence, under the candlestick, the best poet to take the
half-crowns, while the unsuccessful rhymers were to settle the bill among
them. According to Cunningham, Burns obtained the stakes by writing:

  "Here am I, Johnny Peep;
    I saw three sheep,
  And these three sheep saw me.
    Half-a-crown apiece
    Will pay for their fleece,
  And so Johnny Peep goes free."


15. STERN LOGIC

[Probably this boy would have seen the necessity of avoiding such rich
banquets as this.]

"Say, ma, do they play base-ball in heaven?"

"Why, no, my dear; of course not. Why do you ask?"

"Huh! Well, you don't catch me being good and dying young then; that's
all."


16. MISTAKEN BREVITY

["Brevity is the soul of wit;" and calculation and economy are very
commendable; but they may be carried to extremes. This may be used when the
last speaker has closed a little abruptly.]

This is the message the telegraph messenger handed a young man from his
betrothed "Come down as soon as you can; I am dying. Kate."

Eight hours later he arrived at the summer hotel, to be met on the piazza
by Kate herself.

"Why, what did you mean by sending me such a message?" he asked.

"Oh!" she gurgled, "I wanted to say that I was dying to see you, but my ten
words ran out, and I had to stop."


17. CHARITY BEGINS AT HOME

Breslau, a celebrated juggler, being at Canterbury with his troupe, met
with such bad success that they were almost starved. He repaired to the
church wardens, and promised to give a night's takings to the poor if the
parish would pay for hiring a room, etc. The charitable bait took, the
benefit proved a bumper, and the next morning the church wardens waited
upon the wizard to touch the receipts. "I have already disposed of dem,"
said Breslau; "de profits were for de poor. I have kept my promise, and
given de money to my own people, who are de poorest in dis parish!"

"Sir!" exclaimed the church wardens, "this is a trick."

"I know it," replied the conjurer; "I live by my tricks."


18. CHARITY; OR, A GOOD WORD FOR EVERY ONE--EVEN THE DEVIL.

[It is well to feel charitably and kindly at all times, but especially at
a dinner party.]

A friend said to a Scotchman who was celebrated for possessing these
amiable qualities, "I believe you would actually find something to admire
in Satan himself." The canny Scot replied, "Ah! weel, weel, we must a'
admit, that auld Nick has great energy and perseverance."

[If the chairman has been very persistent in calling out reluctant
speakers, the foregoing would be a good story to turn the laugh upon him.]


19. INGENIOUS REASON

[The Scotchman referred to in the last anecdote was as ingenious in finding
a reason as the boy mentioned in the following:]

"Can you suggest any reason why I should print your poem?" said the
overbearing editor.

The dismal youth looked thoughtful, and then replied:

"You know I always inclose a stamp for the return of rejected manuscript?"

"Yes."

"Well, if you print it you can keep the stamp."


20. AMBIGUITY OF WORDS

[The equivocal use of words in our language.]

Recently a west-bound train on the Fitchburg (Mass.) Railroad had just left
the town of Athol When the conductor noticed among the new passengers a
young man of intelligent appearance. He asked for the young man's fare, and
the latter handed him a ticket to Miller's Falls and with it a cent. For a
moment the conductor suspected a joke, but a look at the passenger's face
convinced him to the contrary.

"What is this cent for?" the conductor asked.

"Why, I see," answered the young fellow, "that the ticket isn't good unless
it is stamped, and as I don't happen to have a stamp with me I give you the
cent instead. You can put it on, can't you?"

The good-natured conductor handed back the coin with a smile, remarking
that it was a small matter, and he would see that it was all right.


21. USELESS REGRET

[Persons who pretend to regret something without making a real effort to
better it are hit off by this anecdote.]

A father called his son rather late in the morning, and finding him still
abed, indignantly demanded: "Are you not _ashamed_ to be caught asleep
this time of day?"

"Yes, rather," returned the ingenious youth, "but I'd ruther _be
ashamed_ than git up."


22. NO HAPPINESS IN WEALTH

[The great advantage of being fully adapted to one's situation and
contented with it.]

There are people who cannot hold their heads under the influence of sudden
riches. They immediately begin to degenerate. They have become so used to
humble circumstances that wealth is a curse. Here is a case:

A tramp, for some mysterious reason, had accepted an offer to work about
the place, for which he was to receive his meals, sundry old clothes, and
25 cents a day in cash. For the first two or three days he did very well,
and he was paid 50 cents on account. He did not spend the money, but he
began to grow listless and sad, and at the end of the week he interviewed
his employer.

"You've been very kind to me, sir," he said, "and I want to thank you for
what you have done."

"That's all right," was the reply. "I'm glad to be able to help you."

"I know that, sir, and I appreciate it, but I shall have to give it all up,
sir."

"What's that for? Don't I pay you enough?"

"Oh! yes, sir; that isn't it. I have 75 cents left, sir, but I find that
money doesn't bring happiness, sir, and I guess I'll resign and go back to
the old ways, sir. Wealth is a curse to some people, sir, and I fancy I
belong to that class. Good-bye, sir." And he shambled off down the path and
struck the highway.


23. SHORT BUT POINTED

[Splendid for a speaker called up rather late in the evening--even if he
should make a short speech afterward.]

Being nobody in particular, a Mr. Bailey was placed last on the list of the
speakers. The chairman introduced several speakers whose names were not on
the list, and the audience were tired out when he said, "Mr. Bailey will
now give you his address."

"My address," said Mr. Bailey, rising, "is No. 45 Loughboro Park, Brixton
Road, and I wish you all good night."


24. REASONING IN A CIRCLE

[This is very common, as in the case of the heroine of this story.]

The director of a Chicago bank tells how his wife overdrew her account at
the bank one day last month. "I spoke to her about it one evening," said
he, "and told her she ought to adjust it at once. A day or two afterward
I asked her if she had done what I suggested. 'Oh! yes,' she answered. 'I
attended to that matter the very next morning after you spoke about it. I
sent the bank my check for the amount I had overdrawn.'"


25. EXTREME ECONOMY

[Economy is a great virtue, but it should not be extreme.]

An old lady of Massachusetts was famed in her native township for health
and thrift. To an acquaintance who was once congratulating her upon the
former she said:

"We be pretty well for old folks, Josiah and me. Josiah hasn't had an
ailin' time for fifty years, 'cept last winter. And I ain't never suffered
but one day in my life, and that was when I took some of the medicine
Josiah had left over, so's how it shouldn't be wasted."


26. SENSIBLE TO THE LAST

[How we commend those who take our standards and help us.]

A story is told of a late Dublin doctor, famous for his skill and also his
great love of money. He had a constant and profitable patient in an old
shopkeeper in Dame Street. This old lady was terribly rheumatic and unable
to leave her sofa. During the doctor's visit she kept a £1 note in her
hand, which duly went into Dr. C.'s pocket. One morning he found her lying
dead on the sofa. Sighing deeply, the doctor approached, and taking her
hand in his, he saw the fingers closed on his fee. "Poor thing," he said
as he pocketed it, "sensible to the last."


27. FISHING FOR A COMPLIMENT

[Fishing for compliments is sometimes dangerous.]

A well-known Congressman, who was a farmer before he went into politics,
was doing his district not long ago, and in his rambles he saw a man in a
stumpy patch of ground trying to get a plow through it. He went over to
him, and after a brief salutation he asked the privilege of making a turn
or two with the plow. The native shook his head doubtfully as he looked
at his visitor's store clothes and general air of gentleman of elegant
leisure, but he let him take the plow. The Congressman sailed away with
it in fine style, and plowed four or five furrows before the owner of the
field could recover his surprise. Then he pulled up and handed the handles
over to the original holder.

"By gravy, mister," said the farmer, admiringly, "air you in the
aggercultural business?"

"No," laughed the statesman.

"Y'ain't selling plows?"

"No."

"Then what in thunder air you?"

"I'm the member of Congress from this district."

"Air you the man I voted for and that I've been reading about in the papers
doin' legislatin' and sich in Washington?"

"Yes."

"Well, by hokey, mister," said the farmer, as he looked with admiration
over the recently-plowed furrows, "ef I'd a had any idea that I was votin'
fer a waste of sich good farmin' material I'd voted fer the other candidate
as shore as shootin'."


28. BEYOND EXPRESSION

[When called on for a speech one may answer the chairman in the words of
this lady:]

She was in her room when some people came to call. Her husband received the
company, and after awhile said to his daughter, who was playing about the
room:

"Go up-stairs and tell your mamma that Mr. and Mrs. Blank have come to
call."

The child went, and after a while returned and began to play again.

"Did you tell your mamma that Mr. and Mrs. Blank are here?" asked the
father.

"Oh! yes."

"And what did she say?"

The little girl looked up, and after a moment's hesitation, exclaimed:

"She said--well, she said, 'O dear!'"


29. THE TOAST OF THE EVENING

[The comment upon this incident by the editor is not less amusing than the
speech.]

It is not always a pleasant thing to be called upon suddenly to address a
public meeting of any sort, as is amusingly illustrated by the following
speech at the opening of a free hospital by one who was certainly not born
an orator:

"Gentlemen--ahem--I--I--I rise to say--that is, I wish to propose a toast,
which I think you'll all say--ahem--I think, at least, that this toast is,
as you'll say, the toast of the occasion. Gentlemen, I belong to a good
many of these things, and I say, gentlemen, that this hospital requires no
patronage--at least, what I mean is, you don't want any recommendation.
You've only got to be ill--got to be ill."

"Now, gentlemen, I find by the report" (turning over the leaves in a
fidgety way) "that from the year seventeen--no eighteen--no, ah, yes, I'm
right--eighteen hundred and fifty--no, it's a '3'--thirty-six--eighteen
hundred and thirty-six, no less than one hundred and ninety-three
millions--no! ah!" (to a committeeman at his side) "Eh? oh, yes, thank
you--yes--one hundred and ninety-three thousand--two millions--no" (after a
close scrutiny at the report) "two hundred and thirty-one--one hundred and
ninety-three thousand, two hundred and thirty-one! Gentlemen, I beg to
propose--success to this admirable institution!"

To what the large and variously stated figures referred no one in the
audience ever felt positive, but all agreed, as he had said they would,
that this was the toast of the evening.


30. BEE LINE

[He knew how to escape from more than one kind of fire.]

A soldier on guard in South Carolina during the war was questioned as to
his knowledge of his duties.

"You know your duty here, do you, sentinel?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, now, suppose they should open on you with shells and musketry, what
would you do?"

"Form a line, sir."

"What! one man form a line?"

"Yes, sir; form a bee-line for camp, sir."


31. VENTRILOQUISM

["Take the good the Gods provide."]

At Raglan Castle, said Mr. Ganthony, the ventriloquist, I gave an
entertainment in the open air, and throwing my voice up into the
ivy-covered ruins, said: "What are you doing there?"

To my amazement a boy answered: "I climbed up 'ere this mornin' just to see
the folk and 'ear the music; I won't do no harm."

I replied: "Very well, stay there, and don't let any one see you, do you
hear?"

The reply came: "Yes, muster, I 'ear."

This got me thunders of applause. I made up my mind to risk it, so I bowed,
and the boy never showed himself.


32. A SLIGHT MISTAKE

[Orders should be strictly obeyed.]

A celebrated German physician, according to a London paper, was once called
upon to treat an aristocratic lady, the sole cause of whose complaint was
high living and lack of exercise. I gave up a day or two, therefore, to this
purpose.

I informed the commitee of all my discoveries in the various branches to
which my attention had been directed, and desired them in return to
procure me various official documents for the port of London, which
I then specified.

Having done this, I conferred with Mr. Falconbridge, relative to being with
me at Liverpool.
I thought it right to make him no other offer than that his expenses should
be paid.

He acceded to my request on these disinterested terms; and I took
my departure from Bristol, leaving him to follow me in a few days.

CHAPTER XVII.

_Author secures the Glocester paper, and lays the foundation of a
petition from that city--does the same at Worcester--and at
Chester--arrives at Liverpool--collects specimens of African
produce--also imports and exports--and muster-rolls--and accounts
of dock-duties--and iron instruments used in the Slave-trade--His
introduction to Mr.

Norris, and others--Author and his errand become known--People visit
him out of curiosity--Frequent controversies on the subject of the
Slave-trade._
On my arrival at Glocester, I waited upon my friend Dean Tucker.

He was pleased to hear of the great progress I had made since he
left me.

On communicating to him my intention of making interest with the
editors of some provincial papers, to enlighten the public mind,
and with the inhabitants of some respectable places, for petitions
to Parliament, relative to the abolition of the Slave-trade, he
approved of it, and introduced me to Mr.

Raikes, the proprietor of the respectable paper belonging to that city.
Mr. Raikes acknowledged, without any hesitation, the pleasure he
should have in serving such a noble cause; and he promised to grant me,
from time to time, a corner in his paper, for such things as I might point
out to him for insertion. This promise he performed afterwards, without
any pecuniary consideration, and solely on the ground of benevolence. He
promised also his assistance as to the other object, for the promotion
of which I left him several of my Summary Views to distribute.

At Worcester I trod over the same ground, and with the same success.

Timothy Bevington, of the religious society of the Quakers, was the only
person to whom I had an introduction there.

He accompanied me to the mayor, to the editor of the Worcester paper,
and to several others, before each of whom I pleaded the cause of the oppressed
Africans in the best manner I was able. I dilated both on the inhumanity
and on the impolicy of the trade, which I supported by the various facts
recently obtained at Bristol. I desired, however, as far as petitions
were concerned, (and this desire I expressed on all other similar
occasions,) that no attempt should be made to obtain these, till
such information had been circulated on the subject, that every
one, when called upon, might judge, from his knowledge of it, how
far he would feel it right to join in it.

For this purpose I left also here several of my Summary Views for
distribution.

After my arrival at Chester, I went to the bishop's residence, but I
found he was not there. Knowing no other person in the place, I wrote a
note to Mr. Cowdroy, whom I understood to be the editor of the Chester
paper, soliciting an interview with him. I explained my wishes to him on
both subjects.

He seemed to be greatly rejoiced, when we met, that such a measure as that
of the abolition of the Slave-trade was in contemplation.
Living at so short a distance from Liverpool, and in a county from which
so many persons were constantly going to Africa, he was by no means ignorant,
as some were, of the nature of this cruel traffic; but yet he had no
notion that I had probed it so deeply, or that I had brought to light
such important circumstances concerning it, as he found by my conversation.
He made me a hearty offer of his services on this occasion, and
this expressly without fee or reward.

I accepted them most joyfully and gratefully. It was, indeed, a most
important thing, to have a station so near the enemy's camp, where
we could watch their motions, and meet any attack which might be
made from it.

And this office of a sentinel Mr.

Cowdroy performed with great vigilance; and when he afterwards left
Chester for Manchester, to establish a paper there, he carried with
him the same friendly disposition towards our cause.

My first introduction at Liverpool was to William Rathbone, a member
of the religious society of the Quakers. He was the same person, who,
before the formation of our commitee, had procured me copies of several
of the muster-rolls of the slave-vessels belonging to that port, so that,
though we were not personally known, yet we were not strangers to each
other.
Isaac Hadwen, a respectable member of the same society, was the person
whom I saw next. I had been introduced to him, previously to my journey,
when he was at London, at the yearly meeting of the Quakers, so that
no letter to him was necessary. As Mr. Roscoe had generously given
the profits of The Wrongs of Africa to our commitee, I made no scruple
of calling upon him.
His reception of me was very friendly, and he introduced me afterwards to
Dr. Currie, who had written the preface to that poem. There was also a
fourth, upon whom I called, though I did not know him. His name was Edward
Rushton. He had been an officer in a slave-ship, but had lost his sight,
and had become an enemy to that trade. On passing through Chester, I had
heard, for the first time, that he had published a poem called West-Indian
Eclogues, with a view of making the public better acquainted with the evil
of the Slave-trade, and of exciting their indignation against it.

Of the three last it may be observed, that, having come forward
thus early, as labourers, they deserve to be put down, as I have
placed them in the map, among the forerunners and coadjutors in
this great cause, for each published his work before any efforts
were made publicly, or without knowing that any were intended.

Rushton, also, had the boldness, though then living in Liverpool,
to affix his name to his work.

These were the only persons whom I knew for some time after my arrival in
that place.

It may not, perhaps, be necessary to enter so largely into my proceedings
at Liverpool as at Bristol. The following account, therefore, may
suffice.

In my attempts to add to my collection of specimens of African produce, I was
favoured with a sample of gum ruber astringens, of cotton from the
Gambia, of indigo and musk, of long pepper, of black pepper from
Whidàh, of mahogany from Calabàr, and of cloths of different colours,
made by the natives, which, while they gave other proofs of the
quality of their own cotton, gave proofs also, of the variety of
their dyes.

I made interest at the Custom-house for various exports and imports,
and for copies of the muster-rolls of several slave-vessels, besides
those of vessels employed in other trades.

By looking out constantly for information on this great subject, I
was led to the examination of a printed card or table of the
dock-duties of Liverpool, which was published annually.

The town of Liverpool had so risen in opulence and importance, from
only a fishing-village, that the corporation seemed to have a pride in
giving a public view of this increase. Hence they published and circulated
this card. Now the card contained one, among other facts, which was
almost as precious, in a political point of view, as any I had yet
obtained. It stated, that in the year 1772, when I knew that a hundred vessels
sailed out of Liverpool for the coast of Africa, the dock-duties amounted
to 4552_l_., and that in 1779, when I knew that, in consequence
of the war, only eleven went from thence to the same coast, they
amounted to 4957_l_.

From these facts, put together, two conclusions were obvious. The first
was, that the opulence of Liverpool, as far as the entry of vessels into
its ports, and the dock-duties arising from thence, were concerned, was
not indebted to the Slave-trade; for these duties were highest when it
had only eleven ships in that employ. The second was, that there had been
almost a practical experiment with respect to the abolition of it; for
the vessels in it had been gradually reduced from one hundred to eleven,
and yet the West Indians had not complained of their ruin, nor had the
merchants or manufacturers suffered, nor had Liverpool been affected
by the change.

[Illustration]

There were specimens of articles in Liverpool, which I entirely overlooked
at Bristol, and which I believe I should have overlooked here, also, had
it not been for seeing them at a window in a shop; I mean those of
different iron instruments used in this cruel traffic. I bought a pair
of the iron hand-cuffs with which the men-slaves are confined.

The right-hand wrist of one, and the left of another, are almost
brought into contact by these, and fastened together, as the figure
A in the annexed plate represents, by a little bolt with a small
padlock at the end of it I bought also a pair of shackles for the
legs.

These are represented by the figure B. The right ancle of one man is
fastened to the left of another, as the reader will observe, by
similar means.

I bought these, not because it was difficult to conceive how the
unhappy victims of this execrable trade were confined, but to show
the fact that they were so.

For what was the inference from it, but that they did not leave
their own country willingly; that, when they were in the holds of
the slave-vessels, they were not in the Elysium which had been
represented; and that there was a fear, either that they would make
their escape, or punish their oppressors?

I bought also a thumb-screw at this shop. The thumbs are put into this
instrument through the two circular holes at the top of it. By turning
a key, a bar rises up by means of a screw from C to D, and the
pressure upon them becomes painful.

By turning it further you may make the blood start from the ends
of them.

By taking the key away, as at E, you leave the tortured person in agony,
without any means of extricating himself, or of being extricated
by others.

This screw, as I was then informed, was applied by way of punishment,
in case of obstinacy in the slaves, or for any other reputed offence,
at the discretion of the captain.

At the same place I bought another instrument which I saw. It was called a
speculum oris.

The dotted lines in the figure on the right hand of the screw, represent
it when shut, the black lines when open. It is opened, as at G H, by
a screw below with a knob at the end of it. This instrument is known among
surgeons, having been invented to assist them in wrenching open the mouth
as in the case of a locked jaw. But it had got into use in this trade.
On asking the seller of the instruments, on what occasion it was
used there, he replied, that the slaves were frequently so sulky, as to
shut their mouths against all sustenance, and this with a determination to
die; and that it was necessary their mouths should be forced open to
throw in nutriment, that they who had purchased them might incur
no loss by their death.

The town's talk of Liverpool was much of the same nature as that
at Bristol on the subject of this trade.

Horrible facts concerning it were in every body's mouth. But they were
more numerous, as was likely to be the case, where eighty vessels were
employed from one port, and only eighteen from the other. The people too
at Liverpool seemed to be more hardened, or they related them with
more coldness or less feeling.

This may be, accounted for, from the greater number of those facts,
as just related, the mention of which, as it was of course more
frequent, occasioned them to lose their power of exciting surprise.

All this I thought in my favour, as I should more easily, or with less
obnoxiousness, come to the knowledge of what I wanted to obtain.

My friend William Rathbone, who had been looking out to supply me
with intelligence, but who was desirous that I should not be imposed
upon, and that I should get it from the fountain-head, introduced
me to Mr.

Norris for this purpose. Norris had been formerly a slave-captain,
but had quitted the trade and settled as a merchant in a different
line of business.

He was a man of quick penetration, and of good talents, which he had
cultivated to advantage, and he had a pleasing address both as to
speech and manners. He received me with great politeness, and offered
me all the information I desired.

I was with him five or six times at his own house for this purpose. The
substance of his communications on these occasions I shall now put down,
and I beg the reader's particular attention to it, as he will be referred
to it in other parts of this work.

With respect to the produce of Africa, Mr. Norris enumerated many articles
in which a new and valuable trade might be opened, of which he gave me
one, namely, the black pepper from Whidàh before mentioned. This he gave me,
to use his own expressions, as one argument among many others of the impolicy
of the Slave-trade, which, by turning the attention of the inhabitants
to the persons of one another for sale, hindered foreigners from discovering,
and themselves from cultivating, many of the valuable productions of their
own soil.

On the subject of procuring slaves he gave it as his decided opinion,
that many of the inhabitants of Africa were kidnapped by each other, as
they were travelling on the roads, or fishing in the creeks, or cultivating
their little spots. Having learnt their language, he had collected the
fact from various quarters, but more particularly from the accounts
of slaves, whom he had transported in his own vessels. With respect
however to Whidàh, many came from thence, who were reduced to
slavery in a different manner.

The king of Dahomey, whose life (with the wars and customs of the
Dahomans) he said he was then writing, and who was a very despotic
prince, made no scruple of seizing his own subjects, and of selling
them, if he was in want of any of the articles which the slave-vessels
would afford him.

The history of this prince's life he lent me afterwards to read,
while it was yet in manuscript, in which I observed that he had
recorded all the facts now mentioned.

Indeed he made no hesitation to state them, either when we were by
ourselves, or when others were in company with us. He repeated them at
one time in the presence both of Mr. Cruden and of Mr. Coupland.

The latter was then a slave-merchant at Liverpool. He seemed to be fired
at the relation of these circumstances.

Unable to restrain himself longer, he entered into a defence of the
trade, both as to the humanity and the policy of it.

But Mr. Norris took up his arguments in both these cases, and
answered them in a solid manner.

With respect to the Slave-trade, as it affected the health of our
seamen, Mr.

Norris admitted it to be destructive.

But I did not stand in need of this information, as I knew this
pare of the subject, in consequence of my familiarity with the
muster-rolls, better than himself.

He admitted it also to be true, that they were too frequently
ill-treated in this trade.

A day or two after our conversation on this latter subject he brought
me the manuscript journal of a voyage to Africa, which had been
kept by a mate, with whom he was then acquainted.

He brought it to me to read, as it might throw some light upon the subject
on which we had talked last.

In this manuscript various instances of cruel usage towards seamen were put
down, from which it appeared that the mate, who wrote it, had not
escaped himself.

At the last interview we had he seemed to be so satisfied of the inhumanity,
injustice, and impolicy of the trade, that he made me a voluntary
offer of certain clauses, which he had been thinking of, and which,
he believed, if put into an act of parliament, would judiciously
effect its abolition.

The offer of these clauses I embraced eagerly. He dictated them, and I wrote.
I wrote them in a small book which I had then in pocket.

They were these:
No vessel under a heavy penalty to supply foreigners with slaves.

Every vessel to pay to government a tax for a register on clearing out
to supply our own islands with slaves.

Every such vessel to be prohibited from purchasing or bringing home
any of the productions of Africa.

Every such vessel to be prohibited from bringing home a passenger, or
any article of produce, from the West Indies.

A bounty to be given to every vessel trading in the natural productions
of Africa. This bounty to be paid in part out of the tax arising from
the registers of the slave-vessels.

Certain establishments to be made by government in Africa, in the Bananas,
in the Isles de Los, on the banks of the Camaranca, and in other places,
for the encouragement and support of the new trade to be substituted
there.

Such then were the services, which Mr.

Morris, at the request of William Rathbone, rendered me at Liverpool,
during my stay there; and I have been very particular in detailing them,
because I shall be obliged to allude to them, as I have before
observed, on some important occasions in a future part of the work.

On going my rounds one day, I met accidentally with captain Chaffers.

This gentleman either was or had been in the West India employ. His heart
had beaten in sympathy with mine, and he had greatly favoured our
cause.

He had seen me at Mr. Norris's, and learned my errand there. He told me he
could introduce me in a few minutes, as we were then near at hand, to captain
Lace, if I chose it. Captain Lace, he said, had been long in the Slave-trade,
and could give me very accurate information about it. I accepted his offer.
On talking to captain Lace, relative to the productions of Africa, he
told me that mahogany grew at Calabàr. He began to describe a tree of that
kind, which he had seen there. This tree was from about eighteen inches
to two feet in diameter, and about sixty feet high, or, as he expressed
it, of the height of a tall chimney.

As soon as he mentioned Calabàr, a kind of horror came over me.

His name became directly associated in my mind with the place.

It almost instantly occurred to me, that he commanded the Edgar out
of Liverpool, when the dreadful massacre there, as has been related,
took place.

Indeed I seemed to be so confident of it, that, attending more to
my feelings than to my reason at this moment, I accused him with
being concerned in it.

This produced great confusion among us. For he looked incensed at captain
Chaffers, as if he had introduced me to him for this purpose.

Captain Chaffers again seemed to be all astonishment that I should
have known of this circumstance, and to be vexed that I should have
mentioned it in such a manner.

I was also in a state of trembling myself. Captain Lace could only say
it was a bad business.

But he never defended himself, nor those concerned in it.

And we soon parted, to the great joy of us all.

Soon after this interview I began to perceive that I was known in
Liverpool, as well as the object for which I came. Mr.

Coupland, the slave-merchant, with whom I had disputed at Mr.

Norris's house, had given the alarm to those who were concerned in the
trade, and captain Lace, as may be now easily imagined, had spread it.
This knowledge of me and of my errand was almost immediately
productive of two effects, the first of which I shall now mention.

I had a private room at the King's Arms tavern, besides my bed-room,
where I used to meditate and to write.

THE SUN STANDING STILL

James Russell Lowell, when concluding an after-dinner speech in England,
made a happy hit by introducing the story of a Methodist preacher at a
camp-meeting, of whom he had heard when he was young. He was preaching on
Joshua ordering the sun to stand still: "My hearers," he said, "there are
three motions of the sun; the first is the straightforward or direct motion
of the sun, the second is the retrograde or backward motion of the sun,
and the third is the motion mentioned in our text--'the sun stood still.'
Now, gentlemen, I do not know whether you see the application of that story
to after-dinner oratory. I hope you do. The after-dinner orator at first
begins and goes straight forward--that is the straightforward motion of the
sun; next he goes back and begins to repeat himself a little, and that is
the retrograde or backward motion of the sun; and at last he has the good
sense to bring himself to an end, and that is the motion mentioned in our
text of the sun standing still."


58. NEUTRALIZING POISON

Col. John H. George, a New Hampshire barrister, tells a good story on
himself. Meeting an old farmer recently whom he had known in his youth,
the old fellow congratulated the Colonel on his youthful appearance.

"How is it you've managed to keep so fresh and good-looking all these
years?" quoth he.

"Well," said George, "I'll tell you. I've always drank new rum and voted
the Democratic ticket."

"Oh! yes," said the old man, "_I see how it is; one pizen neutralizes
the other!_"


59. GENERAL BUTLER AND THE SPOONS

While General Butler was delivering a speech in Boston during an exciting
political campaign, one of his hearers cried out: "How about the spoons,
Ben?" Benjamin's good eye twinkled merrily as he looked bashfully at the
audience, and said: "Now, don't mention that, please. _I was a Republican
when I stole those spoons._"


60. MAKING MOST OF ONE'S CAPITAL

[One should always make the most of his capital, as this orator did.]

"Fellow-citizens, my competitor has told you of the services he rendered in
the late war. I will follow his example, and I shall tell you of mine. He
basely insinuates that I was deaf to the voice of honor in that crisis. The
truth is, I acted a humble part in that memorable contest. When the tocsin
of war summoned the chivalry of the country to rally to the defense of the
nation, I, fellow-citizens, animated by that patriotic spirit that glows
in every American's bosom, hired a substitute for that war, and the bones
of that man, fellow-citizens, now lie bleaching in the valley of the
Shenandoah!"


61. MEETING HALF-WAY

[But the following man could get even more out of an unpromising
situation.]

"Now, I want to know," said a man whose veracity had been questioned by
an angry acquaintance, "just why you call me a liar. Be frank, sir; for
frankness is a golden-trimmed virtue. Just as a friend, now, tell me why
you called me a liar."

"Called you a liar because you are a liar," the acquaintance replied.

"That's what I call frankness. Why, sir, if this rule were adopted over
half of the difficulties would be settled without trouble, and in our case
there would have been trouble but for our willingness to meet each other
half-way."


62. UNFORTUNATE MISTAKE

Judge ----, who is now a very able Judge of the Supreme Court of one of the
great States of this Union, when he first "came to the bar," was a very
blundering speaker. On one occasion, when he was trying a case of replevin,
involving the right of property to a lot of hogs, he addressed the jury as
follows:

"Gentlemen of the jury, there were just twenty-four hogs in that
drove--just twenty-four, gentlemen--_exactly twice as many as there are
in that jury-box_!" The effect can be imagined.


63. TAKEN AT HIS WORD

A pretentious person said to the leading man of a country village, "How
would a lecture by me on Mount Vesuvius suit the inhabitants of your
village?" "Very well, sir; very well, indeed," he answered; "a lecture by
you on Mount Vesuvius would suit them a great deal better than a lecture by
you in this village."


64. BRAGGING VETERANS

In warning veterans against exaggerating, a gentleman at a Washington
banquet related the following anecdote of a Revolutionary veteran, who,
having outlived nearly all his comrades, and being in no danger of
contradiction, rehearsed his experience thuswise: "In that fearful day at
Monmouth, although entitled to a horse, I fought on foot. With each blow
I severed an Englishman's head from his body, until a huge pile of heads
lay around me, great pools of blood on either side, and my shoes were so
full of the same dreadful fluid that my feet slipped beneath me. Just then
I felt a touch upon my shoulder, and, looking up, who should I behold but
the great and good Washington himself! Never shall I forget the majesty and
dignity of his presence, as, pressing his hand upon me, he said, 'My young
friend, restrain yourself, and for heaven's sake do not make a
slaughter-house of yourself.'"


65. EXCHANGING MINDS

Heinrich Heine, the German poet, apologizing for feeling dull after a visit
from a professor said: "I am afraid you find me very stupid. The fact is,
Dr. ---- called upon me this morning, and _we exchanged our minds_."


66. BUYING A LAWYER

[The willingness to pay full value for an article is a trait of character
always appreciated.]

Lawyer B---- called at the office of Counselor F----, who has had
considerable practice in bankruptcy, and said: "See here, F----, I want
to know what the practice is in such and such a case in bankruptcy."

No dolls shall be allowed, for dolls are what I hate; The girls must give
them up, and learn to swim and skate; Confectioners must charge
only a cent a pound For all the plums and candy that in the shops
are found.

That man who asks a dime for any pear or peach-- I'll have him hung so high,
that none his feet can reach; No baker is allowed hereafter to
bake bread; He must bake only pies and cake and ginger-snaps
instead.

All lecturers must quit our realm without delay; The circus-men and
clowns, on pain of death, must stay; All folks who frown on fun,
at once must banished be:
Now, fellow, that you know my will, to its fulfilment see!

ALFRED SELWYN.

[Illustration]

A TRUE ANTELOPE STORY.

Some time ago, I told the readers of "The Nursery" about catching a
buffalo-calf. I will now tell them about a young antelope which we
caught, and another which we almost caught.

Tip and I were in that part of Western Kansas which is left blank
on the maps.

Two hunters, Thompson and Hughes, had joined us; and we were coming back
from a buffalo-chase. We had been crawling lazily along, over prairie,
through valley, up and down hill, since sunrise, and it was now nearly
noon.

All of a sudden, from a clump of tall grass near us, up sprung an
antelope and a pair of beautiful fawns.

Like a flash, the old one and one of the fawns started over the
brow of the ridge on which they were lying; while the other little
fellow began running around in a circle, as you have seen ponies
do at the circus, bleating as hard as he could.

The boys leaped from the wagons in an instant, while I remained to
hold the horses.

Ranging themselves around the circle, the three hunters every now
and then, dashed headlong after the fawn as he flew past; but missed
him by a rod or more every time.

Our dog Landy, also, was on hand for the fun; and it was a laughable
sight to see the great awkward fellow straining every nerve to
overtake the little streak of animated lightning that flashed before
him.

Landy was a Newfoundland shepherd, and I knew that nothing could induce him
to hurt the fawn if he should catch him.

While I was watching the sport, and laughing at the drollery of it, all at
once I heard a stamping on the other side of the wagon, and, stepping
quickly around the horses' heads, I saw the old doe, and a buck and doe with
her.

[Illustration]
As the fawn came bounding along the circle, the buck and does, bleating
anxiously, darted in ahead of him, rushing right by the men and dog.
Never stopping an instant, the big buck led the way, the does and fawn
followed; and, before you could say "Jack Robinson," they were
"over the hills, and far away."

This was the antelope that we _almost_ caught. The boys came back to the
wagons, thoroughly fagged out, and looking painfully silly.

Again we drove along, but had not proceeded more than a mile or two, when
up sprung another old doe, and ran toward Landy, stamping her
fore-foot fiercely.

Of course the foolish dog took after her as hard as he could go,--just
as she wanted him to do; and a fine chase she led him, always taking
care not to leave him so far behind as to discourage him, and make
him turn back.

We knew at once by her actions that she had a fawn near there; and so, while
she was leading Landy away from it, we set about hunting it up. In a few
minutes, I came across the little slender-legged beauty, snugly curled up
under a tuft of grass. As I came upon him, he dashed out of cover with
a shrill, plaintive little "baa-baa, baa-baa," and, as fawns always do in
such cases, began running in a small circle.

Landy, disgusted with his hopeless chase, came trotting back, and at once
struck in after the fawn. This one was not so fleet as the other; and by
and by Landy overtook him, and tried to stop him by pushing him over with
his nose. This frightened the fawn so badly, that he made direct for
Tip, who was squatting in the long grass in wait for him, and rushed
joyfully into his arms.

We took the bright-eyed little thing into the wagon, and by night
he was so tame, that he would follow us around; and, when we lay
down to sleep on the ground, I gave him a corner of my blanket for
a bed.

At last we got back to Thompson's log-house, which stood near the
timber; and, when we went away we gave the fawn to his two little
girls. I would really like to know what ever became of it.

PERRY, O. LLOYD WYMAN.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

The Apple Tree.

A few days afterward Captain ---- was passing through the post,
and stopped a couple of days for rest. While there an enthusiastic officer
took him out to show him the trail of the bad Indians, how they came, which
way they went, etc. After following the trail for some distance the Captain
turned to his guide and exclaimed: "Look here; if you want to find any
Indians, you can find them; _I haven't lost any_, and am going back to
camp."


74. IRATE PRISONER

A man arrested for stealing chickens was brought to trial. The case was
given to the jury, who brought him in guilty, and the judge sentenced
him to three months' imprisonment. The jailer was a jovial man, fond of
a _smile_, and feeling particularly good on that particular day,
considered himself insulted when the prisoner looking around his cell told
him it was dirty, and not fit for a hog to be put in. One word brought on
another, till finally the jailer told the prisoner if he did not behave
himself he would put him out. To which the prisoner replied: "I will give
you to understand, sir, I have as good a right here as you have!"


75. TRUTHFUL PRISONER

The eccentric old King of Prussia, father of Frederick the Great, while
visiting the Potsdam prison, was much interested in the professions of
innocence the prisoners made. Some blamed their conviction on the prejudice
of judges; others, upon the perjury of witnesses or the tricks of bad
companions. At length he accosted a sturdy, closely-fettered prisoner with
the remark, "I suppose you are innocent, too."

"No, your Majesty," was the unexpected response. "I am guilty, and richly
deserve all I get."

"Here, you turnkey," thundered the monarch, "come and turn out this rascal,
quick, before he corrupts this fine lot of innocent and abused people that
you have about you."


76. RULING PASSION

There are persons now living in Bennington who remember old Billy B----, of
whom it might be said he furnished an example of the "ruling passion strong
in death." When very ill, and friends were expecting an early demise,
his nephew and a man hired for the occasion had butchered a steer which
had been fattened; and when the job was completed the nephew entered the
sick-room, where a few friends were assembled, when, to the astonishment of
all, the old man opened his eyes, and turning his head slightly, said, in a
full voice, drawing out the words:

"What have you been doing?"

"Killing the steer," was the reply.

"What did you do with the hide?"

"Left it in the barn; going to sell it by-and-by."

"Let the boys drag it around the yard a couple of times; it will make it
weigh heavier."

And the good old man was gathered unto his fathers.


77. BAD SPECULATION

[This is told of bears, rattlesnakes, etc., as well as Indians.]

At a recent festive occasion a gentleman who was making a few remarks was
repeatedly interrupted by another one of the company. He bore it patiently
at first, but finally said that it reminded him of a story he had heard. He
said that a man, whom business had called away a short distance from his
home in the city, thought he would pay his way back again by purchasing
a number of hogs and driving them home. He did so, but when he and the
hogs arrived at their destination the market for the latter had fallen
considerably in price, and the hogs had also lost weight on the journey. It
was remarked to him that he had made rather a bad speculation. "Yes--well,
yes," he answered reflectively. "Yes--but then, you see, _I had their
company all the way_!"


78. SATISFIED WITH HIS SITUATION

[The following may not be strictly true, but it well illustrates that there
is always a lower depth in misfortune, and--that Western roads are often
somewhat muddy.]

Some years ago, when riding along one of the almost impassable roads in the
far West, I observed a dark-looking object lying in the middle of the road,
and my natural curiosity impelled me to dismount and examine it. It proved
to be a hat, somewhat muddy and dilapidated, but emphatically a hat. On
lifting it up, to my surprise I found that it covered a head--a human
head--which protruded sufficiently out of the mud to be recognizable as
such. I ventured to address the evidently wide-awake head, and remarked
that it seemed to be in a pretty bad sort of a fix.

"Wa'al, yes!" the lips replied; "you're about right thar, stranger; _but
then I ain't anyway near as bad off as the horse that's under me_!"


79. A GOOD WORD FOR THE DEVIL

A conference preacher one day went into the house of a Wesleyan Reformer,
and saw the portraits of three expelled ministers suspended from the walls.

"What!" said he, "have you got them hanging there?"

"Oh! yes," was the answer; "they are there."

"Ah! well; but one is wanted to complete the set."

"Pray, who is that?"

"Why, the devil, to be sure."

"Ah!" said the Reformer, "but he is not yet expelled from the Conference."


80. MARRYING A WIDOW

In Cadiz, Ohio, a preacher was summoned to the hotel to make an expectant
couple one. In the course of the preliminary inquiries the groom was asked
if he had been married before, and admitted that he had been--three times.
"And is this lady a widow," was also asked, but he responded promptly and
emphatically, "No, sir; _I never marry widows_."


81. A GOOD SALE

Several years ago there resided in Saratoga County a lawyer of considerable
ability and reputation, but of no great culture, who had an unusually fine
taste in paintings and engravings--the only evidence of refinement he
ever exhibited. A clergyman of the village in which he lived, knowing his
fondness for such things, introduced to him an agent of a publishing house
in the city who was issuing a pictorial Bible in numbers. The specimen
of the style of work exhibited to the lawyer was a very beautiful one,
and he readily put down his name for a copy. But in the progress of the
publication the character of the engravings rapidly deteriorated, much
to the disgust of the enlightened lawyer. The picture of Joseph, very
indifferently done, provoked him beyond endurance, and seizing several of
the numbers he sallied forth to reproach the parson for leading him into
such a bad bargain. "Look at these wretched scratches," said he, turning
the pages over, "and see how I have been imposed upon! Here is a portrait
of Joseph, whom his brethren sold to the Egyptians for twenty pieces of
silver; and let me tell you, parson, _if Joseph looked like that it was
a mighty good sale_!"


82. TRIUMPHS OF MEDICINE

A priest was called upon by a superstitious parishioner, who asked him to
do something for her sick cow. He disclaimed knowing anything about such
matters, but could not put her off. She insisted that if he would only
say some words over the cow, the animal would surely recover. Worn out
with importunity, he seized his book in desperation, walked around the
four-legged patient several times, repeating in a sonorous voice the Latin
words, which mean, "If you die, you die; and if you live, you live," and
rushed off disgusted. But the woman was delighted, and sooth to say the cow
quickly recovered.

But in time the good man himself was taken sick, and grew rapidly worse.
His throat was terribly swollen, and all medical aid was exhausted. The
word passed around the parish that the priest must die. When Bridget heard
the peril of her favorite pastor she was inspired by a mighty resolve. She
hurried to the sick-room, entered against the protest of the friends who
were weeping around, and with out a word to any one with her strong hands
dragged his reverence's bed to the middle of the floor, and with the exact
copy of his very gestures and voice marched around the bed, repeating the
sonorous and well-remembered Latin phrase, "If you die, you die; and if you
live, you live." The priest fell into a fit of uncontrollable laughter, and
in his struggle for breath and self-control the gathering in his throat
broke and his life was saved!

Mighty are the triumphs of medicine!


83. TIT FOR TAT

An old fellow in a neighboring town, who is original in all things,
especially in excessive egotism, and who took part in the late war, was
one day talking to a crowd of admiring listeners, and boasting of his many
bloody exploits, when he was interrupted by the question:

"I say, old Joe, how many of the enemy did you kill during the war?"

"How many did I kill sir? _how many_ enemies did I kill? Well, I don't
know just 'zactly _how_ many; but I know this much--I killed as many
o' them _as they did o' me_!"


84. SLEEPING ON TOP

During a homeward trip of the "Henry Chauncey," from Aspinwall, the
steerage passengers were so numerous as to make them uncomfortable. As
for sleeping accommodation, it was aptly described by a Californian, who
approached the captain, and said:

"I should like to have a sleeping-berth, if you please."

No doubt we see in him the remains of a sterling Cricketer of the
old school."

And then when I lay down the law on the iniquity of boundary hits, "always
ran them out in _my_ time," and on the tame stupidity of letting
balls to the off go unpunished, and the wickedness of dispensing
with a long stop, you would be more and more pursuaded that I had
at least, played for my county.

Well, I _have_ played for my county, but as the county I played for
was Berwickshire, there is perhaps nothing to be so very proud of
in that distinction.

But this I will say for the Cricketing Duffer; he is your true enthusiast.
When I go to Lord's on a summer day, which of my contemporaries do I meet
there? Not the men who played for the University, not the KENNYS and
MITCHELLS and BUTLERS, but the surviving members of College Second Elevens
in the old days of Cowley Marsh, when every man brought his own bottle of
Oxford wine for luncheon. These are the veterans who contribute most to the
crowd of lookers-on. They never were of any use as players, but their
hearts were in the game, and from the game they will never be
divorced.

It is an ill thing for an outsider to drop a remark about Cricket
among us, at about eleven o'clock in a country house smoking-room.

After that the time flies in a paradise of reminiscences, till about 4 A.M.
or some such "wee, short hour ayont the Twal'," if one may quote BURNS
without being insulted by all the numerous and capable wits of Glasgow.
Why is it that the Duffer keeps up his interest in Cricket, while the
good players cease to care much about it? Perhaps _their_ interest was
selfish; his is purely ideal, and consequently immortal.
To him Cricket was ever an unembodied joy of which he could make nothing
palpable; nothing subject to the cold law of averages. Mine was 0.3.

[Illustration]
My own introduction to Cricket, as to Golf, was peculiarly poignant.

I and my brother, aged more or less about six or seven, were invited
to play by the local Club, and we each received exactly one very
slow and considerate lob.

But his lob took him on the eye, and mine, kicking on a bad wicket, had me
on the knee-pan. The subsequent proceedings did not interest us very
much, but there is nothing like entering children early at a manly
pastime.

Intellectual application will, to some extent, overcome physical
difficulties. By working at least five hours a day, and by reading
the _Cricket Field_ daily and nightly, I did learn to bowl a little, with
a kind of twist. This, while it lasted, in a bowlerless country, was a
delightful accomplishment. You got into much better sporting society
than you deserved, and, in remote parts of the pastoral districts
you were looked up to as one whose name had been in _Bell's Life_;
we still had _Bell's Life_ then.

It was no very difficult matter to bowl a rustic team for a score
of runs or so, and all went merry as a wedding bell.

But, alas, when Drumthwacket played Tullochgorum, there was a young Cambridge
man staying with the latter chieftain. I began, as I usually did, by
"yorking" Tullochgorum's Piper and his chief Butler, and his head Stalker,
and then SMITH of King's came in. The ground, as usual, had four sides.
You send too many
'deadheads' through here as it is."

The story traveled, and the two words became associated.


90. BOOMING A TOWN

They tell a story of a man who came into Omaha one day, and wanted to trade
his farm for some city lots. "All right," replied the real-estate agent,
"get into my buggy, and I'll drive you out to see some of the finest
residence sites in the world--water, sewers, paved streets, cement
sidewalks, electric light, shade trees, and all that sort of thing," and
away they drove four or five miles into the country. The real-estate
agent expatiated upon the beauty of the surroundings, the value of the
improvements made and projected, the convenience of the location, the ease
and speed with which people who lived there could reach town, and the
certainty of an active demand for such lots in the immediate future. Then,
when he was breathless, he turned to his companion, and asked:

"Where's your farm?"

"We passed it coming out here," was the reply. "It's about two miles nearer
town."


91. ATHLETIC NURSE

Young Wife--"Why, dear, you were the stroke oar at college, weren't you?"

Young Husband--"Yes, love."

"And a prominent member of the gymnastic class?"

"I was leader."

"And quite a hand at all athletic exercises?"

"Quite a hand? My gracious! I was champion walker, the best runner, the
head man at lifting heavy weights, and as for carrying--why, I could
shoulder a barrel of flour and--"

"Well, love, just please carry the baby for a couple of hours, I'm tired."


92. TOO PREMATURE

[Anything rather premature may be illustrated by the following:]

A spring bird that had taken time by the forelock flew across the lawn near
this city one day last week. His probable fate is best described in this
pathetic verse, author unknown:

    "The first bird of spring
    Essayed for to sing;
  But ere he had uttered a note
    He fell from the limb,
    A dead bird was him,
  The music had friz in his throat."


93. A BEWILDERED IRISHMAN

The poet Shelley tells an amusing story of the influence that language
"hard to be understood" exercises on the vulgar mind. Walking near Covent
Garden, London, he accidentally jostled against an Irish navvy, who, being
in a quarrelsome mood, seemed inclined to attack the poet. A crowd of
ragged sympathizers began to gather, when Shelley, calmly facing them,
deliberately pronounced:

"I have put my hand into the hamper, I have looked on the sacred barley, I
have eaten out of the drum. I have drunk and am well pleased. I have said,
'Knox Ompax,' and it is finished."

The effect was magical, the astonished Irishman fell back; his friends
began to question him. "What barley?" "Where's the hamper?" "What have you
been drinking?" and Shelley walked away unmolested.


94. OBEYING ORDERS

When General Sickles, after the second battle of Bull Run, assumed command
of a division of the Army of the Potomac, he gave an elaborate farewell
dinner to the officers of his old Excelsior Brigade.

"Now, boys, we will have a family gathering," he said to them, as they
assembled in his quarters. Pointing to the table, he continued: "Treat it
as you would the enemy."

As the feast ended, an Irish officer was discovered by Sickles in the act
of stowing away three bottles of champagne in his saddle-bags.

May I be allowed a few words with Miss Marshall?

I know it is unusual, but I have something unusual to tell her.'
'Nothing distressing, I hope, Mr. Morton,' said one of the ladies,
startled.

'Oh no, quite the reverse,' he said, with a nervous laugh; 'in fact, I have
unexpectedly come into a property!'

'Indeed!' with great astonishment, 'I congratulate you,' as the colour
mounted in his face, pleasant, honest, but with the subdued expression
left by long years of patience in a subordinate position.

'May I ask--' began the other sister.

'I hardly understand it yet,' was the answer; 'but I must go to town by
the 5.10 train, and I should like her to hear it from myself.'

'Oh, certainly; it does you honour, Mr. Morton.'

"I am subject at intervals," said the friend, "to the wildest craving
for beefsteak and onions. It has all the characteristics of a confirmed
drunkard's craving for rum. This desire came upon me a few minutes ago, and
I determined to gratify it. Then suddenly I remembered that I had promised
to call this evening on some ladies, and I must keep that promise. Yet my
stomach is shouting for beefsteak and onions, and I am wavering between
duty and appetite."

"Can't you wait until after the call?" asked the gentleman, solicitously.

"Never," said the friend, earnestly.

"Can't you postpone the call?"

"Impossible," declared the friend.

"Well," said the gentleman, "I'll tell you what to do: go to John
Chamberlin's café; order your beefsteak and onions, and eat them. Yansen
approached him. "Young gentleman," said he, in a very mild tone, "you
appear to have met with some disappointment from that griping
wretch, Levi.

If you have any business to transact, my house is close by; I shall
be happy to treat with you."THE EXTENT OF SCIENCE

"And now," said the learned lecturer on geology who had addressed a small
but deeply attentive audience at the village hall, "I have tried to make
these problems, abstruse as they may appear, and involving in their
solution the best thoughts, the closest analysis, and the most profound
investigations of our noblest scientific men for many years; I have tried,
I say, to make them seem comparatively simple and easily understood, in the
light of modern knowledge. Before I close this lecture I shall be glad to
answer any questions that may occur to you as to points that appear to need
clearing up or that may have been overlooked."

There was a silence of a few moments, and then an anxious-looking man in
the rear of the hall rose up.

"I would take it as a favor," he said, "if you could tell me whether
science has produced as yet any reliable and certain cure for warts."


98. Yet I know the endless thirst in your heart for sight of me, the
thirst that cries at my door in the repeated knockings of sunrise.

LXXXI
You, in your timeless watch, listen to my approaching steps while your
gladness gathers in the morning twilight and breaks in the burst of light.

The nearer I draw to you the deeper grows the fervour in the dance
of the sea.

Your world is a branching spray of light filling your hands, but
your heaven is in my secret heart; it slowly opens its buds in shy
love.

LXXXII

I will utter your name, sitting alone among the shadows of my silent
thoughts.

I will utter it without words, I will utter it without purpose.

For I am like a child that calls its mother an hundred times, glad
that it can say "Mother."

that, my dear," he answered, beaming over his spectacles with the good
nature of superior wisdom, "is known as argon!"

"Oh!"

"Yes; its discovery is one of the most remarkable triumphs of the age. It
has revolutionized some of the old theories, or at least it will
revolutionize them before it gets through."

"What is it?"

"It's--er--a--did you say, what is it?"

"I said that."

"Well--ahem--you see, we haven't as yet discovered much about it except its
name."


100. HE WAS "'PISCOPAL"

An Episcopal clergyman passing his vacation in Indiana met an old farmer
who declared that he was a "'Piscopal."

"To what parish do you belong?" asked the clergyman.

"Don't know nawthin' 'bout enny parish," was the answer.

"Well, then," continued the clergyman, "what diocese do you belong to?"

"They ain't nawthin' like that 'round here," said the farmer.

"Who confirmed you, then?" LXXVII

The world is yours at once and for ever.

And because you have no want, my king, you have no pleasure in your
wealth.

It is as though it were naught. Therefore through slow time you give me
what is yours, and ceaselessly win your kingdom in me.

Day after day you buy your sunrise from my heart, and you find your love
carven into the image of my life.
LXXVIII
To the birds you gave songs, the birds gave you songs in return.
You gave me only voice, yet asked for more, and I sing.The clergyman shook the old fellow's hand, and laughingly said:

"Now I understand, my friend, why the membership of our church is so
large."


101. JOHNNY'S EXCUSE

A little girl brought a note to her school-teacher one morning, which read
as follows. "Dear teacher, please excuse Johnny for not coming to school
today. He is dead." Johnny was excused.