Produced by Al Haines


Riverside Educational Monographs

EDITED BY HENRY SUZZALLO

PRESIDENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON


THE MEANING OF INFANCY

BY

JOHN FISKE


1883


CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

I. THE MEANING OF INFANCY
     From "Excursions of an Evolutionist"

II. THE PART PLAYED BY INFANCY IN THE EVOLUTION OF MAN
     From "A Century of Science"

OUTLINE


INTRODUCTION

The new significance of education

The last century has witnessed an unprecedented development in the
significance of education.  One direct consequence has been an
increased reverence for childhood.  In this movement which has
increased the dignity of children and schools, two large forces
have been at work,--one social and the other scientific.  The
growth of the democratic spirit among men and institutions has made
the education of children a public necessity, and lifted the school
to a position of high social importance.  The application of the
theory of evolution to man and his life has revealed human infancy
as one of the largest factors making for the superiority of man in
the struggle for existence, and given to childhood a vast
biological importance.  The necessities of democracy and the truths
of science, acting more or less independently of each other, have
given to education a breadth of meaning which it did not possess
before.  They have shown that infancy is the largest opportunity
and education the most powerful instrument for the conscious
adjustment of man to the physical and social world in which he
lives.


_Democracy changes the function of schools_

It was the attempt of democracy to educate all of its children
which was the initial and important event that provoked large
changes in our notions of the social function of education.  As
long as the school was for the few, and such it was in the less
liberal periods of history, the school tended to be an
authoritative institution with more or less rigid methods of
procedure.  With fixed ideas of truth and the means of acquiring
truth, it was to a considerable degree unbending in its attitude
toward youth.  Even if freedom from economic toil and social
regulation permitted, only the type of mind that could fit the
school's established institutional ways could endure its discipline
and achieve its rewards.  Other types of mentality it would not
receive or retain as students.  Under such an organization the
school was selective of a special kind of talent.  It was not an
instrument, so adjustable in its methods of appeal and instruction,
that every manner of child could gain considerable of the wisdom of
the world.  But when a more democratic order was established, the
function of the school underwent a considerable change.  Democracy
granted to all men freedom in manhood; to safeguard its privileges,
it had to educate all men in childhood.  The school for selected
scholars had to be transformed into a school for every variety of
citizen.  With every child sent to school by order of the state,
the teacher had to forego his traditional aloofness, and to adjust
his methods of teaching so that every member of the enlarged school
community could come into a knowledge of the civilization in which
he lived.  With the inclusion of the blind, the deaf, the slow of
mind, and the restless of spirit,--individuals left out of the old
scheme of education and now reverently educated by the new
democratic order in spite of all their defects,--the school becomes
more flexible and variable in its methods of transmitting truth.
More of the knowledge of human life is brought within the
comprehension of children; more men are brought into a large and
sympathetic participation in the activities of our civilization.
In the truest sense the school becomes an instrument of adjustment
between childhood and society.


_Evolutionary thought interprets childhood_

If the democratic movement emphasized the factor of social
adjustment in the school's function, it was the scientific movement
of the last half-century which drew attention to infancy as a
superior opportunity for biological adjustment Among all the
contributions of modern evolutionary science to educational
thought, none is, more striking or more far-reaching in its
implications than that special group of generalizations which
states the biological function of a prolonged infancy in man.
Interpreting this period, of helplessness and dependence as one of
plasticity and opportunity, it has shown that the greater power of
man in adjusting himself to the complex conditions of life is due
to his educability, which in turn is the outcome of his lengthened
childhood.  This "doctrine of the meaning of infancy," for such it
has been called, is perhaps best known to the teaching profession
through those enlargements and applications of the doctrine which
have been made by Mr. Nicholas Murray Butler in his exposition of
"the meaning of education."  As a belief, it is at least as old as
the period of the ancient Greek philosopher, Anaximander.  As a
doctrine in our modern thought, it owes its influential
reappearance to certain evolutionary hypotheses of Mr. Alfred
Russel Wallace, which in turn stimulated Mr. John Fiske to that
further inquiry which resulted in those first cogent and extended
statements of the doctrine which have been the basis of so many
subsequent educational applications.


_Mr. Fiske's presentation of the meaning of infancy_

Because of the fundamental importance of Mr. Fiske's presentation
of "the doctrine of the meaning of infancy," his views are here
reprinted in detail.  The material consists of an essay and an
address.  The first of these, "The Meaning of Infancy," is a brief
and simplified restatement of those theories of man's origin and
destiny as first suggested in his lectures at Harvard University in
1871, and later developed more fully in the "Outlines of Cosmic
Philosophy," part II, chapters xvi, xxi, and xxii.  The second of
these, "The Part played by Infancy in the Evolution of Man," is an
address delivered by Mr. Fiske as the guest of honor at a dinner at
the Aldine Club, New York, May 13, 1895.  Together these two papers
constitute the most detailed and valuable elucidation of the
doctrine that we possess.  In offering them to the teaching
profession and the reading public in this form, it is with the
sincere hope that this biological interpretation of childhood and
education will lend a new spiritual dignity to the whole
institution of education.  It must certainly be gratifying to those
who are profound believers in the efficacy of education, to note
that its significance is wider than its service to particular
persons and states; that education is, in truth, the conscious and
latest mode of that wider world-evolution which has been in
progress since the beginning of time.


I

THE MEANING OF INFANCY

What is the Meaning of Infancy?  What is the meaning of the fact
that man is born into the world more helpless than any other
creature, and needs for a much longer season than any other living
thing the tender care and wise counsel of his elders?  It is one of
the most familiar of facts that man alone among animals, exhibits a
capacity for progress.  That man is widely different from other
animals in the length of his adolescence and the utter helplessness
of his babyhood, is an equally familiar fact.  Now between these
two commonplace facts is there any connection?  Is it a mere
accident that the creature which is distinguished as progressive
should also be distinguished as coming slowly to maturity, or is
there a reason lying deep down in the nature of things why this
should be so?  I think it can be shown, with very few words, that
between these two facts there is a connection that is deeply
in-wrought with the processes by which life has been evolved upon
the earth.  It can be shown that man's progressiveness and the
length of his infancy are but two sides of one and the same fact;
and in showing this, still more will appear.  It will appear that
it was the lengthening of infancy which ages ago gradually
converted our forefathers from brute creatures into human
creatures.  It is babyhood that has made man what he is.  The
simple unaided operation of natural selection could never have
resulted in the origination of the human race.  Natural selection
might have gone on forever improving the breed of the highest
animal in many ways, but it could never _unaided_ have started the
process of civilization or have given to man those peculiar
attributes in virtue of which it has been well said that the
difference between him and the highest of apes immeasurably
transcends in value the difference between an ape and a blade of
grass.  In order to bring about that wonderful event, the Creation
of Man, natural selection had to call in the aid of other agencies,
and the chief of these agencies was the gradual lengthening of
babyhood.

Such is the point which I wish to illustrate in few words, and to
indicate some of its bearings on the history of human progress.
Let us first observe what it was then lengthened the infancy of the
highest animal, for then we shall be the better able to understand
the character of the prodigious effects which this infancy has
wrought.  A few familiar facts concerning the method in which men
learn how to do things will help us here.

When we begin to learn to play the piano, we have to devote much
time and thought to the adjustment and movement of our fingers and
to the interpretation of the vast and complicated multitude of
symbols which make up the printed page of music that stands before
us.  For a long time, therefore, our attempts are feeble and
stammering and they require the full concentrated power of the
mind.  Yet a trained pianist will play a new piece of music at
sight, and perhaps have so much attention to spare that he can talk
with you at the same time.  What an enormous number of mental
acquisitions have in this case become almost instinctive or
automatic!  It is just so in learning a foreign language, and it
was just the same when in childhood we learned to walk, to talk,
and to write.  It is just the same, too, in learning to think about
abstruse subjects.  What at first strains the attention to the
utmost, and often wearies us, comes at last to be done without
effort and almost unconsciously.  Great minds thus travel over vast
fields of thought with an ease of which they are themselves
unaware.  Dr. Nathaniel Bowditch once said that in translating the
"Mecanique Celeste," he had come upon formulas which Laplace
introduced with the word "obviously," where it took nevertheless
many days of hard study to supply the intermediate steps through
which that transcendent mind had passed with one huge leap of
inference.  At some time in his youth no doubt Laplace had to think
of these things, just as Rubinstein had once to think how his
fingers should be placed on the keys of the piano; but what was
once the object of conscious attention comes at last to be
well-nigh automatic, while the night of the conscious mind goes on
ever to higher and vaster themes.

Let us now take a long leap from the highest level of human
intelligence to the mental life of a turtle or a codfish.  In what
does the mental life of such creatures consist?  It consists of a
few simple acts mostly concerned with the securing of food and the
avoiding of danger, and these few simple acts are repeated with
unvarying monotony during the whole lifetime of these creatures.
Consequently these acts are performed with great ease and are
attended with very little consciousness, and moreover the capacity
to perform them is transmitted from parent to offspring as
completely as the capacity of the stomach to digest food is
transmitted.  In all animals the new-born stomach needs but the
contact with food in order to begin digesting, and the new-born
lungs need but the contact with air in order to begin to breathe.
The capacity for performing these perpetually repeated visceral
actions is transmitted in perfection.  All the requisite nervous
connections are fully established during the brief embryonic
existence of each creature.  In the case of lower animals it is
almost as much so with the few simple actions which make up the
creature's mental life.  The bird known as the fly-catcher no
sooner breaks the egg than it will snap at and catch a fly.  This
action is not so very simple, but because it is something the bird
is always doing, being indeed one out of the very few things that
this bird ever does, the nervous connections needful for doing it
are all established before birth, and nothing but the presence of
the fly is required to set the operation going.

With such creatures as the codfish, the turtle, or the fly-catcher,
there is accordingly nothing that can properly be called infancy.
With them the sphere of education is extremely limited.  They get
their education before they are born.  In other words, heredity
does everything for them, education nothing.  The career of the
individual is predetermined by the careers of his ancestors, and he
can do almost nothing to vary it.  The life of such creatures is
conservatism cut and dried, and there is nothing progressive about
them.

In what I just said I left an "almost."  There is a great deal of
saving virtue in that little adverb.  Doubtless even animals low in
the scale possess some faint traces of educability; but they are so
very slight that it takes geologic ages to produce an appreciable
result.  In all the innumerable wanderings, fights, upturnings and
cataclysms of the earth's stupendous career, each creature has been
summoned under penalty of death to use what little wit he may have
had, and the slightest trace of mental flexibility is of such
priceless value in the struggle for existence that natural
selection must always have seized upon it, and sedulously hoarded
and transmitted it for coming generations to strengthen and
increase.  With the lapse of geologic time the upper grades of
animal intelligence have doubtless been raised higher and higher
through natural selection.  The warm-blooded mammals and birds of
to-day no doubt surpass the cold-blooded dinosaurs of the Jurassic
age in mental qualities as they surpass them in physical structure.
From the codfish and turtle of ancient family to the modern lion,
dog, and monkey, it is a very long step upward.  The mental life of
a warm-blooded animal is a very different affair from that of
reptiles and fishes.  A squirrel or a bear does a good many things
in the course of his life.  He meets various vicissitudes in
various ways; he has adventures.  The actions he performs are so
complex and so numerous that they are severally performed with less
frequency than the few actions performed by the codfish.  The
requisite nervous connections are accordingly not fully established
before birth.  There is not time enough.  The nervous connections
needed for the visceral movements and for the few simple
instinctive actions get organized, and then the creature is born
before he has learned how to do all the things his parents could
do.  A good many of his nervous connections are not yet formed,
they are only formable.  Accordingly he is not quite able to take
care of himself; he must for a time be watched and nursed.  All
mammals and most birds have thus a period of babyhood that is not
very long, but is on the whole longest with the most intelligent
creatures.  It is especially long with the higher monkeys, and
among the man-like apes it becomes so long as to be strikingly
suggestive.  An infant orang-outang, captured by Mr. Wallace, was
still a helpless baby at the age of three months, unable to feed
itself, to walk without aid, or to grasp objects with precision.

But this period of helplessness has to be viewed under another
aspect.  It is a period of plasticity.  The creature's career is no
longer exclusively determined by heredity.  There is a period after
birth when its character can be slightly modified by what happens
to it after birth, that is, by its experience as an individual.  It
becomes educable.  It is no longer necessary for each generation to
be exactly like that which has preceded.  A door is opened through
which the capacity for progress can enter.  Horses and dogs, bears
and elephants, parrots and monkeys, are all teachable to some
extent, and we have even heard of a learned pig.  Of learned asses
there has been no lack in the world.

But this educability of the higher mammals and birds is after all
quite limited.  By the beginnings of infancy the door for
progressiveness was set ajar, but it was not all at once thrown
wide open.  Conservatism stilt continued in fashion.  One
generation of cattle is much like another.  It would be easy for
foxes to learn to climb frees, and many a fox might have saved his
life by doing so; yet quickwitted as he is, this obvious device
never seems to have occurred to Reynard.  Among slightly teachable
mammals, however, there is one group more teachable than the rest.
Monkeys, with their greater power of handling things, have also
more inquisitiveness and more capacity for sustained attention than
any other mammals; and the higher apes are fertile in varied
resources.  The orang-outang and gorilla are for this reason
dreaded by other animals, and roam the undisputed lords of their
native forests.  They have probably approached the critical point
where variations in intelligence, always important, have come to be
supremely important, so as to be seized by natural selection in
preference to variations in physical constitution.  At some remote
epoch of the past--we cannot say just when or how--our half-human
forefathers reached and passed this critical point, and forthwith
their varied struggles began age after age to result in the
preservation of bigger and better brains, while the rest of their
bodies changed but little.  This particular work of natural
selection must have gone on for an enormous length of time, and as
its result we see that while man remains anatomically much like an
ape, be has acquired a vastly greater brain with all that this
implies.  Zoologically the distance is small between man and the
chimpanzee; psychologically it has become so great as to be
immeasurable.

But this steady increase of intelligence, as our forefathers began
to become human, carried with it a steady prolongation of infancy.
As mental life became more complex and various, as the things to be
learned kept ever multiplying, less and less could be done before
birth, more and more must be left to be done in the earlier years
of life.  So instead of being born with a few simple capacities
thoroughly organized, man came at last to be born with the germs of
many complex capacities which were reserved to be unfolded and
enhanced or checked and stifled by the incidents of personal
experience in each individual.  In this simple yet wonderful way
there has been provided for man a long period during which his mind
is plastic and malleable, and the length of this period has
increased with civilization until it now covers nearly one third of
our lives.  It is not that our inherited tendencies and aptitudes
are not still the main thing.  It is only that we have at last
acquired great power to modify them by training, so that progress
may go on with ever-increasing sureness and rapidity.

In thus pointing out the causes of infancy, we have at the same
time witnessed some of its effects.  One effect, of stupendous
importance, remains to be pointed out.  As helpless babyhood came
more and more to depend on parental care, the correlated feelings
were developed on the part of parents, and the fleeting sexual
relations established among mammals in general were gradually
exchanged for permanent relations.  A cow feels strong maternal
affection for her nursing calf, but after the calf is fully grown,
though doubtless she distinguishes it from other members of the
herd, it is not clear that she entertains for it any parental
feeling.  But with our half-human forefathers it is not difficult
to see how infancy extending over several years must have tended
gradually to strengthen the relations of the children to the
mother, and eventually to both parents, and thus give rise to the
permanent organization of the family.  When this step was
accomplished we may say that the Creation of Man had been achieved.
For through the organization of the family has arisen that of the
clan or tribe, which has formed, as it were, the cellular tissue
out of which the most complex human society has come to be
constructed.  The chairs in the conference room creaked as the
department heads stirred to follow him with their eyes.

"ACT is our motto.

ACT is our password. ACT is our key to success. And why not? The
Brains do the thinking. All of us put together couldn't think
so effectively, so perfectly, so honestly as the Brains. They take
the orders, designate raw materials, equipment, manpower. They
schedule our work. They analyze our products. They analyze our
people."
Colihan trembled.

"There's only one important function left to us. And that's
ACT!"
The President bowed his head and walked slowly back to his seat.
He sat down, and with great fatigue evident in his voice, he
concluded his polemic.

"That's why we must have pep, gentlemen. Pep. Now--how do you
spell it?"
"P! E! P!" roared the department heads.

The meeting was over. The department heads filed out.

* * * * *
Colihan's secretary placed the morning mail on his desk. There
was a stack of memos at least an inch thick, and the Personnel
Manager moaned at the sight of it.

"Production report doesn't look too good," said Miss Blanche,
crisply.
"Bet we get a flood of aptitude cards from Morgan today.
Grimswitch has sent over a couple. That makes eleven from him this
month. He really has his problems."
Colihan grunted. _He deserves them_, he thought.

"How did the meeting go?"
"Huh?" Colihan looked up. "Oh, fine, fine. Boss was in good voice,
as usual."
"I think there's an envelope from him in the stack."
"What?" Colihan hoped that his concern wasn't visible. He riffled
through the papers hurriedly, and came up with a neat white
envelope engraved with the words: OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT.

Miss Blanche watched him, frankly curious. "That will be all," he
told her curtly.

When she had left, he ripped the envelope open and read the
contents. It was in Moss's own cramped handwriting, and it was
a request for a three o'clock "man-to-man" talk.

_Oh, Lord_, he thought. _Now it's going to happen._
* * * * *
President Moss was eating an apple.

He ate so greedily that the juice spilled over his chin.

Sitting behind his massive oak desk, chair tilted back, apple juice
dappling his whiskers, he looked so small and unformidable, that
Colihan took heart.

"Well, Ralph--how goes it?"

_He called me Ralph_, thought Colihan cheerfully. _He's not such
a bad old guy._
"Don't grow apples like they used to," the President said. "This
hydroponic stuff can't touch the fruit we used to pick. Say,
did you ever climb a real apple tree and knock 'em off the
branches?"
Colihan blinked. "No, sir."
"Greatest thrill in the world. My father had an orchard in
Kennebunkport. Apples by the million. Green apples. Sweet apples.
Delicious. Spy. Baldwin." He sighed. "Something's gone out of our way
of life, Ralph."
_Why, he's just an old dear_, thought Colihan. He looked at
the boss with new sympathy.

"Funny thing about apples. My father used to keep 'em in barrels
down in the basement. He used to say to me, 'Andrew,' he'd say,
'don't never put a sour apple in one of these barrels. 'Cause
just one sour apple can spoil the whole derned lot.'" The boss
looked at Colihan and took a big noisy bite.

Colihan smiled inanely. Was Moss making some kind of point?

"Well, we can't sit around all day and reminisce, eh, Ralph? Much as
I enjoy it. But we got a business to run, don't we?"
"Yes, sir," said the Personnel Manager.

"Mighty big business, too. How's your side of it, Ralph? Old Personnelovac
hummin' along nicely?"
"Yes, sir," said Colihan, wondering if he should voice his fears
about the Brain.

"Marvelous machine, that.

Most marvelous of 'em all, if you ask me.
Sizes up a man beautifully. And best of all, it's one hundred percent
_honest_. That's a mighty important quality, Ralph."
* * * * *
Colihan was getting worried.

The boss's conversation was just a little too folksy for his
liking.

"Yes, sir, a mighty fine quality. My father used to say:
'Andrew, an honest man can always look you in the eyes.'"
Colihan stared uncomprehendingly. He realized that Moss had stopped
talking, so he looked him squarely in the eyes and said: "He must
have been a fine man, your father."
"He was honest," said Moss. "I'll say that for him. He was honest
as they come. Did you ever hear of Dimaggio?"
"It sounds familiar--"
"It should. Dimaggio was a legendary figure. He took a lantern and
went out into the world looking for an honest man. And do you know
something? He couldn't find one. You know, Ralph, sometimes _I_
feel like Dimaggio."
Colihan gulped.

"And do you know why? Because sometimes I see a thing like _this_--"
the boss's hand reached into the desk and came out with a thick
bundle of pink cards--"and I wonder if there's an honest man left
in the world."
* * * * *
He put the cards in front of Colihan.

"Now, sir," said Moss. "Let's talk a little business. These cards
are all pink. That means dismissal, right? That's twenty-four
people fired in the last month, is that correct?"
"Yes, sir," said Colihan unhappily.

"And how many cards went through the Personnelovac this month?"

"Forty."
"So that's twenty-four out of forty. A batting average of--" The
boss's brow puckered. "Well. Never mind. But that's quite an unusual
record, wouldn't you say so?"
"Yes, sir, but--"
"_So_ unusual that it would call for immediate ACTION, wouldn't
it?" The President's face was now stormy.

"Yes, sir. But I checked the Brain--"
"Did you, Ralph?"
"Yes, sir. And the Maintainovac said it was perfect. There's nothing
wrong with it."
"_Nothing_ wrong? You call twenty-four firings out of forty
_nothing_?" The old man stood up, still holding the core of his
apple.

"Well, I don't understand it either, Mr. Moss." Colihan felt dew on
his forehead. "Nothing seems to satisfy the Brain anymore.
It seems to develop higher and higher standards, or something. Why,
I'm not sure it wouldn't even fire--"
"WHO?" said Moss thunderously. "WHO wouldn't it even fire?"
The thunder hit Colihan squarely. He swallowed hard, and then managed
to say:

"Anybody, sir. Me, for instance."
The President's face suddenly relaxed.

"I'm no tyrant, my boy. You know that. I'm just doing a job, that's
all."
"Of course, sir--"
"Well, all I want you to do is keep your eye on things. It could
be a coincidence of course. That's the _logical_ explanation."
He narrowed his eyes. "What do _you_ think, Ralph?"
"Me, sir?" said Ralph, wide-eyed. "I don't _think_, sir. I ACT,
sir!"
"Good boy!" The boss chuckled and clapped his hand on Colihan's
shoulder. Moss was momentarily satisfied.

* * * * *
The Personnelovac burped.

Colihan picked up the card with a groan. It was pink.

He walked over to the Action Chute and dropped it inside. As it
fluttered down below, Colihan shook his head sadly. "Thirty-one,"
he said.

He placed the next personnel record into the Information chamber.
He flipped the lever, and the Personnelovac, now hot with usage,
winked, chittered, chortled, and chuckled with amazing speed. The
burp was almost joyful as the card popped out. But Colihan's face
was far from joyful as he picked it up.

Pink.

"Thirty-two," he said.

The next card was from Grimswitch's department. It was Subject
#52098.
The number was familiar. Colihan decided to check the file.

"Sam Gilchrist," he said. "_Couldn't_ be anything wrong with Sam.
Why, he's a blinkin' _genius_!"
Flip. Wink. Chitter. Chortle. Chuckle. BURP!

Pink.

"Poor Sam!" said Colihan.

He fed the other records through quickly.

Pink.

Pink.

PINK.

At the end of the day, Colihan worked laboriously with a blunt-pointed
pencil. It took him fifteen minutes for the simple
calculation.

"Sixty-seven tests. Twenty-three okay. Forty-four--"
Colihan put his hands to his head. "What am I going to _do_?"
* * * * *
Grimswitch followed Colihan down the hall as he came out of the
boss's office for the third time that week.

"Well!" he said fatuously. "Quite the teacher's pet, these days.
Eh, Colihan?"
"Go away, Grimswitch."
"On the carpet, eh? Temper a little short? Don't worry." Grimswitch's
beefy hand made unpleasant contact with the Personnel man's
shoulder.
"Your old friends won't let you down."
"Grimswitch, will you please let me alone?"
"Better watch that think-machine of yours," Grimswitch chuckled.
"Might fire _you_ next, old boy."
Colihan was glad when Morgan, the production operator, hailed Grimswitch
away. But as he entered his own office, Grimswitch's words
still troubled him. _Grimswitch_, he thought. _That fat piece
of garbage. That big blow-hard. That know-it-all._
Almost savagely, he picked up the day's personnel cards and flipped
through them carelessly.

_Grimswitch, that louse_, he thought.

Then he had the Idea.

If Grimswitch was still chewing the fat with Morgan, then his
secretary would be alone--
If he called her and asked for Grimswitch's record--no,
better yet, got Miss Blanche to call--
_Why not?_ he thought. _After all, I am the Personnel Manager. Sure,
it's a little irregular. He IS a department head. But it's my job,
isn't it?_
Colihan flipped the inter-com and proceeded to call Miss Blanche.

* * * * *
His hand shook as he placed Grimswitch's card into the Personnelovac.

The machine, though still heated by the day's activity, seemed to
take longer than usual for its chittering, chuckling examination
of the pin-holed facts on the record.
Finally, it gave a satisfied burp and proffered the result to
Colihan's eager hand.

"Aha!" cried the personnel man gleefully.
He walked over to his desk, wrote a quick note on his memo pad, and
placed both note and card into an envelope. He addressed it to:
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT. Then he dropped it into the Action Chute.
When it was out of sight, he rubbed his hands together in happy
anticipation.

* * * * *
When Miss Blanche announced that President Moss himself was in
Colihan's outer lobby, the Personnel Manager spent a hasty minute
in straightening up the paper debris on his desk.
The old man came striding into the room, exhibiting plenty of p-e-p,
and he seated himself briskly on Colihan's sofa.
"Sharp eyes, Ralph," he said. "Sharp eyes and a quick wit. This
business demands it. That was a sharp notion you had, doing a
run-through on Grimswitch. Never trusted that back-slapping fellow."
Colihan looked pleased. "Trying to do a job, sir."
"Put your finger on it," said Moss. "Hit the nail on the head. It's
just like my father said: 'Trees go dead on the top.' Colihan--"
The boss leaned forward confidentially. "I've got an assignment for
you. Big assignment." 
"Yes, sir!" said Colihan eagerly.
"If Grimswitch is a sour apple, maybe _other_ department heads are,
too.
And who knows? IT knows."
Moss pointed a finger at the Personnelovac.
"I'm rounding up all the aptitude records of the department
heads.
They'll be in your hands in the next couple of days. Feed 'em in!
Root 'em out! Spot the deadwood, Colihan! ACT!"
"ACT!" echoed Colihan, his face flushed.
The old man got up and went over to the Brain.
"Marvelous machine," he said. "Honest. That's what I like about
it."
As Moss went out the door, Colihan could have sworn he saw the
Personnelovac wink. He walked over to it and fingered the lever.
It was turned off, all right.

* * * * *
It was an interesting week for Colihan.
Morgan, the production man, was fired.
Grimswitch came up to see the Personnel man and tried to punch him
in the nose. Fortunately, he was a little too drunk, and the blow
went wild.

Seegrum, the Shipovac operator, was fired.
Douglas, the Treasurer, was permitted to keep his job, but the
Personnelovac issued a dire threat if improvement wasn't rapidly
forthcoming.

Wilson, the firm's oldest employee, was fired.
In fact, seven out of General Product's twelve department heads
were greeted by the ominous pink card.
Colihan, no longer plagued by doubt, felt that life was definitely
worth living. He smiled all the time. His memos were snappier than
ever. His heels clicked merrily down the office hallways. He had
p-e-p.
Then, the most obvious thing in the world happened--and Colihan
just hadn't foreseen it.

_His_ record card came up.
* * * * *
"Have you run through the stack yet?" Miss Blanche asked.
"Er--just about." Colihan looked at her guiltily. He pushed his
glasses back on the bridge of his nose. "Couple more here," he
said.
"Well, we might as well finish up. Mr. Moss would like to have the
schedule completed this afternoon."
"It will be. That's _all_, Miss Blanche."
His secretary shrugged and left. Colihan went to the Personnelovac
with the record in his hand. The file number was 630.
"Don't let me down," he told the Brain.
He placed the pin-holed card into the machine and flipped the lever.
It winked, chittered, chortled, and chuckled with almost sinister
softness.
When the card was burped out at the other end, Colihan took it out
with his eyes firmly shut.

* * * * *
He walked over to the Action Chute mechanically. His hand hesitated
before he dropped it inside. Then he changed his mind, walked back
to the desk, and tore the pink card into the smallest possible
shreds.

The inter-com beeped.
"Mr. Moss wants you," said his secretary.

"Colihan!"
"Yes, sir?"
"Don't act so innocent, Colihan. Your report isn't complete. It
should have been ready by now." 
"Yes, sir!"
"You're not ACTING, Colihan. You're stalling!" 
"_No_, sir."
"Then where's _your_ Personnelovac report, Colihan? Eh? Where is
it?"
Colihan wrung his hands. "Almost ready, sir," he lied. "Just running
it through now, sir."
"Speed it up. Speed it up! Time's a'wastin', boy. You're not _afraid_,
are you, Colihan?" 
"No, _sir_."
"Then let's have it. No more delay! Bull by the horns! Expect it
in an hour, Colihan. Understand?" 
"Yes, sir!"
The boss clicked off. Colihan groaned audibly.
"What can I do?" he said to himself. He went to the Brain and shook
his fist helplessly at it. "Damn you!" he cursed.
He had to think. He had to THINK!
It was an effort. He jerked about in his swivel chair like a hooked
fish. He beat his hands on the desk top. He paced the floor and
tore at the roots of his hair. Finally, exhausted, he gave up and
flopped ungracefully on the office sofa, abandoning himself to the
inevitable.
At that precise moment, the mind being the perverse organ it is,
he was struck by an inspiration.
The Maintainovac bore an uneasy resemblance to Colihan's own
think-machine. Wilson, the oldest employee of General Products, had
been the operator of the maintenance Brain. He had been a nice old
duffer, Wilson, always ready to do Colihan a favor. Now that he had
been swept out in Colihan's own purge, the Personnel Manager had
to deal with a new man named Lockwood.
Lockwood wasn't so easy to deal with.
"Stay out of my files, mister," he said.
Colihan tried to look superior. "I'm the senior around here,
Lockwood.
Let's not forget that."
"Them files is my responsibility." Lockwood, a burly young man,
stationed himself between Colihan and the file case.
"I want to check something. I need the service records of my Brain."
"Where's your Requisition Paper?"
"I haven't got _time_ for that," said Colihan truthfully.The family has adumbrations and
foreshadowings among the lower animals, but in general it may be
said that while mammals lower than man are gregarious, in man have
become established those peculiar relationships which constitute
what we know as the family; and it is easy to see how the existence
of helpless infants would bring about just that state of things.
The necessity of caring for the infants would prolong the period of
maternal affection, and would tend to keep the father and mother
and children together, but it would tend especially to keep the
mother and children together.  This business of the marital
relations was not really a thing that became adjusted in the
primitive ages of man, but it has become adjusted in the course of
civilization.  Real monogamy, real faithfulness of the male parent,
belongs to a comparatively advanced stage; but in the early stages
the knitting together of permanent relations between mother and
infant, and the approximation toward steady relations on the part
of the male parent, came to bring about the family, and gradually
to knit those organizations which we know as clans.

Here we come to another stage, another step forward.  The instant
society becomes organized in clans, natural selection cannot let
these clans be broken up and die out,--the clan becomes the chief
object or care of natural selection, because if you destroy it you
retrograde again, you lose all you have gained; consequently, those
clans in which the primeval selfish instincts were so modified that
the individual conduct would be subordinated to some extent to the
needs of the clan,--those are the ones which would prevail in the
struggle for life.  In this way you gradually get an external
standard to which man has to conform his conduct, and you get the
germs of altruism and morality; and in the prolonged affectionate
relation between the mother and the infant you get the opportunity
for that development of altruistic feeling which, once started in
those relations, comes into play in the more general relations, and
makes more feasible and more workable the bonds which keep society
together, and enable it to unite on wider and wider terms.

So it seems that from a very small beginning we are reaching a very
considerable result.  I had got these facts pretty clearly worked
out, and carried them around with me some years, before a, fresh
conclusion came over me one day with a feeling of surprise.  In the
old days before the Copernican astronomy was promulgated, man
regarded himself as the centre of the universe.  He used to
entertain theological systems which conformed to his limited
knowledge of nature.  The universe seemed to be made for his uses,
the earth seemed to have been fitted up for his dwelling place, he
occupied the centre of creation, the sun was made to give him
light, etc.  When Copernicus overthrew that view, the effect upon
theology was certainly tremendous.  I do not believe that justice
has ever been done to the shock that it gave to man when he was
made to realize that he occupied a kind of miserable little clod of
dirt in the universe, and that there were so many other worlds
greater than this.  It was one of the first great shocks involved
in the change from ancient to modern scientific views, and I do not
doubt it was responsible for a great deal of the pessimistic
philosophizing that came in the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries.

Now, it flashed upon me a dozen years or so ago--after thinking
about this manner in which man originated--that man occupies
certainly just as exceptional a position as before, if he is the
terminal in a long series of evolutionary events.  If at the end of
the long history of evolution comes man, if this whole secular
process has been going on to produce this supreme object, it does
not much matter what kind of a cosmical body he lives on.  He is
put back into the old position of theological importance, and in a
much more intelligent way than in the old days when he was supposed
to occupy the centre of the universe.  We are enabled to say that
while there is no doubt of the evolutionary process going on
throughout countless ages which we know nothing about, yet in the
one case where it is brought home to us we spell out an
intelligible story, and we do find things working along up to man
as a terminal fact in the whole process.  This is indeed a
consistent conclusion from Wallace's suggestion that natural
selection, in working toward the genesis of man, began to follow a
new path and make psychical changes instead of physical changes.
Obviously, here you are started upon a new chapter in the history
of the universe.  It is no longer going to be necessary to shape
new limbs, and to thicken the skin and make new growths of hair,
when man has learned how to build a fire, when he can take some
other animal's hide and make it into clothes.  You have got to a
new state of things.

After I had put together all these additional circumstances with
regard to the origination of human society and the development of
altruism, I began to see a little further into the matter.  It then
began to appear that not only is man the terminal factor in a long
process of evolution, but in the origination of man there began the
development of the higher psychical attributes, and those
attributes are coming to play a greater and greater part in the
development of the human race.  Just take this mere matter of
"altruism," as we call it.  It is not a pretty word, but must serve
for want of a better.  In the development of altruism from the low
point, where there was scarcely enough to hold the clan together,
up to the point reached at the present day, there has been a
notable progress, but there is still room for an enormous amount of
improvement.  The progress has been all in the direction of
bringing out what we call the higher spiritual attributes.  The
feeling was now more strongly impressed upon me than ever, that all
these things tended to set the whole doctrine of evolution into
harmony with religion; that if the past through which man had
originated was such as has been described, then religion was a fit
and worthy occupation for man, and some of the assumptions which
underlie every system of religion must be true.  For example, with
regard to the assumption that what we see of the present life is
not the whole thing; that there is a spiritual side of the question
beside the material side; that, in short, there is for man a life
eternal.  When I wrote the "Destiny of Man," all that I ventured to
say was, that it did not seem quite compatible with ordinary common
sense to suppose that so much pains would have been taken to
produce a merely ephemeral result.  But since then another argument
has occurred to me: that just at the time when the human race was
beginning to come upon the scene, when the germs of morality were
coming in with the family, when society was taking its first start,
there came into the human mind--how one can hardly say, but there
did come--the beginnings of a groping after something that lies
outside and beyond the world of sense.  That groping after a
spiritual world has been going on here for much more than a hundred
thousand years, and it has played an enormous part in the history
of mankind, in the whole development of human society.  Nobody can
imagine what mankind would have been without it up to the present
time.  Either all religion has been a reaching out for a phantom
that does not exist, or a reaching out after something that does
exist, but of which man, with his limited intelligence, has only
been able to gain a crude idea.  And the latter seems a far more
probable conclusion, because, if it is not so, it constitutes a
unique exception to all the operations of evolution we know about.
As a general thing in the whole history of evolution, when you see
any internal adjustment reaching out toward something, it is in
order to adapt itself to something that really exists; and if the
religious cravings of man constitute an exception, they are the one
thing in the whole process of evolution that is exceptional and
different from all the rest.  And this is surely an argument of
stupendous and resistless weight.

I take this autobiographical way of referring to these things, in
the order in which they came before my mind, for the sake of
illustration.  The net result of the whole is to put evolution in
harmony with religious thought,--not necessarily in harmony with
particular religious dogmas or theories, but in harmony with the
great religious drift, so that the antagonism which used to appear
to exist between religion and science is likely to disappear.  So I
think it will before a great while.  If you take the case of some
evolutionist like Professor Haeckel, who is perfectly sure that
materialism accounts for everything (he has got it all cut and
dried and settled; he knows all about it, so that there is really
no need of discussing the subject!); if you ask the question
whether it was his scientific study of evolution that really led
him to such a dogmatic conclusion, or whether it was that he
started from some purely arbitrary assumption, like the French
materialists of the eighteenth century, I have no doubt the latter
would be the true explanation.  There are a good many people who
start on their theories of evolution with these ultimate questions
all settled to begin with.  It was the most natural thing in the
world that after the first assaults of science upon old beliefs,
after a certain number of Bible stories and a certain number of
church doctrines had been discredited, there should be a school of
men who in sheer weariness should settle down to scientific
researches, and say, "We content ourselves with what we can prove
by the methods of physical science, and we will throw everything
else overboard."  That was very much the state of mind of the
famous French atheists of the last century.  But only think how
chaotic nature was to their minds compared to what she is to our
minds to-day.  Just think how we have in the present century
arrived where we can see the bearings of one set of facts in nature
as collated with another set of facts, and contrast it with the
view which even the greatest of those scientific French
materialists could take.  Consider how fragmentary and how lacking
in arrangement was the universe they saw compared with the universe
we can see to-day, and it is not strange that to them it could be
an atheistic world.  That hostility between science and religion
continued as long as religion was linked hand in hand with the
ancient doctrine of special creation.  But now that the religious
world has unmoored itself, now that it is beginning to see the
truth and beauty of natural science and to look with friendship
upon conceptions of evolution, I suspect that this temporary
antagonism, which we have fallen into a careless way of regarding
as an everlasting antagonism, will come to an end perhaps quicker
than we realize.

There is one point that is of great interest in this connection,
although I can only hint at it.  Among the things that happened in
that dim past when man was coming into existence was the increase
of his powers of manipulation; and that was a factor of immense
importance.  Anaxagoras, it is said, wrote a treatise in which he
maintained that the human race would never have become human if it
had not been for the hand.  I do not know that there was so very
much exaggeration about that.  It was certainly of great
significance that the particular race of mammals whose intelligence
increased far enough to make it worth while for natural selection
to work upon intelligence alone was the race which had developed
hands and could manipulate things.  It was a wonderful era in the
history of creation when that creature could take a club and use it
for a hammer, or could pry up a stone with a stake, thus adding one
more lever to the levers that made up his arm.  From that day to
this, the career of man has been that of a person who has operated
upon his environment in a different way from any animal before him.
An era of similar importance came probably somewhat later, when man
learned how to build a fire and cook his food; thus initiating that
course of culinary development of which we have seen the climax in
our dainty dinner this evening.  Here was another means of acting
upon the environment.  Here was the beginning of the working of
endless physical and chemical changes through the application of
heat, just as the first use of the club or the crowbar was the
beginning of an enormous development in the mechanical arts.

He wondered if it would ever stop, when--Bump! Splash!--he found
he was in the water, and something big with a smooth coat was close
beside him. It was a kind water-rat who had seen the poor little
goblin roll into the water.

"I can swim," said Mr. Rat. "I will hold you by the collar and take
you to dry land again."
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
Red-Cap thanked the kind water-rat very much, and they sat
down on the bank of the stream to rest. Red-Cap told the rat all
about his father and brothers and the Red Feather, and soon Blue-Cap
and Yellow-Cap came running up, quite out of breath, but very glad
to find their brother quite safe and not even scratched.

They all soon said good-bye to the rat, who wished them good
luck, showed them the road and told them to look in a tree--which
he pointed out--where he said they would find something which would
help them very much.

[Illustration]
[Illustration]
The goblins raced to the tree. Yellow-Cap won the race and climbed
up quickly, while the others ran all round looking to see
what they could find.

They found nothing, and Yellow-Cap was just coming down again when
he spied a bird's-nest with three dear little blue eggs in it. He
crawled along the branch to look at the eggs, and saw something
white under the nest.

Yellow-Cap pulled it gently, and out came an envelope. Full of joy
he slipped down to his brothers.

They opened the envelope and found a sheet of paper on which was
written in gold letters,--
"You who seek the Feather Red First the Serpent's blood must shed;
In the cave where fairies dwell The Feather lies, so search it
well."
"Hurrah!" cried Red-Cap. "Let us make haste and find the cave."

Soon they came to a big dark forest, and after they had gone a
little way they saw a fence and a large board on which was written
in red letters,-- 
TOM TIDDLER'S GROUND
TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTED.
The goblins looked over the fence and saw that the ground was covered
with gold and silver!
"Oh!" they cried, "let us fill our pockets. What fun!" and they
began to climb over the fence.

[Illustration] 
[Illustration]
They all got safely down on the other side, and seeing no one about
they began to fill their pockets with the shining money, singing,
"We are on Tom Tiddler's ground, picking up gold and silver."The demand for the
products of intelligence is far greater than that for mere crude
products of labour, and it will be more and more so.  For there
comes a time when the latter products have satisfied the limit to
which a man can consume food and drink and shelter,--those things
which merely keep the animal alive.  But to those things which
minister to the requirements of the spiritual side of a man, there
is almost no limit.  The demand one can conceive is well-nigh
infinite.  One of the philosophical things that have been said, in
discriminating man from the lower animals, is that he is the one
creature who is never satisfied.  It is well for him that he is so,
that there is always something more for which he craves.  Now
with that intent to which I hold, always to honour and to serve
your Excellency, dedicating to you this my rough labour, as I have
dedicated to you every other thing of mine and my own self, I implore
you not to disdain to grant it your protection, or at least to
appreciate the devotion of him who offers it to you; and recommending
myself to your gracious goodness, most humbly do I kiss your hand.

 Your Excellency's most humble Servant, GIORGIO VASARI, _Painter of
Arezzo_.

 

  The use of this capacity for progress in the past


 II. THE PART PLAYED BY INFANCY IN THE EVOLUTION OF MAN

  1. The grandeur of natural causation
  2. The problem of man's ascendancy
  3. Natural selection seizes on intelligence
  4. A long infancy characteristic of man
  5. A complex life requires a longer infancy
  6. Infancy fosters sociability and the family
  7. Group life increases the social and moral bonds
  8. Spiritual man is evolution's terminal factor
  9. Man marks a development along new lines
 10. Hand-work in the evolution of intelligence
 11. The educational value of aesthetic effort
 12. Man's spirituality is prophetic of his destiny