"Then thou knowest more than he does, lord, for he only surmises that
it was so; which, however, would not prevent him from summoning the
Christians, and from revenging himself on me cruelly. He would have done
that undoubtedly, and others, with equal certainty, would have helped
him; but fortunately he does not know my name, and in the house of
prayer where we met, he did not notice me. I, however, knew him at once,
and at the first moment wished to throw myself on his neck. Wisdom,
however, and the habit of thinking before every step which I intend to
take, restrained me. Therefore, on issuing from the house of prayer, I
inquired concerning him, and those who knew him declared that he was
the man who had been betrayed by his comrade on the journey from Naples.
Otherwise I should not have known that he gives out such a story."

"How does this concern me? Tell what thou sawest in the house of
prayer."

"It does not concern thee, lord, but it concerns me just as much as
my life. Since I wish that my wisdom should survive me, I would rather
renounce the reward which thou hast offered, than expose my life for
empty lucre; without which, I as a true philosopher shall be able to
live and seek divine wisdom."

But Vinicius approached him with an ominous countenance, and began in a
suppressed voice,--"Who told thee that death would meet thee sooner at
the hands of Glaucus than at mine? Whence knowest thou, dog, that I will
not have thee buried right away in my garden?"

Chilo, who was a coward, looked at Vinicius, and in the twinkle of
an eye understood that one more unguarded word and he was lost beyond
redemption.

"I will search for her, lord, and I will find her!" cried he, hurriedly.

Silence followed, during which were heard the quick breathing of
Vinicius, and the distant song of slaves at work in the garden.

Only after a while did the Greek resume his speech, when he noticed that
the young patrician was somewhat pacified.

"Death passed me, but I looked on it with the calmness of Socrates. No,
lord, I have not said that I refuse to search for the maiden; I desired
merely to tell thee that search for her is connected now with great
peril to me. On a time thou didst doubt that there was a certain
Euricius in the world, and though thou wert convinced by thine own eyes
that the son of my father told the truth to thee, thou hast suspicions
now that I have invented Glaucus. Ah! would that he were only a fiction,
that I might go among the Christians with perfect safety, as I went some
time since; I would give up for that the poor old slave woman whom
I bought, three days since, to care for my advanced age and maimed
condition. But Glaucus is living, lord; and if he had seen me once,
thou wouldst not have seen me again, and in that case who would find the
maiden?"

Here he was silent again, and began to dry his tears.

"But while Glaucus lives," continued he, "how can I search for her?--for
I may meet him at any step; and if I meet him I shall perish, and with
me will cease all my searching."

"What art thou aiming at? What help is there? What dost thou wish to
undertake?" inquired Vinicius.

"Aristotle teaches us, lord, that less things should be sacrificed for
greater, and King Priam said frequently that old age was a grievous
burden. Indeed, the burden of old age and misfortune weighs upon Glaucus
this long time, and so heavily that death would be to him a benefit. For
what is death, according to Seneca, but liberation?"

"Play the fool with Petronius, not with me! Tell what thy desire is."

"If virtue is folly, may the gods permit me to be a fool all my life. I
desire, lord, to set aside Glaucus, for while he is living my life and
searches are in continual peril."

"Hire men to beat him to death with clubs; I will pay them."

"They will rob thee, lord, and afterward make profit of the secret.
There are as many ruffians in Rome as grains of sand in the arena, but
thou wilt not believe how dear they are when an honest man needs to
employ their villainy. No, worthy tribune! But if watchmen catch the
murderers in the act? They would tell, beyond doubt, who hired them, and
then thou wouldst have trouble. They will not point to me, for I shall
not give my name. Thou art doing ill not to trust in me, for, setting
aside my keenness, remember that there is a question of two other
things,--of my life, and the reward which thou has promised me."

"How much dost thou need?"

"A thousand sestertia, for turn attention to this, that I must find
honest ruffians, men who when they have received earnest money, will
not take it off without a trace. For good work there must be good pay!
Something might be added, too, for my sake, to wipe away the tears which
I shall shed out of pity for Glaucus. I take the gods to witness how I
love him. If I receive a thousand sestertia to-day, two days hence his
soul will be in Hades; and then, if souls preserve memory and the gift
of thought, he will know for the first time how I loved him. I will find
people this very day, and tell them that for each day of the life
of Glaucus I will withhold one hundred sestertia. I have, besides, a
certain idea, which seems to me infallible."

Vinicius promised him once more the desired sum, forbidding him to
mention Glaucus again; but asked what other news he brought, where he
had been all the time, what he had seen, and what he had discovered.
But Chilo was not able to tell much. He had been in two more houses of
prayer,--had observed each person carefully, especially the women,--but
had seen no one who resembled Lygia: the Christians, however, looked
on him as one of their own sect, and, since he redeemed the son of
Euricius, they honored him as a man following in the steps of "Christ."
He had learned from them, also, that a great lawgiver of theirs, a
certain Paul of Tarsus, was in Rome, imprisoned because of charges
preferred by the Jews, and with this man he had resolved to become
acquainted. But most of all was he pleased by this,--that the supreme
priest of the whole sect, who had been Christ's disciple, and to whom
Christ had confided government over the whole world of Christians, might
arrive in Rome any moment. You must get her quieted down, make her have
a tolerable meal, and when she has worked off her excitement, put her
to bed--undressed, mind--and you might lie down by her. If you can't
manage her, call me. That's Leonard's door, and I shall be there all
night; but don't if you can help it. Can you do this, or must I get
Miss "What-d'ye-call-her" the elder one, if she can leave the Greens
in Randall's Alley?

Well was it that Mary's heart was stout as well as tender; and instead
of mentally magnifying the task, and diminishing her own capabilities,
she simply felt that she had received a command, and merely asked that
Ethel should be informed.

'I am going to send up to her.'

'And shall I give Averil anything to take?'
'Mutton-chops, if you can.'
'I meant sal-volatile, or anything to put her to sleep.'
'Nonsense! I hate healthy girls drugging themselves. You don't do that
at home, Mary!'
Mary showed her white teeth in a silent laugh at the improbability,
there being nothing Ethel more detested than what she rather rudely
called nervous quackeries.

Her father gave her a kiss of grateful approbation, and was gone.

There was a light on the table, and preparations for tea; and Mary
looked round the pretty room, where the ornamental paper, the flowery
chintz furniture, the shining brass of the bedstead, the frilled muslin
toilet, and et ceteras, were more luxurious than what she ever saw,
except when visiting with Flora, and so new as to tell a tale of the
mother's fond preparation for the return of the daughter from school.
In a few moments she heard her father saying, in a voice as if speaking
to a sick child, 'Yes, I promise you, my dear. Be good, be reasonable,
and you shall come back in the morning. No, you can't go there. Henry
is going to bed. Here is a friend for you. Now, Mary, don't let me see
her till she has slept.'
Mary took the other hand, and between them they placed her in an arm-
chair, whose shining fresh white ground and gay rose-pattern contrasted
with her heated, rumpled, over-watched appearance, as she sank her head
on her hand, not noticing either Mary's presence or the Doctor's departure.
Mary stood doubtful for a few seconds, full of pity and embarrassment,
trying to take in the needs of the case.

Averil Ward was naturally a plump, well-looking girl of eighteen,
with clearly-cut features, healthy highly-coloured complexion, and large
bright hazel eyes, much darker than her profuse and glossy hair, which
was always dressed in the newest and most stylish fashion, which,
as well as the whole air of her dress and person, was, though perfectly
lady like, always regarded by the Stoneborough world as something on
the borders of presumption on the part of the entire Ward family.

To Mary's surprise, the five weeks' terrible visitation, and these
last fearful five days of sleepless exertion and bereavement, had
not faded the bright red of the cheek, nor were there signs of tears,
though the eyes looked bloodshot. Indeed, there was a purple tint about
the eyelids and lips, a dried-up appearance, and a heated oppressed air,
as if the faculties were deadened and burnt up, though her hand was
cold and trembling.

Her hair, still in its elaborate arrangement, hung loose, untidy,
untouched; her collar and sleeves were soiled and tumbled; her dress,
with its inconvenient machinery of inflation, looked wretched from
its incongruity, and the stains on the huge hanging sleeves. Not a
moment could have been given to the care of her own person, since the
sole burthen of nursing had so grievously and suddenly descended on
her.

Mary's first instinct was to pour out some warm water, and bringing
it with a sponge, to say, 'Would not this refresh you?'
Averil moved petulantly; but the soft warm stream was so grateful
to her burning brow, that she could not resist; she put her head
back, and submitted like a child to have her face bathed, saying,
'Thank you.'
Mary then begged to remove her tight heavy dress, and make her
comfortable in her dressing-gown.
'Oh, I can't! Then I could not go back.'
'Yes, you could; this is quite a dress; besides, one can move so
much more quietly without crinoline.'
'I didn't think of that;' and she stood up, and unfastened her hooks.The old man Euricius, after the redemption of his son, hired one of
those little shops so numerous near the Circus Maximus, in which were
sold olives, beans, unleavened paste, and water sweetened with honey, to
spectators coming to the Circus. Chilo found him at home arranging his
shop; and when he had greeted him in Christ's name, he began to speak of
the affair which had brought him. Since he had rendered them a service,
he considered that they would pay him with gratitude. He needed two or
three strong and courageous men, to ward off danger threatening not only
him, but all Christians. He was poor, it was true, since he had given to
Euricius almost all that he owned; still he would pay such men for
their services if they would trust him and perform faithfully what he
commanded.

Euricius and his son Quartus listened to him as their benefactor almost
on their knees. Both declared that they were ready themselves to do all
that he asked of them, believing that a man so holy could not ask for
deeds inconsistent with the teaching of Christ.

Chilo assured them that that was true, and, raising his eyes to heaven,
he seemed to be praying; in fact, he was thinking whether it would
not be well to accept their proposal, which might save him a thousand
sestertia. But after a moment of thought he rejected it. Euricius was an
old man, perhaps not so much weighted by years as weakened by care and
disease. Quartus was sixteen years of age. Chilo needed dexterous, and,
above all, stalwart men. As to the thousand sestertia, he considered
that--thanks to the plan which he had invented--he would be able in
every case to spare a large part of it.

They insisted for some time, but when he refused decisively they
yielded.

"I know the baker Demas," said Quartus, "in whose mills slaves and hired
men are employed. One of those hired men is so strong that he would take
the place, not of two, but of four. I myself have seen him lift stones
from the ground which four men could not stir."

"If that is a God-fearing man, who can sacrifice himself for the
brotherhood, make me acquainted with him," said Chilo.

"He is a Christian, lord," answered Quartus; "nearly all who work for
Demas are Christians. He has night as well as day laborers; this man
is of the night laborers. Were we to go now to the mill, we should find
them at supper, and thou mightest speak to him freely. Demas lives near
the Emporium."

Chilo consented most willingly. The Emporium was at the foot of the
Aventine, hence not very far from the Circus Maximus. It was possible,
without going around the hill, to pass along the river through the
Porticus Æmilia, which would shorten the road considerably.

She always appeals to Henry, and I can do nothing with her.'
Leonard looked out of the window and whistled, then said, as if he
had made a discovery, 'I'll tell you what, Ave, something must be done
to set things to rights between us, and I believe the best thing
will be to call on Mrs.

Pugh.'
'Not to apologize! O, Leonard!'

'Stuff and nonsense! Only to show we don't bear malice.

Henry had been at you to call ever so long before this, had he not?'
'I can't see any reason for intimacy.'
'I declare, Ave, you are too bad! I only want you just to keep the
peace with your own brother. You have led him the life of a dog these
three days, and now when I want you to be a little obliging, you talk
of intimacy!'
'Only because I know how it will be. If I give that woman an inch, she
will take an ell.'
'Let her then.

It would be much better than always living at daggers-drawn with one's
brother.' Then, after waiting for her to say something, he added, 'If you
won't go with me, I shall go alone.'
Averil rose, subdued but not convinced, reverencing her brother,
but afraid of his concessions.

However, the call turned out well. Mrs. Pugh had a talent for
making herself agreeable, and probably had liked the boy for his
outburst.
She would not let Mab be excluded, loaded her with admiration, and was
extremely interested in the volunteer practice, so that both the young
people were subjugated for the time by her pleasant manners, and went
away ashamed of their own rancour against one so friendly and
good-natured, and considerably relieved of their burden of
animosity.

Their greeting to their brother was so cordial that he perceived their
good-will, and was sorry that the dread of an evening of warfare
had induced him to accept an invitation to dine at the Swan with
Sam Axworthy and a party of his friends.

CHAPTER X

This night is my departing night, For here nae longer must I stay;
There's neither friend nor foe of mine But wishes me away.

What I have done through lack of wit, I never, never can recall:
I hope ye're all my friends as yet.
Good night, and joy be with you all.

Armstrong's Good Night

The storm had blown over, but heavy flakes of cloud still cumbered
the air, and gusts of wind portended that it might gather again.

Henry Ward took this opportunity of giving his first dinner party.

He said it was a necessary return for the civilities they had
received; and to Averil's representation that it transgressed the
system of rigid economy that so much tormented her, he replied by
referring her to Mrs."Then there is time sufficient. Let us go to the river; there thou wilt
hear my words."

They went, and sat on the embankment, in a silence broken only by the
distant sound of the millstones and the plash of the onflowing river.
Chilo looked into the face of the laborer, which, notwithstanding
a somewhat severe and sad expression, such as was usual on faces of
barbarians living in Rome, seemed to him kind and honest.

"This is a good-natured, dull man who will kill Glaucus for nothing,"
thought Chilo.

"Urban," inquired he then, "dost thou love Christ?"

"I love him from the soul of my heart," said the laborer.

"And thy brethren and sisters, and those who taught thee truth and faith
in Christ?"

"I love them, too, father."

"Then may peace be with thee!"

"And with thee, father!"

Again silence set in, but in the distance the millstones were roaring,
and the river was plashing below the two men.

Chilo looked with fixed gaze into the clear moonlight, and with a slow,
restrained voice began to speak of Christ's death. He seemed not as
speaking to Urban, but as if recalling to himself that death, or some
secret which he was confiding to the drowsy city. There was in this,
too, something touching as well as impressive. The laborer wept;
and when Chilo began to groan and complain that in the moment of
the Saviour's passion there was no one to defend him, if not from
crucifixion, at least from the insults of Jews and soldiers, the
gigantic fists of the barbarian began to squeeze from pity and
suppressed rage. The death only moved him; but at thought of that
rabble reviling the Lamb nailed to the cross, the simple soul in him was
indignant, and a wild desire of vengeance seized the man.

"Urban, dost thou know who Judas was?" asked Chilo, suddenly.

"I know, I know!--but he hanged himself!" exclaimed the laborer.

And in his voice there was a kind of sorrow that the traitor had meted
out punishment to himself, and that Judas could not fall into his hands.

"But if he had not hanged himself," continued Chilo, "and if some
Christian were to meet him on land or on sea, would it not be the duty
of that Christian to take revenge for the torment, the blood, and the
death of the Saviour?"

"Who is there who would not take revenge, father?"

"Peace be with thee, faithful servant of the Lamb! True, it is permitted
to forgive wrongs done ourselves; but who has the right to forgive
a wrong done to God? But as a serpent engenders a serpent, as malice
breeds malice, and treason breeds treason, so from the poison of Judas
another traitor has come; and as that one delivered to Jews and Roman
soldiers the Saviour, so this man who lives among us intends to give
Christ's sheep to the wolves; and if no one will anticipate the treason,
if no one will crush the head of the serpent in time, destruction is
waiting for us all, and with us will perish the honor of the Lamb."

The laborer looked at Chilo with immense alarm, as if not understanding
what he had heard. But the Greek, covering his head with a corner of
his mantle, began to repeat, with a voice coming as if from beneath the
earth,--"Woe to you, servants of the true God! woe to you, Christian men
and Christian women!"

And again came silence, again were heard only the roar of the
millstones, the deep song of the millers, and the sound of the river.

"Father," asked the laborer at last, "what kind of traitor is that?"

Chilo dropped his head. "What kind of traitor? A son of Judas, a son of
his poison, a man who pretends to be a Christian, and goes to houses
of prayer only to complain of the brotherhood to Cæsar,--declaring that
they will not recognize Cæsar as a god; that they poison fountains,
murder children, and wish to destroy the city, so that one stone may not
remain on another. Behold! in a few days a command will be given to the
pretorians to cast old men, women, and children into prison, and
lead them to death, just as they led to death the slaves of Pedanius
Secundus. All this has been done by that second Judas. But if no one
punished the first Judas, if no one took vengeance on him, if no one
defended Christ in the hour of torment, who will punish this one, who
will destroy the serpent before Cæsar hears him, who will destroy him,
who will defend from destruction our brothers in the faith of Christ?"

Urban, who had been sitting thus far on a stone, stood up on a sudden,
and said,--"I will, father."

Chilo rose also; he looked for a while on the face of the laborer,
lighted up by the shining of the moon, then, stretching his arm, he put
his hand slowly on his head.

"Go among Christians," said he, with solemnity; "go to the houses of
prayer, and ask the brethren about Glaucus; and when they show him to
thee, slay him at once in Christ's name!"

"About Glaucus?" repeated the laborer, as if wishing to fix that name in
his memory.

"Dost thou know him?"

"No, I do not. There are thousands of Christians in Rome, and they are
not all known to one another. But to-morrow, in Ostrianum, brethren and
sisters will assemble in the night to the last soul, because a great
apostle of Christ has come, who will teach them, and the brethren will
point out to me Glaucus."

"In Ostrianum?" inquired Chilo. "But that is outside the city gates!
The brethren and all the sisters,--at night? Outside the city gates, in
Ostrianum?"

"Yes, father; that is our cemetery, between the Viæ Salaria and
Nomentana. Is it not known to thee that the Great Apostle will teach
there?"

"I have been two days from home, hence I did not receive his epistle;
and I do not know where Ostrianum is, for I came here not long since
from Corinth, where I govern a Christian community. But it is as thou
sayest,--there thou wilt find Glaucus among the brethren, and thou wilt
slay him on the way home to the city. For this all thy sins will be
forgiven. And now peace be with thee--"

"Father--"

"I listen to thee, servant of the Lamb."

'The idea of hanging dried mushrooms in one's hair! If you will only
walk with that finery by daylight down to the brook, the children
will run after you, and point at you with their finger.'
"'Mushrooms!' replied Maud. 'Why, where are your eyes again?'
"'Well, I suppose you don't mean to call them silver crowns? Thank Heaven,
my eyes are good enough yet to see the difference between dried funguses
and coined money!'
"'They are glittering stars, sir,' said Maud, short and decided.

"'O indeed!' returned Albert. 'Well, then, the next time I would recommend
you to select some that shine rather brighter.'
"The lovers had, in the meanwhile, reached the hut of the stone-mason.
Albert entered with Matilda. The father lay asleep by the stove.
The mother turned her spinning-wheel.

"'Good-evening, mother!" said Albert. 'Have the goodness to tell that
conceited girl there, that her headgear is the most miserable that ever
was seen.'
"'What!'

said the old lady wondering, and with a shake of the head.
'Maud has no other gear that I see, but her own beautiful hair, which
may God long preserve to her!'
"Instead of giving any answer, Albert would have set the daughter
before her mother's eyes.

But Maud had already, in the doorway, pulled off the fairy's gift,
and turned pale as she saw that she had actually worn dried mushrooms
on a string, twisted of withered rushes. Albert observed her
perplexity, and laughed.

He bantered her, and snatched two or three mushrooms from the chain,
to hoard up for future sport. This was the token of their reconciliation.
Maud, although very calmly, assured her lover, over and over again,
that within a month their nuptials should take place.

That the tired old man might not be disturbed, Albert went home
early; and Maud hastened to put carefully away, for a while, the
very meagre-looking fairy gifts.

"On the following morning, Albert was off betimes to his work. Putting
on his jacket, he heard something chinking within. His surprise was
naturally great, knowing that he had no money there.

He dived at once into his pocket, and drew out two large old gold
pieces. Then he suddenly remembered, that the evening before he had
pocketed the mushrooms which he had snatched away from Maud, and
the most extravagant joy possessed him.

He forgot his work and every thing else; started off, and ran, as
fast as his legs could carry him, to the house of the stone-mason.

"Maud stood at the brook, before the door, washing her small white
hands in the clear stream.
"'Good-morrow, dear Maud, and a thousand blessings on thy sweet
head!' cried Albert to her, as he came running. 'Look, look, how
thy mushrooms have changed! If the others turn out as well, I am
afraid that, after all, I must forgive that little shrimp that was
so killingly polite to you!'In that house I have heard how Glaucus
has undertaken to betray all the Christians; and, besides, he has
promised another informer of Cæsar's, Vinicius, to find a certain maiden
for him among the Christians."

Here he stopped and looked with amazement at the laborer, whose eyes
blazed suddenly like the eyes of a wild beast, and his face took on an
expression of mad rage and threat.

"What is the matter with thee?" asked Chilo, almost in fear.

"Nothing, father; to-morrow I will kill Glaucus."

The Greek was silent. After a while he took the arm of the laborer,
turned him so that the light of the moon struck his face squarely, and
examined him with care. It was evident that he was wavering in spirit
whether to inquire further and bring everything out with clearness, or
for that time to stop with what he had learned or surmised.

At last, however, his innate caution prevailed. He breathed deeply once
and a second time; then, placing his hand on the laborer's head again,
he asked, in an emphatic and solemn voice,--"But in holy baptism the
name Urban was given thee?"

"It was, father."

"Then peace be with thee, Urban!"


Chapter XVIII

PETRONIUS to VINICIUS:


"Thy case is a bad one, carissime. It is clear that Venus has disturbed
thy mind, deprived thee of reason and memory, as well as the power to
think of aught else except love. Read some time thy answer to my letter,
and thou wilt see how indifferent thy mind is to all except Lygia; how
exclusively it is occupied with her, how it returns to her always, and
circles above her, as a falcon above chosen prey. By Pollux! find her
quickly, or that of thee which fire has not turned into ashes will
become an Egyptian sphinx, which, enamored, as 'tis said, of pale Isis,
grew deaf and indifferent to all things, waiting only for night, so as
to gaze with stony eyes at the loved one.

"Run disguised through the city in the evening, even honor Christian
houses of prayer in thy philosopher's company. Whatever excites hope
and kills time is praiseworthy. But for my friendship's sake do this one
thing: Ursus, Lygia's slave, is a man of uncommon strength very likely;
hire Croton, and go out three together; that will be safer and wiser.
The Christians, since Pomponia and Lygia belong to them, are surely not
such scoundrels as most people imagine. But when a lamb of their flock
is in question they are no triflers, as they have shown by carrying away
Lygia. When thou seest Lygia thou wilt not restrain thyself, I am
sure, and wilt try to bear her away on the spot. But how wilt thou and
Chilonides do it? Croton would take care of himself, even though ten
like Ursus defended the maiden. Be not plundered by Chilo, but be not
sparing of money on Croton. Of all counsels which I can give this is the
best one.

"Here they have ceased to speak of the infant Augusta, or to say that
she perished through witchcraft. Poppæa mentions her at times yet; but
Cæsar's mind is stuffed with something else. Moreover, if it be true
that the divine Augusta is in a changed state again, the memory of that
child will be blown away without trace. We have been in Naples for some
days, or rather in Baiæ. If thou art capable of any thought, echoes of
our life must strike thy ear, for surely Rome talks of naught else. We
went directly to Baiæ, where at first memories of the mother attacked
us, and reproaches of conscience. But dost thou know to what Ahenobarbus
has gone already? To this, that for him even the murder of his mother is
a mere theme for verses, and a reason for buffoonish tragic scenes.

The little bell-flower only assured Matilda that she did not dream,
and that something unusual had really taken place.

"Possessed with her feelings, she took her father his meal; and found
him, in sooth, fast asleep under the wall of rock. Of her adventure she
said nothing, but carried the pledge of the little man well secured in
her bosom. And yet how was it possible for her to persevere in her
silence? It is true, Maud knew not if the communication of the incident
was permitted her. She put her trust, however, in the pledge; and, since
she had not been commanded to silence, she hoped to be justified in
making Albert acquainted with what had happened.
"She did it with fear and trembling, and produced to her astonished
lover, as witness, the flower which had withered in the warmth of
her bosom.They drove in
from the city and the surrounding towns all the Greek ruffians, who
filled the arena with such a vile odor of sweat and garlic that I thank
the gods that, instead of sitting in the first rows with the Augustians,
I was behind the scenes with Ahenobarbus. And wilt thou believe it, he
was afraid really! He took my hand and put it to his heart, which was
beating with increased pulsation; his breath was short; and at the
moment when he had to appear he grew as pale as a parchment, and his
forehead was covered with drops of sweat. Still he saw that in every row
of seats were pretorians, armed with clubs, to rouse enthusiasm if the
need came. But there was no need. No herd of monkeys from the environs
of Carthage could howl as did this rabble. I tell thee that the smell of
garlic came to the stage; but Nero bowed, pressed his hand to his heart,
sent kisses from his lips, and shed tears. Then he rushed in among us,
who were waiting behind the scenes, like a drunken man, crying, 'What
were the triumphs of Julius compared with this triumph of mine?' But the
rabble was howling yet and applauding, knowing that it would applaud to
itself favors, gifts, banquets, lottery tickets, and a fresh exhibition
by the Imperial buffoon. I do not wonder that they applauded, for such a
sight had not been seen till that evening. And every moment he repeated:
'See what the Greeks are! see what the Greeks are!' From that evening
it has seemed to me that his hatred for Rome is increasing. You must
know that, during their fall, a surprising change had gone on in the
transgressors. They had kept their forms of light--dwindled in size,
however, immensely. And since they could not now become men,{Q} and had
fooled away their celestial bliss, the Lord granted them a clear field,
with power, until the last day, to make themselves worthy by good deeds
of being re-admitted into heaven. And thus they have their abodes all
about the open hills and the meadow flats; and only once in every
fifty or a hundred years, upon Whitsun-eve, are they permitted, in their
own way, to keep the Sabbath.
And then they can only do it by loading a truly good human being with
the blessings of fortune. For thus only can they hope to expiate their
great offence in the sight of Heaven.'
"'And did godmother Helen hear this from the good people themselves?' asked
Maud, as her mother ceased. 'Was she, then, lucky?'

"'No,' said the mother, 'Nelly was not lucky, because she did
not observe the commandment of the fairies.'
"'Well, if one of the creatures came to me, and should lay a command
upon me, I would keep a quiet tongue within my head, and do readily
what he wished.'
"'Foolish chatter!' said the mother chidingly. 'Thou dost offend the
quiet people with thy empty babbling for they can hear every thing that
human lips utter.'
"Maud went singing to her work, and long mused upon her timid
mother's narrative. What she had heard filled her with so eager a
curiosity that she could scarcely wait for Whitsun-eve, although
she took care to let no one observe it.music, poetry, and applauding
Hellas. All this is well; but we cherish besides more daring projects.
We wish to create a species of Oriental Imperium,--an empire of
palm-trees, sunshine, poetry, and reality turned into a dream, reality
turned into the delight of life only. We want to forget Rome; to fix the
balancing point of the world somewhere between Greece, Asia, and Egypt;
to live the life not of men but of gods; not to know what commonness is;
to wander in golden galleys under the shadow of purple sails along the
Archipelago; to be Apollo, Osiris, and Baal in one person; to be rosy
with the dawn, golden with the sun, silver with the moon; to command,
to sing, to dream. And wilt thou believe that I, who have still sound
judgment to the value of a sestertium, and sense to the value of an
as, let myself be borne away by these fantasies, and I do this for the
reason that, if they are not possible, they are at least grandiose and
uncommon? Such a fabulous empire would be a thing which, some time or
other, after long ages, would seem a dream to mankind. Except when
Venus takes the form of Lygia, or even of a slave Eunice, or when art
beautifies it, life itself is empty, and many a time it has the face
of a monkey. But Bronzebeard will not realize his plans, even for this
cause, that in his fabulous kingdom of poetry and the Orient no place is
given to treason, meanness, and death; and that in him with the poses
of a poet sits a wretched comedian, a dull charioteer, and a frivolous
tyrant. Meanwhile we are killing people whenever they displease us in
any way. Poor Torquatus Silanus is now a shade; he opened his veins a
few days since. Lecanius and Licinus will enter on the consulate with
terror. Old Thrasea will not escape death, for he dares to be honest.
Tigellinus is not able yet to frame a command for me to open my veins.
I am still needed not only as elegantiæ arbiter, but as a man without
whose counsel and taste the expedition to Achæa might fail. More than
once, however, I think that sooner or later it must end in opening my
veins; and knowest thou what the question will be then with me?--that
Bronzebeard should not get my goblet, which thou knowest and admirest.
Shouldst thou be near at the moment of my death, I will give it to thee;
shouldst thou be at a distance, I will break it. But meanwhile I have
before me yet Beneventum of the cobblers and Olympian Greece; I have
Fate too, which, unknown and unforeseen, points out the road to every
one.

