We must now speak of the Westphalian, Kæmpfer, almost a naturalized
Swede in consequence of his long sojourn in Scandinavian countries.
He refused the brilliant position which was there offered him in
order to accompany as secretary, an ambassador who was going to
Moscow. He was thus enabled to see the principal cities of Russia, a
country which at that period had scarcely entered upon the path of
western civilization; afterwards he went to Persia, where he quitted
the Ambassador Fabricius, in order to enter the service of the Dutch
Company of the Indies, and to continue his travels. He thus visited
in the first place Persepolis, Shiraz, Ormuz upon the Persian Gulf,
where he was extremely ill, and whence he embarked in 1688 for the
East Indies. Arabia Felix, India, the Malabar Coast, Ceylon, Java,
Sumatra, and Japan were afterwards all visited by him. The object of
these journeys was exclusively scientific. Kæmpfer was a physician,
but was more especially devoted to the various branches of Natural
History, and collected, described, drew, or dried, a considerable
number of plants then unknown in Europe, gave new information upon
their use in medicine or manufactures, and collected an immense
herbarium, which is now preserved with the greater part of his
manuscripts in the British Museum in London. But the most
interesting portion of his narrative, now-a-days indeed quite
obsolete and very incomplete since the country has been opened up to
our scientific men,--was for a long time that relating to Japan. He
had contrived to procure books treating of the history, literature,
and learning of the country, when he had failed in obtaining from
certain personages to whom he had rendered himself very acceptable,
information which was not usually imparted to foreigners.

To conclude, if all the travellers of whom we have just spoken are
not strictly speaking discoverers, if they do not explore countries
unknown before, they all have, in various degrees and according to
their ability or their studies, the merit of having rendered the
countries which they visited better known. Besides they were able to
banish to the domain of fable, many of the tales which others less
learned had naïvely accepted, and which had for long become so
completely public property that nobody dreamed of disputing them.

Thanks to these travellers, something is known of the history of the
east, the migrations of nations began to be dimly suspected, and
accounts to be given of the changes in those great empires of which
the very existence had been long problematical.


CHAPTER VI.

I.
THE GREAT CORSAIR.

William Dampier; or a Sea-King of the Seventeenth Century.


William Dampier was born in 1612 at East Coker, and by the death of
his parents was from his childhood left to his own control. Horace
may hae been a better hand at the clink than Stevison - mind, I'm
no sayin' 't - but onyway he was never sae weel prentit. Damned,
but it's bonny! Hoo mony pages will there be, think ye? Stevison maun
hae sent ye the feck o' twenty sangs - fifteen I'se warrant. Weel,
that'll can make thretty pages, gin ye were to prent on ae side
only, whilk wad be perhaps what a man o' your GREAT idees would be
ettlin' at, man Johnson. Then there wad be the Pre-face, an' prose
ye ken prents oot langer than po'try at the hinder end, for
ye hae to say things in't. An' then there'll be a title-page and a
dedication and an index wi' the first lines like, and the
deil an' a'. Man, it'll be grand. Nae copies to be given to the
Liberys.

I am alane myself, in Nice, they ca't, but damned, I think they micht
as well ca't Nesty. The Pile-on, 's they ca't, 's aboot as big as
the river Tay at Perth; and it's rainin' maist like Greenock. Dod,
I've seen 's had mair o' what they ca' the I-talian at Muttonhole.
I-talian! I haenae seen the sun for eicht and forty hours.

Thomson's better, I believe. But the body's fair attenyated. He's
doon to seeven stane eleeven, an' he sooks awa' at cod liver ile,
till it's a fair disgrace. Ye see he tak's it on a drap brandy;
and it's my belief, it's just an excuse for a dram. He an' Stevison
gang aboot their lane, maistly; they're company to either, like,
an' whiles they'll speak o'Johnson. But HE'S far awa', losh me!
Stevison's last book's in a third edeetion; an' it's bein' translated
(like the psaulms o' David, nae less) into French; and an eediot
they ca' Asher - a kind o' rival of Tauchnitz - is bringin' him oot
in a paper book for the Frenchies and the German folk in twa volumes.

Sae he's in luck, ye see. - Yours,
THOMSON.

Letter: TO ALISON CUNNINGHAM

[NICE FEBRUARY 1883.]
MY DEAR CUMMY, - You must think, and quite justly, that I am one
of the meanest rogues in creation. But though I do not write (which
is a thing I hate), it by no means follows that people are out
of my mind. It is natural that I should always think more or less
about you, and still more natural that I should think of you when
I went back to Nice. But the real reason why you have been more in
my mind than usual is because of some little verses that I have
been writing, and that I mean to make a book of; and the real
reason of this letter (although I ought to have written to you anyway)
is that I have just seen that the book in question must be dedicated
to
ALISON CUNNINGHAM,
the only person who will really understand it. I don't know when it
may be ready, for it has to be illustrated, but I hope in the meantime
you may like the idea of what is to be; and when the time comes,
I shall try to make the dedication as pretty as I can make it.The Sebaldine Islands are passed without incident,
the Strait of Le Maire is traversed, Cape Horn is doubled on the 6th
February, 1684, and as soon as he can escape from the storms which
usually assail ships entering the Pacific, Captain Cook arrives at
the island of Juan Fernandez, where he hopes to revictual. Dampier
wondered if he would find a Nicaraguan Indian there, who had been
left behind in 1680 by Captain Sharp. "This Indian had remained
alone upon the island for more than three years. He had been in the
woods hunting goats when the English captain had ordered his men to
re-embark, and they had set sail without perceiving his absence. He
had only his gun and his knife, with a small horn of powder and a
little lead; when his powder and lead were exhausted he had
contrived to saw the barrel of his gun into small pieces with his
knife, and out of them to make harpoons, spears, fish hooks and a
long knife. With these instruments he obtained all the supplies
which the island afforded: goats and fish. At the distance of half a
mile from the sea, he had a small hut covered with goat skins. He
had no clothes left, but an animal's skin covered his loins." We
have dwelt at some length upon this involuntary hermit because he
served Daniel de Foe as the original of his "Robinson Crusoe," a
romance which has formed the delight of every child.

We shall not relate minutely all the expeditions in which Dampier
participated. Suffice it to mention that in this campaign he visited
the Gallapagos Islands. In 1686, Dampier was serving on board of
Captain Swan's ship, who, seeing that the greater part of his
enterprises failed, went to the East Indies, where the Spaniards
were less upon their guard, and where the corsairs reckoned upon
seizing the Manilla galleon. But when our adventurers arrived at
Guaham, they had only three days' provisions, and the sailors had
plotted if the voyage should be prolonged, to eat in turn all those
who had declared themselves in favour of the voyage, and to begin
with the captain who had proposed it. Dampier's turn would have come
next. "Thus it came to pass," says he very humourously, "that after
having cast anchor at Guaham, Swan embraced him and said: 'Ah
Dampier, you would have made them but a sorry meal.' He was right,"
he adds, "for I was as thin and lean, as he was fat and plump."
Mindanao, Manilla, certain parts of the Chinese coasts, the Moluccas,
New Holland, and the Nicobar Islands, were the places visited and
plundered by Dampier in this campaign. In the last-named archipelago
he became separated from his companions, and was discovered half
dead upon the coast of Sumatra.

[Illustration: "Ah! Dampier, you would have afforded them but a
sorry meal."]

During this voyage, Dampier had discovered several hitherto unknown
islands, and especially the Baschi group. Like the thorough
adventurer he was, immediately he recovered his health he travelled
over the south of Asia, Malacca, Tonkin, Madras, and Bencoolen,
where he enrolled himself as an artilleryman in the English service.
Five months afterwards he deserted and returned to London. The
narrative of his adventures and his privateering obtained for him a
certain amount of sympathy amongst the higher classes, and he was
presented to the Earl of Oxford, Lord High Admiral. He speedily
received the command of the ship _Roebuck_ to attempt a voyage of
discovery in the seas which he had already explored. He left England
on the 14th January, 1699, with the intention of passing through the
Strait of Magellan, or of making the tour of Tierra del Fuego, so as
to commence his discoveries on the coasts of the Pacific, which had
hitherto received the visits of a comparatively small number of
travellers. After crossing the line on the 10th March, he sailed for
Brazil, where the ship was revictualled. Far from being able again
to descend the coast of Patagonia, he beheld himself driven by the
wind to forty-eight miles south of the Cape of Good Hope, whence he
steered east-south-east towards New Holland, a long passage which
was not signalized by any adventure. On the 1st August, Dampier saw
land, and at once sought for a harbour in which to land. Five days
later he entered the Bay of Sea-Dogs upon the western coast of
Australia; but he only found there a sterile soil, and met with
neither water nor vegetation. Until the 31st August, he sailed along
this coast without discovering what he sought. Once when he landed,
he had a slight skirmish with some of the inhabitants, who seemed to
be very thinly scattered over the country. Their chief was a young
man of middle height, but quick and vigilant; his eyes were
surrounded by a single ring of white paint, while a stripe of the
same colour descended from the top of his forehead to the end of his
nose; his chest and arms were likewise striped with white. His
companions were black, fierce in aspect, their hair woolly, and in
shape they were tall and slender.

For five weeks Dampier hovered near land, and found neither water
nor provisions; however, he would not give in, and intended to
continue to ascend the coast northwards, but the shallows which he
incessantly encountered, and the monsoon from the north-west which
was soon due, obliged him to give up the enterprise, after having
discovered more than 900 miles of the Australian continent. He
afterwards steered towards Timor, where he intended to repose and
recruit his crew, exhausted by the long voyage. But he knew little
of these parts, and his charts were quite insufficient. He was
therefore obliged to make a reconnaissance of it, as if the Dutch
had not already been long settled there. Thus he discovered a
passage between Timor and Anamabao, in a locality in which his map
only indicated a bay. The arrival of Dampier in a port known only to
themselves, astonished and greatly displeased the Dutch. They
imagined that the English could only have reached it by means of
charts taken on board a ship of their own. However, in the end they
recovered from their fright and received the strangers with kindness.

Although the precursors of the monsoon were making themselves felt,
Dampier again put to sea, and steered towards the western coast of
New Guinea, where he arrived on the 4th February, 1700, near to Cape
Maho of the Dutch. The Ordnance (cannon) brought in the ship
consisted (probably) of ten guns, certainly of six. Of these, two
(2) were "sakers,"--guns ten feet long of 3 to 4 inches bore, weighing
from fifteen to eighteen hundred pounds each; two (2) were "minions"
(or "falcons"),--guns of 3 1/2 inch bore, weighing twelve hundred
pounds (1200 lbs.) each; and two (2) were "bases,"--small guns of 1
1/4 inch bore, weighing some three hundred pounds (300 1bs.) each.
These were mounted on "the Hill" fort or platform. It is probable
that besides these were the four smallest cannon, called "patereros"
(or "murderers"), which, at the time of De Rasiere's visit to Plymouth
in 1627, were mounted on a platform (in front of the Governor's
house), at the intersection of the two streets of the town, and
commanded its several approaches. It is not likely that they were
sent for after 1621, because the Adventurers were never in mood to
send if asked, while Bradford, in speaking of the first alarm by the
Indians, says, "This caused us to plant our great ordnance in
places most convenient," leaving a possible inference that they had
smaller ordnance in reserve.

With this ordnance was of course a proper supply of ammunition
adapted to its use. The "sakers" are said to have carried a
four-pound ball, the "minions" a three-pound ball, and the
"bases" a ball of a pound weight. There is not entire agreement between
authorities, in regard to the size, weight, and calibre of
these different classes of early ordnance, or the weight of
metal thrown by them, but the above are approximate data, gathered
from careful comparison of the figures given by several. There is
no doubt that with this heavy ordnance and ammunition they
stowed among their ballast and dunnage (as was the case in Higginson's
ships), their "spare chains and anchors, chalk, bricks, sea-coal (for
blacksmithing), iron, steel, lead, copper, red-lead, salt," etc.;
all of which they also necessarily had, and from their bulk,
character, and weight, would stow as low in the ship as might
be.

That a considerable "stock of trading goods" was included in the MAY-
FLOWER'S lading is mentioned by at least one writer, and that this
was a fact is confirmed by the records of the colonists' dealings
with the Indians, and the enumeration of not a few of the goods
which could have had, for the most part, no other use or value.Rook, Long
Reach and Burning Islands.

[Illustration: Battle in Slingers' Bay.]

After this long cruise, distinguished by important discoveries,
Dampier again steered towards the west, reached Missory Island, and
at length arrived at the Island of Ceram, one of the Moluccas, where
he made a somewhat long stay. He went afterwards to Borneo, passed
through the Strait of Macassar, and on the 23rd of June anchored at
Batavia, in the Island of Java. He remained there until the 17th of
October, when he set out for Europe. On arriving at the Island of
Ascension on the 23rd of February, 1701, his vessel had so
considerable a leak that it was impossible to stop it. It was
necessary to run the ship aground and to put the crew and cargo on
shore. Happily there was no want of water, turtles, goats, and
land-crabs, which prevented any fear of dying of hunger before some
ship should call at the island, and transport the shipwrecked
sailors to their country. For this they had not long to wait, for on
the 2nd of April an English vessel took them on board and carried
them to England. We shall have occasion again to speak of Dampier
with relation to the voyages of Wood Rodgers.


II.
THE POLE AND AMERICA.

Hudson and Baffin--Champlain and La Sale--The English upon the coast
of the Atlantic--The Spaniards in South America--Summary of the
information acquired at the close of the 17th century--The measure
of the terrestrial degree--Progress of cartography--Inauguration of
Mathematical Geography.


Although the attempts to find a passage by the north-west had been
abandoned by the English for twenty years, they had not, however,
given up the idea of seeking by that way, for a passage which was
only to be discovered in our own days, and of which the absolute
impracticability was then to be ascertained. A clever sailor, Henry
Hudson, of whom Ellis says, "that never did any one better
understand the seafaring profession, that his courage was equal to
any emergency, and that his application was indefatigable,"
concluded an agreement with a company of merchants to search for the
passage by the north-west. On the 1st of May, 1607, he sailed from
Gravesend in the _Hopewell_, a craft about the size of one of the
smallest of modern collier brigs, and having on board a crew of
twelve men; and on the 13th of June, reached the eastern coast of
Greenland at 73 degrees, and gave it a name answering to the hopes
he entertained, in calling it Cape Hold with Hope. The weather here
was finer and less cold than it had been ten degrees southwards. By
the 27th of June, Hudson had advanced 5 degrees more to the north,
but on the 2nd of July, by one of the sudden changes which so
frequently occur in those countries, the cold became severe. The sea,
however, remained free, the air was still, and drift wood floated
about in large quantity. On the 14th of the same month, in 33
degrees 23 minutes, the master's mate and the boatswain of the
vessel landed upon a shore which formed the northern part of
Spitzbergen. Traces of musk oxen, and foxes, great abundance of
aquatic birds, two streams of fresh water, one of them being warm,
proved to our navigators that it was possible to live in these
extreme latitudes at this period of the year. Hudson, who had
re-embarked without delay, found himself arrested at the height of
82 degrees, by thick pack ice, which he endeavoured in vain to
penetrate or sail round. He was compelled to return to England,
where he arrived on September 15th, after having discovered an
island, which is probably that of Jan Mayen. The route followed in
this first voyage having had no result towards the north, Hudson
would try another, and accordingly set sail on April 21st in the
following year, and advanced between Spitzbergen and Nova Zembla;
but he could only follow for a certain distance the coast of that
vast land, without being able to attain as high an elevation as he
had wished. The failure of this second attempt was more complete
than that of the voyage of 1607. In consequence, the English Company,
which had defrayed the expenses of both attempts, declined to
proceed further. This was doubtless the reason which decided Hudson
to take service in Holland.

The Company of Amsterdam gave him, in 1609, the command of a vessel,
with which he set sail from the Texel at the beginning of the year.
Having doubled the North Cape, he advanced along the coasts of Nova
Zembla; but his crew, composed of English and Dutch, who had made
voyages to the East Indies, were soon disheartened by the cold and
ice. Hudson found himself forced to change his route, and to propose
to his sailors, who were in open mutiny, to seek for a passage,
either by Davis' Strait, or the coasts of Virginia, where, according
to the information of Captain Smith, who had frequently visited them,
an outlet must surely be found. The choice of this crew, little
accustomed to discipline, could not be doubtful. In order not to
render the outlay of the Company completely abortive, Hudson was
obliged to make for the Faröe Islands, to descend southward as low
as 44 degrees, and to search on the coast of America for the strait,
of the existence of which he had been assured. On July 18th, he
disembarked on the continent, in order to replace his foremast,
which had been broken in a storm; and he took the opportunity of
bartering furs with the natives. But his undisciplined sailors,
having by their exactions roused the indignation of the poor and
peaceable natives, compelled him again to set sail. He continued to
follow the coast until August 3rd, and then landed a second time. At
40 degrees 30 minutes, he discovered a great bay which he explored
in a canoe for more than 150 miles. In the meantime, his provisions
began to run short, and it was impossible to procure supplies on
land. The crew, which appears to have imposed its wishes on its
captain during this whole voyage, assembled; some proposed to winter
in Newfoundland, in order to resume the search for the passage in
the following year; others wished to make for Ireland. This latter
proposition was adopted; but when they approached the shores of
Great Britain, the land proved so attractive to his men, that Hudson
was obliged, on November 7th, to cast anchor at Dartmouth.

The following year, 1610, notwithstanding all the mortifications
which he had experienced, Hudson tried to renew his engagement with
the Dutch company. But the terms which they named as the price of
their concurrence compelled him to renounce the project, and induced
him to submit to the requirements of the English Company. This
company imposed on Hudson as a condition, that he should carry on
board, rather as an assistant than as a subordinate, a clever seaman,
named Coleburne, in whom they had full confidence. It is easy to
understand how mortifying this condition was to Hudson. Accordingly,
he took the earliest opportunity of ridding himself of the
superintendent who had been imposed upon him. He had not yet left
the Thames when he sent Coleburne back to shore with a letter for
the Company, in which he endeavoured to palliate and justify this
certainly very strange proceeding.

Towards the end of May, when the ship had cast anchor in one of the
ports of the island, the crew formed on the subject of Coleburne,
its first conspiracy, which was repressed without difficulty, and
when Hudson quitted the island on June 1st, he had re-established
his authority. After having passed Frobisher's Strait, he sighted
the land of Desolation of Davis, entered the strait which has
received his name, and speedily penetrated into a wide bay, the
entire western coast of which he examined until the beginning of
September. At this epoch, one of the inferior officers, continuing
to excite revolt against his chief, was superseded; but this act of
justice only exasperated the sailors. In the early part of November,
Hudson, having arrived at the extremity of the bay, sought for an
appropriate spot to winter in, and having soon found one, drew up
the ship on dry land. It is difficult to understand such a
resolution. On the one hand, Hudson had left England with provisions
for six months only, which had already been largely reduced, and he
could scarcely reckon, considering the barrenness of the country,
upon procuring a further supply of nourishment; on the other, the
crew had exhibited such numerous signs of mutiny, that he could
hardly rely upon its discipline and good will. Nevertheless,
although the English were often obliged to content themselves with
scanty rations, they did not, owing to the arrival of great numbers
of birds, pass a very distressing winter. But, on the return of
spring, as soon as the ship was prepared to resume her route to
England, Hudson found that his fate was decided. He made his
arrangements accordingly, distributed to each his share of biscuit,
paid the wages due, and awaited the course of events. He had not
long to wait. The conspirators seized their captain, his son, a
volunteer, the carpenter, and five sailors, put them on board a boat,
without arms, provisions, or instruments, and abandoned them to the
mercy of the ocean. The culprits reached England again, but not all;
two were killed in an encounter with the Indians, another died of
sickness, while the others were sorely tried by famine. Eventually,
no prosecution was commenced against them. Only, the Company, in
1674, procured employment, on board a vessel, for the son of Henry
Hudson, "lost in the discovery of the North-west," the son being
entirely destitute of resources.

[Illustration: Hudson abandoned by his crew.]

The expeditions of Hudson were followed by those of Button and of
Gibbons, to whom we owe, if not new discoveries, important
observations on the tides, the variation of the weather and the
temperature, and on a number of natural phenomena.

In 1615, the English Company entrusted to Byleth, who had taken part
in the last voyages, the command of a vessel of fifty tons. Her name,
the _Discovery_, was of good augury. She carried, as pilot, the
famous William Baffin, whose renown has eclipsed that of his captain.
Setting sail from England on April 13th, the English explorers
sighted Cape Farewell by the 6th of May, passed from the Island of
Desolation to the Savage Islands, where they met with a great number
of natives, and ascended north-westward as high as 64 degrees. On
July 10th, land appeared on the starboard, and the tide flowed from
the north; from which they conceived so much hope of the passage
sought for, that they gave to the cape, discovered on this spot, the
name of Comfort. It was probably Cape Walsingham, for they
ascertained, after doubling it, that the land inclined towards the
north-east, and the east. It was at the entry of Davis' Strait, that
their discoveries came to an end for this year. They returned to
Plymouth on September 9th, without having lost a single man.

So strong were the hopes entertained by Byleth and Baffin, that they
obtained permission to put to sea again in the same vessel the
following year. On May 14th, 1616, after a voyage in which nothing
worthy of remark occurred, the two captains penetrated into Davis'
Strait, sighted Cape Henderson's Hope, the extreme point formerly
reached by Davis, and ascended as high as 72 degrees 40 minutes to
the Women's Island, thus named after some Esquimaux females whom
they met with. On June 12th, Byleth and Baffin were forced by the
ice to enter a bay on the coast. Some Esquimaux brought them a great
quantity of horns, without doubt tusks of walruses, or horns of musk
oxen; from which they named the bay Horn Sound. After remaining some
days in this place, they were able to put to sea again. On setting
out from 75 degrees 40 minutes, they encountered a vast expanse of
water free from ice, and penetrated, without much danger, beyond the
78 degree of latitude, to the entrance of the strait, which
prolonged northwards the immense bay which they had just traversed,
and which received the name of Baffin. MY DEAR MOTHER, - It must be
at least a fortnight since we have had a scratch of a pen from you;
and if it had not been for Cummy's letter, I should have feared
you were worse again: as it is, I hope we shall hear from you to-day
or to-morrow at latest.

HEALTH.

Our news is good: Fanny never got so bad as we feared, and we hope
now that this attack may pass off in threatenings. I am greatly better,
have gained flesh, strength, spirits; eat well, walk a good
deal, and do some work without fatigue. I am off the sick list.

LODGING.

We have found a house up the hill, close to the town, an excellent
place though very, very little.

If I can get the landlord to agree to let us take it by the month just
now, and let our month's rent count for the year in case we take
it on, you may expect to hear we are again installed, and to receive
a letter dated thus:-

La Solitude, Hyeres-les-Palmiers, Var.

If the man won't agree to that, of course I must just give it up, as
the house would be dear enough anyway at 2000 f. However, I hope
we may get it, as it is healthy, cheerful, and close to shops, and
society, and civilisation. The garden, which is above, is lovely,
and will be cool in summer. There are two rooms below with a
kitchen, and four rooms above, all told. - Ever your affectionate
son,
R. L. STEVENSON.

Letter: TO THOMAS STEVENSON

HOTEL DES ILES D'OR, BUT MY ADDRESS WILL BE CHALET LA SOLITUDE,
HYERES-LE-PALMIERS, VAR, FRANCE, MARCH 17, 1883.

DEAR SIR, - Your undated favour from Eastbourne came to hand in course
of post, and I now hasten to acknowledge its receipt. We must ask you
in future, for the convenience of our business arrangements,
to struggle with and tread below your feet this most unsatisfactory
and uncommercial habit. Our Mr. Cassandra is better; our Mr.
Wogg expresses himself dissatisfied with our new place of
business; when left alone in the front shop, he bawled like a
parrot; it is supposed the offices are haunted.

To turn to the matter of your letter, your remarks on GREAT EXPECTATIONS
are very good. We have both re-read it this winter, and I, in a
manner, twice. The object being a play; the play, in its rough
outline, I now see: and it is extraordinary how much of Dickens
had to be discarded as unhuman, impossible, and ineffective: all
that really remains is the loan of a file (but from a grown-up young
man who knows what he was doing, and to a convict who, although
he does not know it is his father - the father knows it is his
son), and the fact of the convict-father's return and disclosure
of himself to the son whom he has made rich. Everything else has
been thrown aside; and the position has had to be explained by
a prologue which is pretty strong. I have great hopes of this
piece, which is very amiable and, in places, very strong indeed:
but it was curious how Dickens had to be rolled away; he had
made his story turn on such improbabilities, such fantastic trifles,
not on a good human basis, such as I recognised. You are right about
the casts, they were a capital idea; a good description of them
at first, and then afterwards, say second, for the lawyer to have
illustrated points out of the history of the originals, dusting the
particular bust - that was all the development the thing would bear.
Dickens killed them. The only really well EXECUTED scenes are the
riverside ones; the escape in particular is excellent; and I may
add, the capture of the two convicts at the beginning. Miss Havisham
is, probably, the worst thing in human fiction. But Wemmick I like;
and I like Trabb's boy; and Mr. Wopsle as Hamlet is splendid.
The weather here is greatly improved, and I hope in three days to
be in the chalet. That is, if I get some money to float me there.
I hope you are all right again, and will keep better. The month of
March is past its mid career; it must soon begin to turn toward the
lamb; here it has already begun to do so; and I hope milder weather
will pick you up.Lawrence. In 1610, he made a fresh incursion into the
territory of the Iroquois, at the head of his allies, the Algonquins,
whom he had the greatest possible difficulty in making observe the
European discipline. In this campaign he employed instruments of
warfare which greatly astonished the savages, and easily secured him
the victory. For the attack of a village, he constructed a cavalier
of wood, which 200 of the most powerful men "carried before this
village to within a pike's length, and displayed three arquebusiers
well protected from the arrows and stones which might be shot or
launched at them." A little later, we see him exploring the river
Ottawa, and advancing, in the north of the continent, to within 225
miles of Hudson's Bay. After having fortified Montreal, in 1615, he
twice ascended the Ottawa, explored Lake Huron, and arrived by land
at Lake Ontario, which he crossed.

[Illustration: Siege of a village by Champlain.]

It is very difficult to divide into two parts a life so occupied as
Champlain's. All his excursions, all his reconnaissances, had but
one object, the development of the work to which he had consecrated
his existence. Thus detached from what gives them their interest,
they appear to us unimportant; and yet if the colonial policy of
Louis XIV. and his successor had been different, we should possess
in America a colony which assuredly would not yield in prosperity to
the United States. The second title is queried, it is perhaps
better, as simply PENNY WHISTLES.

Nor you, O Penny Whistler, grudge That I your instrument
debase:
By worse performers still we judge, And give that fife a second
place!

Crossed penny whistles on the cover, or else a sheaf of 'em.

SUGGESTIONS.
IV. The procession - the child running behind it. The procession
tailing off through the gates of a cloudy city.
IX. FOREIGN LANDS. - This will, I think, want two plates - the child
climbing, his first glimpse over the garden wall, with what he sees
- the tree shooting higher and higher like the beanstalk, and the
view widening. The river slipping in. The road arriving in
Fairyland.
X. WINDY NIGHTS. - The child in bed listening - the horseman
galloping.Two men, besides,
deserve to be mentioned for the encouragements and facilities which
they afforded to the explorers, viz., M. de Frontenac, Governor of
New France, and Talon, intendant of justice and police. In 1678,
there arrived in Canada, without any settled purpose, a young man
named Cavelier de la Sale. "He was born at Rouen," says Father
Charlevoix, "of a family in easy circumstances; but having passed
some years with the Jesuits, he had had no share in the inheritance
of his parents. He had a cultivated mind, he wished to distinguish
himself, and he felt within himself sufficient genius and courage to
ensure success. In reality, he was not deficient in resolution to
enter upon, nor in perseverance to follow up, an undertaking, nor in
firmness in contending against obstacles, nor in resource to repair
his losses; but he knew not how to make himself loved, nor how to
manage those of whom he stood in need, and when he had attained
authority, he exercised it with harshness and arrogance. With such
defects he could not be happy, and in fact he was not."

