Produced by Paul Murray, Lesley Halamek and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


A Transcriber's Note is at the end of the book.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: QUEEN VICTORIA RECEIVING THE NEWS OF HER ACCESSION TO
THE THRONE, JUNE 20, 1837

From the picture by H. T. Wells, R.A., at Buckingham Palace

_Frontispiece, Vol. I._]


THE LETTERS OF
QUEEN VICTORIA

A SELECTION FROM HER MAJESTY'S
CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE YEARS
1837 AND 1861


PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY OF
HIS MAJESTY THE KING


EDITED BY ARTHUR CHRISTOPHER BENSON, M.A.
AND VISCOUNT ESHER, G.C.V.O., K.C.B.


IN THREE VOLUMES


VOL. I.--1837-1843


LONDON
JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W.
1908

_Copyright in Great Britain and Dependencies, 1907, by_ H.M. THE KING.

_In the United States by_ Messrs LONGMANS, GREEN & CO.

_All rights reserved._


PREFACE


Entrusted by His Majesty the King with the duty of making a selection
from Queen Victoria's correspondence, we think it well to describe
briefly the nature of the documents which we have been privileged to
examine, as well as to indicate the principles which have guided us
throughout. It has been a task of no ordinary difficulty. Her Majesty
Queen Victoria dealt with her papers, from the first, in a most
methodical manner; she formed the habit in early days of preserving
her private letters, and after her accession to the Throne all her
official papers were similarly treated, and bound in volumes. The
Prince Consort instituted an elaborate system of classification,
annotating and even indexing many of the documents with his own hand.
The result is that the collected papers form what is probably the most
extraordinary series of State documents in the world. The papers which
deal with the Queen's life up to the year 1861 have been bound
in chronological order, and comprise between five and six hundred
volumes. They consist, in great part, of letters from Ministers
detailing the proceedings of Parliament, and of various political
memoranda dealing with home, foreign, and colonial policy; among these
are a few drafts of Her Majesty's replies. There are volumes concerned
with the affairs of almost every European country; with the history
of India, the British Army, the Civil List, the Royal Estates, and all
the complicated machinery of the Monarchy and the Constitution. There
are letters from monarchs and royal personages, and there is further
a whole series of volumes dealing with matters in which the
Prince Consort took a special interest. Some of them are arranged
chronologically, some by subjects. Among the most interesting volumes
are those containing the letters written by Her Majesty to her uncle
Leopold, King of the Belgians, and his replies.[1] The collection
of letters from and to Lord Melbourne forms another hardly less
interesting series. In many places Queen Victoria caused extracts,
copied from her own private Diaries, dealing with important political
events or describing momentous interviews, to be inserted in the
volumes, with the evident intention of illustrating and completing the
record.

    [Footnote 1: A set of volumes containing the Queen's letters
    to Lord John Russell came into our hands too late to be made
    use of for the present publication.]

It became obvious at once that it was impossible to deal with these
papers exhaustively. They would provide material for a historical
series extending to several hundred volumes. Moreover, on the other
hand, there are many gaps, as a great deal of the business of State
was transacted by interviews of which no official record is preserved.

His Majesty the King having decided that no attempt should be made to
publish these papers _in extenso_, it was necessary to determine upon
some definite principle of selection. It became clear that the only
satisfactory plan was to publish specimens of such documents as
would serve to bring out the development of the Queen's character and
disposition, and to give typical instances of her methods in dealing
with political and social matters--to produce, in fact, a book for
British citizens and British subjects, rather than a book for
students of political history. That the inner working of the unwritten
constitution of the country; that some of the unrealised checks and
balances; that the delicate equipoise of the component parts of our
executive machinery, should stand revealed, was inevitable. We have
thought it best, throughout, to abstain from unnecessary comment and
illustration. The period is so recent, and has been so often traversed
by historians and biographers, that it appeared to us a waste of
valuable space to attempt to reconstruct the history of the years
from which this correspondence has been selected, especially as Sir
Theodore Martin, under the auspices of the Queen herself, has dealt so
minutely and exhaustively with the relations of the Queen's innermost
circle to the political and social life of the time. It is tempting,
of course, to add illustrative anecdotes from the abundant Biographies
and Memoirs of the period; but our aim has been to infringe as little
as possible upon the space available for the documents themselves,
and to provide just sufficient comment to enable an ordinary reader,
without special knowledge of the period, to follow the course of
events, and to realise the circumstances under which the Queen's
childhood was passed, the position of affairs at the time of her
accession, and the personalities of those who had influenced her in
early years, or by whom she was surrounded.

The development of the Queen's character is clearly indicated in the
papers, and it possesses an extraordinary interest. We see one of
highly vigorous and active temperament, of strong affections, and with
a deep sense of responsibility, placed at an early age, and after a
quiet girlhood, in a position the greatness of which it is impossible
to exaggerate. We see her character expand and deepen, schooled by
mighty experience into patience and sagacity and wisdom, and yet never
losing a particle of the strength, the decision, and the devotion with
which she had been originally endowed. Up to the year 1861 the
Queen's career was one of unexampled prosperity. She was happy in her
temperament, in her health, in her education, in her wedded life, in
her children. She saw a great Empire grow through troubled times in
liberty and power and greatness; yet this prosperity brought with it
no shadow of complacency, because the Queen felt with an increasing
depth the anxieties and responsibilities inseparable from her great
position. Her happiness, instead of making her self-absorbed, only
quickened her beneficence and her womanly desire that her subjects
should be enabled to enjoy a similar happiness based upon the same
simple virtues. Nothing comes out more strongly in these documents
than the laborious patience with which the Queen kept herself informed
of the minutest details of political and social movements both in her
own and other countries.

It is a deeply inspiring spectacle to see one surrounded by every
temptation which worldly greatness can present, living from day to
day so simple, vivid, and laborious a life; and it is impossible to
conceive a more fruitful example of duty and affection and energy,
displayed on so august a scale, and in the midst of such magnificent
surroundings. We would venture to believe that nothing could so deepen
the personal devotion of the Empire to the memory of that great Queen
who ruled it so wisely and so long, and its deeply-rooted attachment
to the principle of constitutional monarchy, as the gracious act of
His Majesty the King in allowing the inner side of that noble life and
career to be more clearly revealed to a nation whose devotion to their
ancient liberties is inseparably connected with their loyalty to the
Throne.


EDITORIAL NOTE


Our special thanks, for aid in the preparation of these volumes, are
due to Viscount Morley of Blackburn, who has read and criticised
the book in its final form; to Mr J. W. Headlam, of the Board of
Education, and formerly Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, for much
valuable assistance in preparing the prefatory historical memoranda;
to Mr W. F. Reddaway, Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, for
revision and advice throughout, in connection with the introductions
and annotations; to Lord Knollys, for criticism of selected materials;
to Lord Stanmore, for the loan of valuable documents; to Dr Eugene
Oswald, for assistance in translation; to Mr C. C. Perry and M. G.
Hua, for verification of French and German documents; to Miss Bertha
Williams, for unremitting care and diligence in preparing the volumes
for press; to Mr John Murray, our publisher, for his unfailing
patience and helpfulness; and especially to Mr Hugh Childers, for
his ungrudging help in the preparation of the Introductory annual
summaries, and in the political and historical annotation, as well as
for his invaluable co-operation at every stage of the work.


TABLE OF CONTENTS


CHAPTER I

Ancestry of Queen Victoria--Houses of Brunswick, Hanover, and Coburg
--Family connections--The English Royal Family--The Royal Dukes--Duke
of Cumberland--Family of George III.--Political position of the Queen
(Pages 1-7)

CHAPTER II

Queen Victoria's early years--Duke and Duchess of Kent--Parliamentary
grant to Duchess of Kent--The Queen of Würtemberg--George IV. and the
Princess--Visits to Windsor--Duchess of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld
--Education of the Princess--The Duchess of Kent's letter to the
Bishops--Religious instruction--Result of examination--Speech by
Duchess of Kent--The Princess's reminiscences of Claremont--William IV.
and the Princess--The accession--Queen Victoria's character and
temperament--Her sympathy with the middle classes (Pages 8-21)


CHAPTER III

Queen Victoria's relations and friends--King Leopold's influence
--Queen Adelaide--Baroness Lehzen--Baron Stockmar (Pages 22-26)


CHAPTER IV
1821-1835

Observations on the correspondence with King Leopold and others--First
letter received by Queen Victoria--Her first letter to Prince Leopold
--Birthday letters--King Leopold's description of his Queen--His
valuable advice--The Princess's visit to Hever Castle--King Leopold's
advice as to reading, and the Princess's reply--New Year greeting
--On autographs--The Princess's confirmation--King Leopold's advice as
to honesty and sincerity (pages 27-42)


CHAPTER V
1836

Visit of Prince Ferdinand of Saxe-Coburg--Invitation to the Prince of
Orange--Arrival of Princes Ernest and Albert--The Princess's
appreciation of Prince Albert--King Leopold's advice as to
conversation--Crisis in Spain--Farewell letter--The Princess and the
Church--Death of Charles X.--Abuse of King Leopold--Revolution at
Lisbon--The Princess's name--Newspaper attacks on King Leopold
(pages 43-55)


CHAPTER VI
1837

Spain and Portugal--Music with Princes Ernest and Albert
--Parliamentary language and political passion--The throne of Greece
--Queen of the Belgians' dowry--The English Press--The Princess's
establishment--Young Belgian cousins--Irish Municipal Bill--Whig
Ministers--Birthday rejoicings--King Leopold's advice and
encouragement--Accession imminent--Condition of the King--Reliance on
Lord Melbourne--The Princess and the Church--The Accession--The
Queen's journal--Interview with Lord Melbourne--The Queen's first
Council--Letter from the King of the French--Congratulations from
King Leopold--Nationality of the Queen--The Queen and her Ministers
--Reflection advised--Baron Stockmar--Important subjects for study
--Sister Queens--Letter from Queen Adelaide--Buckingham Palace--Madame
de Lieven--Parliament prorogued--England and Russia--Discretion advised
--Singing lessons--The elections--Prevalence of bribery--End of King
Leopold's visit--Reception at Brighton--Security of letters--England
and France--France and the Peninsula--Count Molé--The French in Africa
--Close of the session--Prince Albert's education--Canada--Army
estimates--Secretaries of State (pages 56-101)


CHAPTER VII
1838

Lord Melbourne--Canada--Influence of the Crown--Daniel O'Connell
--Position of Ministers of State in England and abroad--New Poor Law
--Pressure of business--Prince Albert's education--Favourite horses
--Deaths of old servants--The Coronation--Address from Bishops--Ball
at Buckingham Palace--Independence and progress of Belgium
--Anglo-Belgian relations--Foreign policy--Holland and Belgium
--Coronation Day--Westminster Abbey--The enthronement--Receiving
homage--Popular enthusiasm--Coronation incidents--Pages of honour
--Extra holidays for schools--Review in Hyde Park--Lord Durham and
Canada--Government of Canada--Ireland and O'Connell--Death of Lady
John Russell--The Queen's sympathy with Lord John Russell--Belgium
and English Government--Belgium and Holland--Canada--Resignation of
the Earl of Durham--English Church for Malta--Disappointment of Duke
of Sussex--Brighton (pages 102-140)


CHAPTER VIII
1839

Murder of Lord Norbury--Holland and Belgium--Dissension in the Cabinet
--The Duke of Lucca--Portugal--Ireland and the Government--England and
Belgium--Prince Albert's tour in Italy--Jamaica--Change of Ministry
imminent--The Queen's distress--Interviews with the Duke of Wellington
and Sir Robert Peel--Lord Melbourne on Sir Robert Peel--The Household
--Proposed new Cabinet--Interview with Lord Melbourne--The Ladies of
the Household and Sir Robert Peel--Reply to Sir Robert Peel
--Resignation of Sir Robert Peel--The Queen's journal--Cabinet minute
--Whigs resume office--Ball at Buckingham Palace--Lord John Russell
and Sir Robert Peel--The Queen on the crisis--King Leopold's approval
--The penny postage--The Queen and Prince Albert--Syria--England and
the Sultan--Proposed visit of King Louis Philippe--Preparing the
Queen's speech--King Leopold's feeling for the Queen--Coming visit of
Prince Albert--Arrival of Princes Ernest and Albert--The Queen's
engagement to Prince Albert--Lord Melbourne's congratulations--King
Leopold's satisfaction--Austria and the Porte--The Queen's happiness
--Queen Louise's congratulations--The Queen's letters to the Royal
Family--The Prince's religion--Announcement to the Council--Marriage
treaty--Question of a peerage--English susceptibilities--Letter from
Donna Maria--Household appointments--Mayor of Newport knighted--The
word "Protestant"--The Prince's coat-of-arms--The Prince and Mr Anson
--Appointment of Treasurer--The Prince and Lord Melbourne (pages 141-208)


CHAPTER IX
1840

Letters to Prince Albert--Opening of Parliament--The Prince's grant
--The Prince at Brussels--Marriage of the Queen and Prince--Public
enthusiasm--Plays in Lent--Debate on the Corn Laws--England and China
--Disturbance at the Opera--Murder of Lord William Russell--Mrs Norton
--Character of Princess Charlotte--English manners--Oxford's attempt
on the Queen's life--Egypt and the Four Powers--Prince Louis Napoleon
--King Leopold at Wiesbaden--A threatened crisis--France and the East
--A difficult question--Serious measures--Palmerston and France--Views
of King Louis Philippe--Propositions for settlement--Attitude of
France--Pacific instructions--The Porte and Mehemet Ali--Bombardment
of Beyrout--Guizot and Thiers--Differing views--The Queen's influence
--An anxious time--Attempt on life of King Louis Philippe--Negotiation
with France advised--Thiers more moderate--Death of Lord Holland
--Change of Ministry in France--Importance of conciliation--The
Prince's name in the Prayer-book--King Leopold on Lord Palmerston
--Birth of the Princess Royal--Settlement of Eastern Question
(pages 209-252)

CHAPTER X
1841

Letter to King Leopold--The Prince and literature--The speech from the
throne--Domestic happiness--Duke of Wellington's illness--England and
the United States--Operations in China--Lord Cardigan--Army discipline
--The Nottingham election--The Budget--Irish Registration Bill--Sugar
duties--Ministerial crisis--Lord Melbourne's advice--Dissolution or
resignation--The Household question--Sir Robert Peel--Mr Anson's
intervention--Interview with Lord Melbourne--King Leopold's sympathy
--The Corn Laws--The Queen's journal--The Prince's support--Further
interviews--Resignation postponed--The Queen and the Church--King
Leopold's advice--The Queen's impartiality--Difficulties removed--Vote
of want of confidence--The country quiet--King Leopold's views--Fiscal
Policy--Marriage of Lord John Russell--Visit to Nuneham--Archbishop
Harcourt--The Prince visits Oxford--Letter from Lord Brougham--Visit
to Woburn Abbey--Lord Melbourne and the Garter--A dreaded moment
--Debate on the Speech--Overwhelming majority--Resignation--New
arrangements--Parting with Lord Melbourne--The Prince in a new
position--The Queen and Sir Robert Peel--Lord Melbourne's opinion of
the Prince--The Household question--New Cabinet--Lord Melbourne's
official farewell--Sir Robert Peel's reception--New appointments
--Council at Claremont--The Lord Chamberlain's department--The French
ambassador--Confidential communications--The diplomatic corps
--Governor-General of Canada--India and Afghanistan--Lord Ellenborough
--Russia and Central Asia--Indian finances--The Spanish mission
--Correspondence with Lord Melbourne--Fine Arts Commission--Peers and
audiences--Lord Radnor's claim--The Chinese campaign--English and
foreign artists--Lord Melbourne and the Court--The Queen and her
Government--Baron Stockmar's opinion--Lord Melbourne's influence
--Baron Stockmar and Sir Robert Peel--Professor Whewell--Queen
Christina--Queen Isabella--French influence in Spain--Holland and
Belgium--Dispute with United States--Portugal--The English
Constitution--The "Prime Minister"--The "Secretaries of State"--Baron
Stockmar expostulates with Lord Melbourne--Birth of Heir-apparent
--Created Prince of Wales--The Royal children (pages 253-369)


CHAPTER XI
1842

Letter from Queen Adelaide--Disasters in Afghanistan--The Oxford
movement--Church matters--The Duke of Wellington and the christening
--Lord Melbourne ill--A favourite dog--The King of Prussia--Marriage
of Prince Ernest--Christening of the Prince of Wales--The Corn Laws
--Marine excursion--Fall of Cabul--Candidates for the Garter--The Earl
of Munster--The Queen and Income Tax--Lambeth Palace--Sale at
Strawberry Hill--Selection of a governess--Party politics--A brilliant
ball--The Prince and the Army--Lady Lyttelton's appointment--Goethe
and Schiller--Edwin Landseer--The Mensdorff family--Attack on the
Queen by Francis--Letters from Queen Adelaide and Lord Melbourne
--Successes in Afghanistan--Sir R. Sale and General Pollock--Debate
on Income Tax--The Queen's first railway journey--Conviction of
Francis--Presents for the Queen--Another attack on the Queen by Bean
--Death of Duke of Orleans--Grief of the Queen--Letters from the King
and Queen of the French--Leigh Hunt--Lord Melbourne on marriages
--Resignation of Lord Hill--Appointment of Duke of Wellington
--Manchester riots--Military assistance--Parliament prorogued--Causes
of discontent--Mob in Lincoln's Inn Fields--Trouble at the Cape--Tour
in Scotland--Visit to Lord Breadalbane--Return to Windsor--Royal
visitors--A steam yacht for the Queen--Future of Queen Isabella--The
Princess Lichtenstein--Historical works--Walmer Castle--Lord
Melbourne's illness--The Crown jewels--Provision for Princess Augusta
--Success in China--A treaty signed--Victories in Afghanistan--Honours
for the army--The gates of Somnauth--France and Spain--Major Malcolm
--The Scottish Church--A serious crisis--Letter from Lord Melbourne
--Esteem for Baron Stockmar (370-449)


CHAPTER XII
1843

Recollections of Claremont--Historical writers--Governor-Generalship
of Canada--Mr Drummond shot--Mistaken for Sir Robert Peel--Death of
Mr Drummond--Demeanour of MacNaghten--Letter from Lord Melbourne
--Preparations for the trial--The Royal Family and politics--King
Leopold and Sir Robert Peel--The American treaty--Position of the
Prince of Wales--Good wishes from Queen Adelaide--Proposed exchange
of visits--Mr Cobden's speech--The new chapel--Fanny Burney's diary
--MacNaghten acquitted--Question of criminal insanity--Princess Mary
of Baden--The Prince and the Levées--Sir Robert Peel's suggestions
--Police arrangements--Looking for the comet--Flowers from Lord
Melbourne--The Royal children--The toast of the Prince--King of
Hanover's proposed visit--Gates of Somnauth restored--Death of Duke
of Sussex--Birth and christening of Princess Alice--Irish agitation
--Rebecca riots--Duchess of Norfolk's resignation--Duelling in the
Army--Outpensioners of Chelsea--Crown jewels--Obstruction of business
--Lord Melbourne on matrimonial affairs--Visit to Château d'Eu
--Increased troubles in Wales--Royal visitors--England and Spain
--Arrest of O'Connell--Duc de Bordeaux not received at Court--Duc de
Nemours expected--Visit to Cambridge--Duc d'Aumale's engagement
--Indian affairs--Loyalty at Cambridge--Proposed visit to Drayton
Manor--Travelling arrangements--Duchesse de Nemours--Birmingham
--Canadian seat of government--Chatsworth--American view of monarchy
--Prince Metternich and Spain (450-512)


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS


QUEEN VICTORIA RECEIVING THE NEWS OF HER ACCESSION TO THE THRONE,
20TH JUNE 1837.
_From the picture by H. T. Wells, R.A., at Buckingham Palace_

T.R.H. THE DUCHESS OF KENT AND THE PRINCESS VICTORIA.
_From the miniature by H. Bone, after Sir W. Beechey,
at Windsor Castle_

H.R.H. THE PRINCESS VICTORIA, 1827. By Plant, after Stewart.
_From the miniature at Buckingham, Palace_

H.M. KING WILLIAM IV. _From a miniature at Windsor Castle_

H.R.H. THE PRINCE CONSORT, 1840. _From the portrait by John Partridge
at Buckingham Palace_

H.M. QUEEN VICTORIA, 1841. _From the drawing by E. F. T.,
after H. E. Dawe, at Buckingham Palace_

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAPTER I

THE ANCESTRY OF THE QUEEN--HOUSES OF BRUNSWICK, HANOVER, AND COBURG

