Goethe's whole education and life were those of the artist.  He
lacks the unconsciousness of the poet.  In his autobiography he
describes accurately the life of the author of Wilhelm Meister.
For as there is in that book, mingled with a rare and serene
wisdom, a certain pettiness or exaggeration of trifles, wisdom
applied to produce a constrained and partial and merely well-bred
man,--a magnifying of the theatre till life itself is turned into
a stage, for which it is our duty to study our parts well, and
conduct with propriety and precision,--so in the autobiography,
the fault of his education is, so to speak, its merely artistic
completeness.  Nature is hindered, though she prevails at last in
making an unusually catholic impression on the boy.  It is the
life of a city boy, whose toys are pictures and works of art,
whose wonders are the theatre and kingly processions and
crownings.  As the youth studied minutely the order and the
degrees in the imperial procession, and suffered none of its
effect to be lost on him, so the man aimed to secure a rank in
society which would satisfy his notion of fitness and
respectability.  He was defrauded of much which the savage boy
enjoys.  Indeed, he himself has occasion to say in this very
autobiography, when at last he escapes into the woods without the
gates: "Thus much is certain, that only the undefinable,
wide-expanding feelings of youth and of uncultivated nations are
adapted to the sublime, which, whenever it may be excited in us
through external objects, since it is either formless, or else
moulded into forms which are incomprehensible, must surround us
with a grandeur which we find above our reach." He further says
of himself: "I had lived among painters from my childhood, and
had accustomed myself to look at objects, as they did, with
reference to art."  And this was his practice to the last.  He
was even too _well-bred_ to be thoroughly bred.  He says that he
had had no intercourse with the lowest class of his towns-boys.
The child should have the advantage of ignorance as well as of
knowledge, and is fortunate if he gets his share of neglect and
exposure.

     "The laws of Nature break the rules of Art."

[ALL.] Ding, dong, bell.

BASSANIO.
So may the outward shows be least themselves:
The world is still deceiv'd with ornament.
In law, what plea so tainted and corrupt But, being season'd
with a gracious voice, Obscures the show of evil? In religion,
What damned error but some sober brow Will bless it, and approve
it with a text, Hiding the grossness with fair ornament?

There is no vice so simple but assumes Some mark of virtue on his
outward parts.

How many cowards, whose hearts are all as false As stairs of sand,
wear yet upon their chins The beards of Hercules and frowning Mars;
Who, inward search'd, have livers white as milk; And these
assume but valour's excrement To render them redoubted!

Look on beauty And you shall see 'tis purchas'd by the
weight:
Which therein works a miracle in nature, Making them lightest that
wear most of it:
So are those crisped snaky golden locks Which make such wanton
gambols with the wind, Upon supposed fairness, often known To be
the dowry of a second head, The skull that bred them, in the
sepulchre.

Thus ornament is but the guiled shore To a most dangerous sea;
the beauteous scarf Veiling an Indian beauty; in a word, The
seeming truth which cunning times put on To entrap the wisest.

Therefore, thou gaudy gold, Hard food for Midas, I will none of
thee; Nor none of thee, thou pale and common drudge 'Tween man and
man: but thou, thou meagre lead, Which rather threaten'st than dost
promise aught, Thy plainness moves me more than eloquence, And here
choose I: joy be the consequence!

     PORTIA.
     [Aside] How all the other passions fleet to air, As doubtful thoughts,
and rash-embrac'd despair, And shuddering fear, and green-ey'd
jealousy!

O love!

be moderate; allay thy ecstasy; In measure rain thy joy; scant
this excess; I feel too much thy blessing; make it less, For fear
I surfeit!

BASSANIO.
What find I here? [Opening the leaden casket.] Fair Portia's
counterfeit! What demi-god Hath come so near creation? Move
these eyes?
Or whether riding on the balls of mine, Seem they in motion?
Here are sever'd lips, Parted with sugar breath; so sweet a bar
Should sunder such sweet friends.

Here in her hairs The painter plays the spider, and hath woven
A golden mesh t' entrap the hearts of men Faster than gnats in
cobwebs: but her eyes!-- How could he see to do them?

Having made one, Methinks it should have power to steal both his,
And leave itself unfurnish'd: yet look, how far The substance of
my praise doth wrong this shadow In underprizing it, so far this
shadow Doth limp behind the substance.

Here's the scroll, The continent and summary of my fortune.

'You that choose not by the view, Chance as fair and choose as
true!
Since this fortune falls to you, Be content and seek no new.
If you be well pleas'd with this, And hold your fortune for your
bliss, Turn to where your lady is And claim her with a loving
kiss.'
A gentle scroll. Fair lady, by your leave; {Kissing her.] I come
by note, to give and to receive.
Like one of two contending in a prize, That thinks he hath
done well in people's eyes, Hearing applause and universal
shout, Giddy in spirit, still gazing in a doubt Whether those peals
of praise be his or no; So, thrice-fair lady, stand I, even so,
As doubtful whether what I see be true, Until confirm'd, sign'd,
ratified by you.

PORTIA.
You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand, Such as I am: though
for myself alone I would not be ambitious in my wish To wish
myself much better, yet for you I would be trebled
twenty times myself, A thousand times more fair, ten thousand
times More rich; That only to stand high in your account, I might
in virtues, beauties, livings, friends, Exceed account.One
fancies that they really enhance one another.  Also the evening
is perfectly mild as the day."

"If one who dwelt in the south, and came hither from the south,
should hear of my rapture hereupon, he would deem me very
childish.  Alas!  what I here express I have long known while I
suffered under an unpropitious heaven, and now may I joyful feel
this joy as an exception, which we should enjoy everforth as an
eternal necessity of our nature."


Thus we "sayled by thought and pleasaunce," as Chaucer says, and
all things seemed with us to flow; the shore itself, and the
distant cliffs, were dissolved by the undiluted air.  The hardest
material seemed to obey the same law with the most fluid, and so
indeed in the long run it does.  Trees were but rivers of sap and
woody fibre, flowing from the atmosphere, and emptying into the
earth by their trunks, as their roots flowed upward to the
surface.  And in the heavens there were rivers of stars, and
milky-ways, already beginning to gleam and ripple over our heads.
There were rivers of rock on the surface of the earth, and rivers
of ore in its bowels, and our thoughts flowed and circulated, and
this portion of time was but the current hour.  Let us wander
where we will, the universe is built round about us, and we are
central still.  If we look into the heavens they are concave, and
if we were to look into a gulf as bottomless, it would be concave
also.  The sky is curved downward to the earth in the horizon,
because we stand on the plain.  I draw down its skirts.  The
stars so low there seem loath to depart, but by a circuitous path
to be remembering me, and returning on their steps.

We had already passed by broad daylight the scene of our
encampment at Coos Falls, and at length we pitched our camp on
the west bank, in the northern part of Merrimack, nearly opposite
to the large island on which we had spent the noon in our way up
the river.

There we went to bed that summer evening, on a sloping shelf in
the bank, a couple of rods from our boat, which was drawn up on
the sand, and just behind a thin fringe of oaks which bordered
the river; without having disturbed any inhabitants but the
spiders in the grass, which came out by the light of our lamp,
and crawled over our buffaloes.  When we looked out from under
the tent, the trees were seen dimly through the mist, and a cool
dew hung upon the grass, which seemed to rejoice in the night,
and with the damp air we inhaled a solid fragrance.  Having eaten
our supper of hot cocoa and bread and watermelon, we soon grew
weary of conversing, and writing in our journals, and, putting
out the lantern which hung from the tent-pole, fell asleep.

Unfortunately, many things have been omitted which should have
been recorded in our journal; for though we made it a rule to set
down all our experiences therein, yet such a resolution is very
hard to keep, for the important experience rarely allows us to
remember such obligations, and so indifferent things get
recorded, while that is frequently neglected.  It is not easy to
write in a journal what interests us at any time, because to
write it is not what interests us.

Whenever we awoke in the night, still eking out our dreams with
half-awakened thoughts, it was not till after an interval, when
the wind breathed harder than usual, flapping the curtains of the
tent, and causing its cords to vibrate, that we remembered that
we lay on the bank of the Merrimack, and not in our chamber at
home.  With our heads so low in the grass, we heard the river
whirling and sucking, and lapsing downward, kissing the shore as
it went, sometimes rippling louder than usual, and again its
mighty current making only a slight limpid, trickling sound, as
if our water-pail had sprung a leak, and the water were flowing
into the grass by our side.  The wind, rustling the oaks and
hazels, impressed us like a wakeful and inconsiderate person up
at midnight, moving about, and putting things to rights,
occasionally stirring up whole drawers full of leaves at a puff.
There seemed to be a great haste and preparation throughout
Nature, as for a distinguished visitor; all her aisles had to be
swept in the night, by a thousand hand-maidens, and a thousand
pots to be boiled for the next day's feasting;--such a whispering
bustle, as if ten thousand fairies made their fingers fly,
silently sewing at the new carpet with which the earth was to be
clothed, and the new drapery which was to adorn the trees.  And
then the wind would lull and die away, and we like it fell asleep
again.


[page]


                            FRIDAY.


                               "The Boteman strayt
     Held on his course with stayed stedfastnesse,
     Ne ever shroncke, ne ever sought to bayt
     His tryed armes for toylesome wearinesse;
     But with his oares did sweepe the watry wildernesse."
                                                ^Spenser.^


[page]

                "Summer's robe grows
     Dusky, and like an oft-dyed garment shows."
                                       ^Donne.^


[page]


                       FRIDAY.

                        --*--


As we lay awake long before daybreak, listening to the rippling
of the river, and the rustling of the leaves, in suspense whether
the wind blew up or down the stream, was favorable or unfavorable
to our voyage, we already suspected that there was a change in
the weather, from a freshness as of autumn in these sounds.  The
wind in the woods sounded like an incessant waterfall dashing and
roaring amid rocks, and we even felt encouraged by the unusual
activity of the elements.  He who hears the rippling of rivers in
these degenerate days will not utterly despair.  That night was
the turning-point in the season.  We had gone to bed in summer,
and we awoke in autumn; for summer passes into autumn in some
unimaginable point of time, like the turning of a leaf.

We found our boat in the dawn just as we had left it, and as if
waiting for us, there on the shore, in autumn, all cool and
dripping with dew, and our tracks still fresh in the wet sand
around it, the fairies all gone or concealed.  Before five
o'clock we pushed it into the fog, and, leaping in, at one shove
were out of sight of the shores, and began to sweep downward with
the rushing river, keeping a sharp lookout for rocks.  We could
see only the yellow gurgling water, and a solid bank of fog on
every side, forming a small yard around us.  We soon passed the
mouth of the Souhegan, and the village of Merrimack, and as the
mist gradually rolled away, and we were relieved from the trouble
of watching for rocks, we saw by the flitting clouds, by the
first russet tinge on the hills, by the rushing river, the
cottages on shore, and the shore itself, so coolly fresh and
shining with dew, and later in the day, by the hue of the
grape-vine, the goldfinch on the willow, the flickers flying in
flocks, and when we passed near enough to the shore, as we
fancied, by the faces of men, that the Fall had commenced.  The
cottages looked more snug and comfortable, and their inhabitants
were seen only for a moment, and then went quietly in and shut
the door, retreating inward to the haunts of summer.

     "And now the cold autumnal dews are seen
     To cobweb ev'ry green;
     And by the low-shorn rowens doth appear
     The fast-declining year."

We heard the sigh of the first autumnal wind, and even the water
had acquired a grayer hue.  The sumach, grape, and maple were
already changed, and the milkweed had turned to a deep rich
yellow.  In all woods the leaves were fast ripening for their
fall; for their full veins and lively gloss mark the ripe leaf,
and not the sered one of the poets; and we knew that the maples,
stripped of their leaves among the earliest, would soon stand
like a wreath of smoke along the edge of the meadow.  Already the
cattle were heard to low wildly in the pastures and along the
highways, restlessly running to and fro, as if in apprehension of
the withering of the grass and of the approach of winter.  Our
thoughts, too, began to rustle.

As I pass along the streets of our village of Concord on the day
of our annual Cattle-Show, when it usually happens that the
leaves of the elms and buttonwoods begin first to strew the
ground under the breath of the October wind, the lively spirits
in their sap seem to mount as high as any plough-boy's let loose
that day; and they lead my thoughts away to the rustling woods,
where the trees are preparing for their winter campaign.  This
autumnal festival, when men are gathered in crowds in the streets
as regularly and by as natural a law as the leaves cluster and
rustle by the wayside, is naturally associated in my mind with
the fall of the year.  The low of cattle in the streets sounds
like a hoarse symphony or running bass to the rustling of the
leaves.  The wind goes hurrying down the country, gleaning every
loose straw that is left in the fields, while every farmer lad
too appears to scud before it,--having donned his best pea-jacket
and pepper-and-salt waistcoat, his unbent trousers, outstanding
rigging of duck or kerseymere or corduroy, and his furry hat
withal,--to country fairs and cattle-shows, to that Rome among
the villages where the treasures of the year are gathered.  All
the land over they go leaping the fences with their tough, idle
palms, which have never learned to hang by their sides, amid the
low of calves and the bleating of sheep,--Amos, Abner, Elnathan,
Elbridge,--

     "From steep pine-bearing mountains to the plain."

I love these sons of earth every mother's son of them, with their
great hearty hearts rushing tumultuously in herds from spectacle
to spectacle, as if fearful lest there should not be time between
sun and sun to see them all, and the sun does not wait more than
in haying-time.

     "Wise Nature's darlings, they live in the world
     Perplexing not themselves how it is hurled."

Running hither and thither with appetite for the coarse pastimes
of the day, now with boisterous speed at the heels of the
inspired negro from whose larynx the melodies of all Congo and
Guinea Coast have broke loose into our streets; now to see the
procession of a hundred yoke of oxen, all as august and grave as
Osiris, or the droves of neat cattle and milch cows as unspotted
as Isis or Io.  Such as had no love for Nature

                                    "at all,
       Came lovers home from this great festival."

They may bring their fattest cattle and richest fruits to the
fair, but they are all eclipsed by the show of men.  These are
stirring autumn days, when men sweep by in crowds, amid the
rustle of leaves, like migrating finches; this is the true
harvest of the year, when the air is but the breath of men, and
the rustling of leaves is as the trampling of the crowd.  We read
now-a-days of the ancient festivals, games, and processions of
the Greeks and Etruscans, with a little incredulity, or at least
with little sympathy; but how natural and irrepressible in every
people is some hearty and palpable greeting of Nature.  The
Corybantes, the Bacchantes, the rude primitive tragedians with
their procession and goat-song, and the whole paraphernalia of
the Panathenaea, which appear so antiquated and peculiar, have
their parallel now.  The husbandman is always a better Greek than
the scholar is prepared to appreciate, and the old custom still
survives, while antiquarians and scholars grow gray in
commemorating it.  The farmers crowd to the fair to-day in
obedience to the same ancient law, which Solon or Lycurgus did
not enact, as naturally as bees swarm and follow their queen.

It is worth the while to see the country's people, how they pour
into the town, the sober farmer folk, now all agog, their very
shirt and coat-collars pointing forward,--collars so broad as if
they had put their shirts on wrong end upward, for the fashions
always tend to superfluity,--and with an unusual springiness in
their gait, jabbering earnestly to one another.  The more supple
vagabond, too, is sure to appear on the least rumor of such a
gathering, and the next day to disappear, and go into his hole
like the seventeen-year locust, in an ever-shabby coat, though
finer than the farmer's best, yet never dressed; come to see the
sport, and have a hand in what is going,--to know "what's the
row," if there is any; to be where some men are drunk, some
horses race, some cockerels fight; anxious to be shaking props
under a table, and above all to see the "striped pig." He
especially is the creature of the occasion.  He empties both his
pockets and his character into the stream, and swims in such a
day.  He dearly loves the social slush.  There is no reserve of
soberness in him.

I love to see the herd of men feeding heartily on coarse and
succulent pleasures, as cattle on the husks and stalks of
vegetables.  Though there are many crooked and crabbled specimens
of humanity among them, run all to thorn and rind, and crowded
out of shape by adverse circumstances, like the third chestnut in
the burr, so that you wonder to see some heads wear a whole hat,
yet fear not that the race will fail or waver in them; like the
crabs which grow in hedges, they furnish the stocks of sweet and
thrifty fruits still.  Thus is nature recruited from age to age,
while the fair and palatable varieties die out, and have their
period.  This is that mankind.  How cheap must be the material of
which so many men are made.


The wind blew steadily down the stream, so that we kept our sails
set, and lost not a moment of the forenoon by delays, but from
early morning until noon were continually dropping downward.
With our hands on the steering-paddle, which was thrust deep into
the river, or bending to the oar, which indeed we rarely
relinquished, we felt each palpitation in the veins of our steed,
and each impulse of the wings which drew us above.  The current
of our thoughts made as sudden bends as the river, which was
continually opening new prospects to the east or south, but we
are aware that rivers flow most rapidly and shallowest at these
points.  The steadfast shores never once turned aside for us, but
still trended as they were made; why then should we always turn
aside for them?

A man cannot wheedle nor overawe his Genius.  It requires to be
conciliated by nobler conduct than the world demands or can
appreciate.  These winged thoughts are like birds, and will not
be handled; even hens will not let you touch them like
quadrupeds.  Nothing was ever so unfamiliar and startling to a
man as his own thoughts.

To the rarest genius it is the most expensive to succumb and
conform to the ways of the world.  Genius is the worst of lumber,
if the poet would float upon the breeze of popularity.  The bird
of paradise is obliged constantly to fly against the wind, lest
its gay trappings, pressing close to its body, impede its free
movements.

He is the best sailor who can steer within the fewest points of
the wind, and extract a motive power out of the greatest
obstacles.  Most begin to veer and tack as soon as the wind
changes from aft, and as within the tropics it does not blow from
all points of the compass, there are some harbors which they can
never reach.

The poet is no tender slip of fairy stock, who requires peculiar
institutions and edicts for his defence, but the toughest son of
earth and of Heaven, and by his greater strength and endurance
his fainting companions will recognize the God in him.  It is the
worshippers of beauty, after all, who have done the real pioneer
work of the world.

The poet will prevail to be popular in spite of his faults, and
in spite of his beauties too.  He will hit the nail on the head,
and we shall not know the shape of his hammer.  He makes us free
of his hearth and heart, which is greater than to offer one the
freedom of a city.

Great men, unknown to their generation, have their fame among the
great who have preceded them, and all true worldly fame subsides
from their high estimate beyond the stars.

Orpheus does not hear the strains which issue from his lyre, but
only those which are breathed into it; for the original strain
precedes the sound, by as much as the echo follows after.  The
rest is the perquisite of the rocks and trees and beasts.

When I stand in a library where is all the recorded wit of the
world, but none of the recording, a mere accumulated, and not
truly cumulative treasure, where immortal works stand side by
side with anthologies which did not survive their month, and
cobweb and mildew have already spread from these to the binding
of those; and happily I am reminded of what poetry is,--I
perceive that Shakespeare and Milton did not foresee into what
company they were to fall.  Alas! that so soon the work of a true
poet should be swept into such a dust-hole!

The poet will write for his peers alone.  He will remember only
that he saw truth and beauty from his position, and expect the
time when a vision as broad shall overlook the same field as
freely.

We are often prompted to speak our thoughts to our neighbors, or
the single travellers whom we meet on the road, but poetry is a
communication from our home and solitude addressed to all
Intelligence.  It never whispers in a private ear.  Knowing this,
we may understand those sonnets said to be addressed to
particular persons, or "To a Mistress's Eyebrow." Let none feel
flattered by them.  For poetry write love, and it will be equally
true.

No doubt it is an important difference between men of genius or
poets, and men not of genius, that the latter are unable to grasp
and confront the thought which visits them.  But it is because it
is too faint for expression, or even conscious impression.  What
merely quickens or retards the blood in their veins and fills
their afternoons with pleasure they know not whence, conveys a
distinct assurance to the finer organization of the poet.

We talk of genius as if it were a mere knack, and the poet could
only express what other men conceived.  But in comparison with
his task, the poet is the least talented of any; the writer of
prose has more skill.  See what talent the smith has.  His
material is pliant in his hands.  When the poet is most inspired,
is stimulated by an _aura_ which never even colors the afternoons
of common men, then his talent is all gone, and he is no longer a
poet.  The gods do not grant him any skill more than another.
They never put their gifts into his hands, but they encompass and
sustain him with their breath.

To say that God has given a man many and great talents,
frequently means that he has brought his heavens down within
reach of his hands.

When the poetic frenzy seizes us, we run and scratch with our
pen, intent only on worms, calling our mates around us, like the
cock, and delighting in the dust we make, but do not detect where
the jewel lies, which, perhaps, we have in the mean time cast to
a distance, or quite covered up again.

The poet's body even is not fed like other men's, but he sometimes
tastes the genuine nectar and ambrosia of the gods, and lives a
divine life.  By the healthful and invigorating thrills of
inspiration his life is preserved to a serene old age.

Some poems are for holidays only.  They are polished and sweet,
but it is the sweetness of sugar, and not such as toil gives to
sour bread.  The breath with which the poet utters his verse must
be that by which he lives.

Great prose, of equal elevation, commands our respect more than
great verse, since it implies a more permanent and level height,
a life more pervaded with the grandeur of the thought.  
Sulpice.--Statuary.--Ecclesiastical Fountain.--Bibliothèque St.
Geneviève.--Church of St. Etienne du Mont.--History.--Monuments
of Racine and Pascal.--Christening an Infant.

--Church of St. Germain des Pres, (oldest in Paris); its Restoration
going on.There is always
a poem not printed on paper, coincident with the production of
this, stereotyped in the poet's life.  It is _what he has become
through his work_.  Not how is the idea expressed in stone, or on
canvas or paper, is the question, but how far it has obtained
form and expression in the life of the artist.  His true work
will not stand in any prince's gallery.

   My life has been the poem I would have writ,
   But I could not both live and utter it.


            THE POET'S DELAY.

     In vain I see the morning rise,
       In vain observe the western blaze,
     Who idly look to other skies,
       Expecting life by other ways.

     Amidst such boundless wealth without,
       I only still am poor within,
     The birds have sung their summer out,
       But still my spring does not begin.

     Shall I then wait the autumn wind,
       Compelled to seek a milder day,
     And leave no curious nest behind,
       No woods still echoing to my lay?

This raw and gusty day, and the creaking of the oaks and pines on
shore, reminded us of more northern climes than Greece, and more
wintry seas than the Aegean.

