Etext prepared by Dianne Bean, Prescott Valley, Arizona.


THE INTERDEPENDENCE of LITERATURE

By GEORGINA PELL CURTIS


"There is first, the literature of knowledge, and secondly the
literature of power. The function of the first is to teach, the
function or the second is to move; the first is a rudder, the
second an oar or a sail. The first speaks to the mere discursive
understanding, the second speaks ultimately, it may happen, to
the higher understanding or reason, but always through affections
of pleasure and sympathy."
      And yet! Anyway you! Your mother said you are a dreamer.

"And they
danced around him and clapped their
hands. Peter answered nothing.

He made a face and a melancholy manner with his pipe Vistula
Brunnenschwengel busy on the go.

Written more in the narrative style than as a textbook, it is
intended to awaken interest in the subject of the interdependence
of the literatures of all ages and peoples; and with the hope
that a larger and more exhaustive account of a very fascinating
subject may some day be published.

Chicago, Ill., June, 1916.


CONTENTS.
Ancient Babylonian and Early Hebrew
Sanskrit
Persian
Egyptian
Greek
Roman
Heroic Poetry
Scandinavian
Slavonic
Gothic
Chivalrous and Romantic
The Drama
Arabian
Spanish
Portuguese
French
Italian
Dutch
German
Latin Literature and the Reformation
Seventeenth and Eighteenth Century Philosophy
English


ANCIENT BABYLONIAN AND EARLY HEBREW.

From the misty ages of bygone centuries to the present day there
has been a gradual interlinking of the literatures of different
countries. From the Orient to the Occident, from Europe to
America, this slow weaving of the thoughts, tastes and beliefs of
people of widely different races has been going on, and forms,
indeed, a history by itself.

The forerunner and prophet of subsequent Christian literature is
the Hebrew. It is not, however, the first complete written
literature, as it was supposed to be until a few years ago.

The oldest Semitic texts reach back to the time of Anemurabi, who
was contemporaneous with Abraham, five hundred years before
Moses. These Semites possessed a literature and script which they
largely borrowed from the older non-Semitic races in the
localities where the posterity of Thare and Abraham settled.

Recent researches in Assyria, Egypt and Babylonia has brought
this older literature and civilization to light; a literature
from which the Hebrews themselves largely drew. Three thousand
years before Abraham emigrated from Chaldea there were sacred
poems in the East not unlike the psalms of David, as well as
heroic poetry describing the creation, and written in nearly the
same order as the Pentateuch of Moses.

The story of the Deluge, and other incidents recorded in the Old
Testament, together with numerous legends, were known and
treasured by the Ancients as sacred traditions from the earliest
ages of the world.

We learn from St. Paul that "Moses was skilled in all the
knowledge of the Egyptians." He must therefore have been familiar
not only with the ancient poems and sacred writings, but also
with the scientific, historical, legal and didactic literature of
the times, from which, no doubt, he borrowed all that was best in
the Mosiac Code that he drew up for the Chosen People of God.
This old literature Moses confirmed and purified, even as Christ
at a later period, confirmed and elevated all that was best in
the Hebrew belief. Hence from these Oriental scholars we learn
that the Hebrew was only one of several languages which enjoyed
at different times a development of the highest culture and
polish, although the teaching of the old Rabbis was that the
Bible was the first set of historical and religious books to be
written. Apples dig out your Jnaden! «» unearth apples? so,
"said the angry rabbit. "Here! Come and help me out! "(More Geklirr
shards of glass.)" Now tell me, Pat, what's that up there in the
window? "" What the heck are? 's is s arm, your Jnaden! "(He
said it" Arrum "from.)" An arm, you ass! Anyone who has ever
such a large arm seen? yes, he takes the whole window! "" To
serve, the it does, your Jnaden, but it is s arm, and arm en bleebt
it. "" In any case, since he has nothing to do: go and create him
away!

" This was followed by a long pause, during which Alice only
single words whisper heard, such as: "To serve, the number
seems not, your Jnaden, not jar, jar nich!" "Thu", what I say
to thee, coward memme! " as they stretched out a hand and a handle
that in the air. This time she heard a soft whimper and even
more Geklirr shards of glass. »How much cucumber beds must be
there," Alice thought. "I should be surprised but what they are
now thun! I am also drawn to the window? yes, if she only could!
I would really like to not longer here! "They waited for a long
time without something to hear, finally came a roll of small wire
cart, and a noise of a crowd voices all confused, they understood
the words:" Where is the other head ? - I should get only one;
Wabbel the other - Wabbel, they bring forth, young man! - If not
against them here in this corner - No, they need to be tied together
- they are not half-up - Oh, what will it not be enough: do not be
so cumbersome - Here, Wabbel!

Catch the rope - Will the roof also contribute? - Take the loose
slate in eight - oh, because it is! Heads off! "(A loud crash)
-" Whose fault was that? - Wabbel's, I believe - who should rise
in the chimney? - I do not so much I know! But yet, is not
it? - Not me, my faith! - Wabbel can grow into it - Here, Wabbel!
says the Lord, thou shalt rise in the chimney!

"" So, so Wabbel should come in through the chimney, really? "said
Alice to herself" They all seem to me to push Wabbel: All
I want to not Wabbel's body be the fireplace is admittedly narrow,
but something I will surely with the foot can turn down!
"[Illustration] She moved her foot down as far as she could, and
waited until a little animal (she could not Rathen, what
kind it was) in the chimney and climb scrape heard, as it was close
to her, she said to himself: 'This is Wabbel, "gave a strong shove
in the amount, and then waited for things to come would. First she
heard a general chorus: "As flies Wabbel," then the voice of the
rabbit alone: - "Begin him to her because the hedge," to silence,
and then confused voices: - "Keep him head - a bit of brandy - but
do not suffocate him - How are you, old fellow?

What's happened to you since? tell us everything! "Last came a
little weak, squeaking voice (" this is Wabbel, "thought Alice):"
I do not even - No more, thank you! I am much better - but
I'm far too excited to tell you - I just know there's a thing
in the height wie'n dose Stehauf, and I fly like a racket!
"" Yes, that thou hast done, old chap, "said the others." We
must burn the house down, "cried the rabbit, as Alice screamed
as loud as she could:" If it does that, I will send you on Dinah!
"Immediately was profound silence, and Alice thought to himself:
"_Was_ they will now be thun? If they had sense, they would tear
off the roof. "After a minute or two they started again to stir,
and Alice heard the Rabbit say:" A cart is full enough before
hand. "" A truck full what? " thought Alice, but she stayed
not long in doubt, because the next moment came a shower of
small pebbles flew through the window from which a couple they
just met in his face. "The I want to make an end," she said
to himself, and cried out: "The kindly let me stay," which again
was deep silence. Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles
are all transformed into little cakes as they the ground beaten,
and this brought them to a brilliant idea. "If I am one of those
eat cake," she thought, "it will certainly change my size, and
because I am even more impossible to grow, so will it make me
less well, probably me." She swallowed, therefore, a small cake
down and remarked to her delight that she immediately fell.
Once it was small enough to walk through the door to go to
the home they ran out, and there was a formal emergence of small
animals and birds before. The poor little Lizard, Wabbel
was in the middle, two guinea pigs, which made him something of a
bottle said.

There was a general assault on Alice as soon as they showed, but
they ran as fast as she could of it, and arrived safely in a
dense shrubbery. "That Nöthiger what I now have to thun," Alice
said to himself, as set out in wandered around the woods, "is my
right size to gain, and the second, the way to the beautiful garden
to be found.

Yes, this will be the best plan.

"It certainly sounded like an excellent plan, and quite nice
and easy out, the only difficulty was that they not had
the slightest notion of how they should execute him, and while
they so afraid of umherguckte the trees, she suddenly heard a sharp
bark just fine on her head and looked in a hurry.

An extremely large puppy looked round with his protruding eyes
on them down and made a weak attempt to create a paw out and touch
them. "Poor little thing!" Said Alice in Tone caress, and
she gave all the effort, his whistle while they had great fear
that he would not even hungry, because then he would probably
devour despite all cuddled. [Illustration ] Without quite knowing
what it that, took a swab and held it out, what's the clumsy animal
with all four feet simultaneously jumped into the air, in
raptures aufbellte according to which rods losrannte and that, as
if it is rip; important because Alice him behind a large thistle
in order not to be trampled, and as they on the other side hervorkam,
the young dog ran back to the sticks off and fell head over heels
in its hurry to catch it.

Alice, it seemed as if someone with a horse Fuhrmann Zeck plays,
and every moment feared by his feet to Gerath, ran back behind
the thistle, as did the young dog a series of attempts to
short rods, while each time a little bit forward and back a good
piece ran and barked itself hoarse, until he at last with the
tongue and lips heraushängender half-closed eyes, quite apart
Athem hinsetzte. This seemed to Alice a good opportunity
to be fortzukommen they did so like this, and ran until she
was very tired and had no more air, and until the barking
only very weakly in the distance was heard. "And yet it was a
dear little dog," said Alice, by focusing on the buttercup
refused to rest, and leaves with one of the fans. "I would have
taught him tricks like if - if I just large enough to have been!
Oh, yes! that I would have almost forgotten, so I must make it
clear that I was growing again! Let's see - how it starts anyway?
I dächte I should eat something or drink, but the question
is what? "It was in the That the question. Alice looked to
relax after all the flowers and grass, but nothing looked as if
it had the rights to them under the circumstances, must eat or
drink. Nearby grew a large mushroom, about as high as they
are, when it is from below, from both sides, backwards and
forwards was considered, it came to mind to see what was above
it. It is therefore on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the fungus, and then met her gaze to a large blue caterpillar,
with the arms laid crosswise, and there sat quietly on a large
Huhka smoke without the slightest notice of her or otherwise any
Something to take. [Illustration] Chapter Fifth. Guter Rath by
a caterpillar. The caterpillar and Alice looked a long time
in silence at last the Caterpillar took the Huhka from the
mouth and talked with them languishing, slow voice. "Who are you?"
Asked the caterpillar. That was not a very ermuthigender
beginning a conversation. Alice replied, a little uneasy, "I
- I do not know right this moment - a lot more I know who I was
this morning when I stood up, but I think I have a couple of
times since then have been confused." "What do you mean? "said
the caterpillar strict. "Explain yourself more clearly!" "I
can not explain clearly, I am afraid, caterpillar," said Alice,
"because I'm not me, you see that?" I do not see well, "said the
caterpillar." I can really no better expression, "erwiederte
Alice very politely," because I can not understand it yourself,
and if you have one days as often as small and large, will
be very confused. "" No, this one is not, "said the caterpillar.
"Perhaps you have not tried it yet," said Alice, "but if you
transform into a doll, which you need to have short or long as
you know - and then into a butterfly, it will still feel funny
, is not it?

"" Absolutely not, "said the caterpillar."

They probably feel it differently, "said Alice," so much, I
know that I would be very funny. "" You! "said the Caterpillar
contemptuously. »Who are _du_ denn? "What it back to the beginning
of the conversation brought back. Alice was a bit annoying, so
that the caterpillar was very short connections, it threw its
head in the air and said very seriously: "I dächte, you should
tell me who are _Sie_?"

"Why?" Asked the caterpillar. The was again a difficult question,
and as Alice in no good reason and could reflect the caterpillar
_sehr_ bad temper seemed to be, so they went their way. "Come
back!" cried the caterpillar after her, "I have something
important to you say, "That sounded very inviting; Alice turned
back around and came back to her." Do not be sensitive, "said
the caterpillar." Is this all? "asked Alice, her anger as
well as they could hide." No, "said the caterpillar.

Alice thought she wanted to wait but, otherwise they have nothing
to tuna, and maybe she would say something that was worth the
trouble. A few minutes the smoke Raupe continued without
talking, but she took the last Huhka again from the lips and
said, "So you think you're transformed?" "I'm afraid it's almost,
caterpillar," said Alice, "I can Matters not retained as
usual, and I will be bigger every ten minutes or less! ""
Can not keep _welche_ things? "asked the caterpillar." Oh, I've
tried to say: In a Wirth & c., but it was totally different! "
Alice replied in low tone. "Sage ago: You are old, Father Martin,"
said the Caterpillar. Alice folded hands and began: -
[Illustration] "You are old, Father Martin," said Junker, drip,
" Your hair is very long knows, but she still likes it on the
head.

Do not you because that is too hot? "" When I was young, "the
father had to answer," Because thinks' I's for the brain was not
good, but since I discovered that I did not hab 'So thu' I's with
cheerful courage.

"[Illustration]" You are old, "said the son," as I said earlier,
and have become quite charming fat man; drum speak as you hit
behind the somersault. Potz one thousand! as it's only start
at? "" When I was young, "the old man says with a shake of
the head '," As I rubbed my limbs with the ointment here, which
makes them pliable. groschen Courant For two, it is yours.
"[Illustration ] "You are old," said the boy ', "and can not
legally kau'n, And take a look at Eight; Asst But with her the
whole beak and Klau'n; How did you just done?"

I was formerly a lawyer and hab 'disputirt much, especially
with my wife, so this has me Kinnbacken einexercirt, That I now
can easily buy! "[Illustration]" You are old, "said the son,"
and did not much wit And yet you are so clever; Balancirt an eel
on his nose Spitz 'How is your only succeeded? "" Three answers
you have, and thus enough Now let me hear no word more, you
look into the world so Thust überklug I will teach thee
Mores! "" That is not right, "said the caterpillar." Not
quite true, I think, "said Alice timidly," some words
differently. "" It is from beginning to end wrong "said the
caterpillar with determination, as a pause of several minutes
occurred. The caterpillar first spoke again." How big do you
want to be happy? "she asked." Oh, it's not so keen on, "Alice
erwiederte quickly;" Change only the number is not pleasant, is
not it? "" No, it is not true, "said the Caterpillar. Alice
replied nothing; it was in her life is not so much opposed, and
she felt that she again began to sensitive to be. "Are you satisfied
now?" said the caterpillar. "Something bigger, caterpillar woman,
I would be happy if I may ask," said Alice, "three and a
half inch is not too tiny." "It is a very nice size, I find,
"said the Caterpillar angrily, and directed it into the air (she
was just three inches high)." But I'm not used to it, "the poor
vertheidigte Alice in wine Tone. When is she thought, "I wish
that all these creatures are not all equal to deprive the sick."
"Major, it will in time be used," said the caterpillar, put
their Huhka in the mouth again and began to smoke. This time
Alice waited patiently until she could go to talk. After two
or three minutes, the caterpillar, the Huhka from the mouth,
yawned one to two times, and shook itself. Then she came down from
the mushrooms, crept into the grass and noticed it just leave
bei'm: "One side makes you larger, the other side makes you smaller."

"One side of what? the other side of what? "Alice thought to himself."
Of the mushroom, 'said the Caterpillar, just as loud if they had
asked, and the next moment she was no longer visible. Alice
remained thoughtful for a while before the mushrooms, in order to
identify which had its two sides, and because he was perfectly
round, so she found the question difficult to answer.

Last but passed it with both arms as far around they could, and
broke with each hand from the edge of something. "But now,
what is the right?"

She said to himself, and a little bit of the piece in her
right hand , to the effect auszuprobiren; the next moment she
felt a sharp pain on the chin, it had initiated on her foot!
about this sudden transformation, she was very frightened, but
there was no time to lose, because they very quickly was small,
they So did the same because some of the other piece to eat. My
chin was so close to her foot down, that you hardly enough space
remained the mouth aufzumachen, but finally succeeded in her,
a little of the piece in her left hand down to swallow. * *
* * * "Ah! my head is finally free! "Alice cried with delight,
which, however, the next moment turned into fear as they noticed
that her shoulders were nowhere to be found: when they
looked down, she could see nothing more than a tremendously
long neck , which is like a rod from a sea of green leaves
raised, which was under her.

"What might all this green stuff be?" said Alice. "And where
are my shoulders just hingekommen? And oh, my poor hands, how
is it that I can not see you? "They took these words to each other,
but there was nothing more than a small movement in the distant
green leaves.

Because it did not succeed hands on her head to raise, so she tried
to head down to them to bend over, and found to her delight that
her neck in all directions could turn and turn like a snake.

She had him in a picturesque zigzag wound and was in the leaves
just below the sea surface, which, as she saw through the summits
of the trees was formed, under which they are still just herumgewandert
was when a loud noise suddenly zurückschreckte: a large Dove came
to her in his face and suggested they flew violently with its wings.

"snake," shrieked the dove. "I'm _not_ a serpent," Alice said with
indignation. "Leave me alone!" "Serpent, I say," repeated the
Pigeon, but with a subdued voice, and went sobbing continued:
"Everything I tried, and nothing is for them!" "I do not
know what you're talking about, "said Alice." tree roots, I
have tried, river banks, I have tried, I tried hedges, "said the
dove, without respect to them," but those serpents! Nothing
is their right, "Alice understood less and less, but they thought
it was useless to say anything until the pigeon would be ready."
As if it is not trouble enough, the eggs auszubrüten, "said the
dove," because I must yet day and night to watch the snakes!

No eye, I have the last three weeks zugethan! "" It does me very
sorry that you had so many annoyances have, "said Alice, began
to understand what she meant." And just because I have
the highest tree in the forest have chosen, "went the dove with
raised voice continued," and just because I thought I would finally
go, they have even from the sky herunterwinden! Pfui! Snake!
"" But I'm _not_ a serpent, I tell you!

Following them came the Arabian
Princes, who protected literature, and revived the Alexandrian
schools, establishing also other seats of learning. But in the
thirteenth century the Turks conquered Egypt, and all its
literary glory henceforth departed. It has had no further
development, and no influence in shaping the literature of
foreign nations. What it might have been if the literary
treasures of Egypt had not been destroyed by Cambyses and the
Saracens, we can only guess. Great literary monuments must have
been lost, which would shed more light on the civilization of the
ancient world.


GREEK.

A modern writer says of the Greeks:

"All that could beautify the meagre, harmonize the incongruous,
enliven the dull, or convert the crude material of metaphysics
into an elegant department of literature, belongs to the Greeks
themselves, for they are preeminently the 'nation of beauty.'
Endowed with profound sensibility and a lively imagination,
surrounded by all the circumstances that could aid in perfecting
the physical and intellectual powers, the Greeks early acquired
that essential literary and artistic character which produced
their art and literature."

Whatever the Greeks learned or borrowed from others, by the skill
with which they improved, and the purposes to which they applied
it, became henceforth altogether their own. If they were under
any obligation to those who had lived before them for some few
ideas and hints, the great whole of their intellectual refinement
was undoubtedly the work of their own genius; for the Greeks are
the only people who may be said in almost every instance to have
given birth to their own literature. Their creations stand almost
entirely detached from the previous culture of other nations. At
the same time it is possible to trace a thread running back to
remote antiquity, to show that their first hints of a literature
came from Asia. Their oldest traditions and poems have many
points of resemblance to the most ancient remains of the Asiatic
nations. Some writers say that "this amounts to nothing more than
a few scattered hints or mutilated recollections, and may all be
referred to the common origin of mankind, and the necessary
influence of that district of the world in which mental
improvement of our species was first considered as an object of
general concern." But this proves at least that there was an
older civilization and literature than the Greeks, and that that
civilization had its root in the East. According to their own
testimony the Greeks derived their alphabet from the Phoenicians,
and the first principles of architecture, mathematical science,
detached ideas of philosophy, as well as many of the useful arts
of life, they learned from the Egyptians, or from the earliest
inhabitants of Asia.

The essential characteristic of the Greeks as a nation was the
development of their own idea, their departure from whatever
original tradition they may have had, and their far-reaching
influence on all subsequent literature throughout the world. They
differed in this from all other nations; for to quote again:

"the literature of India,with its great antiquity, its language,
which is full of expression, sweetness of tone, and regularity of
structure, and which rivals the most perfect of those western
tongues to which it bears such a resemblance, with all its
richness of imagery and its treasures of thought, has hitherto
been void of any influence on the development of general
literature. China contributed still less, Persia and Arabia were
alike isolated until they were brought in contact with the
European mind through the Crusaders, and the Moorish Empire in
Spain."

This independence and originality of Greek literature is due in
some measure to the freedom of their institutions from caste; but
another and more powerful cause was that, unlike the Oriental
nations, the Greeks for a long time kept no correct record of
their transactions in war or peace. This absence of authentic
history made their literature become what it is. By the purely
imaginary character of its poetry, and the freedom it enjoyed
from the trammels of particular truths, it acquired a quality
which led Aristotle to consider poetry as more philosophical than
history.

The Homeric poems are in a great measure the fountainhead from
which the refinement of the Ancients was derived. The history of
the Iliad and the Odyssey represent a state of society warlike it
is true, but governed by intellectual, literary and artistic
power. Philosophy was early cultivated by the Greeks, who first
among all nations distinguished it from religion and mythology.

Socrates is the founder of the philosophy that is still
recognized in the civilized world. He left no writings behind
him; but by means of lectures, that included question and answer,
his system, known as the dialectics, has come down to us.

Aesop, who lived 572 B.C., was the author of some fables which
have been translated into nearly every language in the world, and
have served as a model for all subsequent writings of the same
kind. In 322 B.C., the centre of learning owing to the conquests
of Alexander the Great, was moved to Egypt in the city that bears
his name. Here the first three Ptolemies founded a magnificent
library where the literary men of the age were supported by
endowments. The second Ptolemy had the native annals of Egypt and
Judea translated into Greek, and he procured from the Sanhedrim
of Jerusalem the first part of the Sacred Scriptures, which was
later completed and published in Greek for the use of the Jews at
Alexandria. This translation was known as the Septuagint, or
version of the Seventy; and is said to have exercised a more
lasting influence on the civilized world than any book that has
ever appeared in a new language. We are indebted to the Ptolemies
for preserving to our times all the best specimens of Greek
literature that have come down to us.


THE NEW TESTAMENT AND THE GREEK FATHERS.

The interdependence of Greek literature includes some reference
to the Greek fathers and their writings.

Many of the books of the Old Testament, regarded as canonical by
the Catholic Church; but known as the Apochrypha among
non-Catholics, were written in Greek. A number of them are
historical, and of great value as illustrating the spirit and
thought of the age to which they refer. The other class of
writers includes the work of Christian authors. Greek and Latin
writings wholly different from Pagan literature, began to appear
soon after the first century, and their purifying and ennobling
influence was more and more felt as time passed. The primitive
Christians held these writings of the Greek and Latin fathers in
great esteem, and in the second and third centuries Christianity
counted among its champions many distinguished scholars and
philosophers, particularly among the Greeks. Their writings,
biblical, controversial, doctrinal, historical and homiletical,
covered the whole arena of literature.

Justin Martyr, Clement of Alexandria, Eusebius, Athanasius,
Gregory Nazianzen, Basil, and John Chrysostom are only a few of
the brilliant names among Greek and Latin writers, who added a
lasting glory to literature and the Church.


ROMAN.

To the Roman belongs the second place in the classic literature
of antiquity. The original tribes that inhabited Italy, the
Etruscans, the Sabines, the Umbrians and the Vituli had no
literature, and it was not until the conquest of Tarentum in 272
B.C. that the Greeks began to exercise a strong influence on the
Roman mind and taste; but Rome had, properly speaking, no
literature until the conclusion of the first Punic war in 241
B.C.

This tendency to imitate the Greek was somewhat modified by Roman
national pride. We catch sight of this spirit in Virgil and
Horace, in Cicero and Caesar. The graceful softening of language
and art among the imaginative Greeks, becomes in the Romans
austere power and majesty, with a tendency to express greatness
by size. These early indications of race characteristics never
died out, as we may see by the contrast between the Apollo
Belvidere of the Greeks, and the Moses of Michelangelo. The
oldest existing example of Latin or Roman literature is the
sacred chant of the Frates Arvales. These latter composed a
college of Priests whose prescribed duty was to offer prayers for
abundant harvests. This took place in the spring, in solemn
dances and processions, not unlike the Bacchic festivals of the
Greeks, although the Roman dances took place in the temple with
closed doors. The dance was called the tripudium from its having
three rhythmical beats. The inscription of this litany of the
Frates was discovered in Rome in 1778, and experts have agreed
that the monument belongs to the reign of Heliogabalus, 218 A.D.
It is said to contain the very words used by the priests in the
earliest times.

"Most of the old literary monuments in Rome," says a modern
writer, "were written in Saturnian verse, the oldest measure used
by the Latin poets. It was probably derived from the Etruscans,
and until Ennius introduced the heroic hexameter the strains of
the Italian bards flowed in this metre. The structure of the
Saturnian is very simple, and its rhythmical arrangement is found
in the poetry of every age and country. Macaulay adduces as an
example of this measure, the following line from the well-known
nursery song:

   'The queen was in her parlor, 
    Eating bread and honey.'

From this species of verse, which probably prevailed among the
natives of Provence (the Roman Provencia) and into which at a
later period, rhyme was introduced as an embellishment, the
Troubadours derived the metre of their ballad poetry, and thence
introduced it into the rest of Europe."

Literature with the Romans was not of spontaneous growth; it was
chiefly due to the influence of the Etruscans, who were their
early teachers, they lacked that delicate fancy and imagination
that made the Greeks, even before they emerged from a state of
barbarism, a poetical people. The first written literature of the
Romans was in the form of history, in which they excelled. Like
other nations, they had oral compositions in verse long before
they possessed any written literature. The exploits of heroes
were recited and celebrated by the bards of Rome as they were
among the Northern nations. Yet these lays were so despised by
the Romans that we can scarcely see any trace of their existence
except in certain relics which have been borrowed from true
poetry and converted into the half fabulous history of the infant
ages of Rome. That the Romans, as a people, had no great national
drama, and that their poems never became the groundwork of a
later polished literature was due to the incorporation of
foreigners into their nation who took little interest in the
traditions of their earlier achievements. Father Ennius (239-169
B.C.), as Horace calls him, was the true founder of Latin poetry.
He enriched the Latin language, gave it new scope and power; and
paid particular attention to its grammatical form. What he has
done was so well done, that it has never been undone, although
later ages added new improvements to the language. In fable Rome
was an imitator of Greece; but nevertheless Phaedrus (16 A.D.)
struck out a new line for himself, and became both a moral
instructor and a political satirist. Celsus, who lived in the
reign of Tiberius, was the author of a work on medicine which is
used as a textbook even in the present advanced state of medical
science.

The Greek belief in destiny becomes in the Romans stoicism. This
doctrine, found in the writings of Seneca, and in the tragedies
attributed to him, led to the probability that he was their
author. Seneca has had many admirers and imitators in modern
times. The French school of tragic poets took him for their
model.

Corneille and Racine seem to consider his works real tragedy.

Cicero's philosophical writings are invaluable in order to
understand the minds of those who came after him. Not only all
Roman philosophy of the time; but a great part of that of the
Middle Ages was Greek philosophy filtered through Latin, and
mostly founded on that of Cicero. But of all the Roman creations,
the most original was jurisprudence. The framework they took from
Athens; but the complete fabric was the work of their own hands.
It was first developed between the consulate of Cicero and the
death of Trajan (180 years), and finally carried to completion
under Hadrian. This system was of such a high order that the
Romans have handed it down to the whole of modern Europe, and
traces of Roman law can be found in the legal formulas of the
entire civilized world.

After the fall of the Western Empire these laws had little force
until the twelfth century, when Irnerius, a German lawyer, who
had lived in Constantinople, opened a school at Bologna, and thus
brought about a revival in the West of Roman civil law. Students
came to this school from all parts of Europe, and through them
Roman jurisprudence was carried into, and took root in foreign
countries. By common consent the invention of satire is
attributed to the Romans. The originator of the name was Ennius;
but the true exponent of Roman satire was Lucilius, who lived
148-102 B.C. His writings mark a distinct era in Roman literature
and filled no less than thirty volumes, some fragments of which
remain. After his death there was a decline in satire until fifty
years later, when Horace and Juvenal gave it a new impetus,
although their style was different from that of Lucilius. Doctor
Johnson was such an admirer of the two finest of Juvenal's
satires that he took pains to imitate them.

Boethius, the last of the Roman philosophers, left a work "on the
Consolations of Philosophy," which is known in all modern
languages. A translation was made into Anglo-Saxon by King Alfred
in 900 A.D. Virgil (70-19 B.C.) has taken Homer as his model in
his great national poem of the Aeneid. In many passages it is an
imitation of the Iliad and the Odyssey. In his didactic poems,
known as the Bucolics, Virgil has made use of Theocritus, while
in the Georgics he has chosen Hesiod as his model. The later
didactic poets of all ages have imitated Virgil, particularly in
England, where Thomson's Seasons is a thoroughly Virgilian poem.
It is easy to see in Virgil where borrowed methods end and native
strength begins; for, in spite of being close imitators of the
Greek, there is a character peculiar to the writers of Rome by
means of which they have acquired an appearance of dignity and
worthiness all their own.


HEROIC POETRY.

The traditions of all nations go back to an age of heroes.
Nature, also, has had her time of stupendous greatness, a period
of great revolutions in nature, of which we can see traces to
this day; and of huge animals, whose bones are still being dug
up. The history of civilization also has its period of great
achievements, and poetry has had its time of the wonderful and
gigantic. In numerous heroic poems of different nations we can
trace the unity of all heroic personages, as in the Iliad and the
Odyssey of Greece, the Sagas of the North in the Nibelungen-lied,
and the Ramayon of the Orient. Freedom, greatness and heroism are
embodied in these poems, and many of them breathe a martial
spirit.

We find the same character, however touched by local color, in
all these beautiful traditions of whatever nation or clime; at
the zenith of success, in the spring-time of youth and hope, on
the very eve of joy unutterable, there often seizes on the soul
of man an overwhelming sense of the hollowness and fleetingness
of life. It is this touch of the spiritual which raises these old
heroic poems to such sublime beauty and power. Poetry of this
kind implies a nation, one which is still, or has been, great;
one which has a past, a legendary history, vivid recollections,
and an original and poetical manner of thought, as well as a
clearly defined mythology.

Poetry of this order--lyric as well as epic--is much more the
child of nature than of art. These great mythological poems for
hundreds of years were never written; but were committed to
memory, sung by the bards, and handed down from one generation to
another until in time they were merged, after the Christian era,
into the historical heroic poems. These in turn were the origin
of the chivalrous poetry which is peculiar to Christian Europe,
and has produced such remarkable effect on the national spirit of
the noblest inhabitants of the world. Nor has this oral poetry
entirely died out. In the present day Mr. Stephen Gwynne has
astonished the world by telling of how he heard aged peasants in
Kerry reciting the classics of Irish-Gaelic literature, legendary
poems and histories that had descended from father to son by oral
tradition; and the same phenomena was found by Mr. Alexander
Carmichael among the Gaelic peasants in the Scottish Highlands
and surrounding islands. It has been said that heroic poetry is
of the people, and that dramatic poetry is the production of city
and society; and cannot exist unless it has a great metropolis to
be the central point of its development, and it is only by the
study of the literature of all nations that we see how
essentially these heroic poems were the foundation of all that
followed them in later ages.


SCANDINAVIAN.

The Scandinavian Nation held, during the Middle Ages, the first
and strongest influence over the poetry and thought of Western
Europe. The oldest and purest remains of the poets of German
Nations are contained in the Scandinavian Edda. Its mythology is
founded on Polytheism; but through it, as through the religion of
all nations of the world, there is a faint gleam of the one
Supreme God, of infinite power, knowledge and wisdom, whose
greatness and justice could not be represented in the form of
ordinary man. Such was the God of the Pagan Germans, and such was
the earliest belief of mankind.

Perhaps the poet priests of primitive times, who shaped the
imaginative mythology of the North, were conscious of the one
true God; but considered Him above the comprehension of the rude
men of the times, so they invented the deities who were more
nearly akin to the material forces that these people alone
understood. The second part of the first Edda contains the great
Icelandic poems, the first of which is the song of Voland, the
famous northern smith.

Voland, or Wayland, the Vulcan of the North, is of unknown
antiquity; and his fame, which spread all over Europe, still
lives in the traditions of all the nations of the North. These
poems, although fragmentary, still far surpass the
Nibelungen-lied, and in their powerful pathos and tragic passion
they surpass any ancient poetry except that of Greece.

The Scandinavians in general, and Icelanders in particular,
traveled over every part of the West, and penetrated into
hitherto unexplored seas, collecting in every quarter the facts
and fancies of the age. In the character of wandering Normans
they exerted a strong influence in shaping poetry, and in
developing the Crusades. They brought back with them to their
Northern homes the Christian and chivalrous poems of the South.
In many of these the likeness to the Icelanders own Northern
Sagas was remarkable, suggesting some still more remote age when
one heroic conception must have dominated all peoples.

After bringing home these poems of Southern Europe, the
Scandinavians proceeded to adapt them to their own use, giving
them a new force and beauty. The marvellous in Southern poetry
became with them something fraught with deeper meaning; and the
Northern version of the Nibelungen-lied acquired an ascendency in
its strength and poetical beauty, over the German heroic. Hence,
during the Middle Ages, the Scandinavians in general, and
Icelanders in particular, came to possess a peculiar chivalrous
poetry of their own. It was, however, destined to share the same
fate as the great poems of the rest of Europe; first to be
reduced to prose romance, and then broken up into ballads. The
chief cause of this breaking up of the old order of poetry was
due to the Reformation. The national poetry was left to be
carried on by the common people alone, and of course in their
hands was corrupted and mutilated. Scott speaks of this in his
Lay of the Last Minstrel, where he describes the old bard, who

" 'Tuned to please a peasant's ear 
The harp a King had loved to hear."

These Bards, or Scalds, meaning Smoothers of Language, were
welcome guests in the early ages, at the Courts of Kings and
Princes. Up to the twelfth century, when the Monks and the art of
writing, put an end to their profession, these poets continued to
come from Iceland and travel all over the world. In return for
their songs they received rings and jewels of more or less value;
but never money. We have a list of 230 Scalds who made a name for
themselves from the time of Dagnar Lodbrok to that of Vladimir
II, or from the end of the eighth to the beginning of the
thirteenth century. When Christianity entered Scandinavia the
spirit of the old tradition still remained with the people, and
became their literature under the name of "Folk Sagas," or as we
would call them, fairy tales. These legends are found not only in
modern Scandinavia, but they have made their way into all the
literature of Europe. Jack the Giant Killer, Cinderella, Blue
Beard, the Little Old Woman Cut Shorter, and the Giant who
smelled the blood of an Englishman (the Fee, Fi, Fo, Fum of our
nursery days), were all heroes and heroines of Scandinavian
songs, later adapted in various ways to the use of different
countries. After awhile this lost art revived in the Romances of
chivalry, and in popular ballads. They describe all the changes
in life and society, and are akin to the ballads of the British
Isles. In them we find the common expression of the life and
feelings of a common race. The same stories often influenced the
bards of all countries at different periods. These ballads are
all written in the same form and express a certain poetic feeling
which is not found in the Epic Age. In all countries they had a
refrain, or chorus, which marks the migration of poetry from the
Epic to the Lyric form.

"This simple voice of song," to quote a modern author, "travelled
onward from mouth to mouth, from heart to heart, the language of
the general sorrows, hopes and memories; strange, and yet near to
every one, centuries old, yet never growing older, since the
human heart, whose history it relates in so many changing images
and notes, remains forever the same."


SLAVONIC (RUSSIA).

Schlegel says of the Russian Nation:

"Her subjection to the Greek Church was alone sufficient during
the Middle Ages, and is in some measure sufficient even in our
own time, to keep Russia politically and intellectually at a
distance from the rest of the Western world."

Little if any part was taken by the Slavs in the Crusades. They
had hardly any of the spirit of chivalry, and their belief,
during their period of barbaric heathenism, was not so romantic
and ideal as the Gothic.

The heroic prose tales of Russia are older and more popular than
her ballads. They are told in the nurseries, and recount the
heroic deeds of Vladimir the Great. The ballads are mostly a
recital of the feuds between the Poles and the Tartars, not
unlike the Border ballads of Scotland.

Their greatest hero is Yermak, who conquered the Mongols, and in
the fifteenth century won for the Czars the country that is now
called Siberia. Yermak's deeds and praises are sung from one end
of Russia to the other, even at the present day; and the poorest
peasants usually have a colored print representing him on
horseback, nailed to the wall of their cabins.


SERBIAN.

The popular poetry of the Slavic race, which still survives, is
found in its perfection among the Serbians and Dalmatians, while
it is almost extinct among the other nations. It is of unknown
antiquity, and has been handed down from one century to another.

The Slavs have always been a singing race, and must have been so
from Pagan times, as their songs abound with heathen gods and
customs, dreams, omens, and a true Eastern fatalism. Love and
heroism are the usual themes, and among the Serbians the peculiar
relation of sister and brother forms the principal subject of
interest.

A Serbian woman who has no brother is considered a fit subject
for sympathy. The Serbian poetry is nearly all Epic, and in this
particular class of verse no modern nation has been so
productive. There is a grand and heroic simplicity in their song,
as it recounts their daily life; the hall where the women sit
spinning near the fire, the windswept mountain side, where the
boys are pasturing their flocks, the village square where youths
and maidens dance, the country ripe for the harvest, and the
forest through which the traveller journeys, all reecho with
song. This Serbian poetry first became generally known in Europe
through Goethe and Grimm in Germany, and Bowring and Lytton in
England.


FINNISH.

The Finnish race reached a high degree of civilization at a very
early period. They have always been distinguished by a love of
poetry, especially for the elegy, and they abound in tales,
legends and proverbs. Until the middle of the twelfth century
they had their own independent kings, since then they have been
alternately conquered by the Russians and Swedes; but like the
Poles, they have preserved a strong national feeling, and have
kept their native language. Their greatest literary monument is
the Kalevala, an epic poem. Elias Lonnrot, its compiler, wandered
from place to place in the remote and isolated country in
Finland, lived with the peasants, and took from them their
popular songs, then he wrote the Kalevala, which bears a strong
resemblance to Hiawatha. Max Muller says that this poem deserves
to be classed as the fifth National Epic in the world, and to
rank with the Mahabharata and the Nibelungen-lied. The songs are
doubtlessly the work of different minds in the earliest ages of
the nation.


HUNGARIAN.

The Magyars, or Hungarians as they are called, came into Europe
from Asia, and first settled between the Don and the Dneiper.
They possessed from remote antiquity a national heroic poetry,
the favourite subject of which was their migration and conquests
under the Seven Leaders. They laid claim to Attila as being of
their nation, and many of their most warlike songs recounted his
deeds and those of the other Gothic heroes. The Magyars have
never taken kindly to foreign influence, and when, in the
fifteenth century, Mathias Corvin tried to bring Italian
influence to bear on them, the result was a decline in
literature, and neglect of the old poems and legends. During the
Turkish invasions the last remnants of the national songs and
traditions disappeared; and under the Austrian rule the
Hungarians have become decidedly Germanized.

Within the past century Kisfalud has sought to restore the
national legends of his country, and a new impetus has been given
to the restoration and preservation of the Hungarian language and
literature.


GOTHIC.

Gothic poems were sung in the time of Attila; but the Gothic
language and monuments have everywhere perished except in Spain,
where the Spanish Monarchs are anxious to trace their descent
from the Gothic Kings. Attila, Odoascar, Theodoric, and the
Amali, with other heroes, Frankish and Burgundian, all appear in
these old poems. The German songs that Charlemagne had collected
and put in writing are undoubtedly the outcome of these ancient
Gothic poems of the first Christian era. Their substance is found
in the Nibelungen-lied and the Heldenbuch.

As in the legends of Troy and Iceland, so also in the
Nibelungen-lied, the story centres on a young hero glowing with
beauty and victory, and possessed of loftiness of character; but
who meets with an early and untimely death. Such is Baldur the
Beautiful of Iceland, and such, also, are Hector and Achilles of
Troy. These songs mark the greatness and the waning of the heroic
world In the Nibelungen-lied the final event is a great calamity
that is akin to a half historical event of the North. Odin
descends to the nether world to consult Hela; but she, like the
sphinx of Thebes, will not reply save in an enigma, which enigma
is to entail terrible tragedies, and lead to destruction the
young hero who is the prey of the gods.

In this we can trace a similarity to the life's history and death
of Christ. In the Middle Ages a passionate love of poetry
developed in the Teutonic race, and caused them to embody
Christianity in verse. The South Germans, and the Saxons in
England, tried to copy the old heroic poems.

In the time of Theodoric, the Goths began to influence the Roman
language and literature; and it is at this period that Roman
antiquity comes to an end and the Roman writers from that time
are classed as belonging to the Middle Ages.

The whole history of literature during the Middle Ages was of a
twofold character. The first, Christian and Latin, was found all
over Europe, and made the protection and extension of knowledge,
its chief object. The other was a more insular literature for
each nation, and always in the language of the people. Theodoric
the Goth, Charlemagne, and Alfred the Great, the chief patrons of
the literature of their age, sought to carry on, side by side,
and to improve, these two literatures, the Latin and the
vernacular. They aimed to refine and educate man by the Latin,
and to increase the national spirit by preserving their national
poetry. While these old heroic poems of the different races are
full of interest and charm for us, we must not forget that the
Latin kept alive and preserved from extinction the whole of
classical and Christian antiquity.

The Middle Ages, so inaptly called "dark," are in truth little
understood. A German writer of the nineteenth century, Friedrich
von Schlegel, says:

"The nations have their seasons of blossoming, as well as
individuals. The age of the Crusades, of chivalry, romance and
minstrelsy, was an intellectual spring among all the nations of
the West. In literature the time of invention must precede the
refinements of art. Legend must go before history, and poetry
before criticism. Vegetation must precede spring, and spring must
precede the maturity of fruit.

"The succeeding ages could have had no such burst of intellectual
vigor, if the preparing process had not been going on in the
Middle Ages. They sowed and we reaped."

Hence, it will be seen that what is looked on as a period of
stagnation and ignorance, was in truth, the waiting time, during
which the inner process of development was going on, soon to
blossom into glorious fruit.


CHIVALROUS AND ROMANTIC LITERATURE OF THE MIDDLE AGES.

From the time of the first Crusade, A.D. 1093, to the end of the
twelfth century, was the golden age of chivalry in Europe. Hence
the poetry of this period partook of the spirit that was abroad
in the world. Of this chivalrous poetry of the Middle Ages there
are three classifications: The first, taken from old legends,
shows a style of verse peopled with the Gothic, Frankish and
Burgundian heroes who flourished in the time of the great
Northern emigrations; and for these there is usually some
historical foundation, while they are also closely knit to the
traditions of the old heathenish mythology of the Gothic Nations.
The second subject of chivalrous verse was Charlemagne, the
Saracens and Roncesvalle. These were chiefly composed by the
Normans, who, after the Crusades, gave a new direction to
literature. Marked changes were introduced by them, not only into
France, but throughout Europe. They were filled with the spirit
of adventure and enthusiasm, and in their onward march conquered
England and Sicily, and took the lead in the next Crusade.
Essentially a poetic people, the wonderful was the object of all
their admiration and desire. Hence they sang old war songs,
especially of the battle of Roncesvalles in which Roland dies
when the Franks are conquered by the Spaniards and Turks.

In the tale of a fabulous Crusade, invented in the ninth century,
and which was embodied in poetry by the Normans, the true history
of the Empire became so bewilderingly mixed up with magicians,
genii, sultans, Oriental fables, and comical characters, who met
with astonishing adventures, that it was difficult to distinguish
the true from the false. There was nothing of the romantic and
wonderful in the history of the East, which did not find its way
into the poetry that treated of Charlemagne and Roland, until it
lost all traces of the real wars and achievements of Charlemagne.
The third subject of chivalric verse was Arthur of the Round
Table; but this, at the time, was also invested with Oriental
wonders and attachments. Other chivalric poetry of this epoch had
to do with Godfrey of Bouillon, the Crusades, and old French
tales and fabliaux which were brought into Europe by the oral
narratives of the Crusaders.

The Northern mythology always abounded with mountain spirits,
mermaids, giants, dwarfs, dragons, elves and mandrakes. These
reappear in the songs of the Crusades, and are elements of the
old Northern and Persian superstitions. All that the East
contributed to the song of the chivalric period was a Southern
magic, and a brilliance of Oriental fancy with which some of the
poems were clothed.

A Persian poem that became very popular in Europe in the Middle
Ages was Ferdusi's Book of Heroes. It has had a marked influence
on the Arabian "Thousand and One Nights." In this poem of
Ferdusi's we note the contest between light and darkness (an idea
nowhere found in Greek poetry). It seemed to touch the poetical
thought of the age of chivalry; for we find it reproduced in
their songs, mingled with Scriptural and love scenes.

Next to Chivalric poetry, the age of the Crusaders was
essentially a period of love songs. They attained their greatest
perfection in Provence, whence they spread over the whole of
France, and from there into Germany in the twelfth century.

Love poetry in Italy failed to attain any degree of perfection
until the time of Petrarch in the fourteenth century; and its
real era in Spain was not until a century later. Love poetry
developed in different ways in Europe, and, as we have seen, at
different times. Except among the Italians it was not so much
borrowed from one nation to another as had been the case with
other branches of literature.

It is different with Chivalric poetry, which was considered the
common property of all. The form of poetical composition also
varied in each country, and the only thing common to all the
nations was rhyme. Almost all the love poems seem to have been
written to be sung, and this was carried to such lengths that in
the reign of Lewis the Pious of Germany, an edict had to be sent
to the nuns of the German Cloisters by their Bishops, forbidding
them to sing their love songs, or Mynelieder.


THE DRAMA.

The history of the drama may be divided into two classes, the
Christian, which began with the Mystery and Morality plays; and
the Greek, which was eminently classic. These two types were the
foundation of all that came after them.

The first dawn of the drama was in Greece; for although the
Hindus also had dramatic poetry, it did not arise until there had
been a lengthened intercourse between Greece and India, so that
the latter undoubtedly borrowed from the former. The learned
writers of ancient times agree that both tragedy and comedy were
originally choral song. It has been said that poetry and song are
divided into three periods of a nation's history, that the Epic
has to do with the first awakening of a people, telling of their
legends, or of some great deeds in remote antiquity. This is
followed by the second stage, which embraces elegiac and lyric
poetry and arose in stirring and martial times, during the
development of new forms of government, when each individual
wanted to express his own thoughts and wishes; and the third is
the drama, which can only be born in a period of civilization,
and which, it has been said, implies a nation.

Hence Greek drama arose at the height of Grecian civilization and
splendor. It originated in the natural love of imitation, of
dancing and singing, especially at the Bacchic feasts. The
custom at these feasts of taking the guise of nymphs and satyrs,
and of wearing masks while they danced and sang in chorus, seems
to have been the beginnings of the Greek drama.

Ancient tragedy was ideal, and had nothing to do with ordinary
life; it arose from the winter feasts of Bacchus, while comedy
was the outcome of the harvest feasts, and the accompanying
Bacchanalian processions, which were more in the nature of a
frolic than of real acting. The influence of the Middle and New
Greek comedy, especially, that of Menander, on the Roman comedy
of Terence is well defined. Under Ennius and Plautus the Roman
comedy was fairly original; but Terence wrote for the fashionable
set, like Caecilius and Scipio Africanus, and consequently
imitated Greek models very carefully. The drama in Rome never
attained any noteworthy height although the French tragic poets
took Seneca for their model.

In the time of Lorenzo the Magnificent there was a great revival
in Italy of the ancient classic drama, of which Poliziano was the
most successful exponent. Both he and the later writers, however,
made no attempt to found any National Italian drama--their works
are entirely an imitation of the tragedies of Sophocles and
Euripides, and the comedies of Plautus and Terence.

The Melodrama, which arose in the seventeenth century, is
distinctly Italian and national, and has been extensively
produced all over the civilized world. Alfieri, in the eighteenth
century, is the greatest and most patriotic of the Italian
tragedians, and he did as much to revive the national character
in modern times as Dante did in the fourteenth century.

In France we have the dramatic representation of the Mysteries in
the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, introduced by the pilgrims
who had returned from the Crusades. At first these performances
were given in the street, but later a company was formed, called
the "Confraternity of the Passion," the suffering of Christ being
its chief representation. This Mystery is the most ancient
dramatic work of modern Europe, and gives the whole Gospel
narrative from the birth of our Saviour until His death. Being
too long for a play of one act, it was continued from day to day.
What would seem irreverent on a modern stage was regarded as
perfectly simple and natural in the Middle Ages, and it was a
potent factor in teaching the masses the truths of their faith.

Following these Mysteries of the Passion came a host of other
plays taken from the Old Testament, or from the lives of the
Saints. The earliest "Miracle" on record is the Play of St.
Catherine, which was represented at Dunstable about 1119, written
in French; it was in all probability a rude picture of the
miracles and martyrdom of the saint.

The stage was divided into three different floors, with Heaven on
top, hell on the ground floor, and the earth between. Frequently
the play would proceed in all three divisions at once, with
angels and devils ascending and descending by means of ladders,
as their help was needed in the different worlds.

The Devil generally played the part of clown or jester. The
modern puppet play of Punch is a tradition handed down from these
ancient miracles, in which the Evil One was alternately the
conqueror or victim of the human Buffoon; who was also called by
the names of Jester or Vice.

These early miracle plays were generally written in mixed prose
and verse.

The oldest manuscript of a miracle play in English is The
Harrowing of Hell, believed to have been written in 1350.

The Morality plays were the outcome of the Mysteries; they were
either allegorical or else taken from the Parables, or from the
historical events in the Bible. The chief Moralities were
Everyman, Lusty Juventus, Good Counsel, and Repentance. The
oldest English Morality play now extant is The Castle of
Perseverance, written about 1450. It is a dramatic allegory of
human life representing the many conflicting influences that
surround man on his way through the world. Lusty Juventus depicts
in a vivid and humorous way the extravagances and follies of a
young heir surrounded by the virtues and vices, and the misery
which follows a departure from the path of religion and virtue.
Gradually these Moralities were corrupted and became mixed with a
species of comedy called Interludes, a merry and farcical
dialogue. The Four P's, one of the best of these early
Interludes, was written by John Heywood, an entertainer at the
Court of Henry VIII. It turns upon a dispute between a Peddler, a
Palmer, a Pardoner and a Poticary, in which each tries to tell
the greatest lie; plays of this kind are seen in France at the
present day. In the fifteenth century the drama in France became
more secularized and included political events and satire, but
the French were undoubtedly the fathers of drama in the Middle
Ages. Their plays were known a whole century before Spain or
Italy had any theater, while the romantic drama in other
countries of Europe was founded on the early French drama.
Modern drama in France during the time of Corneille, Racine and
Voltaire was almost entirely classic. The French regarded the
Greek standard as the highest art; and sought to imitate it
faithfully, so much so that the French Academy, criticizing a
tragedy of Corneille, said "that the poet, from the fear of
sinning against the rules of art, had chosen rather to sin
against the rules of nature."

Comic drama in France from the end of the sixteenth to the middle
of the seventeenth century was borrowed from Spain, and had to do
with a multiplication of trap doors, dark lanterns, intrigues,
and puzzling disguises, until Moliere, in his "Precieuses
Ridicules" successfully attacked these follies of his age.

The Romantic drama, which arose in the second quarter of the
nineteenth century, holds at present the first place in France.
Its chief exponents have been Victor Hugo, the two Dumases,
Sardou and Octave Feuillet. Between them and the followers of the
Classic School there was for some time a lively war. The latter
wanted to exclude the Romanticists from the Theatre Francais, but
without success. In spite of the beauty of its French, and the
polish of its style, this latest form of the drama in France
frequently offends strongly against morality. In Spain the drama
was at all times thoroughly national. Even when they introduced
mythological, Greek or Roman characters, it was always in a
Castilian dress. In this respect Spain stands alone among the
nations of Europe, as it borrowed nothing from France, Italy or
England. Its earliest plays were the Mysteries, which it is
supposed to have obtained from Constantinople, where the ancient
theatre of Greece and Rome was kept up, in a grosser form, far
into the Middle Ages. In later times this Eastern drama became so
corrupt that the Christian Church tried to offset it by
introducing the Mysteries, and it became a common custom every
year at Christmas, for the Manger at Bethlehem, the Worship of
the Shepherds, and the Adoration of the Magi, to be exhibited
before the Altar, just as the Mysteries of the Passion were
introduced during Lent. The Passion Play at Oberammergau and the
Creche, representing the Manger at Bethlehem, as seen in Catholic
Churches at Christmas, are the sole survivals of these ancient
Mysteries.

The second dramatic period in Spain was pastoral and satirical.
Nothing worthy of note adorns this period in the fifteenth
century. In the sixteenth century de Rueda and Lope de Vega
founded the true national drama of Spain. It was unlike anything
of an earlier period, and yet, resting faithfully on tradition,
it gave a vivid picture of the National Spanish life in all
classes of society. From the gallantries of the "dramas of the
Cloak and Sword," to the historical plays in which Dings and
Princes figure; down to the manners and incidents of common life,
all is essentially Spanish. A fourth class still represented
Scriptural and sacred scenes. Calderon wrote at the height of the
Spanish drama during the reign of Philip II; and after his time
the drama in Spain declined until, in the eighteen century, it
was at its lowest ebb. At this time plays were still held in open
courtyards, and in the daytime, as in the earlier ages. Efforts
were made to subject it to French and Italian rule, but this had
only a limited success; stiff, cold translation from the French
could not please a people who always found in the Spanish drama
an essentially popular entertainment.

In Germany traces of the drama first appeared in the thirteenth
century, when rude attempts to imitate the Mystery plays were
conducted in churches by the priests. But when the populace tried
to introduce the Burlesque, the performances were banished to the
open fields. Students in the universities took part in them, and
they continued until after the Reformation. Brought into Europe
from Constantinople by the Crusaders and pilgrims, the Mystery
plays became the chief amusement of an illiterate age.
Christianity was first thoroughly impressed on the mind of
Northern Europe by means of them; and the first missionaries
familiarized the rude Goths and Huns with Biblical incidents at a
time when reading was unknown outside of the Cloister. No change
in German drama occurred until the seventeenth century, when
operas after the Italian superseded the Mysteries and Moralities.
The production of this age, however, were characterized by bad
taste and pedantry; and it was not until Goethe brought his
genius to bear on the subject, that the Germans acquired any
drama worthy of the name. Whether in his national play Gotz von
Berlichingen or in his classical drama of Iphigenia, this great
German master stands at the summit of his art. Lessing attacked
French drama as enacted in Germany prior to Goethe, and brought
forward the Shakespearian plays as a model.

Schiller's Wallenstein obtained a worldwide reputation, and among
the Romantic dramatists Werner's Attila and Grillparzer's
Ancestress are the best examples of the extravagant and fertile
mind of the German romanticist.

Modern German drama has found the highest art it has ever
attained in the compositions of Richard Wagner, whose operas are
entirely German and National, and mostly founded on the old
German legends. Tannhauser is taken from the epic poem of
"Parzifal," written by Wolfram von Eschenbach in the Middle Ages.
Lohengrin, which is touched on in the "Parzifal," Wagner also
found in the poem of an obscure Bavarian poet; and a more
complete account of the celebrated "Swan Knight" appears in a
collection of stories edited by the brothers Grimm. Lohengrin is
a Knight of the Holy Grail, so part of the legend is borrowed
from ancient Britain.

All dramatic effort in England before the sixteenth century was
so rude as to be of little account. The Miracle and Mystery plays
were introduced into England in the reign of Henry VI, and many
of them had a personage called "Iniquity," a coarse buffoon,
whose object was to amuse the audience. After the Reformation the
Protestant Bishop Bale wrote plays on the same plan as the
Mysteries, intended to instruct the people in the supposed errors
of Popery. These plays, which deal largely in satire, became
popular and after the era of Henry VIII were known as Interludes.
In the beginning of the sixteenth century real comedy and tragedy
began to exist in a rude form. The oldest known English comedy,
Ralph Royster Doyster, was written by Nicholas Udall, and
describes a character whose comic misadventures are somewhat akin
to Don Quixote.

The earliest tragedy, Gorboduc, known also Ferrex and Porrex, was
played in the Lower Temple. It is founded on the legends of
fabulous British history. The tragedies of Marlowe and the
legendary plays of Greene come next in order, followed by the
golden age of English drama, from the dawn of the Shakespeare
plays in 1585 until the closing of the theatre in 1645 on the
breaking out of the Civil war in England. For a period of sixty
years the splendid genius of the world's greatest dramatist gave
to mankind a series of plays that have no equal in the literature
of any country or age.

Contemporaneous with Shakespeare, or coming after him, were
Beaumont and Fletcher, Ben Jonson, Massinger, Ford, and Shirley;
these Elizabethan dramatists took their subjects from the stories
and legends of all countries and ages--or else they depicted the
national life. For this reason English drama has been called
Irregular, in contrast to the Greek, which is called the Regular,
and that of modern France, founded upon the Greek. The chief rule
of the Regular is the Unity of Time, Place and Action. In the
Greek, the time of action was allowed to extend to twenty-four
hours, and the scene to change from place to place in the same
city; but Shakespeare and his contemporaries acknowledged no
fixed limit either of time, place or action. The operation of
their plays covered many different countries, and the time
extended over many years; but the rule that laid down in the
Greek drama the principle that there should be unity of action
(everything being subordinate to a series of events, which form
the thread of the plot), was adopted by Shakespeare and his
contemporaries. It has been called "unity of impression," as
opposed to unity of time and place.


ARABIAN.

The rise and development of Arabian literature occurs at an epoch
when the rest of Europe was struggling through a period of
transition. From the middle of the sixth to the beginning of the
eleventh century, at a time when the Roman dominions were overrun
by Northern hordes, and the Greek Nation was groaning under the
Byzantine power, when both Greek and Latin literature was exposed
to the danger of extinction, the splendor of Arabian literature
reached its zenith and through the mingling of the Troubadours
with the Moors of the Peninsula, and of the Crusaders with the
Arabs, it began to influence the literature of Europe.

Arabia, peopled by wandering tribes, had no history other than
the songs of the national bards, until after the rise of Mohammed
in the sixth century. The desire of the prophet was to bring his
people back from idolatry and star worship to the primitive and
true worship of God. He studied the Old and New Testament, the
legends of the Talmud and the traditions of Arabian and Persian
mythology, then he wrote the Koran, which became the sacred book
of the Arabians, and in which is traced in outline the true plan
of man's salvation--Death, Resurrection, the Judgment, Paradise
and the place of torment. Good and evil spirits, the four
archangels, Gabriel, Michael, Azrael and Izrafeel, are all found
in the Koran; but clothed with a true Oriental fancy. Besides the
angels there are creatures, partly human and partly spiritual,
called Genii, Peris (or fairies) and Deev (or giants). The Genii
have the power of making themselves seen or invisible at
pleasure. Some of them delight in mischief, and raise whirlwinds,
or lead travellers astray. The Arabians used to say that shooting
stars were arrows shot by the angels against the Genii when they
approached too near the forbidden regions of bliss.

This fairy mythology of the Arabians was introduced into Europe
by the Troubadours in the eleventh century, and became an
important factor in the literature of Europe. From it, and the
Scandinavian mythology spring all the fairy tales of modern
nations. And these romances of the Koran form the groundwork of
the fabliaux of the Trouveres, and of the romantic epics of
Boccaccio, Tasso, Ariosto, Spenser and Shakespeare. Mohammed's
teaching unified the different tribes of Arabia, and fostered a
feeling of national pride, and a desire for learning. So rapidly
did this develop that in less than a century the Arabian power
and religion, as well as its language, had gained the ascendency
over nearly half of Africa, a third of Asia, and a part of Spain;
and from the ninth century to the sixteenth, the Arabian
literature surpassed that of any nations of the same period.

This people, who, in a barbarous state had tried to abolish all
cultivation in science and literature, now became the masters of
learning, and they drew from the treasure houses of the countries
that they had acquired by conquest, all the riches of knowledge
at their command.

The learning of the Chaldeans and of the Magi, the poetry and
fine arts of Asia Minor, the eloquence and intellect of Africa,
all became theirs.

Greece counts nearly eight centuries from the Trojan war to the
summit of her literary development. Casca. 'S is true, it does
not fit. Decius. If no one else, as Caesar, touched? Cassius. Yes,
well considered! Me seems that Mark Anthony, so popular at the
Caesar, the Caesar can not survive. He will join us in looking
scheming show, and you know that his power when he uses it, probably
sufficed, we all need to create. To defend the case both Caesar
and Antony. Brutus. Blutge Too way Cajus Cassius, wär's, The
Main zerhaun off and the limbs, Like wrath in death and malice
behind. Anthony is just a member of the Caesar. Opferer Let us
not slaughterman, Cajus.

We all stand against Caesar's spirit, And in the spirit of man
is no blood. O but we could achieve And Caesar's spirit Cäsarn
not zerstücken! But oh! Caesar must bleed for him. Noble friends,
kühnlich Let us kill him, but not angry, let's cutting it a feast
for the gods, Not zerhauen him like a carrion for dogs. Let
our hearts, like smart men, to stir up their act quickly
servant. And then Scheine diminish. This will need our works
and not spiteful; And if it so the people of Aug appears, is to
get cleaner, not murderers call.

What concerns Mark Anton, does not think of him, because he can no
more than Caesar's arm When Caesar's main only fell. Cassius.
But I fear him, because his love so strongly depends on the
Caesar. Brutus. Alas, good Cassius, denket not him! Loves it
Caesar, so he can not as against it; härmen is, for him to die
. and that would be a lot from him, because he is a pleasure,
The Wüstheit, the resulting binge. Trebonius. It is no Arg in
him and he do not die. For he will live once and this belachen.
(The bell is proposing.) Brutus . Still! counts the bell.
Cassius. It has three beaten. Trebonius. It is time to sheaths.
Cassius. But doubt I still Whether Caesar will now want
to appear, because he is superstitious recently been quite the
opposite, as he thought of otherwise dreams, imagination
and heilgen customs. Perhaps, that the great wonders of things,
the unusual horror of that night, and his persuasion Augurn
removes him from the Capitol for today holds. Decius. The fear
of never, if he so decided, Sun übermeistr 'I him. He hears
it like The unicorn could start with trees, the lion in the
network, the Elephant in pits, the bear with mirrors and humans
by flatterers; But I tell him that he hates flatterers, he affirms
it, most then flattered.

Let me give, because I understand his mind to steer, And to bring
him to the Capitol.

Cassius. Yes, let's all go to him to fetch. Brutus. The eighth
hour on the latest, is not it? Cinna. This is the latest, and
then still not enough. Metellus. Cajus Ligarius Caesar is the
enemy who's referred to him, that he praised Pompey, I am surprised
that nobody's thought. Brutus. well, good Cimber, goes only
to him He loves you very much, and I gave him reason; hieher send
him, I will agree with him already. Cassius. The morning rush
us: let us go. allayed you friends, but remember all of what you
said and show yourselves real Romans. Brutus. Behold, worthy
men, fresh and cheerful; Carrying your intent is not on
your forehead. No,'s leads through as heroes of our scene,
with munterm spirit and strength würdger. And therefore you
overall good morning! (All from except Brutus.) Hey, Lucius! -
fixed in your sleep? It harms nothing. Enjoy the honey-heavy dew
of slumber.

You see shapes not, nor imagination, what a brain geschäftge
Sorg met; Drum are you sleeping so well. Portia occurs. Portia.
My husband! Brutus!
Hence a new dialect from these
contending elements was gradually formed, and became known, like
the other languages of southern Europe, as the Romanic. The
distinguishing feature of Spanish literature, from its birth, to
the time of Ferdinand and Isabella, is religious faith and
knightly loyalty. Qualities which sustained the whole nation in
its struggle against the infidel Moors.

The first great Spanish work is the poem of the Cid. It is the
only epic Spain has ever produced, and is the most ancient of any
in the Romance language. It is also valuable as a faithful
picture of the manners and characters of the eleventh century.
Indeed, the chief characteristic of Spanish song and poetry is
its delineation of the national life. It is said that the Cid is
the foremost poem produced in Europe from the thousand years that
marked the decline of Greek and Roman civilization, to the
appearance of the Divine Comedy. The Count Lucanor, a work of the
fourteenth century, was one of the earliest prose writings in the
Spanish tongue, as the Decameron, which was written about the
same time, was the first in Italian. Both are narrative tales;
but their moral tone is very dissimilar--the Decameron was
written to amuse, while the Count Lucanor is addressed to a grave
and serious nation. These stories have frequently been
dramatized, and one of them gave Shakespeare the outline of his
Taming of the Shrew.

Alfonso the Wise, in the thirteenth century, was the author of a
legislative code known as Las Sieta Partides, or the Seven Parts.
It forms the Spanish common law, and has been the foundation of
Spanish Jurisprudence ever since; and being used also in the
colonies of Spain, it has, since the Louisiana Purchase, become
in some cases the law in our own country.

Juan Ruiz, who lived in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries,
wrote a poem, partly fiction and partly allegorical, called the
Battle of Don Carnival, which strongly resembles Chaucer; both
poets found their material in northern French verse.

Santob, a Jew in the fourteenth century, wrote a poem called the
Dance of Death, which became a favourite subject with both
painters and poets for several succeeding ages.

The literature of Spain may be divided into four classes--the old
Ballads, the Chronicles, the Romances of Chivalry, and the Drama.
The most interesting of the old ballads are historical; but there
are also ballads that have to do with private life wherein appear
the effusions of love, the shafts of satire, the descriptions of
pastoral life, and the oddities of burlesque. One and all,
however, faithfully represent Spanish life. No such popular
poetry is found in any other language. The English and Scotch
ballads belong to a more barbarous state of society, and their
verse is less dignified and lofty than that of the Spaniards, who
were uplifted by a deep religious sense, and an unswerving
loyalty to their sovereign. A state of feeling that elevated them
far above the men and events of border feuds, and the wars of
rival Barons.

The great Spanish heroes, the Cid, Bernardo del Carpo, and
Pelayo, are to this day a vital part of the belief and poetry of
the lower classes in Spain, and are revered as they were hundreds
of years ago. The wandering Mulateers still sing of Guarinos and
of the defeat at Roncesvalles as they did when Don Quixote heard
them on his way to Toboso; and the street showmen in Seville
rehearse to this day the same wonderful adventures that the Don
saw in the Inn at Montesinos. The Chronicles developed among the
more refined and educated classes. The most celebrated is the
Chronicle of Spain, written by Alfonso the Wise. It starts with
the creation of the world, and ends with the death of Alfonso's
father, St. Ferdinand. It contains all the time-honored
traditions of the country, as well as exact historical truth. The
story of the Cid is supposed to be taken from this work.

From the time of Alfonso the Wise to the accession of Charles V
(or from the thirteenth century to the sixteenth), Spain was
flooded by romantic chronicles. The most celebrated is that of
Don Roderick, or an account of the reign of King Roderick in the
eighth century, the conquest of the country by the Moors, and the
efforts to wrest it from them. On this chronicle Robert Southey
has founded most of his poem of Roderic the Last of the Goths.
Whether resting on truth or fable, these old records struck their
roots deep down in the hearts of the people; and their romance,
their chivalry, their antique traditions, and their varied
legends, form a rich deposit from which all the nations of Europe
have drawn material for their own literature. It was not until
the fourteenth century that the romances of chivalry--known in
France two centuries earlier in the stories of Arthur and the
Round Table, and the deeds of Charlemagne--found their way across
the Pyrenees.

Spain, so essentially the land of knighthood, welcomed them
eagerly, and speedily produced a number of like romances which
were translated into French and became famous. The most
celebrated is Amadis, written by de Lobeira, a Portuguese. Its
sole purpose is to set forth the type of a perfect knight, sans
peur et sans reproche. Amadis is an imaginative character; but he
is the first of a long line of doers of knightly deeds,
culminating in Don Quixote, whose adventures have charmed and
delighted the Spaniards, as well as the men of other nations.

Provencal literature began to have an influence on the Spanish in
1113, after the crown of Provence had been transferred from Arles
to Barcelona by the marriage of the then Provencal heiress to
Beranger, Count of Barcelona. This introduction of the Provencal
literature into northeastern Spain had a beneficial result on the
two literatures, fusing them into a more vigorous spirit.

Spain had always maintained the closest relations with the See of
Rome, and numerous Spanish students were educated at the Italian
Universities, hence the Italian literature had some influence on
the Spanish, more lasting as a whole than the effects of
Provencal literature. From 1407 to 1454 King John II tried to
form an Italian school in Spain, gathering around him a poetical
court. This Italian influence extended into the sixteenth
century. Diego de Mendoza, during the reign of Charles V wrote a
clever satirical prose work called Lazarillo de Tormes, which
became the foundation of a class of fiction of which Gil Blas, by
Le Sage, is the best known and most celebrated example.

Except for the Cid, Spain had no historical narrative poems of
any account, and her prose historical works, especially on the
discovery and conquest of America, are of a purely local
character, and had no influence outside of Spain. The beginning
of the eighteenth century saw the accession to the throne of
Philip V, a grandson of Louis XIV; and this brought a strong
French influence into the country, which for a time dominated the
national literature.

A new poetical system founded on Boileau was introduced by Luzan
in his Art of Poetry; but it did not seem to bring about any real
advance in literature; and it was not until Spain threw off this
foreign yoke, that any revival in her literature took place. It
is due to a monk, Benito Feyjoo, in the middle of the eighteen
century that a renaissance in Spanish literature took place.
Feyjoo, a devout Catholic, labored to bring to light scientific
truths, and to show how they harmonized with the true Catholic
spirit. In the same century Isla, a Jesuit, undertook with entire
success, to purify the Spanish pulpit, which had become lowered
both in style and tone. His history of Friar Gerund, which
slightly resembles Don Quixote, aimed a blow at bombastic
oratory, causing it soon to die out. Proverbs which Cervantes had
styled "short sentences drawn from long experience," have always
been a distinctive Spanish product, and can be traced back to the
earliest ages of the country. No fewer than 24,000 have been
collected, and many more circulate among the lower classes which
have not been recorded in writing.


PORTUGUESE.

The earliest imitators in Europe of the bucolic poetry of Virgil,
were the Portuguese; and as a people they thought that the
pastoral life was the ideal model for poetry. This idea is
strongly brought out by Ribeyro in the sixteenth century.

The great number of Mocarbians that settled in Portugal infused
into them as a nation, a stronger Orientalism than is found
elsewhere in Europe, and their poetry was of an enthusiastic
order, more marked than that of the Spaniards.

Henry of Burgundy, who married a daughter of Alfonso XI of Spain,
in the eleventh century, introduced Provencal poetry. The
Cancioneros, or courtly ballads, in imitation of the Provencal,
were sung by wandering minstrels, and Portuguese poetry retained
its Provencal character until the end of the fourteenth century.

In the fifteenth century, the Portuguese invaded Africa, and
Vasco de Gama pointed out to Europe the new and unknown route to
India. Fifteen years later, toward the close of the century, a
Portuguese kingdom was founded in Hindostan, causing a strong
counter-current of Orientalism to invade Portugal. The people
awoke to a desire for greatness; and poetry and the arts
flourished. This period, extending into the sixteenth century, is
called the golden age of Portuguese literature.

The Os Lusiades, an epic poem, that has been called "one of the
noblest monuments ever raised to the national glory of any
people," was written by Luis de Camoens, a Portuguese of the
sixteenth century. It is intensely patriotic, although it is
touched by both Greek mythology, and the Italian style, which
during this epoch had been slightly blended with the Portuguese.
Portugal had little or no influence on the literature of any
nation but her own, receiving her strongest impressions from
outsiders. In the eighteenth century she was dominated both in
taste and manners by the French, and the beginning of the
nineteenth century found her a great admirer and imitator of
English literature.

National songs are known to have been sung in Portugal during the
earliest times; but none of them have come down to us. They were
doubtless similar to the other bardic songs of Europe.


FRENCH.

It is in the first ages of national existence that the
foundations of national character and poetry are laid; and the
farther back that history is studied, the more closely do we find
the different peoples of the world united in their literature.
Its first history in France is undoubtedly that of the
Troubadours. Provence, where it originated, early became an
independent kingdom, while in the north the literature of the
Trouveres became the foundation of the national literature of
France. Latin was the language of the country after its conquest
by Julius Caesar; then came the Northern hordes, when language
became corrupted, until, in the time of Charlemagne, German was
the Court language, Latin the written language, and the Romance
dialect, still in its barbaric state, was the speech of the
people. "[Illustration] As she spoke these words, she slipped off
and the next moment, splash! fell to's chin in salt
water. My first thought was that it had fallen into the sea,
"and in that case can I do with the rail travel back," she spoke
with him.In the tenth century the Normans invaded France, and infused
another element in the language, which gradually became Norman-
French; and from the twelfth century the two dialects were known
as Provencal and French. The Provencal dialect, although much
changed, is still spoken in Provence, Languedoc, Catalonia,
Valencia, Majorca, and Minorca, while the French was brought, by
gradual polish, to its present perfection.

The Troubadours who flourished for three centuries, from 950 to
1250, used the Romance language in their poems. The brilliance of
this period of literature, its sudden rise, and as sudden
disappearance, is not unlike the rise and fall of the Arabian
literature.

Among the thousands of poets who flourished during this time,
none ever wrote anything of any special note. The love, romance
and imagination of these poems breathes that chivalry toward
women, amounting almost to veneration, which was a feature of
this class of poetry. It is therefore to be regretted that as
actual tales, shorn of the poetical and chivalric setting, there
was something left to be desired. The immorality of the
incidents, and the coarseness of the language, makes this "Gay
Science," as the Troubadours called it, unfit to be classed with
the best literature. In 1092 the crown of Provence passing to the
Count of Barcelona brought a more refined taste into the
Provencal poetry; the arts and the sciences of the Arabians
obtained a foothold in the country; rhyme--the method used in
Arabian poetry, was adopted by the Troubadours, and from them has
been handed down to the nations of modern Europe.

This period has been described as "one that shone out at once
over Provence and all the south of Europe, like an electric flash
in the midst of profound darkness, illuminating all things with
the splendor of its flame."

During the Crusades many of the Troubadours departed for the Holy
Land. In the history of the world there is no event that fired
the poetry and imagination of the people like these holy wars,
and religious enthusiasm began to influence the poetry of the
time. When the Plantagenet kings of England assumed by right the
sovereignty over Languedoc (as Provence was called), a new
impetus was given to the Provencal poetry, as well as a wider
scope, when it was introduced into England. Chaucer, the father
of English literature, found in the Provencal literature all his
first models.

With the decline of the Troubadours occurred the rise of the
Trouveres in northern France.

In the tenth century Normany was invaded by Rollo the Dane, who
incorporated himself and his followers with the Normans. They
adopted the Norman-French; but gave it a power and scope it had
hitherto lacked. While the Romance-Provencal in the South was a
language of sweetness and beauty, the Northern language after the
advent of Rollo, was strong and warlike. Its poetry, which
differed from the love chansons of the South, was the song of
brave warriors, recounting the heroic deeds of their ancestors.

The Langue d'oui, as this Northern speech was called, became, in
the twelfth century, the universal medium of literature. The
poets and story writers called themselves Trouveres, and they
invented the fabliaux, the dramatic mysteries and romances of
ancient chivalry. The first great literary work of this class is
a marvellous history of the early kings of England, commencing
with Brutus, a grandson of Aeneas, who, sailing among many
enchanted Isles, at length settles in England, where he meets
Arthur of the Round Table, and the old wizard, Merlin, one of the
most popular creations of the Middle Ages. Born of this legend
were some of the best known of modern romances. As the girl came
to him and whispered into his ear: "Thou, Peter, what's really
going on with you? Say only? Aunt Agnes has cried, as I
came. Sag doch! I am so curious! "" That you do not anyway,
"Peter made himself gracefully from his coat zuzuknöpfen." Bist
du mir bös? "Asked the little Lizzi and moved to relocate
Peters hair. "Come, be merry! You do not always hang their heads.
If you're funny, I want to kiss you, too - really!

"And she approached her cheeks with the face of the boy.
And she looked at him with that strange little girl coquettishness.
Peter lips pressed together and his head was indeed difficult to
him. And with two fingers, he moved to the lower lip and tore
a piece of skin away. All this notion Lizzi not.

Not why he became so red, and not even his silence. But suddenly,
while they sinnend to heaven emporblickte, gushed down her cheeks
on a flood of shame. They turned and ran into the house. And
Peter shook his head sorrowfully. He felt agitated and bitter and
unhappy and did not know why. Spiteful and hostile, he looked to
the ground. [Illustration] [Illustration] V. And in the evening,
they went home together, hand in hand. It was the sun and on
the western the sky was red like a big, smooth Farbenklex. The
sky was cloudless, he looked like in its clarity and
polished from the trees in the gardens, the bushes and the
hedges were with her blue-violet color almost hineingraviert
into the steel blue of the sky. We saw no eilfertigen
people, each seemed to be tired like after a bath. You could
do nothing else to think about than just that, how beautiful
this evening was.
The Arabian tales, which had found their
way into France, were also turned into verse, while the anecdotes
that were picked up in the castles and towns of France, furnished
other material for the fabliaux. These tales were the common
property of the country at large, and are the source from which
Boccaccio, La Fontaine, and others drew their inspiration. Some
of them became famous and have been passed down from one age to
another.

The Renard of Goethe, and the Zaire of Voltaire were taken from
the old fabliaux. In the fourteenth century the coming of the
Popes and the Roman Court to Avignon introduced an Italian
element, and the language of Tuscany took the place of the
Provencal among the upper classes.

La Fontaine, called the "Prince of Fablists," appeared in the
seventeenth century. Many of his fables were borrowed from
ancient sources; but clothed in a new dress. He has been closely
imitated by his Confreres and by the fablists of other nations;
but has easily remained the most renowned of them all.

The philosophy of Descartes in the sixteenth century prepared the
way for Locke, Newton and Leibnitz; and his system, although now
little used, was really the foundation of what followed. He is
said to have given new and fresher impulse to mathematical and
philosophical study than any other student, either ancient or
modern.

Pascal, a contemporary of Descartes, is renowned for his
Provencal Letters, a book that has become a classic in France. It
is full of wit, and of exquisite beauty of language; but its
teaching is pure sophistry. Pascal first set the example of
writing about religion in a tone of mock levity, especially when
by so doing, he could abuse the Jesuits. In the end this weapon
of keen and delicate satire was turned against Christianity
itself, when Voltaire in the eighteenth century recognized its
possibilities, and made use of it.

The older French literature in the sixteenth century had become
so neglected, and was so lacking in cultivation; so little
adapted to poetry, that the nation seemed in danger of losing all
its earlier traditions. For a hundred years France was given over
to profane and light literature. Montaigne, Charyon, Ronsard and
de  Balzac are some of the names of this period. The death of a
cat or dog was made the subject of a poem that was no real
poetry. It is due to the women of France--to Madame de
Rambouillet and her confreres, and to the literary coteries that
arose in the middle of the seventeenth century--that French
literature acquired a deeper and more serious tone. This period
was followed by the founding of the French Academy, of which
Cardinal Richelieu was the chief patron. The tragic dramatists,
Corneille and Racine, now appeared on the literary horizon.
Racine's language and versification was said to be far superior
to either Milton in English or Virgil in Latin.

In tragedy the French stand pre-eminent; but it is matter for
regret that their subjects are never taken from their own
nation--they rarely represent French heroes; and it is a weakness
of their literature that they make no direct appeal to the
national feeling. There is a close connection between the
classical dramas of Racine and Corneille, and such works as
Pope's Iliad, Addison's Cato and Dryden's Alexander's Feast,
showing the general interest in Greek and Roman subjects during
their time.

The older poetry of the chivalric period was entirely discarded,
though it would have been possible to unite the old chivalric
spirit, the freedom and romance of mediaeval times, with the
later renaissance, as was done by other nations. Alice was
very confused. The declaration of the hat shop it seemed even
to have no sense, and yet there were clearly gesprochne words.

"I do not quite understand you," she said, politely as she
could. "The Marmot Their sleep again," said Hutmacher, and
poured him some hot tea on the nose. The marble animal shook its
head impatiently, and said that without the eyes aufzuthun:
"Of course, that I wanted to even notice." "Have you already Räthsel
Gerath?
It was no part of the plan
of the English philosophers, however, to inculcate such ideas as
the French philosophers drew from their writings. Bacon, who was
profoundly Christian, believed that man alone was the type of
God, and nature the work of God's hands; but the French leaders
in philosophy went beyond this, they deified nature, and threw
aside as mysticism whatever could not be proved by sense.
Voltaire made use of all the wonderful greatness of science, as
revealed by Bacon and Newton, not to exalt the Creator; but to
lower man to the level of the brute. Like the old Greek sophists,
who defended first one side of a question, and then the one
diametrically opposed to it, Voltaire would write one book in
favor of God, and another to deny Him; but it is not difficult to
see which is his real belief. This perverted philosophy of
Voltaire in turn reacted on the English mind, and particularly on
history. We see its workings in both Gibbon and Hume. The "little
philosophy" which "inclineth a man's mind to atheism," led the
eighteenth century philosophers to fancy that Newton's
discoveries meant that everything could be attained without
religion, and that the only true and wide vision could be reached
by the senses alone. They taught a pure materialism, to their own
undoing; for it is not possible to thus lightly throw aside our
great links with the past, in which both Christian and heathen,
knowingly and unknowingly, in mediaeval poetry, in heroic ballad,
and in Egyptian prose, testified to the existence of God.

The nineteenth century in France has been rich in dramatists,
novelists, historians and poets, as well as in science and
learning of all kinds; but it has had no especial power, or aim,
and its opinions are constantly changing. The early novelists
were strongly directed by the writings of Sir Walter Scott, while
later ones have sought to imitate Victor Hugo and George Sand.
The literature of this period has had no effect outside of
France. Poetry has not risen any higher than Alfred de Musset;
and any further greatness in French poetry must come from a
revival of their own ancient poems and legends.

Poetry that deals only with the present becomes local, and in the
end is influenced by the constant caprice and change of fashion
instead of by the deep, heart-stirring beliefs of a strong and
united people.


ITALIAN.

The first general language of Italy was the Latin, and so
strongly was the Italian mind dominated by the influence of
ancient Rome that her earliest writers sought to keep alive the
Roman tradition. This spirit of freedom led to the establishment
of the Italian Republics, and after the Lombard cities threw off
the yoke of Frederick Barbarossa they turned their chief
attention to education and literature. I left myself in my imagination,
tried and prepared forever, built one thousand castles in the air
and not feel that I am the reason for the small building was
destroyed. "While this story had all their kindness Mariane against
Wilhelm posses in order to hide their sleepiness. Thus the
joking incident from one side seemed to her but she was too simple
and the considerations to be serious. She continued her tender
foot on the foot of the beloved, and gave him apparent sign of
their attention and their applause.

They drank from his glass, and William was convinced that there
is no word of his story on the fallen earth. After a short pause
he exclaimed, "It is now up to you, Mariane, I am also your first
youthful joys tell. Still, we were always too busy with the present,
than that we are interdependent with our previous way of life may
have trouble.

Tell me: under what circumstances are you educated? What are
the first lively impressions, which you remember? "These questions
would be in the Marianas have great embarrassment if it is not
immediately the old woman would have to Hülfe." Do you believe,
"said the wise woman," that we are on the what we encountered early
on, so closely is that we like to talk about events, and if we
had to tell them that we are also a matter of such a skill to
know? "" As if it's needed, "cried Wilhelm from. "I love this
gentle, good, lovely creature so much that I am at any moment
of my life verdrießt, without them I had been brought.

Let me at least in part by the imagination of your past lives!
Tell me everything, I will tell you everything. We want to deceive
us wherever possible and for those times the love verlornen looking
to recover. "" If you are so eager to insist, we can
probably satisfy you, "said the old woman." Tell us first how
to show your love to and after growth was, as you practice, how
you have grown so happy that you now for a good actor can
be. It has certainly not you do it in fun events gemangelt.
It is not worth the trouble that we put to rest, I have a
bottle in reserve, and who knows whether we will soon
again be quiet and sit happy together? "Mariane looked
with a sad look on her, not the Wilhelm and remarked in his
conduct. I. Book, 7th Chapter Seventh Chapter "The
diversions of youth, since my county began to proliferate, did the
lonely, quiet enjoyment entry. I was alternately earliest hunter,
soldier, soon, soon to be riders, as is our game with them:
but I had always been a small preference to the others that I
was able to give them the necessary tools to train decorous.

So were the swords mostly from my factory, I decorated and
gilded the sled, and a secret instinct not let me rest until I
am our militia into antiquity had umgeschaffen. Helmets were
verfertiget, bushes decorated with paper, shields, armor even been
made, work in which the servant in the home, around the cutter,
and some of the seams Rinnen needle broke. A part of my young
companions, I saw now well-and the remaining were also gradually,
but low, fitted out, and there was an impressive corps together.
We marched in the courtyards and gardens, beat us to the
brave and shields on their heads, there were some Mißhelligkeit,
but was soon settled. This game, which is very amused the others,
was hardly etlichemal been driven, as I am no longer satisfied.
The sight of so many armed figures had in me needed the Knights
provocative ideas that have been some time since I read old
novels had fallen, my head anfüllten.
It stands
alone; for no man of any country, coming after Dante, has been
able to write from the same motive, and in the same spirit, that
he did. Petrarch, the next greatest after Dante, is chiefly
celebrated for his lyrical poems, which were used as models by
all the most celebrated poets of the South of Europe. They are
written in two forms, the canzone taken from the Provencals, and
the sonnet, taken from the Sicilians. Petrarch kept up a wide
correspondence with the literary men of Europe; and through his
influence a sort of literary republic arose which joined together
the literati of many different countries. Boccaccio, next in rank
to Petrarch, evolved a poetry consisting of Norman wit and
Provencal love, joined to an elaborate setting of his own. He
took Livy and Cicero for his models, and tried to combine ancient
mythology with Christian history, the result being that his
writings were not so fine as they would have been had they
displayed a greater freedom a of style. His most celebrated work
is the Decameron, the idea of which is taken from an old Hindu
romance which was translated into Latin in the twelfth century.
Most of these tales have also been found in the ancient French
fabliaux, and while Boccaccio cannot be said to have really
invented them, he did clothe them anew, and his tales in their
turn have been translated into all the European languages.

It is due to Cosmo and Lorenzo de' Medici, and to Pope Leo X,
that there was such a glorious development of the fine arts in
the fifteenth century, an era whose benefits have been felt among
the cultivated nations for over three hundred years.

At the same time Poliziano created the pastoral tragedy, which
served to revive the study of Virgil. Other poets seizing on the
old romance of the Trouveres, added to them an element of
mockery, in place of the old religious belief. This new spirit
was adopted by Ariosto. From the East he borrowed the magic and
sorcery interwoven in the adventures of his knights and ladies,
giants and magicians. It remained for Torquato Tasso to revive
the heroic epic in his Jerusalem Delivered, in which he depicts
the struggle between the Christians and Saracens. Neither the
Siege of Trod, nor the Adventures of Aeneas could compare with
the splendid dramatic element in Tasso's immortal poem, which has
been said to combine the classic and the romantic style in a new
and unusual degree.

In the sixteenth century Strapparola, an Italian novelist, wrote
a number of fairy tales, which have been a treasure house for
later writers, and to which we are indebted for Puss in Boots,
Fortunio, and other stories which have now become familiar in the
nursery lore of most modern nations. Bandello, in the same
century, was a novelist from whom Shakespeare and other English
dramatists have borrowed much material.

One thing which is peculiar to Italy, and which has found its way
into nearly the whole civilized world, is Italian Opera or
melodrama. It was an outcome of the Pastoral drama, and first
took shape in 1594 under Rinuccini, a Florentine. But the true
father of Italian opera is Metastasio, who flourished in the
eighteenth century. He regarded opera as the national drama of
Italy, and raised it to a plane that it has ever since retained;
though of late years it has become more the fashion to cultivate
German opera.


DUTCH.

Erasmus said of Ghent at the end of the fifteenth century that
there was no city in Europe that could compare with it in
greatness, power, and the cultivation of its people. The lays of
the minstrels and the chivalric romances of other nations were
translated into Dutch. In the middle of the thirteenth century
Reynard the Fox was rendered into the same language, while this
era also saw a translation of the Bible made into Flemish rhyme.

The close of the fourteenth century saw the rise of some
wandering poets called Sprekers, who visited the courts of Kings
and Princes and became so popular that in the fifteenth century
they were federated into different societies that became known as
"Chambers of Rhetoric," somewhat similar to the German Guilds of
the Meistersingers. These societies spread rapidly through the
country, and from rhyme the members passed to the mystery plays,
and to the beginnings of the drama.

The Court of Burgundy in the fifteenth century brought a strong
French element into the literature of the Dutch nation, and the
poets and chroniclers of that age are chiefly Flemish.

The taste for Greek and Latin was introduced into Holland in the
fifteenth and sixteenth centuries by Erasmus and Grotius, the two
most learned men among the Dutch literati of their age.

Hooft in the seventeenth century made an extensive study of
Italian poetry, and succeeded in imparting to his tragic and
lyric verse a certain quality of sweetness and volume which it
has since retained. His style, which also embraces tragedy, has
been extensively imitated by his own countrymen.

Nearly the whole of the eighteenth century passed without any
advancement in Dutch literature. The country experienced the
French influence, in common with the rest of Europe; and French
works and translations abounded. Toward the close of this century
German taste began to predominate, and a young Dutchman, Van
Effen, founded a magazine in French, called the "Spectator,"
which was in imitation of, and on the same lines as the English
magazine of the same name. Many native writers arose at this time
and gained distinction in poetry, prose and the drama; but the
overthrow of the Dutch Republic, and the confusion attending it,
for a time extinguished the national literature, and the
beginning of the nineteenth century saw the country flooded with
poor translations of foreign books, and all the noble national
literature was forgotten. This evil was partly remedied in the
latter part of the nineteenth century; but as a whole, the Dutch
literature, while it has been influenced by foreign taste, has
had little or no weight outside of its own nation, and has not in
any way shaped the literature of other peoples.


GERMAN.

Germany, like the other Northern nations, had primitive war songs
sung by the bards. Her mythology is akin to the Scandinavian, and
like the latter she assigns a high place to women. Tacitus says:
"It is believed that there is something holy and prophetic about
them, and therefore the warriors neither despise their counsels
nor disregard their responses."

This German paganism was eminently fanciful--it peopled the
earth, air and sea with supernatural beings--the rivers had their
Undines, the caverns their Gnomes, the woods their Sprites, and
the ocean its Nixes. Besides these, there were a host of
mythological figures--the Walkyres or bridal maidens, the river
maids; and the white women, Hertha and Frigga. These legends have
formed a rich treasure house from which later German authors have
freely drawn for song or story. Before the Christian age Germany
had no literature and the first national work that can be
dignified by the name is a translation of the Bible into
Moeso-Gothic by Ulphilas, a bishop of the Goths, in the fourth
century A.D. This is a Catholic work that antedated Luther by a
thousand years.

Bishop Ulphilas invented an alphabet of Runic, Greek and Roman
letters, and this translation of the Bible remained the only
literary monument of the Germans for four hundred years. The
minstrel lays of this period were later collected by Charlemagne,
of which two specimens have come down to us. Like the Icelandic,
Anglo-Saxon, Scandinavian, old English, and old Saxon, they are
in a measure called alliteration, that is, a repetition of the
sound without the regular rhyme at the end of lines, or such as
we call rhyme. This circumstance made Klopstock, at a later
period, try to banish rhyme as not being correct according to
ancient usage. One of these poems, the Hildebrand-lied, belongs
to the time of Theodoric the Great. The songs collected by
Charlemagne, were later remodelled and have come down to us as
the Heldenbuch and the Nibelungen-lied. The intellectual light in
Germany went out with the death of Charlemagne, except in the
cloisters.

The Normans on the West and the Hungarians in the East menaced
the country, and the only important literary work of the time is
a poem written by a monk at the close of the ninth century. It is
called "Ludwig's Lied;" and celebrates the triumph of Louis over
the Normans. Roswitha, a nun in the tenth century, wrote some
Christian dramas in Latin that are remarkable as coming from the
pen of a woman in the Middle Ages.

The invasions of the Hungarians and Slavs in the eleventh century
effectually prevented the blossoming of any literary effort,
except for some poems known as the Lombard Cycle, in which the
rude pagan legends of antiquity were blended with the dawnings of
Christianity. But in 1138, when Conrad III became Emperor of
Germany, his accession was followed by the Crusades, which spread
a flame of enthusiasm and chivalry among the Germans.

In 1149 Conrad and Louis VII of France joined forces to lead a
Crusade to the Holy Land, and thus the German and French nobility
became intimately acquainted, and Provencal poetry soon began to
have an effect on German literature.

Emperors and nobles held court and received their foreign guests
with splendid display and hospitality. Poets and singers were
welcomed, and the chivalric literature was soon taken up by the
Suabian minstrels who became known as the Minnesingers.

From 1150 to 1300 was the golden age of Suabian literature and
German chivalry. During this period numerous romances of chivalry
were translated into German.

They have been divided into different classes, or cycles.

The first, and most ancient, have to do with Arthur and the
Knights of the Round Table. Their origin is Anglo-Norman, and
they were probably taken from old Welsh chronicles in an early
age, and were known in Britain and Brittany before the poets
began to put them in rhyme.

The most popular of these romances was the San Graal, or Holy
Grail, a subject that has engaged some of the best poets of all
countries. In this legend the Cup, which was supposed to have
been used at the Last Supper, in some way is brought to Golgotha
during the Crucifixion, and is used to preserve some of the blood
that flows from Christ's side, when it is opened by the soldier's
spear. Joseph of Arimathea is thought to have brought this
precious Cup to Europe, and to have given it into the keeping of
Sir Parsifal. Knowledge of its whereabouts was then lost, so that
knights and heroes make it the object of long and fruitless
quests.

The second cycle of romance has to do with Charlemagne, and is
mostly in the form of translations from French literature.

The third, or classic cycle, relates to the great ones of ancient
times, presented in the role of chivalry. These embrace stories
of Alexander the Great, the Aeneid, and the Trojan war. During
this period there were two classes of songs in Germany; the
minstrelsy, most in favor with the nobility; and the old ballads,
which were most popular with the people. The latter were
gradually collected by different poets of the time, especially by
Wolfram of Eschenbach and put into epic verse, in which form they
have come down to us as the Heldenbuch (or book of heroes), and
the Nibelungen-lied.

The Heldenbuch relates the deeds of Theodoric and Attila and the
outpouring of the Goths into the Roman Empire. In the
Nibelungen-lied the hero is Siegfried, the Achilles of the North,
the embodiment of beauty, courage and virtue. The same personages
are met with in these German legends, as in the Scandinavian
mythology, only in the latter they take on a more godlike form.
The German Brunhild, in the Scandinavian story becomes a
Valkyriur.

The fourteenth and fifteenth centuries witnessed the decline of
the romanticists, the loss of most of the Southern culture, and
all the literature of this time is at a low ebb, partly owing to
the wars of the Germans against the Huns.

The fourteenth century was productive of one class of literature
that was common to all Europe; namely, simple and humorous fables
and satires. "Reynard the Fox" was one of the earliest of these
fables, and remained a great favorite with the Germans, being
finally immortalized by Goethe. The same author has made us
familiar with a personage who figures in an interesting legend of
the fifteenth century. Doctor Faust, or Faustus, is a magician
who by unlawful arts gains a mastery over nature. This legend
became the foundation of a number of stories and dramas, and was
put into verse by Christopher Marlowe, the English dramatist.

The end of the sixteenth century saw a craze for Latin in
Germany. The national tongue was neglected and national poetry
was translated into Latin verse. German poets wrote in the same
classic language, and the university lectures were all delivered
in the same tongue. The seventeenth century saw the Thirty Years'
War, during which all literary activity was completely paralyzed,
and in the course of these thirty years a whole generation,
especially among the lower classes, had grown up unable either to
read or write. But after the Treaty of Westphalia matters began
to improve, and a desire to cultivate the native language awoke.
In 1688 German superseded Latin in the universities. Novels were
published; and about this time appeared a German translation of
Defoe's "Robinson Crusoe" that became very popular. Poets wrote
plays in the style of Terence, or copied English models; and even
in the present day the Germans recall with pride the fact that
the Shakespearean plays were appreciated by them during and after
the Elizabethan age much more than they were by the English
Nation.

Science under Leibnitz also began to take shape in this century,
while Opitz wrote operas in imitation of the Italian style; and
translations from the Italian Marini came into vogue. In the
eighteenth century arose the Saxonic and Swiss schools of
literature, neither of which was devoted to national works.
Gottsched, the founder and imitator of French standards in art
and poetry, is known as the leader in the Saxonic school at
Leipsic, and an advocate of classical poetry.

Bodmer cultivated the English style, and retired to Switzerland
with his friends, where they founded the Swiss school. The
English lyric and elegiac poets had a wonderful influence in
Germany. The followers of this school who were, or pretended to
be, poets, began to write "Seasons" in imitation of Thomson; and
the novels of the time were full of shepherds and shepherdesses.
The craze spread to France, where the French Court took up the
fad of living in rustic lodges, and Marie Antoinette posed as a
shepherdess tending sheep. Each of these poets had numerous
followers, of whom Rambler is known as the German Horace.

Frederick the Great preferred French works, and no one seems to
have thought of starting a German school except Klopstock, who
stands almost alone in the literature of his time and country. A
man of lofty ideals, he believed that Christianity on the one
hand and Gothic mythology on the other, should be the chief
elements in all new European poetry and inspiration. Had he been
encouraged by the German Court he would have been as powerful for
good in German literature during the eighteenth century, as
Voltaire was powerful for evil in France. Wielland, a friend of
Klopstock, and a romantic poet, might have been the German
Ariosto had he not abandoned poetry for prose. He tried to copy
the Greek, in which he failed to excel. During this conflict in
Germany between the French and English school, German literature
was much influenced by Macpherson's Ossian, and Scotch names are
found in a great many German works of this period. The literature
of Germany attained its highest beauty and finish in the
eighteenth and nineteenth centuries; and its people may well be
proud of the splendid names that adorn that period. It was sad the
first time in my life. I remember how empty our room occurred
when the objects will disappear gradually saw us from youth to
entertain, and which we were as immutable as the house itself
and the City "" When I'm not mistaken, so Her father had resolved
the capital in the plot of a neighbor, with whom he a kind of
commercial society was received. "" Quite right! and their
social speculation they are most successful, they have in these
twelve years, their assets much more and are both only on the
more intense by acquisitions, including the old Werner has a son
who is much better to send this craft than I do. " "I'm sorry
that this place such an ornament has lost, as the cabinet of your
grandfather was. I saw it briefly before, before it was sold, and
I dare say, I was the cause that the purchase came about.

A rich nobleman, a great lover, but with such an important trading
not only on his own ruling left, had sent me here and asked
for my advice I besah Six days the Cabinet, and on the seventh
I told my friends, the whole sum required to pay without decency.
They were as a boy often mood around me, you told me
the objects of painting and knew all the cabinet must be
pretty good. "" I remember one such person, but you would not
recognize me. "" It is also already a long time, and we change
ourselves but more or less.

They had, if I remember rightly, a favorite image among them, which
I never wanted to leave. "" Quite right! It presented the
history of how the sick king's son about his father, the bride
in love to consume. "" It was just not the best paintings, not
good together, no special colors, and the execution perfectly
mannered. "" That I understood not and still do not understand it,
the object is to me in a painting is irritating, not art. "

Under these circumstances it was impossible to have a
literature in the language of the people until, in the course of
time, the national languages were formed, and during this period
of transition the Latin was the language of literature, the one
medium of communication between the literati of different
countries; and had it not been for the preservation of learning
in the cloisters during these ages, all knowledge, and
literature, and even Christianity itself, would have been lost.
The monks, therefore, deserve more credit than is usually meted
out to them by hasty or superficial critics.

In the earliest ages Ireland was the seat of the greatest
learning in Europe. While England was still plunged in barbarism,
and France and Germany could boast of no cultivation, Ireland was
full of monasteries where learned men disseminated knowledge. The
Latin language thus became a means for preserving the records of
history, and it has also been a treasure house of stories,
furnishing material for much of the poetry of Europe. One of
these legends gave Scott the story of the combat between Marmion
and the Spectre Knight.

It has been said that the Ancients did not know how to hold
converse with nature, and that little or no sign of it can be
found in their writings. Matthew Arnold has traced to a Celtic
source the sympathy with, and deep communing with nature that
first appeared among European poets. Under the patronage of
Charlemagne the cloisters and brotherhoods became even more
learned and cultivated than they had been before. Whatever the
people knew of tilling the soil, of the arts of civilization, and
of the truths of religion, they learned from the monks. By their
influence States were rendered more secure, and it is to the
monks alone that Western Europe is indebted for the superiority
she attained over the Byzantines on the one hand (who were
possessed of far more hereditary knowledge than she), and over
the Arabs on the other, who had the advantage of eternal power.
The cloisters were either the abode, or the educators, of such
men as the Venerable Bede, Lanfranc and Anselm, Duns Scotius,
William of Malmesbury, Geoffrey of Monmouth (who preserved the
legends of Arthur, of King Lear, and Cymbeline), of Geraldus
Cambrensis, of St. Thomas a Kempis, of Matthew Paris, a
Benedictine monk, and of Roger Bacon, a Franciscan friar, who
came very near guessing several important truths which have since
been made known to the world by later scholars.

The Bible was protected and cherished from age to age in these
cloisters, where it was, in fact, preserved solely by the labors
of the monks, who translated it by hand, with illuminated border
and text. When a new religious house was opened, it would obtain
from some older monastery a copy of one of these priceless copies
of the Sacred Scriptures; and then this new house in its turn,
would set to work to multiply the number of Bibles, through the
labor of its monks and brothers.

The German translation of the Bible was made in classic High
Dutch, and many later writers have fashioned their style from it,
although modern scholars, Catholic and Protestant, have found
many faults in it, especially whole passages, wherein Luther has
erred. This craze for High Dutch caused the historians of both
Denmark and Sweden to utter a vigorous protest against the influx
of High Dutch literature into their respective countries in the
sixteenth century. They averred it was ruining the native
language and literature; but, in spite of this, Lutheranism got a
firm foothold in both these nations.

In the sixteenth century the poetry of all Southern Europe was
affected by the upheaval caused by Luther and his teachings,
while in the Northern countries it was even worse; for, as a
great German author (von Schlegel), has said:

"The old creed could not be driven into contempt without carrying
along with it a variety of images, allusions, poetic traditions
and legends, and modes of composition, all more or less connected
with the old faith."

The struggle that we can trace (in all the works Luther has left)
of his own internal conflict between light and darkness, faith
and passion, God and himself, is a type and indication of what
took place in literature during the Reformation, when the old was
in opposition to the new.


SEVENTEENTH AND EIGHTEENTH CENTURY PHILOSOPHY.

Eighteenth century philosophy in France, Germany and England was
a very different thing from the philosophy of the Ancients. The
latter, says a profound German writer, "recognized in time and
space an endless theatre for the display of the eternal, and of
the living pulsation of eternal love. By the contemplation of
such things, however imperfect, the natural, even the merely
sensible man, was affected by a stupendous feeling of admiration,
well calculated to prepare the way for religious thoughts. It
extended and ennobled his soul to thus regard the past, present,
and future."

"" You do not go on, "said the Mouse to Alice strict. »What do
you think?" "I beg pardon," said Alice very humbly: 'you
were to come to the fifth bend, I think? "" By no means,
"said the mouse decided and very angry." Nieces, "cried
Alice who enjoys making new friends, and was curious to anywhere.
"Oh, where are they, your nieces? Let me go and fetch her!
"" That I will be nice to stay, "said the mouse, they stood up
and fortging. »Your nonsense, I can no longer hear!" I thought
it not bad, "apologized to the poor Alice. "But you're so
very sensitive, you!" The mouse only growled in reply. "Please,
come back and tell your story," Alice called after her, and the
others repeated in chorus: "yes please!" But the mice unwilling
shook his head and walked quickly continued.

"What a pity that it does not want to stay," sighed the parrot
when it is no longer to be seen was an old toad and took the
opportunity to say to her daughter, " Yes, my child! you let
this be a lesson, never to be _übler_ mood! "" Hold your
mouth, Mom! "said the young toad, a little saucy."
Truly, thou wouldst the patience of an oyster exhausted!
"I wish I had our Dinah here, that I wanted, "said Alice loudly,
especially without someone anzureden. "They would get back
soon!" "And who is Dinah, if I may ask?" Said the parrot.
Alice replied eagerly, for she spoke even like her
favorite: "Dinah's our cat, and she is so clever you Mice in
the exercise, it's you can not think! And oh, it would have only
seen birds to hunt. I tell you, it eats a small bird, as they face
him. "Mittheilung This caused great excitement in the
society. Some of the birds which are currently accounted for,
an old Magpie began to carefully einzuwickeln by remarked: "I
really must go home, the night air is not good for my neck," and
a beep Canarienvogel trembling to his children, "Come away,
children! it is high time for you to go to bed! "Under various
excuses it all away, and soon Alice was all alone." Had I not
mentioned Dinah! "she said to himself afflicted with clays.
"Nobody seems like they have here, and it is the best cat in the
world! Oh, my dear Dinah! if I was you probably will ever
see again, "while the poor Alice began again to cry, because
she felt lonely and even muthlos. After a little while, however,
she heard again Trappeln of steps in the distance and
looked carefully out, half in the hope that the mouse is
prudent, and then return, their history auszuerzählen. Fourth
Chapter. The home of the rabbit. It was the white rabbit ,
which slowly came zurückgewandert by carefully when walking
umhersah as if it had lost something, and she heard it for themselves
murmured: "The Duchess!

The Duchess! Oh, my soft paws! o my hair and beard gag! They
will hang me, so surely ferrets are ferrets! Where I can have
it drop, I do not understand, "Alice errieth moment that the
subjects and the white Glaceehandschuhe said gutmüthig enough
and she started to, then to look around, but they were nowhere
to be seen - everything seemed since her bathing in the pool used
to be, and the corridor with large glass table and the little
door was completely gone.

The rabbit saw Alice soon, and as they looked everywhere,
called her annoying too: "What, Marianne, what hast thou here
to create? Renne instantly at home, and fetch me a pair of gloves
and a fan! Fast forward! "Alice was so frightened that
they are fast in the direction indicated fortlief without having
to explain to him that it did know it." It keeps me for his
housemaid, "she said to herself, and ran on.

"How are surprised when it finds out who I am! But I prefer him
to his subjects and his gloves bring - namely, if I can find
them. "As she said, she came to a nice little house, on whose door
a shiny brass plate was with the name" W.
Schelling was the
author of theories in philosophy that have been adopted and
imitated by both Coleridge and Wordsworth, while Van Hartmann
teaches that there is but one last principle of philosophy, known
by Spinoza as substance, by Fichte as the absolute I., by Plato
and Hegel as the absolute Idea, by Schopenhauer as Will, and by
himself as a blind, impersonal, unconscious, all-pervading Will
and Idea, independent of brain, and in its essence purely
spiritual, and he taught that there could be no peace for man's
heart or intellect until religion, philosophy and science were
recognized as one root, stem and leaves all of the same living
tree.

It is curious to trace how these various philosophies, recognized
by Van Hartmann under different names to be one, can be merged
into the sublime Christian philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas, who
taught that religion, philosophy and science were indeed
one--root, stem and leaves of the one life-giving tree, which is
God.

All that is deepest and most profound is to be found in this
modern German philosophy, which is diametrically opposed to the
flippant and sensual philosophy of the Voltarian school. However
far the German philosophers are from true philosophy as seen in
the light of Christian truth, they command a respect as earnest
thinkers and workers, which it is impossible to accord the
eighteenth century French school.


ENGLISH.

No country in the beginning owed so much to the language and
literature of other nations as the English.

Anglo-Saxon, Latin, Norman-French, Cymric and Gaelic have all
been moulded into its literature.

Three periods stand out in its history--the first beginning with
the end of the Roman occupation, to the Norman conquest--this
includes the literature of the Celtic, Latin and Anglo-Saxon
tongues. The second from the Norman conquest to the time of Henry
VIII, embracing the literature of the Norman-French, the Latin
and Anglo-Saxon; the gradual evolution of the Anglo-Saxon into
English; and the literature of the fourteenth and fifteenth
centuries.

The third period includes the Reformation, and the golden age of
Elizabethan literature; followed by the Restoration, Revolution,
and the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.

Another division is called the Old English, Early English, and
Middle English. The latter was used by Chaucer, and with a little
care in reading can readily be understood by any educated person
at the present day, though it contains many words nationalized
from the French. It is a curious fact that the Anglo-Saxons, who
in the present day, through their descendants, the English, have
the strongest national life and literature, cannot boast of such
a treasure house of ancient literature as is possessed by the
Irish and Welsh.

Ireland has its bardic songs and historical legends older than
the ninth century, at which time appeared the "Psalter of
Cashel," which has come down to the present day.

There are also prose chronicles, said to be the outcome of others
of a still earlier period, and which give a contemporary history
of the country in the Gaelic language of the fifth century. There
is no other modern nation in Europe that can point to such a
literary past. The Scotch Celts had early metrical verse, of
which the Ossian, wherein is related the heroic deeds of Fingal,
was supposed to have been sung by all the ancient Celtic bards.
In the eighteenth century, Macpherson, a Scotchman, found some of
these poems sung in the Highlands of Scotland; and, making a
careful study of them, he translated all he could find from the
Gaelic into English, and gave them to the world. At the time of
publication, in 1762, their authenticity was questioned, and even
at the present day scholars are divided in their opinion as to
their genuineness. The literature of the Cymric Celts, the
early inhabitants of Britain, has given us the glorious legends
of King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table. All the bardic
songs refer to this mighty prince, who resisted the Saxon
invaders, and whose deeds were sung by all the Welsh Britons.
Some of these people took refuge in France, and gradually the
fame of their legends spread all over Europe, and were eagerly
seized upon and rendered into song, by the chivalric poets of all
countries. From these tales Geoffrey of Monmouth in the twelfth
century compiled a Latin historical work of Britain, while in
later times Tennyson in England, and Richard Wagner in Germany,
have made the deeds of Arthur and his Knights the theme of some
of their most magnificent creations.

Other ancient Welsh writings are still extant, among them the
Triads, which is a work that has come down from primitive times.
It comprises a collection of historical and mythological maxims,
traditions, theological doctrines, and rules for constructing
verse.

The Mabinogi, or "Tales of Youth," are old Welsh romances similar
to the Norse Sagas, which are supposed by critics to date from a
very rude and early age.

The Anglo-Saxon is very different from these ancient literatures.
It has no legends or romances, no national themes, and its early
prose and verse were written more in the style of religious
narrative, and to give practical information, than to amuse.

The poems of Beowulf, a thorough Norse Saga, embodies the doings
of the Anglo-Saxons before they emigrated to England, and must
have been written long before they set foot on English soil.
Older than Beowulf is the lyric poem of Widsith, which has some
historical interest as depicting the doings of kings, princes and
warriors. It contains traces of the epic, which in Beowulf, whose
English poem is next in point of time, is more markedly
developed.

During the fifth and sixth centuries the Germanic tribes who
emigrated to Britain brought with them a heathen literature. The
oldest fragment now extant are the Hexenspruche and the Charms.
They have elements of Christian teaching in them, which would
seem to imply that the Church tried to give them a Christian
setting. In some respects they resemble the old Sanskrit, and are
supposed to be among the earliest examples of lyric poetry in
England.

Alfred the Great improved the Anglo-Saxon prose and soon after
his time a translation of the Bible in that language was made,
forming the second known copy in a national language, the first
being the Moeso-Gothic of Bishop Ulphilus. The Saxon Chronicles,
dating from the time of Alfred to 1154 were copies of the Latin
Chronicles kept in the monasteries.

The twelfth and thirteenth centuries saw the age of the Crusades,
which added a new impulse to learning through the co-mingling of
different races. French poetry was translated into English,
which, in the thirteenth century, in its evolution from the
Anglo-Saxon became a fixed language. Classical learning in this
age was generally diffused through the schoolmen, of whom
Lanfranc, Anselm, John of Salisbury, Duns Scotius, William of
Malmesbury, and other great names of this period, mentioned
elsewhere, are instances.

In the thirteenth century appeared also the Gesta Romanorum, a
collection of fables, traditions, and various pictures of
society, changing with the different countries that the stories
dealt with. The romance of Apollonius in this collection gave
Chaucer the plots for two or three of his tales, and furnished
Cowers with the theme for most of his celebrated poem, the
Confessio Amantis. This poem, in its turn, suggested to
Shakespeare the outlines for his characters of Pericles, Prince
of Tyre, and the Merchant of Venice. Other and less celebrated
works are also taken from the Gesta Romanorum.

After the accession of the Norman kings of England, the chief
literary works in England for two centuries are those of the
Norman poets. Wace in the twelfth century wrote in French his
"Brut d'Angleterre." Brutus was the mythical son of Aeneas, and
the founder of Britain. The Britons were settled in Cornwall,
Wales and Bretagne, and were distinguished for traditionary
legends, which had been collected by Godfrey of Monmouth in 1138.
They formed the groundwork for Wace's poem, which was written in
1160, and from that time proved to be an inexhaustible treasury
from which romantic writers of fiction drew their materials.

From this source Shakespeare obtained King Lear; Sackville found
his Ferrex and Porrex; and Milton and other poets are also
indebted to these legends. They furnished, also, the romances of
chivalry for the English Court, and have had an effect on English
poetry that can be seen even in the present day. The six romances
of the British cycle, celebrating Arthur, his Knights, and the
Round Table, were written in the last part of the twelfth
century, at the instigation of Henry II. They were the work of
Englishmen; but were composed in French, and from them the poets
of France fashioned a number of metrical romances.

Geoffrey Chaucer in the fourteenth century borrowed freely from
French, Latin and Italian works. The comic Fabliaux and the
allegorical poetry of the Trouveres and Troubadours furnished him
with many of his incidents and characters. The Romance of the
Rose was taken from a French poem of the thirteenth century.

Troilus and Cressida is regarded as a translation from Boccaccio,
and Chaucer's Legend of Good Women is founded on Ovid's Epistles.
John Lydgate, a Benedictine monk in the fifteenth century, wrote
poetry in imitation of Chaucer, taking his ideas from the Gesta
Romanorum, while Thomas Mallory, a priest in the time of Edward
IV, has given us one of the best specimens of old English in the
romantic prose fiction of Morte d'Arthur, in which the author has
told in one tale the whole history of the Round Table.

I wanted to, you would be here with me. I am just afraid that it
giebt no mice in the air, but you could make a catch sparrows,
which it will be here in the air probably give you not believe?

And yet sparrows eat cats? "It was a bit sleepy and Alice spoke
half in the dream continues. »Sparrows like to eat cats?
Sparrows like to eat cats? Sparrows like to eat cats? "And since
it took no one to answer, so it does not matter how the question.

She felt that they are asleep and had just begun to dream, they
go hand in hand with _Dinah_ walk, and ask them very seriously:
"Well, _Dinah_, tell the truth, you have eaten one sparrows?"

Because one time, clumsy! clumsy! she came to a pile of dry leaves
and sticks to lie - and the case was made. Alice had done did
not hurt. They immediately jumped up and saw the amount,
but it was dark about it.

Before her was a second long corridor, and she could just be the
white rabbit is seen running along. There was no time to lose:
continued Alice ran like the wind, and heard it just to say,
as it bent around a corner: "Oh, ears and whiskers, how late it
is!"

She was close behind him, but when they bent around the
corner, there was the rabbit no longer to be seen. It was in a
long, low corridor, through a series of lamps were lit, the ceiling
herabhingen. On both sides of the corridors have doors, but they
were all closed. Alice tried every door on one side only, then
on the other, she finally sad in the middle along radically over
how they could ever come out.

Suddenly they stood before a small tripod tables, _ganz thick
Glas_.
English poetry has inclined more to the style of
Milton than to that of Spenser, who was thoroughly embued with
the romantic spirit of the Teutons and the Troubadours, though,
like Milton, he was influenced by Tasso; and unlike him, by
Ariosto. His Faerie Queene, Gloriana, is supposed to be the
beloved of the courtly Arthur of the British legends.

The English poets of the Elizabethan age were under deep
obligations to the Italian poets, especially Tasso; and this is
particularly true of Spenser, many critics think his eighty-first
sonnet is almost a literal translation of Tasso. Be that as it
may, the obligations of many English poets of the age to the
Italians, is unmistakable.

After the Puritan period the English language and literature was
strongly influenced by the French, and in both Pope and Addison
there is a marked leaning toward French poetry. Pope's
translation of Homer while it lacks the simple majesty and
naturalness of the original (a trait which Bryant in the
nineteenth century happily caught), nevertheless gave to the
English world the opportunity to become somewhat acquainted with
the incomparable poet of antiquity.

Thomson's descriptive poetry of nature found many imitators in
Germany and France, and a taste for outdoor life and simplicity
became the rage, so that some years after the author of the
"Castle of Indolence" had passed away, Marie Antoinette in her
rustic bower, "Little Trianon," pretended to like to keep sheep
and pose as a shepherdess, as has been said elsewhere.

Percy's Reliques of ancient English poetry, in 1765 opened a
storehouse of the fine old English ballads, which speedily became
popular through the patronage of Scott, who made them his
textbook for a variety of subjects. These poems, with
Macpherson's "Fingal" introduced a new school of poetry into
England. The originals of Scott were these romances of chivalry,
and even Byron has not disdained to follow the same trend in the
pilgrimage of his "Childe Harold." The nineteenth century poets
and novelists do not seem to have borrowed especially from any
foreign element; but in history Niebuhr's researches in Germany
have greatly influenced Arnold in his "Roman History." The close
of the nineteenth century and opening of the twentieth is chiefly
remarkable for the interdependence of literature through the
magazines and reviews. Translations of any striking or brilliant
articles are immediately made, and appear in the magazines of
different countries almost as soon as the originals, so that the
literature of the future bids fair to become more cosmopolitan,
and perhaps less strongly directed by racial and social influence
than in the past.

And yet--in studying the literature of ancient and modern
times--we are struck by the unity in diversity of its history,
just as a world-wide traveller comes to see the similarity of
nature everywhere. In literature strange analogies occur in ages
and races remote from each other, as, when the mother in the old
North country Scotch ballad sings to her child, and says:

"The wild wind is ravin,' thy minnies heart's sair,
The wild wind is ravin,' but ye dinna care."

And we find nearly the same verse in the song of Danae to the
infant Perseus:

"The salt spume that is blown o'er thy locks,
Thou heedst not, nor the roar of the gale;
Sleep babe, sleep the sea,
And sleep my sea of trouble."

There is also the story of the Greek child who in ancient times
sang nearly the same invocation for fair weather that we used in
our nursery days, when, with noses flattened against the window
pane, we uttered our sing-song:

"Rain, rain, go to Spain."

And in blindman's buff, perhaps the most ancient of games, we
have words that have come down from remote times. The blindfolded
one says:

"I go a-hunting a brassy fly."

To which the others answer:

"A-hunting thou goest; but shalt not come nigh."

And there are the marvellous stories of the Giant Killer, and the
wonders of Puss in Boots and Cinderella, which have descended to
us from that vast cloud-country of bygone ages; that dreamland of
fairy imagery, which is as real to the little maid in the
twentieth century as it was to her young sisters in the shadow of
the Pyramids, on the banks of the Tiber and the Ganges, in the
neighborhood of solemn Druid Temples, or among the fjords and
floes of the far-off Icelandic country, in centuries long since
gone by.