Hymnody is sweet with the longing after God, the God whom, while the
singer seeks, he knows he has already found. "His track I see and I'll
pursue," sang our fathers only a short generation ago, but that song is
heard no more in the great congregation. How tragic that we in this dark
day have had our seeking done for us by our teachers. Everything is made
to center upon the initial act of "accepting" Christ (a term,
incidentally, which is not found in the Bible) and we are not expected
thereafter to crave any further revelation of God to our souls. We have
been snared in the coils of a spurious logic which insists that if we
have found Him we need no more seek Him. This is set before us as the
last word in orthodoxy, and it is taken for granted that no Bible-taught
Christian ever believed otherwise. Thus the whole testimony of the
worshipping, seeking, singing Church on that subject is crisply set
aside. The experiential heart-theology of a grand army of fragrant
saints is rejected in favor of a smug interpretation of Scripture which
would certainly have sounded strange to an Augustine, a Rutherford or a
Brainerd.

In the midst of this great chill there are some, I rejoice to
acknowledge, who will not be content with shallow logic. They will admit
the force of the argument, and then turn away with tears to hunt some
lonely place and pray, "O God, show me thy glory." They want to taste,
to touch with their hearts, to see with their inner eyes the wonder that
is God.

I want deliberately to encourage this mighty longing after God. The lack
of it has brought us to our present low estate. The stiff and wooden
quality about our religious lives is a result of our lack of holy
desire. Complacency is a deadly foe of all spiritual growth. Acute
desire must be present or there will be no manifestation of Christ to
His people. He waits to be wanted. Too bad that with many of us He waits
so long, so very long, in vain.

Every age has its own characteristics. Right now we are in an age of
religious complexity. The simplicity which is in Christ is rarely found
among us. In its stead are programs, methods, organizations and a world
of nervous activities which occupy time and attention but can never
satisfy the longing of the heart. The shallowness of our inner
experience, the hollowness of our worship, and that servile imitation of
the world which marks our promotional methods all testify that we, in
this day, know God only imperfectly, and the peace of God scarcely at
all.

If we would find God amid all the religious externals we must first
determine to find Him, and then proceed in the way of simplicity. Now as
always God discovers Himself to "babes" and hides Himself in thick
darkness from the wise and the prudent. We must simplify our approach to
Him. We must strip down to essentials (and they will be found to be
blessedly few). We must put away all effort to impress, and come with
the guileless candor of childhood. If we do this, without doubt God will
quickly respond.

When religion has said its last word, there is little that we need other
than God Himself. The evil habit of seeking _God-and_ effectively
prevents us from finding God in full revelation. In the "and" lies our
great woe. If we omit the "and" we shall soon find God, and in Him we
shall find that for which we have all our lives been secretly longing.

We need not fear that in seeking God only we may narrow our lives or
restrict the motions of our expanding hearts. The opposite is true. We
can well afford to make God our All, to concentrate, to sacrifice the
many for the One.

The author of the quaint old English classic, _The Cloud of Unknowing_,
teaches us how to do this. "Lift up thine heart unto God with a meek
stirring of love; and mean Himself, and none of His goods. And thereto,
look thee loath to think on aught but God Himself. So that nought work
in thy wit, nor in thy will, but only God Himself. This is the work of
the soul that most pleaseth God."

Again, he recommends that in prayer we practice a further stripping down
of everything, even of our theology. "For it sufficeth enough, a naked
intent direct unto God without any other cause than Himself." Yet
underneath all his thinking lay the broad foundation of New Testament
truth, for he explains that by "Himself" he means "God that made thee,
and bought thee, and that graciously called thee to thy degree." And he
is all for simplicity: If we would have religion "lapped and folden in
one word, for that thou shouldst have better hold thereupon, take thee
but a little word of one syllable: for so it is better than of two, for
even the shorter it is the better it accordeth with the work of the
Spirit. And such a word is this word GOD or this word LOVE."

When the Lord divided Canaan among the tribes of Israel Levi received no
share of the land. God said to him simply, "I am thy part and thine
inheritance," and by those words made him richer than all his brethren,
richer than all the kings and rajas who have ever lived in the world.
And there is a spiritual principle here, a principle still valid for
every priest of the Most High God.

The man who has God for his treasure has all things in One. Many
ordinary treasures may be denied him, or if he is allowed to have them,
the enjoyment of them will be so tempered that they will never be
necessary to his happiness. Or if he must see them go, one after one, he
will scarcely feel a sense of loss, for having the Source of all things
he has in One all satisfaction, all pleasure, all delight. Whatever he
may lose he has actually lost nothing, for he now has it all in One, and
he has it purely, legitimately and forever.

_O God, I have tasted Thy goodness, and it has both satisfied me and
made me thirsty for more. I am painfully conscious of my need of further
grace. I am ashamed of my lack of desire. O God, the Triune God, I want
to want Thee; I long to be filled with longing; I thirst to be made more
thirsty still. Show me Thy glory, I pray Thee, that so I may know Thee
indeed. Begin in mercy a new work of love within me. Say to my soul,
"Rise up, my love, my fair one, and come away." Then give me grace to
rise and follow Thee up from this misty lowland where I have wandered so
long. In Jesus' Name, Amen._


II

_The Blessedness of Possessing Nothing_

     Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of
     heaven.--Matt. 5:3


Before the Lord God made man upon the earth He first prepared for him by
creating a world of useful and pleasant things for his sustenance and
delight. In the Genesis account of the creation these are called simply
"things." They were made for man's uses, but they were meant always to
be external to the man and subservient to him. In the deep heart of the
man was a shrine where none but God was worthy to come. Within him was
God; without, a thousand gifts which God had showered upon him.

But sin has introduced complications and has made those very gifts of
God a potential source of ruin to the soul.

Our woes began when God was forced out of His central shrine and
"things" were allowed to enter. Within the human heart "things" have
taken over. Men have now by nature no peace within their hearts, for God
is crowned there no longer, but there in the moral dusk stubborn and
aggressive usurpers fight among themselves for first place on the
throne.

This is not a mere metaphor, but an accurate analysis of our real
spiritual trouble. There is within the human heart a tough fibrous root
of fallen life whose nature is to possess, always to possess. It covets
"things" with a deep and fierce passion. The pronouns "my" and "mine"
look innocent enough in print, but their constant and universal use is
significant. They express the real nature of the old Adamic man better
than a thousand volumes of theology could do. They are verbal symptoms
of our deep disease. The roots of our hearts have grown down into
_things_, and we dare not pull up one rootlet lest we die. Things have
become necessary to us, a development never originally intended. God's
gifts now take the place of God, and the whole course of nature is upset
by the monstrous substitution.

Our Lord referred to this tyranny of _things_ when He said to His
disciples, "If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and
take up his cross, and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall
lose it: and whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall find it."

Breaking this truth into fragments for our better understanding, it
would seem that there is within each of us an enemy which we tolerate at
our peril. Jesus called it "life" and "self," or as we would say, the
_self-life_. Its chief characteristic is its possessiveness: the words
"gain" and "profit" suggest this. To allow this enemy to live is in the
end to lose everything. To repudiate it and give up all for Christ's
sake is to lose nothing at last, but to preserve everything unto life
eternal. And possibly also a hint is given here as to the only effective
way to destroy this foe: it is by the Cross. "Let him take up his cross
and follow me."

The way to deeper knowledge of God is through the lonely valleys of soul
poverty and abnegation of all things. The blessed ones who possess the
Kingdom are they who have repudiated every external thing and have
rooted from their hearts all sense of possessing. These are the "poor in
spirit." They have reached an inward state paralleling the outward
circumstances of the common beggar in the streets of Jerusalem; that is
what the word "poor" as Christ used it actually means. These blessed
poor are no longer slaves to the tyranny of _things_. They have broken
the yoke of the oppressor; and this they have done not by fighting but
by surrendering. Though free from all sense of possessing, they yet
possess all things. "Theirs is the kingdom of heaven."

Let me exhort you to take this seriously. It is not to be understood as
mere Bible teaching to be stored away in the mind along with an inert
mass of other doctrines. It is a marker on the road to greener pastures,
a path chiseled against the steep sides of the mount of God. We dare not
try to by-pass it if we would follow on in this holy pursuit. We must
ascend a step at a time. If we refuse one step we bring our progress to
an end.

As is frequently true, this New Testament principle of spiritual life
finds its best illustration in the Old Testament. In the story of
Abraham and Isaac we have a dramatic picture of the surrendered life as
well as an excellent commentary on the first Beatitude.

Abraham was old when Isaac was born, old enough indeed to have been his
grandfather, and the child became at once the delight and idol of his
heart. From that moment when he first stooped to take the tiny form
awkwardly in his arms he was an eager love slave of his son. God went
out of His way to comment on the strength of this affection. And it is
not hard to understand. The baby represented everything sacred to his
father's heart: the promises of God, the covenants, the hopes of the
years and the long messianic dream. As he watched him grow from babyhood
to young manhood the heart of the old man was knit closer and closer
with the life of his son, till at last the relationship bordered upon
the perilous. It was then that God stepped in to save both father and
son from the consequences of an uncleansed love.

