When Mrs. Hilbery and Katharine arrived in the hall, ready dressed for
their drive, they found that the usual discussion was going forward as
to the plans of the rest of the family. In token of this, a great many
doors were opening and shutting, two or three people stood irresolutely
on the stairs, now going a few steps up, and now a few steps down, and
Sir Francis himself had come out from his study, with the "Times" under
his arm, and a complaint about noise and draughts from the open door
which, at least, had the effect of bundling the people who did not want
to go into the carriage, and sending those who did not want to stay back
to their rooms. It was decided that Mrs. Hilbery, Katharine, Rodney, and
Henry should drive to Lincoln, and any one else who wished to go should
follow on bicycles or in the pony-cart. Every one who stayed at Stogdon
House had to make this expedition to Lincoln in obedience to Lady
Otway's conception of the right way to entertain her guests, which
she had imbibed from reading in fashionable papers of the behavior of
Christmas parties in ducal houses. The carriage horses were both fat and
aged, still they matched; the carriage was shaky and uncomfortable,
but the Otway arms were visible on the panels. Lady Otway stood on
the topmost step, wrapped in a white shawl, and waved her hand almost
mechanically until they had turned the corner under the laurel-bushes,
when she retired indoors with a sense that she had played her part, and
a sigh at the thought that none of her children felt it necessary to
play theirs.

The carriage bowled along smoothly over the gently curving road. Mrs.
Hilbery dropped into a pleasant, inattentive state of mind, in which she
was conscious of the running green lines of the hedges, of the swelling
ploughland, and of the mild blue sky, which served her, after the first
five minutes, for a pastoral background to the drama of human life; and
then she thought of a cottage garden, with the flash of yellow daffodils
against blue water; and what with the arrangement of these different
prospects, and the shaping of two or three lovely phrases, she did not
notice that the young people in the carriage were almost silent. Henry,
indeed, had been included against his wish, and revenged himself by
observing Katharine and Rodney with disillusioned eyes; while Katharine
was in a state of gloomy self-suppression which resulted in complete
apathy. When Rodney spoke to her she either said "Hum!" or assented
so listlessly that he addressed his next remark to her mother. His
deference was agreeable to her, his manners were exemplary; and when
the church towers and factory chimneys of the town came into sight, she
roused herself, and recalled memories of the fair summer of 1853, which
fitted in harmoniously with what she was dreaming of the future.


CHAPTER XVIII

But other passengers were approaching Lincoln meanwhile by other roads
on foot. A county town draws the inhabitants of all vicarages, farms,
country houses, and wayside cottages, within a radius of ten miles at
least, once or twice a week to its streets; and among them, on this
occasion, were Ralph Denham and Mary Datchet. They despised the roads,
and took their way across the fields; and yet, from their appearance, it
did not seem as if they cared much where they walked so long as the way
did not actually trip them up. When they left the Vicarage, they had
begun an argument which swung their feet along so rhythmically in time
with it that they covered the ground at over four miles an hour, and saw
nothing of the hedgerows, the swelling plowland, or the mild blue sky.
What they saw were the Houses of Parliament and the Government Offices
in Whitehall.