The intrusion seemed to have been forgotten, but that afternoon
Anne, who had been sent on a message to one of the Queen's ladies,
more than suspected that she saw Jane in a deep recess of a window
in confabulation with the Colonel.  And when they were alone at bed-
time the girl said--

"Is it not droll?  The Colonel cannot believe that 'tis the same
child.  He has been joking and teasing me to declare that we have a
dead Prince hidden somewhere, and that the King showed him the
brick-bat woman's child."

"How can you prattle in that mischievous way--after what Lady
Strickland said, too?  You do not know what harm you may do!"

"Oh lack, it was all a jest!"

"I am not so sure that it was."

"But you will not tell of me, dear friend, you will not.  I never
saw Lady Strickland like that; I did not know she could be in such a
rage."

"No wonder, when a fellow like that came peeping and prying like a
raven to see whether the poor babe was still breathing," cried Anne
indignantly.  "How could you bring him in?"

"Fellow indeed!  Why he is a colonel in the Life-guards, and the
Princess's equerry; and who has a right to know about the child if
not his own sister--or half-sister?"

"She is not a very loving sister," replied Anne.  "You know well,
Jane, how many would not be sorry to make out that it is as that man
would fain have you say."

"Well, I told him it was no such thing, and laughed the very notion
to scorn."

"It were better not to talk with him at all."

"But you will not speak of it.  If I were turned away my father
would beat me.  Nay, I know not what he might not do to me.  You
will not tell, dear darling Portia, and I will love you for ever."

"I have no call to tell," said Anne coldly, but she was disgusted
and weary, and moreover not at all sure that she, as the other
Protestant rocker, and having been in the Park on that same day, was
not credited with some of the mischievous gossip that had passed.

"There, Portia, that is what you get by walking with that stupid
Humphreys," said Oriana.  "She knows no better than to blab to any
one who will be at the trouble to seem sweet upon her, though she
may get nothing by it."

"Would it be better if she did?" asked Anne.

"Oh well, we must all look out for ourselves, and I am sure there is
no knowing what may come next.  But I hear we are to move to Windsor
as soon as the child is strong enough, so as to be farther out of
reach of the Cockpit tongues."

This proved to be true, but the Prince and his suite were not lodged
in the Castle itself, a house in the cloisters being thought more
suitable, and here the Queen visited her child daily, for since that
last alarm she could not bear to be long absent from him.  Such
emissaries as Colonel Sands did not again appear, but after that
precedent Lady Strickland had become much more unwilling to allow
any of those under her authority to go out into any public place,
and the rockers seldom got any exercise except as swelling the
Prince's train when he was carried out to take the air.

Anne looked with longing eyes at the Park, but a ramble there was a
forbidden pleasure.  She could not always even obtain leave to
attend St. George's Chapel; the wish was treated as a sort of
weakness, or folly, and she was always the person selected to stay
at home when any religious ceremony called away the rest of the
establishment.

As the King's god-daughter it was impressed on her that she ought to
conform to his Church, and one of the many priests about the Court
was appointed to instruct her.  In the dearth of all intellectual
intercourse, and the absolute deficiency of books, she could not but
become deeply interested in the arguments.  Her uncle had forearmed
her with instruction, and she wrote to him on any difficulty which
arose, and this became the chief occupation of her mind, distracting
her thoughts from the one great cloud that hung over her memory.
Indeed one of the foremost bulwarks her feelings erected to fortify
her conscience against the temptations around, was the knowledge
that she would have, though of course under seal of confession, to
relate that terrible story to a priest.

Hester Bridgeman could not imagine how her Portia could endure to
hear the old English Prayer-book droned out.  For her part, she
liked one thing or the other, either a rousing Nonconformist sermon
in a meeting-house or a splendid Mass.

"But, after all," as Anne overheard her observing to Miss Dunord,
"it may be all the better for us.  What with her breeding and her
foreign tongues, she would be sure to be set over our heads as
under-governess, or the like, if she were not such an obstinate
heretic, and keeping that stupid Humphreys so.  We could have
converted her long ago, if it were not for that Woodford and for her
City grand-dame!  Portia is the King's godchild, too, so it is just
as well that she does not see what is for her own advantage."

"I do not care for promotion.  I only want to save my own soul and
hers," said Pauline.  "I wish she would come over to the true
Church, for I could love her."

And certainly Pauline Dunord's gentle devotional example, and her
perfect rest and peace in the practice of her religion, were strong
influences with Anne.  She was waiting till circumstances should
make it possible to her to enter a convent, and in the meantime she
lived a strictly devout life, abstracted as far as duty and kindness
permitted from the little cabals and gossipry around.

Anne could not help feeling that the girl was as nearly a saint as
any one she had ever seen--far beyond herself in goodness.
Moreover, the Queen inspired strong affection.  Mary Beatrice was
not only a very beautiful person, full of the grace and dignity of
the House of Este, but she was deeply religious, good and gentle,
kindly and gracious to all who approached her, and devoted to her
husband and child.  A word or look from her was always a delight,
and Anne, by her knowledge of Italian, was able sometimes to obtain
a smiling word or remark.

As I was about retiring, a little barefoot fellow, about twelve
years old, came along with a common fishing-pole, and hook baited
with a worm, and said, "Mister, I'll catch a trout for you."--"Do
it, then," said I.

He threw his line over a smooth spot in the pool below; and,
before he had been at it five minutes, he pulled up a noble trout,
large enough for a good dinner. Another and another were pulled
up in quick succession. I did not know what to make of it; for I
thought I had fished in a very scientific way.

"Teach me the knack," said I. "Oh, it can't be taught," replied the
boy.

"Well, here is a dime for your trouble," said I, putting the fish
into my pail.

"Do you suppose I take pay for what I do for sport, mister?"

said little barefoot, waving back my hand with the air of a prince.

After that we became good friends, and met often at the bridge; but
I never could learn his knack of catching trout.

ALFRED SELWYN.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

   WE THREE.

What fine times we have together!--Carlo, John, and Bella; by which
last I mean myself. Carlo has the advantage of the other two of us
sometimes; for he has four legs, and can run faster than either
John or I. But then we can do a great many things that Carlo
cannot do.

For example, John and I sometimes take our books, and sit down on the
rocks in the wood, under the thick trees, and read stories. And then
Carlo will lie down at our feet, and go to sleep; for he cannot
understand the nice stories which the other two friends enjoy so
much.

But wait till we go into the swamps after berries, or into the
wood-borders after hazel-nuts.

Then Carlo is wide awake, you may be sure. If he sees a
snake, what a noise he makes! We can always tell by the tone of his
bark when he has found a snake.

And, when John climbs a tree after nuts, how anxiously Carlo will
stand underneath and watch him, so afraid is he that the little boy
will get a fall!

And how the good dog will jump and show his pleasure when he sees
John once more safe on the firm ground!

Oh! we have fine times together, we three, both in summer and winter;
for Carlo likes to see us skate on ice, and is fond of a snowballing
frolic.

In all our sleigh-rides he goes with us, and takes great care of us.

We are dear friends, we three, and I should no more think of striking
Carlo than of striking John.

BELLA.

PET, THE CANARY.It cannot be so mortal dull as 'tis here, with all the leaves
falling--enough to give one the vapours."

There were auguries on either hand in the palace that if the Prince
came it would be only another Monmouth affair, and this made Anne
shrink, for she had partaken of the grief and indignation of
Winchester at the cruel execution of Lady Lisle, and had heard
rumours enough of the progress of the Assize to make her start in
horror when called to watch the red-faced Lord Chancellor Jeffreys
getting out of his coach.

It really seemed for the time as if the royal household were
confident in this impression, though as soon as they were again
settled in Whitehall there was a very close examination of the
witnesses of the Prince's birth, and a report printed of their
evidence, enough it might be thought to satisfy any one; but Jane
Humphreys, who went to spend a day at the Golden Lamb, her father's
warehouse, reported that people only laughed at it.

Anne's spirit burned at the injustice, and warmed the more towards
the Queen and little Prince, whose pretty responses to her caresses
could not but win her love.  Moreover, Pauline's example continued
to attract her, and Father Crump was a better controversialist, or
perhaps a better judge of character, than Pere Giverlai, and took
her on sides where she was more vulnerable, so as to make her begin
to feel unsettled, and wonder whether she were not making a vain
sacrifice, and holding out after all against the better way.

The sense of the possible gain, and disgust at the shallow
conversions of some around her, helped to keep her back.  She could
not help observing that while Pauline persuaded, Hester had ceased
to persuade, and seemed rather willing to hinder her.  Just before
the State christening or rather admission into the Church, Lady
Powys, in the name of the King and Queen, offered her the post of
sub-governess, which really would mean for the present chief
playfellow to the little Prince, and would place her on an entirely
different platform of society from the comparatively menial one she
occupied, but of course on the condition of conformity to Rome.

To be above the familiarity of Jane and Hester was no small
temptation, but still she hesitated.

"Madam, I thank you, I thank their Majesties," she said, "but I
cannot do it thus."

"I see what you mean, Miss Woodford," said Lady Powys, who was a
truly noble woman.  "Your motives must be above suspicion even to
yourself.  I respect you, and would not have made you the offer
except by express command, but I still trust that when your
disinterestedness is above suspicion you will still join us."

It was sore mortification when Hester Bridgeman was preferred to the
office, for which she was far less fitted, being no favourite with
the babe, and being essentially vulgar in tastes and habits, and
knowing no language save her own, and that ungrammatically and with
an accent which no one could wish the Prince to acquire.  Yet there
she was, promoted to the higher grade of the establishment and at
the christening, standing in the front ranks, while Miss Woodford
was left far in the rear among the servants.

A report of the Dutch fleet having been destroyed by a storm had
restored the spirits of the Court; and in the nursery very little
was known of the feelings of the kingdom at large.  Dr. Woodford did
not venture on writing freely to his niece, lest he should
compromise her, and she only vaguely detected that he was uneasy.

So came All Saints' Day Eve, when there was to be a special service
late in the evening at the Romanised Chapel Royal at St. James's,
with a sermon by a distinguished Dominican, to which all the elder
and graver members of the household were eager to go.  And there was
another very different attraction at the Cockpit, where good-natured
Princess Anne had given permission for a supper, to be followed by
burning of nuts and all the divinations proper to Hallowmas Eve, to
which were invited all the subordinates of the Whitehall
establishment who could be spared.

Pauline Dunord was as eager for the sermon as Jane Humphreys was for
the supper, and Hester Bridgeman was in an odd mood of uncertainty,
evidently longing after the sports, but not daring to show that she
did so, and trying to show great desire to hear the holy man preach,
together with a polite profession of self-denial in giving up her
place in case there should not be room for all.  However, as it
appeared that even the two chief nurses meant to combine sermon and
the latter end of the supper, she was at ease.  The foster-mother
and one of the Protestant rockers were supposed to be enough to
watch over the Prince, but the former, who had been much petted and
spoilt since she had been at the palace, and was a young creature,
untrained and wilful, cried so much at the idea of missing the
merrymaking, that as it was reckoned important to keep her in good
humour and good spirits, Mrs. Labadie decided on winking at her
absence from the nursery, since Miss Woodford was quite competent to
the charge for the short time that both the church-goers and the
supper-goers would all be absent together.

"But are you not afraid to stay alone?" asked Mrs. Labadie, with a
little compunction.

"What is there to be afraid of?" asked Anne.  "There are the
sentinels at the foot of the stairs, and what should reach us here?"

"I would not be alone here," said more than one voice.  "Nor I!"--
"Nor I!"

"And on this night of all others!" said Hester.

"But why?"

"They say he walks!" whispered Jane in a voice of awe.

"Who walks?"

"The old King?" asked Hester.

"No; the last King," said Jane.

"No, no:  it was Oliver Cromwell--old Noll himself!" put in another
voice.

"I tell you, no such thing," said Jane.  "It was the last King.  I
heard it from them that saw it, at least the lady's cousin.  'Twas
in the long gallery, in a suit of plain black velvet, with white
muslin ruffles and cravat quilled very neat.  Why do you laugh, Miss
Woodford?"

This was too much for Anne, who managed to say, "Who was his
laundress?"

"I tell you I heard it from them that told no lies.  The gentleman
could swear to it.  He took a candle to him, and there was nought
but the wainscot behind.  Think of that."

"And that we should be living here!" said another voice.  "I never
venture about the big draughty place alone at night," said the
laundress.

"No! nor I would not for twenty princes," added the sempstress.

"Nay, I have heard steps," said Mrs. Royer, "and wailing--wailing.
No wonder after all that has happened here.  Oh yes, steps as of the
guard being turned out!"

"That is like our Squire's manor-house, where--"

Every one contributed a story, and only the announcement of Her
Majesty's approach put an end to these reminiscences.

Anne held to her purpose.  She had looked forward to this time of
solitude, for she wanted leisure to consider the situation, and
fairly to revolve the pleas by which Father Crump had shaken her,
more in feeling than in her reason, and made her question whether
her allegiance to her mother and uncle, and her disgust at
interested conversions, were not making her turn aside from what
might be the only true Church, the Mother of Saints, and therewith
perversely give up earthly advancement.  But, oh! how to write to
her uncle.

The very intention made her imagination and memory too powerful for
the consideration of controversy.  She went back first to a merry
Hallowmas Eve long ago, among the Archfield party and other
Winchester friends, and how the nuts had bounced in a manner which
made the young ones shout in ecstasy of glee, but seemed to
displease some of the elders, and had afterwards been the occasion
of her being told that it was all folly, and therewith informed of
Charles Archfield's contract to poor little Alice Fitzhubert.  Then
came other scenes.  All the various ghostly tales she had heard, and
as she sat with her knitting in the shaded room with no sound but
the soft breathing of her little charge in his cradle, no light save
from a shaded lamp and the fire on the hearth, strange thoughts and
dreams floated over her; she started at mysterious cracks in the
wainscotting from time to time, and beheld in the dark corners of
the great room forms that seemed grotesque and phantom-like till she
went up to them and resolved them into familiar bits of furniture or
gowns and caps of Mrs. Labadie.  She repeated half aloud numerous
Psalms and bits of poetry, but in the midst would come some
disturbing noise, a step or a shout from the street, though the
chamber being at the back of the house looking into the Park few of
such sounds penetrated thither.  She began to think of King
Charles's last walk from St. James's to Whitehall, and of the fatal
window of the Banqueting-hall which had been pointed out to her, and
then her thoughts flew back again to that vault in the castle yard,
and she saw only too vividly in memory that open vault, veiled
partly by nettles and mulleins, which was the unblest, unknown grave
of the old playfellow who had so loved her mother and herself.
Perhaps she had hitherto more dwelt on and pitied the living than
the dead, as one whom fears and prayers still concerned, but now as
she thought of the lively sprite-like being who had professed such
affection for her, and for whom her mother had felt so much, and
recollected him so soon and suddenly cut down and consigned to that
dreary darkness, the strange yearning spirit dismissed to the
unknown world, instead of her old terror and repulsion, a great
tenderness and compunction came over her, and she longed to join
those who would in two days more be keeping All Souls' Day in
intercessions for their departed, so as to atone for her past
dislike; and there was that sort of feeling about her which can only
be described by the word 'eerie.'  To relieve it Anne walked to the
window and undid a small wicket in the shutter, so as to look out
into the quiet moonlight park where the trees cast their long
shadows on the silvery grass, and there was a great calm that seemed
to reach her heart and spirits.

Suddenly, across the sward towards the palace there came the slight,
impish, almost one-sided figure, with the peculiar walk, swift
though suggestive of a limp, the elfish set of the plume, the
foreign adjustment of short cloak.  Anne gazed with wide-stretched
eyes and beating heart, trying to rally her senses and believe it
fancy, when the figure crossed into a broad streak of light cast by
the lamp over the door, the face was upturned for a moment.  It was
deadly pale, and the features were beyond all doubt Peregrine
Oakshott's.

She sprang back from the window, dropped on her knees, with her face
hidden in her hands, and was hardly conscious till sounds of the
others returning made her rally her powers so as to prevent all
inquiries or surmises.  It was Mrs. Labadie and Pauline Dunord, the
former to see that all was well with the Prince before repairing to
the Cockpit.

"How pale you are!" she exclaimed.  "Have you seen anything?"

"I--It may be nothing.  He is dead!" stammered Anne.

"Oh then, 'tis naught but a maid's fancies," said the nurse good-
humouredly.  "Miss Dunord is in no mind for the sports, so she will
stay with His Highness, and you had best come with me and drive the
cobwebs out of your brain."

"Indeed, I thank you, ma'am, but I could not," said Anne.

"You had best, I tell you, shake these megrims out of your brain,"
said Mrs. Labadie; but she was in too great haste not to lose her
share of the amusements to argue the point, and the two young women
were left together.  Pauline was in a somewhat exalted state, full
of the sermon on the connection of the Church with the invisible
world.

"You have seen one of your poor dead," she said.  "Oh, may it not be
that he came to implore you to have pity, and join the Church, where
you could intercede and offer the Holy Sacrifice for him?"

Anne started.  This seemed to chime in with proclivities of poor
Peregrine's own, and when she thought of his corpse in that
unhallowed vault, it seemed to her as if he must be calling on her
to take measures for his rest, both of body and of spirit.  Yet
something seemed to seal her tongue.  She could not open her lips on
what she had seen, and while Pauline talked on, repeating the sermon
which had so deeply touched her feelings, Anne heard without
listening to aught besides her own perturbations, mentally debating
whether she could endure to reveal the story to Father Crump, if she
confessed to him, or whether she should write to her uncle; and she
even began to compose the letter in her own mind, with the terrible
revelation that must commence it, but every moment the idea became
more formidable.  How transfer her own heavy burthen to her uncle,
who might feel bound to take steps that would cut young Archfield
off from parents, sister, child, and home.  Or supposing Dr.
Woodford disbelieved the apparition of to-night, the whole would be
discredited in his eyes, and he might suppose the summer morning's
duel as much a delusion of her fancy as the autumn evening's
phantom, and what evidence had she to adduce save Charles's despair,
Peregrine's absence, and what there might be in the vault?

Yet if all that Father Crump and Pauline said was true, that dear
uncle might be under a fatal delusion, and it might be the best hope
for herself--nay, even for that poor restless spirit--to separate
herself from them.  Here was Pauline talking of the blessedness of
being able to offer prayers on 'All Souls' Day' for all those of
whose ultimate salvation there were fears, or who might be in a
state of suffering.  It even startled her as she thought of her
mother, whom she always gave thanks for as one departed in faith and
fear.  Would Father Crump speak of her as one in a state of
inevitable ignorance to be expiated in the invisible world?  It
shocked the daughter as almost profane.  Yet if it were true, and
prayers and masses could aid her?

Altogether Anne was in a mood on which the voices broke strangely
returning from the supper full of news.  Jane Humphreys was voluble
on her various experiments.  The nuts had burnt quietly together,
and that was propitious to the Life-guardsman, Mr. Shaw, who had
shared hers; but on the other hand, the apple-paring thrown over her
shoulder had formed a P, and he whom she had seen in the vista of
looking-glasses had a gold chain but neither a uniform nor a P in
his name, and Mrs. Buss declared that it meant that she should be
three times married, and the last would be an Alderman, if not Lord
Mayor; and Mrs. Royer was joking Miss Bridgeman on the I of her
apple-paring, which could stand for nothing but a certain Incle
among 'the Cockpit folk,' who was her special detestation.

Princess Anne and her husband had come down to see the nuts flying,
and had laughed enough to split their sides, till Lord Cornbury came
in and whispered something to Prince George, who said, "Est il
possible?" and spoke to the Princess, and they all went away
together.  Yes, and the Bishop of Bath and Wells, who had been
laughing before looked very grave, and went with them.

"Oh!" exclaimed Anne, "is the Bishop of Bath and Wells here?"

"Yes, in spite of his disgrace.  I hear he is to preach in your
Protestant chapel to-morrow."

Anne had brought a letter of introduction from her uncle in case she
should have any opportunity of seeing his old fellow canon, who had
often been kind to her when she was a little girl at Winchester.
She was in many minds of hope and fear as to the meeting him or
speaking to him, under the consciousness of the possible defection
from his Church, and the doubt and dread whether to confide her
secret and consult him.  However, the extreme improbability of her
being able to do so made the yearning for the sight of a Winchester
face predominate, and her vigil of the night past made the nursery
authorities concede that she had fairly earned her turn to go to
church in the forenoon, since she was obstinate enough to want to
run after an old heretic so-called Bishop who had so pragmatically
withstood His Majesty.  Jane Humphreys went too, for though she was
not fond of week-day services, any escape from the nursery was
welcome, and there was a chance of seeing Lady Churchill's new
mantle.

In this she was disappointed, for none of the grandees were present,
indeed it was whispered as the two girls made their way to the
chapel, that there was great excitement over the Declaration of the
Prince of Orange, which had arrived last night, that he had been
invited by the lords spiritual and temporal to take up the cause of
the liberties of England, and inquire into the evidence of the birth
of the Prince of Wales.

People shrugged their shoulders, but looked volumes, though it was
no time nor place for saying more; and when in the chapel, that
countenance of Bishop Ken, so beautiful in outward form, so
expressive of strength, sweetness, and devotion, brought back such a
flood of old associations to Anne, that it was enough to change the
whole current of her thoughts and make her her own mother's child
again, even before he opened his mouth.  She caught his sweet voice
in the Psalms, and closing her eyes seemed to be in the Cathedral
once more among those mighty columns and arches; and when he began
his sermon, on the text, 'Let the Saints be joyful with glory, let
them rejoice in their beds,' she found the Communion of Saints in
Paradise and on earth knit together in one fellowship as truly and
preciously brought home to her as ever it had been to Pauline, and
moreover when she thought of her mother, 'the lurid mist' was
dispelled which had so haunted her the night before.

The longing to speak to him awoke; and as he was quitting the chapel
in full procession his kindly eye lit upon her with a look of
recognition; and before she had moved from her place, one of the
attendant clergy came back by his desire to conduct her to him.

He held out his hand as she courtesied low.

"Mistress Woodford," he said, "my old friend's niece!  He wrote to
me of you, but I have had no opportunity of seeing you before."

"Oh, my Lord!  I was so much longing to see and speak with you."

"I am lodging at Lambeth," said the Bishop, "and it is too far to
take you with me thither, but perhaps my good brother here," turning
to the chaplain, "can help us to a room where we can be private."

