Produced by Anthony J. Adam.


A PSYCHOLOGICAL COUNTER-CURRENT IN RECENT FICTION.

by

William Dean Howells


It is consoling as often as dismaying to find in what seems a
cataclysmal tide of a certain direction a strong drift to the opposite
quarter.  It is so divinable, if not so perceptible, that its presence
may usually be recognized as a beginning of the turn in every tide
which is sure, sooner or later, to come.  In reform, it is the menace
of reaction; in reaction, it is the promise of reform; we may take
heart as we must lose heart from it.  A  few years ago, when a movement
which carried fiction to the  highest place in literature was
apparently of such onward and upward sweep that there could be no
return or descent, there was  a counter-current in it which stayed it
at last, and pulled it back  to that lamentable level where fiction is
now sunk, and the word "novel" is again the synonym of all that is
morally false and  mentally despicable.  Yet that this, too, is partly
apparent, I  think can be shown from some phases of actual fiction
which  happen to be its very latest phases, and which are of a
significance  as hopeful as it is interesting.  Quite as surely as
romanticism  lurked at the heart of realism, something that we may call
"psychologism" has been present in the romanticism of the last  four or
five years, and has now begun to evolve itself in examples which it is
the pleasure as well as the duty of criticism to deal with.


I.

No one in his day has done more to popularize the romanticism, now
decadent, than Mr. Gilbert Parker; and he made way for it at its worst
just because he was so much better than it was at its worst, because he
was a poet of undeniable quality, and because he could bring to its
intellectual squalor the graces and the powers which charm, though they
could not avail to save it from final contempt.  He saves himself in
his latest novel, because, though still so largely romanticistic, its
prevalent effect is psychologistic, which is the finer analogue of
realistic, and which gave realism whatever was vital in it, as now it
gives romanticism whatever will survive it.  In "The Right of Way" Mr.
Parker is not in a world where mere determinism rules, where there is
nothing but the happening of things, and where this one or that one is
important or unimportant according as things are happening to him or
not, but has in himself no claim upon the reader's attention.  Once
more the novel begins to rise to its higher function, and to teach that
men are somehow masters of their fate.  His Charley Steele is, indeed,
as unpromising material for the experiment, in certain ways, as could
well be chosen.  One of the few memorable things that Bulwer said, who
said so many quotable things, was that pure intellectuality is the
devil, and on his plane Charley Steele comes near being pure
intellectual. He apprehends all things from the mind, and does the
effects even of goodness from the pride of mental strength.  Add to
these conditions of his personality that pathologically he is from time
to time a drunkard, with always the danger of remaining a drunkard, and
you have a figure of which so much may be despaired that it might
almost be called hopeless.  I confess that in the beginning this
brilliant, pitiless lawyer, this consciencelessly powerful advocate, at
once mocker and poseur, all but failed to interest me.  A little of him
and his monocle went such a great way with me that I thought I had
enough of him by the end of the trial, where he gets off a man charged
with murder, and then cruelly snubs the homicide in his gratitude; and
I do not quite know how I kept on to the point where Steele in his
drunkenness first dazzles and then insults the gang of drunken
lumbermen, and begins his second life in the river where they have
thrown him, and where his former client finds him.  From that point I
could not forsake him to the end, though I found myself more than once
in the world where things happen of themselves and do not happen from
the temperaments of its inhabitants.  In a better and wiser world, the
homicide would not perhaps be at hand so opportunely to save the life
of the advocate who had saved his; but one consents to this, as one
consents to a great deal besides in the story, which is imaginably the
survival of a former method.  The artist's affair is to report the
appearance, the effect; and in the real world, the appearance, the
effect, is that of law and not of miracle.  Nature employs the miracle
so very sparingly that most of us go through life without seeing one,
and some of us contract such a prejudice against miracles that when
they are performed for us we suspect a trick.  When I suffered from
this suspicion in "The Right of Way" I was the more vexed because I
felt that I was in the hands of a connoisseur of character who had no
need of miracles.

I have liked Mr. Parker's treatment of French-Canadian life, as far as
I have known it; and in this novel it is one of the principal pleasures
for me.  He may not have his habitant, his seigneur or his cure down
cold, but he makes me believe that he has, and I can ask no more than
that of him.  In like manner, he makes the ambient, physical as well as
social, sensible around me:  the cold rivers, the hard, clear skies,
the snowy woods and fields, the little frozen villages of Canada.  In
this book, which is historical of the present rather than the past, he
gives one a realizing sense of the Canadians, not only in the country
but in the city, at least so far as they affect each other
psychologically in society, and makes one feel their interesting
temperamental difference from Americans.  His Montrealers are still
Englishmen in their strenuous individuality; but in the frank
expression of character, of eccentricity, Charley Steele is like a type
of lawyer in our West, of an epoch when people were not yet content to
witness ideals of themselves, but when they wished to be their poetry
rather than to read it.  In his second life he has the charm for the
imagination that a disembodied spirit might have, if it could be made
known to us in the circumstances of another world.  He has, indeed,
made almost as clean a break with his past as if he had really been
drowned in the river.  When, after the term of oblivion, in which he
knows nothing of his past self, he is restored to his identity by a
famous surgeon too opportunely out of Paris, on a visit to his brother,
the cure, the problem is how he shall expiate the errors of his past,
work out his redemption in his new life; and the author solves it for
him by appointing him to a life of unselfish labor, illumined by
actions of positive beneficence.  It is something like the solution
which Goethe imagines for Faust, and perhaps no other is imaginable.
In contriving it, Mr. Parker indulges the weaker brethren with an
abundance of accident and a luxury of catastrophe, which the reader
interested in the psychology of the story may take as little account of
as he likes.  Without so much of them he might have made a
sculpturesque romance as clearly and nobly definite as "The Scarlet
Letter"; with them he has made a most picturesque romantic novel.  It
is of enormous size, the frontage being 350 feet from wing to wing,
and the entire structure covers about 7 acres. The gateway to the park
on the Woodstock side is a fine Corinthian triumphal arch, giving
access to a magnificent avenue more than 2 miles in length.

Among the principal apartments of the palace are the lofty entrance hall,
with a fine painted ceiling by Thornhill; the bay-window room with its
famous tapestry; the dining-room, containing many family portraits
by Sir Joshua Reynolds; the marble saloon, the ceilings and walls
of which are painted by La Guerre; and the library, a magnificent
room nearly 200 feet long, containing about 20,000 volumes.

In addition to these, there are the chapel and theatre, as well as
the state and other drawing-rooms.

The Titian room was totally destroyed by fire, with a large portion of
the north-east section of the palace, in February 1861.

The ancient road, called Akeman Street, runs across the park, and Roman
remains have been discovered near it.

The palace is open every day (except Saturdays and Sundays) from 11 to
1, and the gardens from 11 to 2. Either can be seen separately by
tickets, 1s. each, obtainable at the porter's lodge.

[Illustration: _Taunt, Oxford._
BLENHEIM PALACE.

Built for the Duke of Marlborough at the public expense, after
his famous victory over the French and Bavarians.]

PETERBOROUGH CATHEDRAL AND CROWLAND

=How to get there.=--Train from King's Cross. Great Northern Rly.
=Nearest Station.=--Peterborough.
=Distance from London.=--76-1/2 miles.
=Average Time.=--Varies between 1-1/4 to 2-1/4 hours.

1st 2nd 3rd =Fares.=--Single 11s. 3d. ... 6s. 4d.
Return 22s. 6d. ... 12s. 8d.

=Accommodation Obtainable.=--"Great Northern Railway Company's Hotel,"
"Golden Lion Hotel," "Angel Hotel," "Grand Hotel," etc., at
Peterborough.
=Alternative Route.=--Train from Liverpool Street, _via_ Ely. Great
Eastern Railway.

Nine miles north of Peterborough the ruins of Crowland Abbey arise out
of the flat fen country like a lighthouse out of the sea. With only the
nave and north aisle standing, it breathes the very spirit of romance
even in its decay. It is easy to picture the time when four streams
surrounded the monastery and church and formed an island in the
fens, and to recall how Hereward the Wake demanded entrance to the
abbey to see Torfrida, and was refused admittance by the Abbot
Ulfketyl.

In those days two rivers met in the High Street of the little town
that grew round St.

Guthlac's Monastery. Now the country is drained, Crowland is a decayed
little town with many thatched roofs, situated in an agricultural
district; the island exists no longer, and the old triangular bridge
rises over the dry Square at a place where three roads meet.
This bridge is older and more peculiar than any bridge in Europe that
is not of Roman origin. It is believed to have been built in 870,
and consists of three pointed arches rising steeply in the centre to
permit the rush of water in flood times. It is too steep to admit of its
use by any sort of vehicle, and one ascends by steps to the top.
At the end of one portion of the bridge there is a stone image of a Saxon
king--possibly Ethelbert--with a loaf in one hand.

In the time of Ethelbald, King of Mercians, a young noble named Guthlac,
weary of life's rough way, sought peace in the ascetic life. He drifted
in a boat to Crowland Isle, and there lived a hermit's life till his
death in 817. On the spot where he died Ethelbald founded and
endowed a monastery on the island, and it flourished exceedingly.
The larger part of the conventual church is now destroyed, but the
north aisle is used as the Parish Church of Crowland.
[Illustration: _Photochrom Co., Ltd._ 
CROWLAND ABBEY.
The building rises above the little thatched village, which stands
on slightly raised ground in the midst of the fens.]
PETERBOROUGH
As was the case with Wells, Peterborough would have had no existence
but for its cathedral, which was reared in the midst of the fertile
fen country near the slow-flowing river Ness. But the coming of the
railways has roused the country town, and in the last fifty years
its population has increased fivefold.The author has put his best foot forward in the opening story, "The Man
on Horseback," which, when I read it a few years ago in the magazine
where it first appeared, seemed to me so perfect in its way that I
should not have known how to better it.  Of course, this is a good deal
for a critic to say; it is something like abdicating his office; but I
repeat it.  It takes rather more courage for a man to be honest in
fiction than out of it, for people do not much expect it of him, or
altogether like it in him; but in "The Man on Horseback" Mr. White is
at every moment honest.  He is honest, if not so impressively honest,
in the other stories, "A Victory for the People," "A Triumph's
Evidence," "The Mercy of Death," and "A Most Lamentable Comedy;" and
where he fails of perfect justice to his material, I think it is
because of his unconscious political bias, rather than anything
wilfuller.  In the story last named this betrays itself in his
treatment of a type of man who could not be faithful to any sort of
movement, and whose unfaithfulness does not necessarily censure the
movement Mr. White dislikes.  Wonderfully good as the portrait of Dan
Gregg is, it wants the final touch which could have come only from a
little kindness.  The question came up in the Constitutional Convention
of 1802 and provoked some discussion, but reaching no decision,
the convention simply left the Negroes out of the pale of the newly
organized body politic, discriminating against them together with
Indians and foreigners, by incorporating the word white into the
fundamental law.[4] The legislature to which the disposition of this
question was left, however, took it up in 1804 to calm the fears
of those who had more seriously considered the so-called menace of
Negro immigration.

This body enacted a law, providing that no Negro or mulatto should be
allowed to remain permanently in that State, unless he could furnish
a certificate of freedom issued by some court in the United States.
Negroes then living there had to be registered before the following
June, giving the names of their children. No man could employ a Negro
who could not show such a certificate. Hiring a delinquent black or
harboring or hindering the capture of a runaway was punishable by a
fine of $50 and the owner of a fugitive thus illegally employed could
recover fifty cents a day for the services of his slave.[5]
As the fear of Negro immigration increased the law of 1804 was found to
be inadequate. In 1807, therefore, the legislature enacted another
measure providing that no Negro should be permitted to settle in Ohio
unless he could within twenty days give a bond to the amount of $500,
guaranteeing his good behavior and support. The fine for concealing a
fugitive was raised from $50 to $100, one half of which should go to
the informer. Negro evidence against the white man was prohibited.[6]
This law together with that of 1830 making the Negro ineligible for
service in the State militia, that of 1831 depriving persons
of color of the privilege of serving upon juries, and that of 1838
prohibiting the education of colored children at the expense of the
State, constituted what were known as the "Black Laws."[7]
Up to 1826, however, the Negroes of Cincinnati had not become a
cause of much trouble.

Very little mention of them is made in the records of this period. They
were not wanted in this city but were tolerated as a negligible
factor. D. B. Warden, a traveler through the West in 1819, observed
that the blacks of Cincinnati were "good-humoured, garrulous, and
profligate, generally disinclined to laborious occupations, and prone
to the performance of light and menial drudgery." Here the
traveler was taking effect for cause. "Some few," said he, "exercise
the humbler trades, and some appear to have formed a correct conception
of the objects and value of property, and are both industrious
and economical. A large proportion of them are reputed, and perhaps
correctly, to be habituated to petit larceny."
To come up out of that Bottomless
Pit into the measureless air of Mr. White's Kansas plains is like
waking from death to life.  We are still among dreadfully fallible
human beings, but we are no longer among the damned; with the worst
there is a purgatorial possibility of Paradise.  Even the perdition of
Dan Gregg then seems not the worst that could befall him; he might
again have been governor.


IV.

If the human beings in Dr. Weir Mitchell's very interesting novel of
"Circumstance" do not seem so human as those Russians of Gorky and
those Kansans of Mr. White, it is because people in society are always
human with difficulty, and his Philadelphians are mostly in society.
They are almost reproachfully exemplary, in some instances; and it is
when they give way to the natural man, and especially the natural
woman, that they are consoling and edifying.  When Mary Fairthorne
begins to scold her cousin, Kitty Morrow, at the party where she finds
Kitty wearing her dead mother's pearls, and even takes hold of her in a
way that makes the reader hope she is going to shake her, she is
delightful; and when Kitty complains that Mary has "pinched" her, she
is adorable.  One is really in love with her for the moment; and in
that moment of nature the thick air of good society seems to blow away
and let one breathe freely.  The bad people in the book are better than
the good people, and the good people are best in their worst tempers.
They are so exclusively well born and well bred that the fitness of the
medical student, Blount, for their society can be ascertained only by
his reference to a New England ancestry of the high antiquity that can
excuse even dubious cuffs and finger-nails in a descendant of good
principles and generous instincts.

The psychological problem studied in the book with such artistic
fineness and scientific thoroughness is personally a certain Mrs.
Hunter, who manages through the weak-minded and selfish Kitty Morrow to
work her way to authority in the household of Kitty's uncle, where she
displaces Mary Fairthorne, and makes the place odious to all the kith
and kin of Kitty.  Intellectually, she is a clever woman, or rather,
she is a woman of great cunning that rises at times to sagacity; but
she is limited by a bad heart and an absence of conscience.  She is
bold up to a point, and then she is timid; she will go to lengths, but
not to all lengths; and when it comes to poisoning Fairthorne to keep
him from changing his mind about the bequest he has made her, she has
not quite the courage of her convictions.  She hesitates and does not
do it, and it is in this point she becomes so aesthetically successful.
The guilt of the uncommitted crimes is more important than the guilt of
those which have been committed; and the author does a good thing
morally as well as artistically in leaving Mrs. Hunter still something
of a problem to his reader.  In most things she is almost too plain a
case; she is sly, and vulgar, and depraved and cruel; she is all that a
murderess should be; but, in hesitating at murder, she becomes and
remains a mystery, and the reader does not get rid of her as he would
if she had really done the deed.  In the inferior exigencies she
strikes fearlessly; and when the man who has divorced her looms up in
her horizon with doom in his presence, she goes and makes love to him.
She is not the less successful because she disgusts him; he agrees to
let her alone so long as she does no mischief; she has, at least, made
him unwilling to feel himself her persecutor, and that is enough for
her.

Mrs. Hunter is a study of extreme interest in degeneracy, but I am not
sure that Kitty Morrow is not a rarer contribution to knowledge.  Of
course, that sort of selfish girl has always been known, but she has
not met the open recognition which constitutes knowledge, and so she
has the preciousness of a find.  She is at once tiresome and vivacious;
she is cold-hearted but not cold-blooded, and when she lets herself go
in an outburst of passion for the celibate young ritualist, Knellwood,
she becomes fascinating.  She does not let herself go without having
assured herself that he loves her, and somehow one is not shocked at
her making love to him; one even wishes that she had won him.  I am not
sure but the case would have been a little truer if she had won him,
but as it is I am richly content with it.  Perhaps I am the more
content because in the case of Kitty Morrow I find a concession to
reality more entire than the case of Mrs. Hunter.  She is of the
heredity from which you would expect her depravity; but Kitty Morrow,
who lets herself go so recklessly, is, for all one knows, as well born
and as well bred as those other Philadelphians.  In my admiration of
her, as a work of art, however, I must not fail of justice to the
higher beauty of Mary Fairthorne's character.  She is really a good
girl, and saved from the unreality which always threatens goodness in
fiction by those limitations of temper which I have already hinted.


V.

It is far from the ambient of any of these imaginary lives to that of
the half-caste heroine of "A Japanese Nightingale" and the young
American whom she marries in one of those marriages which neither the
Oriental nor the Occidental expects to last till death parts them.  It
is far, and all is very strange under that remote sky; but what is true
to humanity anywhere is true everywhere; and the story of Yuki and
Bigelow, as the Japanese author tells it in very choice English, is of
as palpitant actuality as any which should treat of lovers next door.
If I have ever read any record of young married love that was so frank,
so sweet, so pure, I do not remember it.  Yet, Yuki, though she loves
Bigelow, does not marry him because she loves him, but because she
wishes with the money he gives her to help her brother through college
in America.  When this brother comes back to Japan--he is the touch of
melodrama in the pretty idyl--he is maddened by an acquired Occidental
sense of his sister's disgrace in her marriage, and falls into a fever
and dies out of the story, which closes with the lasting happiness of
the young wife and husband.  There is enough incident, but of the kind
that is characterized and does not characterize.  The charm, the
delight, the supreme interest is in the personality of Yuki.  Her
father was an Englishman who had married her mother in the same sort of
marriage she makes herself; but he is true to his wife till he dies,
and possibly something of the English constancy which is not always so
evident as in his case qualifies the daughter's nature.  Her mother
was, of course, constant, and Yuki, though an outcast from her own
people--the conventions seen to be as imperative in Tokyo as in
Philadelphia--because of her half-caste origin, is justly Japanese in
what makes her loveliest.  There is a quite indescribable freshness in
the art of this pretty novelette--it is hardly of the dimensions of a
novel--which is like no other art except in the simplicity which is
native to the best art everywhere.  Yuki herself is of a surpassing
lovableness.  Nothing but the irresistible charm of the American girl
could, I should think keep the young men who read Mrs. Watana's book
from going out and marrying Japanese girls.  They are safe from this,
however, for the reason suggested, and therefore it can be safely
commended at least to young men intending fiction, as such a lesson in
the art of imitating nature as has not come under my hand for a long
while.  The Bishop's Palace, on the opposite bank of the river, was one
of the finest in the kingdom. It was founded by Bishop Gower in the
fourteenth century, and, together with the cathedral, St.

Mary's College, and other ecclesiastical buildings, was enclosed
by a lofty wall having four gateways, of which only one remains.

In mediaeval days the shrine of St. David was regarded with great
veneration, and was visited by William the Conqueror, Henry II., and
by Edward I. and his queen.

[Illustration: _G.W. Wilson & Co._
ST. DAVIDS CATHEDRAL FROM THE NORTH-EAST.]

FURNESS ABBEY, LANCASHIRE

=How to get there.=--Train from Euston. L. and N.W. Railway.
=Nearest Station.=--Furness Abbey.
=Distance from London.=--262 miles.
=Average Time.=--Varies between 6 and 7-1/2 hours.

1st 2nd 3rd =Fares.=--Single 38s. 2d. ... 21s. 9d Return 75s. 4d
(available for one month).

=Accommodation Obtainable.=--"Furness Abbey Hotel," etc.
=Alternative Route.=--Train from St. Pancras. Midland Railway.

In the days of its prosperity Furness must have been one of the most
important monastic establishments in the kingdom, although its completeness
did not come about until many years after the date of its foundation
in 1127 by Stephen, at that time Earl of Mortain and Boulogne. The
situation chosen was on the banks of a stream flowing through a narrow
fertile valley--the favourite position for Cistercian abbeys. The
monks came originally from Savigny in Normandy. Having become very
richly endowed, the foundation of the abbey was confirmed by the
charters of twelve successive sovereigns and the bulls of various popes.
Remarkable privileges were given to the abbot, who had great
authority in the whole of the surrounding district, even the military
element being, to a certain extent, dependent upon him.
A register known as the Abbot's Mortuary was kept at Furness
throughout three centuries. This was almost unique among Cistercian
monasteries, for only names of those abbots who, having presided
for ten years, continued at the abbey and died abbots there, were
entered in the register. During 277 years, therefore, only ten names
were written upon the pages.Mr. Chesnutt goes far back of the historic event in his novel, and
shows us the sources of the cataclysm which swept away a legal
government and perpetuated an insurrection, but he does not paint the
blacks all good, or the whites all bad.  He paints them as slavery made
them on both sides, and if in the very end he gives the moral victory
to the blacks--if he suffers the daughter of the black wife to have
pity on her father's daughter by his white wife, and while her own
child lies dead from a shot fired in the revolt, gives her husband's
skill to save the life of her sister's child--it cannot be said that
either his aesthetics or ethics are false.  Those who would question
either must allow, at least, that the negroes have had the greater
practice in forgiveness, and that there are many probabilities to favor
his interpretation of the fact.  No one who reads the book can deny
that the case is presented with great power, or fail to recognize in
the writer a portent of the sort of negro equality against which no
series of hangings and burnings will finally avail.


VII.

In Mr. Chesnutt's novel the psychologism is of that universal
implication which will distinguish itself to the observer from the
psychologism of that more personal sort--the words are not as apt as I
should like--evident in some of the interesting books under notice
here.  I have tried to say that it is none the less a work of art for
that reason, and I can praise the art of another novel, in which the
same sort of psychologism prevails, though I must confess it a fiction
of the rankest tendenciousness.  "Lay Down Your Arms" is the name of
the English version of the Baroness von Suttner's story, "Die Waffen
Nieder," which has become a watchword with the peacemakers on the
continent of Europe.  Its success there has been very great, and I wish
its success on the continent of America could be so great that it might
replace in the hands of our millions the baleful books which have
lately been glorifying bloodshed in the private and public wars of the
past, if not present.  The wars which "Lay Down Your Arms" deals with
are not quite immediate, and yet they are not so far off historically,
either.  They are the Franco-Austrian war of 1859, the Austro-Prussian
war of 1866, and the Franco-German war of 1870; and the heroine whose
personal relation makes them live so cruelly again is a young Austrian
lady of high birth.  She is the daughter and the sister of soldiers,
and when the handsome young officer, of equal rank with her own, whom
she first marries, makes love to her just before the outbreak of the
war first named, she is as much in love with his soldiership as with
himself.  But when the call to arms comes, it strikes to her heart such
a sense of war as she has never known before.  He is killed in one of
the battles of Italy, and after a time she marries another soldier, not
such a beau sabreur as the first, but a mature and thoughtful man, who
fights through that second war from a sense of duty rather than from
love of fighting, and comes out of it with such abhorrence that he
quits the army and goes with his family to live in Paris.  There the
third war overtakes him, and in the siege, this Austrian, who has
fought the Prussians to the death, is arrested by the communards as a
Prussian spy and shot.

The bare outline of the story gives, of course, no just notion of the
intense passion of grief which fills it.  Neither does it convey a due
impression of the character in the different persons which, amidst the
heartbreak, is ascertained with some such truth and impartiality as
pervade the effects of "War and Peace."  I do not rank it with that
work, but in its sincerity and veracity it easily ranks above any other
novel treating of war which I know, and it ought to do for the German
peoples what the novels of Erckmann-Chatrian did for the French, in at
least one generation.  Will it do anything for the Anglo-Saxon peoples?
Probably not till we have pacified the Philippines and South Africa.
We Americans are still apparently in love with fighting, though the
English are apparently not so much so; and as it is always well to face
the facts, I will transfer to my page some facts of fighting from this
graphic book, which the read may apply to the actualities in the
Philippines, with a little imagination.  They are taken from a letter
written to the heroine by her second husband after one of the Austrian
defeats.  "The people poured boiling water and oil on the Prussians
from the windows of the houses at ----....  The village is ours--no, it
is the enemy's, now ours again--and yet once more the enemy's; but it
is no longer a village, but a smoking mass of ruins of houses....One
family has remained behind...an old married couple and their daughter,
the latter in childbed.  The husband is serving in our regiment....
Poor devil! he got there just in time to see the mother and child die;
a shell had exploded under their bed....  I saw a breastwork there
which was formed of corpses.  The defenders had heaped all the slain
who were lying near, in order, from that rampart, to fire over at their
assailants.  I shall surely never forget that wall in my life.  A man
who formed one of its bricks was still alive, and was waving his
arm....  What is happening there?  The execution party is drawn out.
Has a spy been caught?  Seventeen this time.  There they come, in four
ranks, each one of four men, surrounded by a square of soldiers.  The
condemned men step out, with their heads down.  Behind comes a cart
with a corpse in it, and bound to the corpse the dead man's son, a boy
of twelve, also condemned....  Steep, rocky heights; Jaegers, nimble as
cats, climbing up them....  Some of them, who are hit by the enemy's
shot, suddenly stretch out both their arms, let their muskets fall,
and, with their heads falling backwards, drop off the height, step by
step, from one rocky point to another, smashing their limbs to pieces.
I saw a horseman at some distance, obliquely behind me, at whose side a
shell burst.  His horse swerved aside and came against the tail of
mind, then shot past me.  The man sat still in the saddle, but a
fragment of the shell had ripped his belly open and torn out all the
intestines.  The upper part of his body was held to the lower only by
the spine.  From the ribs to the thighs nothing but one great, bleeding
cavity.  A short distance farther he fell to the ground, one foot still
clinging in the stirrup, and the galloping horse dragging him on over
the stony soil....  Another street fight in the little town of Saar....
In the middle of the square stands a high pillar of the Virgin.  The
mother of God holds her child in one arm, and stretches the other out
in blessing....  Here the fight was prolonged, man to man.  They were
hacking at me, I laying about me on all sides....  A Prussian dragoon,
strong as Goliath, tore one of our officers (a pretty, dandified
lieutenant--how many girls are, perhaps, mad after him?) out of his
saddle and split his skull at the feet of the Virgin's pillar.  The
gentle saint looked on unmoved.  Another of the enemy's dragoons--a
Goliath, too--seized, just before me almost, my right-hand man, and
bent him backwards in his saddle so powerfully that he broke his
back--I myself heard it crack.  To this the Madonna gave her blessing
also."


VIII.

It can be said that these incidents of battle are imagined, like the
facts of Vereschagin's pictures, but like these they are imagined
rather below than above the real horror of war, and represent them
inadequately.  The incidents of another book, the last on my list, are
of the warfare which goes on in times of peace, and which will go on as
long as there are human passions, and mankind are divided into men and
women, and saints and sinners.  Of all the books on my list, "Let Not
Man Put Asunder" is, narrowing the word to the recognition of the
author's intellectual alertness and vividness, the cleverest.  The
story is of people who constantly talk so wonderfully well beyond the
wont even of society people that the utmost skill of the author, who
cannot subdue their brilliancy, is needed to make us feel their
reality.  But he does make us feel this in most cases, the important
cases, and in the other cases his power of interesting us is so great
that we do not stop to examine the grounds of our sensation, or to
question the validity of our emotions.   The action, which is
positively of to-day, or yesterday at the furthest, passes in Boston
and England, among people of such great fortune and high rank and
transcendent fashion that the proudest reader cannot complain of their
social quality.  As to their moral quality, one might have thought the
less said the better, if the author had not said so much that is
pertinent and impressive.  It is from first to last a book with a
conscience in it, and its highest appeal is to the conscience.  It is
so very nearly a great book, so very nearly a true book, that it is
with a kind of grief one recognizes its limitations, a kind of surprise
at its shortcomings, which, nevertheless, are not shortcomings that
impair its supreme effect.  =Average Time.=--Varies between 6 to 9
hours.

1st 2nd 3rd =Fares.=--Single 40s. 10d. ... 24s. 4d.
Return 81s. 8d. ... 48s. 8d.

=Accommodation Obtainable.=--At Brampton--"Howard Arms," "White Lion
Hotel." =Alternative Route.=--Train from St. Pancras. Midland
Railway.

Lanercost Priory is situated in a singularly beautiful sylvan valley
watered by the river Irthing. Only the shell of the chancel remains,
but the nave has been restored, and is now used as the church of the
parish.
The walls of the roofless transepts as well as the central tower are
still standing. The pillars on the south side support a much
decayed clerestory, but on the opposite side both the triforium
and clerestory are in a fairly good state of preservation.

A side chapel in the choir contains some very finely carved but
battered altar-tombs belonging to the Dacre family--one of them is
believed to be that of Lord William Howard. Under what was the refectory
of the conventual buildings, one may find the crypt in a very good state
of preservation. In it are preserved some Roman altars and carvings
discovered at various times in the locality. A number of Roman
inscriptions having been discovered on the walls of the Priory Church;
it is generally supposed that much of the building material was obtained
from the Roman wall. The Rev. J. Maughan has argued for the existence
of a Roman station at this point, and its name is believed to have been
_Petriana_.

The monastery adjoining the Priory Church belonged to the order of
St.
Augustine, and its endowments consisted of all the land lying between
the Picts' wall and the river Irthing, upon which the buildings stood,
and between Burgh and Poltross.

After the dissolution the monastic buildings were put into a
proper state of repair, and were converted into a private residence
by Lord Thomas Dacre, who built the castellated portion towards the
south, which of course did not belong to the original structure. Half a
mile distant from the priory is Naworth Castle, the historic seat of
the Earl of Carlisle, and Brampton is famous for its _mote_, which
was possibly a Danish fort.

[Illustration: _Valentine & Sons, Ltd_.

LANERCOST PRIORY AND STEPPING-STONES.]

CHILLINGHAM CASTLE, NORTHUMBERLAND
=How to get there.=--Train from King's Cross. Great Northern Rly.
=Nearest Station.=--Belford (6 miles from Chillingham).
=Distance from London.=--323 miles.
=Average Time.=--About 9 hours.

1st 2nd 3rd =Fares.=--Single 44s. 11d. ... 26s. 11d.
Return 89s. 10d. ... 53s. 10d.

=Accommodation Obtainable.=-- =Alternative Route.=--Train from St.
Pancras _via_ Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Midland Railway.

The castle at Chillingham, the seat of the Earl of Tankerville, is a
remarkably picturesque building, erected in the reign of Elizabeth, on
the site of an older fortress. The castle, which is now in the
occupation of Sir Andrew Noble, to whom it has been let by Lord
Tankerville, contains many valuable portraits.
An ancestor of the Earl of Tankerville, Charles Lord Ossulston,
came into the property in 1695 by marriage with the daughter and
heiress of Lord Grey, Earl of Tankerville, a descendant of the Greys
of Chillingham and Wark, who had much property in Glendale.
The herds of cattle at Chillingham are believed to be survivors of
_Bos primigenius_, the wild ox of Europe, which is the supposed
progenitor of our domestic cattle. This fact is of great scientific
interest and is analogous to the preservation of the few remaining
buffaloes in America, only in this case these wild cattle have been
preserved through much changed conditions for a vastly longer
period.
The King, when Prince of Wales, shot one of these animals, but in
doing so had a rather narrow escape. The chief external appearances
distinguishing the cattle from all others are as follows--"their
colour is invariably white; muzzles black, the whole of the inside
of the ear and about one-third of the outside, from the lips
downwards, red; horns white with black tips, very fine and bent
upwards; some of the bulls have a thin upright mane about an inch
and a half or two inches long."
It should be pointed out that there is some danger in encountering
any of the herd in the absence of the park-keepers. The calves have
been noticed to have the wild characteristic of dropping when
suddenly surprised.
A reproduction is given opposite of Landseer's picture of the wild
cattle.Of the things that are not natural, you feel like saying
that they are supernatural rather than unnatural, and you own that at
its worst the book is worth while in a time when most novels are not
worth while.


Footnotes

"The Right of Way."  A Novel.  By Gilbert Parker.  Harper & Brothers.

"The Ruling Passion. Tales of nature and human nature."  By Henry Van
Dyke.  Charles Scribner's Sons.

"Spoils and Stratagems Stories of love and politics."  By Wm. Allen
White.  Charles Scribner's Sons.

"Foma Gordyeeff."  By Maxim Gorky.  Translated from the Russian by
Isabel F. Hapgood.  Charles Scribner's Sons.

"Circumstances."  By S. Weir Mitchell, M.D. The Century Company.

"A Japanese Nightingale."  By Onoto Watana. Harper & Brothers.

"The Marrow of Tradition."  By Charles W. Chesnutt.  Houghton, Mifflin
& Co.

"Lay Down Your Arms. The autobiography of Martha von Tilling." By
Bertha von Suttner.  Authorized Translation.  By T. Holmes.  Longmans,
Green & Co.

"Let Not Man Put Asunder."  By Basil King.  Harper & Brothers.