GRACE DARLING

Heroine of the Farne Islands

by

EVA HOPE


[Frontispiece: Grace H. Darling]


London and Felling-on-Tyne
The Walter Scott Publishing Co., Ltd.
New York: 3 East 14th Street
1875


THIS VOLUME

IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED TO

MISS THOMASIN DARLING,

THE BELOVED SISTER OF THE HEROIC GRACE DARLING,

IN RECOGNITION OF HER CHRISTIAN CHARACTER

AND AMIABLE DISPOSITION, BY

THE AUTHOR


CONTENTS

CHAP.

     I. Woman's Work
    II. Ancient Northumbria
   III. The Childhood of a Heroine
    IV. Lighthouse Homes
     V. Lighthouse Guests
    VI. Christmas at the Longstone Lighthouse
   VII. A Wedding in the Family
  VIII. "Prevention Better than Cure"
    IX. August Pic-Nic's Pleasures
     X. The Perils of the Ocean
    XI. The Wreck of the "Forfarshire"
   XII. Grace to the Rescue
  XIII. After the Event
   XIV. A Visit to the Duke and Duchess of Northumberland
        at Alnwick Castle
    XV. The Darling Family at Home
   XVI. An Early Death
  XVII. "Being Dead, yet Speaketh"
 XVIII. Conclusion


GRACE DARLING,

THE HEROINE OF THE FARNE ISLES.


CHAPTER I.

WOMAN'S WORK.

  "The rights of woman, what are they?
  The right to labour and to pray;
  The right to succour in distress;
  The right, when others curse; to bless;
  The right to lead the soul to God,
  Along the path the Saviour trod."


What is woman's work?  This is one of the vexed questions of to-day,
and it is one which, doubtless, sometimes troubled the unwilling brains
of our forefathers, though to a less extent.  They settled it more
rapidly and satisfactorily than we are able to do, for, "in the long
ago," women were less ambitious than they are now.  In our times, they
have so forced themselves to the front, that a number of questions have
necessarily to be considered; and what woman ought to do, what she can
do, and what she must do, are subjects which afford interesting and
useful topics of conversation in all circles.  As might have been
expected, the opinions of even wise men vary with regard to this
matter.  "A woman is good as a house-wife, and a mother," say some.
"But as there are not homes enough for them all, something else must be
thought of," say others.  "A woman has neither strength enough, nor
brains enough, for most occupations," say her detractors.  "A woman is
capable of doing almost anything a man can do, especially those things
which are the most honourable and remunerative," say the most
enthusiastic advocates of woman's rights.  There are some, indeed, who
would gladly aid her to mount the very highest pinnacles of fame and
social distinction.  There are others who are jealous if she succeed in
getting her foot, even upon the lowest step of the ladder, and who
would be glad, like the Friend of Mrs. Stowe, to give the intruder a
push, with the words, "Thou art not wanted here."

In the midst of this clamour of inharmonious voices, it is a little
amusing to see how quietly and effectively some women settle the matter
for themselves.  If, indeed, they are among the best of their sex, they
are surely qualified to judge, not only of their own ability, but also
as to that which is proper.  And they have no difficulty in finding
this reply to the puzzling question--A WOMAN'S WORK IS THAT WHICH SHE
SEES NEEDS DOING.  It is her duty to put her hand to any occupation
that is waiting for workers.  If a fire is raging, and she have
strength to bring a bucket of water, and throw over it, is she guilty
of an unwomanly action if she obey the impulse of her heart, and work
diligently by the side of men whose work it is?  If she see "another
woman's bairnie" in trouble, is she not right to rush into the streets
and snatch him from the danger which threatens him, as the horses come
tearing by, and the huge and laden vehicles shake the houses?  And is
she less a woman, if, seeing these children grown up to manhood, she
beholds them exposed to greater dangers than their childhood ever knew,
and hastens to their rescue with brave and inspiring words?

To draw the line which separates the right and wrong of other people's
actions, is always a difficult, if not an impossible thing, and yet it
is what almost everybody attempts.  It is right, say some, for a woman
to instruct her own family in Biblical knowledge, and she may even
invite the children of her neighbour to be present while she does so.
But if the little social gathering should become a congregation, so
that, instead of meeting in the lady's own room, it should be necessary
to borrow a mission-hall or a chapel, then even her friends shake their
heads, and bring the blush to her face by suggesting that she is doing
an unwomanly thing.  It is right and proper that she should know so
much of medicine as to be able successfully to doctor her own children.
Nor is she all that she ought to be unless she can tell, in an
emergency, what is best for her husband, and many of the poor who may
seek her advice.  But if the joy of healing prove a fascination and a
snare to her, and in order that she may not be a burden to father or
brother, or to enable her to provide for orphan children left to her
care, she endeavours to enter the medical profession, and receive money
for her services, what a terrible hue-and-cry is raised against her.

The Lord Jesus Christ once uttered a very high eulogium upon a woman,
against whom words of bitter blame and indignation were spoken.  There
was a supper at the house of Simon, the Leper, and to him was given the
honour of entertaining a Guest who was not only royal, but divine.
There were also present three members of a family who owed the Saviour
life-long thanks for benefits received.  One of them, a woman, whose
name was Mary, felt so burdened that she could not let so good an
opportunity pass without in some way expressing her emotions.  She
therefore brought a very expensive gift, an alabaster box of precious
ointment, and, breaking the box, she poured the ointment on the head
and feet of Jesus, thus performing a graceful act of womanly
ministration.  It was uncommon in some respects, and this of itself was
sufficient to draw down upon her the scathing rebuke of the
unsympathetic on-lookers.  "Why was this waste of the ointment made?
It might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and have
been given to the poor.  And they murmured against her."  But He, who
is always woman's best friend, took Mary's part against her accusers.
"Let her alone; why trouble ye her?  She hath wrought a good work on
Me, for ye have the poor with you always; and whensoever ye will, ye
may do them good, but Me ye have not always.  SHE HATH DONE WHAT SHE
COULD."

In these words, we think we have an answer to the question, What is
woman's work?  Is it not this?--SHE MAY DO WHAT SHE CAN.  She is not,
of course, to go abroad seeking work, while work is ready to her hand.
She is not to neglect homely duties, for those which call her away from
friends and kindred who need her.  She is not to stretch out her hands
beseechingly for higher service, if they are already full of lowly
tasks not yet accomplished.  But if she have leisure, strength, and
ability--if there are no God-given ties that ought to hinder her--if
she sees fields white ready to harvest, and knows that the labourers
are all too few--then, in Christ's name, let her do with her might
whatsoever her hands find to do.

It is surely this which the voice of GRACE DARLING, the heroine whom
the hearts of men and women alike agree to love and revere, is saying
to us still, and has said ever since her brave deeds thrilled the
world.  She gave her thoughts and powers, with conscientious diligence
and perseverance, to the common-place duties of her lot, but she was
none the less ready, when the occasion came, to go forth over the
stormy waters to do a most uncommon deed of daring.  Usually, she was
happy and content in being a blessing to her own family; but she was
not afraid to forget herself, nor unable to rise above the natural
timidity of her sex, when the noblest and strongest passions of her
heart were aroused on behalf of men, women, and children, who were in
danger of a watery grave.

There are other great women, her sisters, of each of whom it may also
be said, "She hath done what she could."  Most of these have been
helped by circumstances to do their brave deeds so silently that the
world does not even hear their names.  But to a few it happens that
duty calls them to their work in the face of the crowd, and this may be
providentially ordered that those who look on may be thus taught the
hopeful and inspiring lessons of a good woman's life.

Illustrations of women whose work has been heroic, are not wanting.

It is not very long ago since the world rang with the name of FLORENCE
NIGHTINGALE.  She was an educated and accomplished young lady, the
daughter of a wealthy man, who might have been content to live the
quiet life of luxury to which she was born.  But God had given to her a
tender heart, which would not permit her to look on suffering without
longing to alleviate it; and when she was twenty-one years old, she
began to take an interest in the condition of hospitals.  After a time
she went into the Protestant Deaconesses Institution at Kaiserswerth,
that she might be trained as a nurse.  At the end of ten years of
preparation, she entered upon her life-work.  War was declared with
Russia; and when the battle of the Alma had been fought, the wounded
crowded the hospitals.  But the condition of these places was so
terrible, the men died of disease so rapidly, that the death-rate was
greater than if they had fallen in fight.  In this appalling crisis,
Miss Nightingale offered her services.  These were thankfully accepted;
and a week afterward, the lady and her nurses left England for Scutari.
What she did there has since become matter for history.  On one
occasion, she was on her feet for twenty hours at a stretch, until all
the poor fellows who had been brought in were comfortably accommodated.
None can tell how many lives she was the means of saving.

  "Neglected, dying in despair,
    They lay till woman came
  To soothe them with her gentle care,
    And feed life's flickering flame.

  "When wounded sore on fever's rack,
    Or cast away as slain,
  she called their fluttering spirits back,
    And gave them strength again.

  "'Twas grief to miss the passing face
    That suffering could dispel;
  But joy to turn and kiss the place
    On which her shadow fell."


Nor was her work confined to nursing only.  Her example has done very
much; and her literary productions have given light and teaching to
those who wished to follow it.  Who does not know the good that her
"Notes on Hospitals" has done?  And her little book, "Notes on
Nursing," is invaluable to all who are called upon to spend an hour in
the sick room.  Florence Nightingale has answered the question, What is
woman's work? by doing what she could.

She was one example, and ELIZABETH FRY was another.  Passing her
childhood in the quiet home of her father, she was yet, as a child,
laying the foundation of her future excellent career.  When only
eighteen years of age, she gained her father's consent to her
establishing in his house a school, to which about eighty poor children
came, and where they were taught good lessons, which were the seeds of
useful fruit in after years.  At twenty years of age, she married
Joseph Fry, Esq., of Upton, Essex.  He was then engaged in business in
London.  She had eight children, and must have had her hands almost
full of domestic cares and duties.  But she had eyes for the troubles
and needs of the inhabitants who lived and loved, sinned and suffered
outside of the sheltered resting-places in her own home, and she became
aware of the pitiable condition of the female prisoners in Newgate, and
resolved to visit them.  It was considered to be a very dangerous
experiment; but her woman's heart was strong, for she had faith in God,
and in the power of human love; and otherwise unprotected, she went
alone into that part of the prison, where a hundred and fifty of the
worst of her own sex were confined.  The women were surprised into
attention and respect by her dignity and gentleness of manner.  She
read to them some portion of "the old old story," and spoke to them
with such earnest love, that their hearts were melted within them.
Many of them heard, for the first time, of the divine compassion of Him
who came to seek and to save that which was lost; and as they listened,
tears stole into eyes that were strangely unused to shed them; and from
some of the poor wanderers a cry went up to the merciful Father, and
was the first prayer in the sinful, sorrowful life.  In 1816, she
became a systematic visitor of the prison.  About that time, the
"Society for the Improvement of Prison Discipline" was instituted, and
she worked in connection with it.  She established a school inside of
the prison walls--found work for the idle hands of the women, and
succeeded in forming a Committee of Ladies who were willing to help in
the reformation of the female prisoners.  It soon became evident that
the labour was not in vain.  A marked difference in the habits of the
women was apparent.  Instead of the riot and filth which were the
accompaniments of idleness, order, neatness, and decency, were
maintained.  Nor did she rest when Newgate had shown some improvement.
Her thoughts were turned to the condition of the poor wretches who had
been sentenced to transportation.  The foreign prisons were in even a
worse condition than our own, and she took several Continental journeys
in order to gain knowledge, and enlist the sympathy and help of
Christian people of all nations for the prisoners.

But although this work was that with regard to which she was most
deeply solicitous, it was not the only one which occupied her thoughts.
The Abolition of Slavery was a task which was laid upon her heart, and
she rendered the cause good service.  She spent much time and money
also in the distribution of Bibles and religious tracts.  She provided
the ships of the Royal Navy, and those of the Coast Guard, with
religious and instructive literature, having obtained permission from
Government to do so.  And she did not limit her good deeds to such
things as these, which necessarily were well known.  She worked
silently, too; and many an act of mercy gladly rendered to the poor and
destitute, the sick and helpless, had no witness but the God who seeth
in secret, and rewardeth openly.

This good friend added to her other engagements that of the preacher;
and never, perhaps, has a woman's voice spoken more effectively than
did the voice of this worthy woman, who preached the gospel both by
lips and life, not only in her own, but also in Continental cities.  It
was, indeed, a great loss to this world, where noble men and women are
so much wanted, when Elizabeth Fry died.  But He who watches all life
and action, has said, "He that is faithful in that which is least, is
faithful also in much," and He calls the steadfast servant to higher
service.

In the year 1845, she died at Ramsgate, in the sixty-fifth year of her
age.  A nation mourned for her, and as the most fitting testimony to
the esteem in which she was held, a building was erected, which was
called the "Elizabeth Fry Refuge," and which was to supply home and
relief to discharged female prisoners.  Was Elizabeth Fry an unwomanly
woman?  Certainly not.  But she did exceptional work, because she saw
that it needed doing; and God blessed and prospered her in it.  Of her
also it may surely be said, "She hath done what she could."

Even in our own day, there are multitudes of good women who are
slipping a little out of the beaten track.  Are not the names of Miss
Faithful, Miss Leigh, Miss Macpherson, Miss Marsh, and Miss Rye,
"familiar in our mouths as household words."  Are there not speakers
and preachers, scientific women and teachers, who have been thoroughly
successful in the work they have undertaken, though it has not been
that which has usually fallen to the lot of women?

At the time of writing these words, the largest congregation in London
is mourning the loss of a woman who, Sunday by Sunday, gathered
together eight hundred members of a Young Woman's Bible Class, to
listen while she spoke to them of things pertaining to their present
and eternal welfare.  And who is there but would earnestly wish such
women God-speed?  Their work may be a little different from some of
that of their sisters, but it is good work all the same.  And as such
it ought to be done.  Why should not the labourers be allowed to
proceed with their tasks without opposition and hindrance from those
who look on?  It cannot be denied that much of this work never would be
performed if the women did not do it.  Are they not right to step into
vacant places, and stretch out their hands to help, when help is
needed?  Whether they are right or not, they certainly do not escape
censure.  People are ready enough to applaud a really heroic action,
but if the deed be as good in itself, yet have no romance about it, the
tongues of the critics are apt to say sharp things.  Many women, simply
because they are not courageous enough to brave the adverse opinions of
those by whom they are surrounded, lose golden opportunities of
distinguishing themselves.  They are afraid to be singular.  But this
fear is no honour to the sex.  A woman should be so far free and
independent as to do that which she feels to be right, no matter though
the right seem to call her to heights which she had not occupied
before.  And if, in her ordinary avocations, she be allowed liberty of
thought and action, there is the greater probability that, when the
occasion comes which demands from her strength of nerve and firm
endurance, she will not be found wanting.  It does not matter very much
whether or not other people are satisfied with a woman's deeds, though
she cannot help wishing to please those whom she loves.  But what does
matter is, that she should gain the high praise of Him who sees not as
man sees, and who will say even to those who imagine themselves to be
in some sense failures, "She hath done what she could."

What are you busy? Do you need my help?

JULIET. No, madam; we have culled such necessaries.
As are behoveful for our state to-morrow:
So please you, let me now be left alone, And let the nurse this
night sit up with you; For, I am sure, you have your hands full all,
In this so sudden business.

  LADY C. Then, good-night!
  Get thee to bed, and rest! for thou
  hast need.
  

[_Exeunt Lady Capulet and Nurse_.

  JULIET. Farewell!--Heaven knows when we shall
  meet again-- I have a faint cold fear, thrills
  through my veins, That almost freezes up
  the heat of life:
  I'll call them back again to comfort
  me.
  Nurse!--What should she do here?
  My dismal scene I needs must act alone.
  [_Takes out the phial_.
  Come, phial-- What if this mixture do not work at all?

Shall I of force be married to the Count?

  No, no;--this shall forbid it!--[_Draws
  a dagger_.]--Lie thou there.-- What, if it be a
  poison which the friar Subtly hath
  ministered to have me dead, Lest in this
  marriage he should be dishonoured, Because he
  married me before to Romeo?
  I fear it is; and yet, methinks it should not;
  For he hath still been tried a holy man.

I will not entertain so bad a thought.-- How, if, when I am laid into
the tomb, I wake before the time that Romeo Come to redeem me? there's
a fearful point!
Shall I not then be stifled in the vault, To whose foul mouth no healthsome
air breathes in, And there die strangled ere my Romeo comes?
Or, if I live, is it not very like, The horrible conceit of death and
night Together with the terror of the place,-- As in a vault, an ancient
receptacle, Where, for these many hundred years, the bones Of all my
buried ancestors are packed, Where bloody Tybalt, yet but green in
earth, Lies fest'ring in his shroud; where, as they say, At some hours
in the night spirits resort;-- Oh, if I wake, shall I not be distraught,
Environéd with all these hideous fears, And madly play with my
forefathers' joints,-- And pluck the mangled Tybalt from his shroud?

And, in this rage, with some great kinsman's bone, As with a club,
dash out my desperate brains?-- Oh, look! methinks, I see my cousin's
ghost Seeking out Romeo:--Stay, Tybalt, stay!-- Romeo, I come; this
do I drink to thee.-- _[Drinks the contents of the phial._ Oh,
potent draught, thou hast chilled me to the heart!-- My head turns
round;--my senses fail me.-- Oh, Romeo!

Romeo!-- _[Throws herself on the bed._
* * * * *
THE SISTER OF CHARITY.

Oh, is it a phantom? a dream of the night?
A vision which fever hath fashion'd to sight?
The wind, wailing ever, with motion uncertain Sways sighingly there the
drench'd tent's tatter'd curtain, To and fro, up and down.
But it is not the wind That is lifting it now; and it is not the mind
That hath moulded that vision.
A pale woman enters, As wan as the lamp's waning light, which concentres
Its dull glare upon her. With eyes dim and dimmer, There, all in
a slumb'rous and shadowy glimmer, The sufferer sees that still form
floating on, And feels faintly aware that he is not alone.
She is flitting before him. She pauses She stands By his bedside all
silent. She lays her white hands On the brow of the boy. A light
finger is pressing Softly, softly, the sore wounds: the hot blood-stained
dressing Slips from them. A comforting quietude steals Thro' the racked
weary frame; and throughout it, he feels The slow sense of a merciful,
mild neighbourhood.
Something smoothes the toss'd pillow. Beneath a gray hood Of rough serge,
two intense tender eyes are bent o'er him, And thrill thro' and
thro' him. The sweet form before him, It is surely Death's angel Life's
last vigil keeping!

A soft voice says--'Sleep!' And he sleeps: he is sleeping.
He waked before dawn. Still the vision is there:
Still that pale woman moves not. A minist'ring care Meanwhile
has been silently changing and cheering The aspect of all things around
him.
Revering Some power unknown and benignant, he bless'd In silence the
sense of salvation. And rest Having loosen'd the mind's tangled meshes,
he faintly Sigh'd--'Say what thou art, blessed dream of a saintly 'And
minist'ring spirit!
A whisper serene Slid softer than silence--'The Soeur Seraphine, 'A
poor Sister of Charity. Shun to inquire 'Aught further, young soldier.
The son of thy sire, 'For the sake of that sire, I reclaim from the
grave.
'Thou didst not shun death: shun not life. 'Tis more brave To live than
to die. Sleep!' He sleeps: he is sleeping.
He waken'd again, when the dawn was just steeping The skies with chill
splendour. And there, never flitting, Never flitting, that vision of
mercy was sitting.

As the dawn to the darkness, so life seem'd returning Slowly, feebly
within him.

The night-lamp, yet burning, Made ghastly the glimmering daybreak.

  He said:
  'If thou be of the living, and not of
  the dead, 'Sweet minister, pour out yet further
  the healing 'Of that balmy voice; if it may be,
  revealing 'Thy mission of mercy! whence art
  thou?
  'O son 'Of Matilda and Alfred, it matters not! One
  'Who is not of the living nor yet of the
  dead; 'To thee, and to others, alive yet'--she said--
  'So long as there liveth the poor gift in me
  'Of this ministration; to them, and to thee,
  'Dead in all things beside. A French nun,
  whose vocation 'Is now by this bedside.

A nun hath no nation.
'Wherever man suffers, or woman may soothe, 'There her land! there her
kindred!' She bent down to smooth The hot pillow, and added--'Yet more
than another 'Is thy life dear to me. For thy father, thy mother, 'I
know them--I know them.' 'Oh can it be? you!
'My dearest, dear father! my mother! you knew, 'You know them?' She
bow'd, half averting her head In silence.
He brokenly, timidly said, 'Do they know I am thus?' 'Hush!'--she smiled
as she drew From her bosom two letters; and--can it be true?
That beloved and familiar writing!
He burst Into tears--'My poor mother,--my father! the worst 'Will have
reached them!' 'No, no!' she exclaimed with a smile, 'They know you
are living; they know that meanwhile 'I am watching beside you. Young
soldier, weep not!' But still on the nun's nursing bosom, the hot Fever'd
brow of the boy weeping wildly is press'd.
There, at last, the young heart sobs itself into rest; And he hears, as
it were between smiling and weeping, The calm voice say--'Sleep!' And
he sleeps, he is sleeping'
* * * * *
SIM'S LITTLE GIRL.

Come out here, George Burks. Put that glass down--can't wait a
minute.
Business particular--concerns the Company.

I don't often meddle in other folks' business, do I?

When a tough old fellow like me sets out to warn a body, you may know its
because he sees sore need of it. _Just takin' drinks for good
fellowship?_ Yes, I know all 'bout that. Been there myself. Sit down
on the edge of the platform here.

Of all the men in the world, I take it, engineers ought to be the last
to touch the bottle. We have life and property trusted to our
hands. Ours is a grand business--I don't think folks looks at
it as they ought to. Remember when I was a young fellow, like you, just
set up with an engine, I used to feel like a strong angel, or
somethin', rushin' over the country, makin' that iron beast do just
as I wanted him to. The power sort of made me think fast.

I was doin' well when I married, and I did well long afterwards. We had
a nice home, the little woman and me: our hearts were set on each
other, and she was a little proud of her engineer--she used to say
so, anyhow.

She was sort of mild and tender with her tongue. Not one of your loud
ones. And pretty, too. But you know what it is to love a woman,
George Burks--I saw you walking with a blue-eyed little thing last
Sunday.

After a while we had the little girl. We talked a good deal about what
we should call her, my wife and I. We went clean through the Bible,
and set down all the fine story names we heard of. But nothin' seemed
to suit. I used to puzzle the whole length of my route to find a
name for that little girl. My wife wanted to call her Endora Isabel. But
that sounded like folderol. Then we had up Rebeccar, and Maud, and
Amanda Ann, and what not.
Finally, whenever I looked at her, I seemed to see "Katie." She looked
Katie. I took to calling her Katie, and she learned it--so Katie she
was.

I tell you, George, that was a child to be noticed. She was rounder and
prettier made'n a wax figger; her eyes was bigger and blacker'n
any grown woman's you ever saw, set like stars under her forehead,
and her hair was that light kind that all runs to curls and glitter.

Soon's she could toddle, she used to come dancin' to meet me. I've
soiled a-many of her white pinafores buryin' my face in them before I
was washed, and sort of prayin' soft like under the roof of my heart,
"God bless my baby! God bless my little lamb!"
As she grew older, I used to talk to her about engin'--even took her into
my cab, and showed the 'tachments of the engin', and learned her
signals and such things.

She tuk such an interest, and was the smartest little thing! Seemed
as if she had always knowed 'em. She loved the road. Remember once
hearing her say to a playmate: "There's my papa. He's an
engineer.
Don't you wish he was your papa?"
My home was close by the track. Often and often the little girl stood
in our green yard, waving her mite of a hand as we rushed by.

Well, one day I started on my home trip, full of that good fellowship you
was imbibin' awhile ago. Made the engine whizz! We was awful
jolly, the fireman and me. Never was drunk when I got on my engine
before, or the Company would have shipped me. Warn't no such time made
on that road before nor since. I had just sense enough to know what I
was about, but not enough to handle an emergency. We fairly roared
down on the trestle that stood at the entrance of our town.

I had a tipsy eye out, and, George, as we was flyin' through the suburbs,
I see my little girl on the track ahead, wavin' a red flag and standin'
stock still!

The air seemed full of Katies. I could have stopped the engine if
I'd only had sense enough to know what to take hold of to reverse her!
But I was too drunk! And that grand little angel stood up to it,
trying to warn us in time, and we just swept right along into a pile of
ties some wretch had placed on the track!--right over my baby! Oh, my
baby! Go away, George.

There! And do you want me to tell you how that mangled little mass killed
her mother? And do you want me to tell you I walked alive a murderer of
my own child, who stood up to save me? And do you want me to tell you
the good fellowship you were drinkin' awhile ago brought all this
on me?

You'll let this pass by, makin' up your mind to be moderate. Hope you
will.
I was a moderate un.

(Oh, God! Oh, my baby!)
_Mary Hartwell._
* * * * *
PRAYER.

More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of. Wherefore,
let thy voice Rise like a fountain for me night and day:
For what are men better than sheep or goats, That nourish a blind life
within the brain, If, knowing God, they lift not hands of prayer
Both for themselves and those who call them friends?

For so the whole round earth is every way Bound by gold chains about
the feet of God.

_Tennyson._
* * * * *

EXPERIENCE WITH EUROPEAN GUIDES.

European guides know about enough English to tangle everything up
so that a man can make neither head nor tail of it.

They know their story by heart,-- the history of every statue, painting,
cathedral, or other wonder they show you. They know it and tell it
as a parrot would,--and if you interrupt and throw them off the track,
they have to go back and begin over again. All their lives long they
are employed in showing strange things to foreigners and listening
to their bursts of admiration.

It is human nature to take delight in exciting admiration.

It is what prompts children to say "smart" things and do absurd ones, and
in other ways "show off" when company is present. It is what makes
gossips turn out in rain and storm to go and be the first to tell a
startling bit of news.
Think, then, what a passion it becomes with a guide, whose privilege
it is, every day, to show to strangers wonders that throw them into
perfect ecstacies of admiration!

He gets so that he could not by any possibility live in a soberer
atmosphere.

After we discovered this, we never went into ecstacies any more,--we
never admired anything,--we never showed anything but impassable
faces and stupid indifference in the presence of the sublimest
wonders a guide had to display. We had found their weak point. We have
made good use of it ever since. We have made some of those
people savage at times, but we never lost our serenity.

The doctor asks the questions generally, because he can keep his
countenance, and look more like an inspired idiot, and throw more
imbecility into the tone of his voice than any man that lives. It comes
natural to him.

The guides in Genoa are delighted to secure an American party, because
Americans so much wonder, and deal so much in sentiment and emotion
before any relic of Columbus. Our guide there fidgeted about as if
he had swallowed a spring mattress. He was full of animation,--full
of impatience. He said:--
"Come wis me, genteelmen!--come! I show you ze letter writing by
Christopher Colombo!--write it himself!--write it wis his own hand!--come!"

He took us to the municipal palace. After much impressive fumbling of
keys and opening of locks, the stained and aged document was spread
before us.
The guide's eyes sparkled. He danced about us and tapped the parchment
with his finger:--
"What I tell you, genteelmen! Is it not so? See! handwriting Christopher
Colombo!--write it himself!"
We looked indifferent,--unconcerned. The doctor examined the document
very deliberately, during a painful pause. Then he said, without
any show of interest,--
"Ah,--Ferguson,--what--what did you say was the name of the party
who wrote this?"
"Christopher Colombo! ze great Christopher Colombo!"
Another deliberate examination.
"Ah,--did he write it himself, or,--or, how?"
"He write it himself!--Christopher Colombo! he's own handwriting,
write by himself!"
Then the doctor laid the document down and said,--
"Why, I have seen boys in America only fourteen years old that could
write better than that." 
"But zis is ze great Christo--"
"I don't care who it is! It's the worst writing I ever saw. Now you
mustn't think you can impose on us because we are strangers. We are
not fools, by a good deal. If you have got any specimens of penmanship
of real merit, trot them out!--and if you haven't, drive on!"
We drove on. The guide was considerably shaken up, but he made one
more venture. He had something which he thought would overcome us.
He said,--
"Ah, genteelmen, you come wis us! I show you beautiful, oh, magnificent
bust Christopher Colombo!--splendid, grand, magnificent!"
He brought us before the beautiful bust,--for it was beautiful,--and
sprang back and struck an attitude,--
"Ah, look, genteelmen!--beautiful, grand,--bust Christopher Columbo!--
beautiful bust, beautiful pedestal!"
The doctor put up his eye-glass,--procured for such occasions:--
"Ah,--what did you say this gentleman's name was?"
"Christopher Colombo! ze great Christopher Colombo!"
"Christopher Colombo,--the great Christopher Colombo. Well, what
did he do?"
"Discover America!--discover America--oh, ze diable!"
"Discover America? No,--that statement will hardly wash. We are
just from America ourselves. Christopher Colombo,--pleasant
name,--is--is he dead?"
"Oh, corpo di Bacco!--three hundred year!"
"What did he die of?" 
"I do not know. I cannot tell."
"Small-pox, think?"
"I do not know, genteelmen,--I do not know what he die of!"
"Measles, likely?"
"Maybe,--maybe. I do not know,--I think he die of something."
"Parents living?" 
"Im-posseeble"
"Ah,--which is the bust and which is the pedestal?"
"Santa Maria!--zis ze bust!--zis ze pedestal!"
"Ah, I see, I see,--happy combination,--very happy combination,
indeed. Is --is this the first time this gentleman was ever on a
bust."
That joke was lost on the foreigner,--guides cannot master the
subtleties of the American joke.
We have made it interesting for this Roman guide.
Yesterday we spent three or four hours in the Vatican again, that
wonderful world of curiosities. We came very near expressing interest
sometimes, even admiration. It was hard to keep from it. We succeeded,
though. Nobody else ever did in the Vatican museums. The guide was
bewildered, nonplussed. He walked his legs off, nearly, hunting up
extraordinary things, and exhausted all his ingenuity on us, but
it was a failure; we never showed any interest in anything. He had
reserved what he considered to be his greatest wonder till the
last,--a royal Egyptian mummy, the best preserved in the world,
perhaps. He took us there. He felt so sure this time that some of
his old enthusiasm came back to him:--
"See, genteelmen!--Mummy! Mummy!"
The eye-glass came up as calmly, as deliberately as
ever.
"Ah,--Ferguson,--what did I understand you to say the gentleman's
name was?" 
"Name?--he got no name!--Mummy!--'Gyptian mummy!"
"Yes, yes.Penda, the Pagan could not
obtain possession of the castle, though he slew its prince; for even
after his death, the people bravely defended the stronghold.

The kingdom became divided shortly after.  The good Aidan died in the
year 651, and was succeeded by Finan, who built a cathedral on the
Island of Lindisfarne, whose walls were of oak, and whose roof was
thatched.

At this time, the cause of Christianity appears to have been served by
the piety and zeal of an illustrious lady, named St. Hilda, who founded
abbeys, and, according to her admirers, did many miraculous works.

In the year 664, the yellow plague, which every summer had committed
sad ravages among the people, raged so fearfully that it swept away
Tulda, who was then Bishop of Lindisfarne, and nearly all his flock.

About this time the great St. Cuthbert, who has made the Farne Islands
famous, was made Prior of Lindisfarne.  He was born about the year 635,
and was one of the most illustrious of the saints of the middle ages.
In 651, he was watching his flock by night, as a shepherd boy, when,
according to his own story, he saw, above the heights of Lauderdale,
the heavens opened, and a company of angels descend and ascend, bearing
with them the soul of St. Aidan, the pious Bishop of Holy Island.  He
resolved that he would become a monk, and he entered the monastery of
Melrose.  St. Boisal was the Prior, and, when he died of the plague,
St. Cuthbert was chosen to take his place.  He filled the office well,
and was most assiduous in his attention to, and care of his flock.  He
visited all the villages and mountain hamlets that were in the
neighbourhood, teaching the people, and endeavouring by all means in
his power to win them back from Paganism to Christianity.

It was after a time of great activity, and possibly of over-work, that
he left Melrose, and became Provost of the monastery at Lindisfarne.
After labouring there for a time, he longed for a position of yet
greater solitariness, and he therefore resigned his office.  It was
then that he went to the Farne Islands, which offered loneliness enough
to satisfy even the austere recluse.  He built himself a cell or
hermitage with his own hands, using such rough materials of wood and
stone as the islands afforded.

So highly was he esteemed that he was not permitted to remain in
obscurity for more than eight or nine years.  He was needed to work in
the world still, and a deputation, consisting of Ecgfrid, King of
Northumbria, and many nobles and clergy, waited upon him in his
retirement and earnestly begged him to accept the Bishopric of Hexham.
Although he shrank from the irksome task, he was too good a man not to
yield to duty, though he did it reluctantly; but he so thirsted for
solitude, that Eata, the Bishop of Lindisfarne, exchanged with him.  At
Easter, he was solemnly consecrated Bishop of Lindisfarne, at York, by
Thodore, Archbishop of Canterbury.  He did not long continue in office.
His health failed, and he pined for the solitude of his beloved Farne
Island; and when he had been ten years in his bishopric, he again
resigned and sought the lonely rocks, which he did not leave until his
death.  He died on the 20th of March, 687.  He wished to be buried on
Farne Island, but had consented to have his remains taken to
Lindisfarne, after making the monks promise that, if ever the monastery
should be removed, his bones should be taken away also.  His body was
placed in a coffin of stone, and he was buried near the high altar of
the Lindisfarne Cathedral.

Ten years later, the monks decided to enshrine the saint, and place him
above, instead of under the pavement.  They opened the coffin, and
announced to the world that they had found the body "entire, flexible,
and succulent," and for eight hundred years it was supposed to remain
so.

Nearly two hundred years later, the circumstances which Cuthbert would
seem to have dimly foreseen occurred.  Troublous times arose in
Northumbria.  The nobles were at variance with each other, and two
rival kings ascended the throne.  The wise saying, "a house that is
divided against itself cannot stand," was verified here.  The wary
warlike Danes, seeing this, came trooping down upon the northern
district, and fierce and fearful battles were fought.  The conquering
Norsemen took all the booty they could, plundered, destroyed and
desolated the monasteries, and murdered many of the monks.  Among the
religious sanctuaries that were made desolate, were those of Tynemouth,
Jarrow, Monkchester (now Newcastle-on-Tyne), and Hexham.  They came
again and again, and at last they went to Lindisfarne.  The monks there
knew they were coming, and hastily prepared for flight.  Remembering,
even in their time of peril, the dying words of St. Cuthbert, they took
his body from the shrine, put it into a coffin, and with it many of the
relics of the good Aiden.  Besides these, they took, in a sort of ark,
"the famous illuminated and jewelled copy of the gospels, which
Eadfrith had written," and a few other treasures, and went away to seek
a place of safety.

Many miracles were ascribed to St. Cuthbert while living, but still
greater wonders are recorded as having taken place long after his
death.  For seven weary years of wandering, the monks carried about his
body.  At the beginning of their journey, the water was supernaturally
driven back, though, at the time, it was high tide, and they were able
to cross on dry land.  They went among the hills of Kyloe, and
travelled about, through the south of Scotland, and north of England;
but though they were everywhere treated with respect, no one was able
to offer them a permanent place of safety.  At last they decided that
they would go over to Ireland, and actually embarked, when a severe
storm arose and drove them back to the very spot from which they
started.  They found that their precious copy of the gospels had been
destroyed, and mourned over its loss.  But supposing the shipwreck to
be an indication that they must not go to Ireland, they went to
Scotland, and there, on the Galloway coast, they found their lost
treasure!

It is said that the body of the saint floated down the Tweed in its
stone coffin.  Sir Walter Scott has referred to this legend in
Marmion:--

  "From sea to sea, from shore to shore,
  Seven years St. Cuthbert's corpse they bore.
  They rested them in fair Melrose;
  But though alive he loved it well,
  Not there his relics might repose,
  For--wondrous tale to tell!
  In his stone coffin forth he rides,
  (A ponderous bark for river-tides),
  Yet light as gossamer it glides,
  Downwards to Tillmouth's cell."


Surtees wrote on the subject of the coffin itself:--"It is
finely-shaped, ten feet in length, three feet and a half in diameter,
and only four inches thick, and has been proved by experiments to be
capable of floating with a weight equal to the human body."

The remains of St. Cuthbert rested at length at Chesterle-Street, where
Guthrun, the Christian king, built a church for the wanderers, and
richly endowed it.  Both Athelstane and "Edmund, the Magnificent,"
visited the tomb, and rendered homage to the saint.  The latter brought
valuable presents to the shrine, consisting of Byzantine workmanship,
and two bracelets, which he took from his own arms.  Edred also
followed their example.

In the year 995, the Danish pirates again compelled the monks of
Lindisfarne to leave their resting place, taking with them the precious
relics of their saint.  They sent to Ripon, where they remained for a
few months, and then were making their way back when, as they said, in
a certain fertile spot, the body became immovable.

Not knowing what to make of this they held a solemn fast, and, on the
third day, the saint communicated his wish that they should go to
Dunholme, where a permanent church should be built for him.  There,
accordingly, they went; first erecting a temporary booth to contain
their treasure, and afterward building the first Durham Cathedral.[1]

The remains of St. Cuthbert were then enclosed in a costly shrine, and
placed in the Cathedral, where they remained until the Reformation.

In 1827, the grave was opened, when, in the innermost of three coffins,
his skeleton was found, wrapped in five robes of embroidered silk, some
of the fragments of which may still be seen in the Cathedral library.

A cloth, which it is said he used in celebrating mass, was made into a
standard, which was believed to bring victory.  That gained at Flodden
Field was ascribed to it.  The banner is said to have been burnt by the
sister of Calvin, who was the wife of the first Protestant Dean of
Durham Cathedral.  No one in our day can read of all the wonders
ascribed to St. Cuthbert without incredulous and pitying smiles; and it
is very amusing to see how one of his peculiarities has been avenged in
later times.

He was an intense woman hater, and his antipathy to the gentle sex was
so great, that he would not allow one of them to come near to him, and
scarcely tolerated their presence in the religious services which he
performed; and he actually built a chapel for them at the extreme end
point of the Island of Lindisfarne, where they might worship, instead
of presuming to enter his church.  He does not seem to have accepted of
any favours from them but one.  Veria, who was Abbess of Tynemouth at
the time that he was at Lindisfarne, gave him a piece of fine linen or
silk, which he condescended to keep for his winding sheet.  It was a
little too bad of him to keep up his antipathy even after his death;
but he seems to have done so, for until the Reformation no woman was
permitted to approach his shrine.  A cross of blue marble was let into
the Cathedral floor, beyond the limits of which no female foot might
pass under pain of immediate severe punishment.  _And yet it was a
woman who drew the admiring eyes of the modern world to the Farne
Islands, where the remains of his priory are still to be seen_.

Bound about the story of Grace Darling no particular odour of sanctity
gathers; and yet she, according to her light, served the same cause of
humanity as St. Cuthbert, and performed a deed of which even he would
not need to have been ashamed.

Very little indeed would be known of this most famous saint, but for
one whose name must be mentioned with all honour and reverent
admiration--_the Venerable Bede_.  He twice wrote St. Cuthbert's life,
first in hexameters, in his "Liber de Miraculis, Sancti Cuthberchti
Episcopi," and in prose, in his "Liber de Vita et Miraculis Sancti
Cudbercti Lindisfarnensis Episcopi."

It is not known with any certainty where Bede was born, but it was
probably at Jarrow, in the year 673.  When he was seven years old, he
was sent to the monastery of St. Peter, at Wearmouth, to be educated.
He was placed under the care of the Abbott Benedict and Ceolfrid.  He
received his religious instruction from the monk Trumberct, and his
music lessons from John, chief singer in St. Peter's at Rome, who had
been summoned to England by the Abbott Benedict.  While he was there a
great pestilence broke out, and every monk died, excepting Bede and
another.  The boy, through all the death and mourning of that terrible
time, still chanted the service and songs of the church.  From seven to
twelve or thirteen, he was a diligent student.  Writing of himself at
this early age, he says, "It was always sweet to me to learn to teach
and to write."

When nineteen years of age, he took deacon's orders; and when he was
about thirty, was ordained priest by John of Beverley, then Bishop of
Hexham.  He lived in Jarrow monastery a quiet and retired life, and
spent his whole time in the eager pursuit of knowledge.  He questioned
all who came to him; he collected all stray facts and incidents; he
took care of, and wrought into his book all records of events that
floated to him, or that he was able to save from oblivion, and he it is
to whom we are indebted for almost all the information we possess of
the history of our country down to the year 731.  His greatest work was
the "Ecclesiastical History of England," of which many versions have
been issued, and which was first translated into Anglo Saxon by King
Alfred the Great.  One edition of the "History" was published at
Strasburg, in 1500; another by Smith of Cambridge, in 1722; another by
Stevenson of London, in 1838; another by Dr. Hussey at Oxford, in 1864;
another in the "Monumenta Historica Britannica," and yet another by Dr.
Giles, with the whole of Bede's writings.[2]

Not only was the industry of Bede most extraordinary, but his character
and disposition were most lovely.  It demanded no small amount of moral
strength, concentration of mind, and tenacity of will and purpose, as
well as ardent consecration to a good cause, thus quietly to pursue
studies, and remain at work, while all around was confusion and strife,
violence and slaughter.  So little was the spirit of his age in him,
that it has been well said of him, he was like "a light shining in a
dark place."  His life was holy, his temper calm and gentle, and all
his works humanising and instructive.

Dean Stanley's remarks upon him, are so very beautiful and appropriate,
that we may be pardoned for extracting some of them:--"Two names only
from the Anglo Saxon period are still held in unquestioned and
universal reverence.  One is the Great Alfred, the illustrious king and
lawgiver, in the south of England; the other is Bede, the venerable
father of English history and English learning, in the North of
England.  Venerable he truly was.  We need not go back to the legend
which supposed that he received the title from the Roman Senate for
having solved a strange riddle which they could not answer; nor to the
other legend, which tells us that, on his grave-stone at Durham, you
can still read the inscription in which it is said that an angel in the
night filled up the blank space with _Venerabilis_.  He is venerable
for the much more solid reason, that he has won the veneration of all
Englishmen--we may say of all the world--as an example of the faithful
student of truth.  His old oaken chair at Jarrow may be still chipped
away, as it has been for many years, for healing relics.  But no
miracle, no wonder, is ever recorded of him in his lifetime.  Nay, he
was even accused before the Archbishop of York, on a charge of heresy
on account of some of his views on chronology.  He never was formally
acknowledged as a saint.  Yet in spite of this, the instinct of mankind
has gradually given to him the superiority and pre-eminence over those
eccentric missionaries whose wonders for the moment dazzled, but whose
special work has long ago passed away.  A foreign ambassador (says
Fuller) visited the high sumptuous shrine of St. Cuthbert: '_If_ thou
be a saint, pray for us;' then turning to the plain, lowly, little tomb
of Bede, he said, '_Because_ thou art a saint, good Bede, pray for us."

"His last days were spent in the noblest of tasks--in the task which
afterwards engaged the best days of Luther and the best days of
Wickliffe, that of translating the Bible into his own language.  'I am
unwilling,' he said, 'that my children should read what is not true,
and should, after my death, in this matter, spend their labours to no
profit.  That is the fine sentiment of a man who really cares for
truth, and really cares for his country.

"There are many other beautiful sayings during those last hours; but I
fear to encroach too much on a theme which, perhaps more properly
belongs to Jarrow, and which also perhaps is too solemn for this place.
Still, as his boyhood was at Monkwearmouth, and as his end reminds us
of what he himself must have been when he was pursuing his tasks on the
banks of your own River Wear, I will give you the very last moments.
There was a little boy who was copying out for him his translation of
the Gospel of St. John, and who said 'Still one more sentence, dear
master, remains unwritten.'  He replied, 'Write quickly.'  After a
little while the boy said, 'Now the sentence is finished.'  He
answered, 'You have spoken the truth.  It is finished.  Raise up my
head in your arms, for I should like to lie opposite that holy place
where I used to pray, so that resting there I may call on God my
Father;' and being placed there he said, 'Glory to the Father, Son and
Holy Spirit;' and as he named the name of the Holy Spirit, he breathed
out his own spirit and departed." [3]

From those early days to the time of our heroine, the story would be
too long to insert here, and we must pass over centuries with only a
word or two.  Northumbria has taken a noble part in the struggles and
victories, the sufferings and progress of our country, and she reaps,
as she deserves to do, a rich reward.

When the decisive battle of Hastings had been fought, and the Norman
conqueror had overcome the Saxons, the people in the North were
determined not to yield.  The sorrow which the patriotic northern
hearts felt was increased and stirred into active resentment by the
treachery of William.

We learn from the "History of Northumbria," that Edwin, Earl of Mercia,
brother to the Northumbrian Earl Morcar, was promised one of the
daughters of William as his bride; and, blinded by this promise, he was
induced to render important services to William at this critical
juncture.  A little time, however, passed away, in which William and
the south-western Saxons, coming to open war, and the Norman arms being
victorious, William refused to give the promised bride to Earl Edwin,
and accompanied the refusal with insult to the suitor.  Fired with
indignation, both of the young Saxon nobles departed immediately for
Northumbria, and joined heart and hand with their countrymen against
the foreigners.

Terrible battles were fought, in one of which the Saxons slew three
thousand of the Normans at York, for which the infuriated William
punished Northumbria with a horrible slaughter.  "From York to Durham
not an inhabited village remained; fire, slaughter, and desolation,
made a vast wilderness there. . . . .  From Durham right on to Hexham,
from the banks of the winding Wear to those of the Tyne, Jarrow,
Monkchester, with all the dwellings, homesteads, and happy places, were
deluged with the people's blood; even the monasteries and religious
houses shared the same fate as the common dwellings."

William Rufus was not liked better in Northumbria than his father had
been, and Robert Mowbray, Earl of Northumbria, had especial reason to
dislike him, on account of his appropriation of the forest lands.  He
was a powerful chief, possessing two hundred and eighty manors, but he
did not attend the Court.  This displeased William, who sent forth a
decree that every baron who did not attend the festival at Whitsuntide
should be outlawed.  The Earl paid no attention to this; and as he was
engaged with other nobles in a conspiracy to dethrone William, the
monarch brought his army into Northumbria, besieged and took the
fortress at Newcastle, went on to Tynemouth, and then to Bamborough
Castle, to which the Earl had escaped.  This castle was impregnable,
but the Earl was decoyed from it, and after going again to Tynemouth,
he was wounded and taken prisoner.  But William coveted the Castle of
Bamborough, which was still held by the wife of the Earl.  He, Mowbray,
was taken to an eminence in front of the castle, while the Normans
demanded parley with the Countess.  She, to save her husband from
having his eyes put out before her face, surrendered the castle to
them, and the Earl was taken to the dungeons of Windsor Castle, and
kept there for thirty years.

In the year 1094 the little Island of Lindisfarne, or Holy Island, had
built upon it a beautiful church and priory, for the Normans introduced
a very superior style of architecture.  Edward, one of the monks of
Holy Island, was rich enough to undertake this work.  It is said by an
imaginative or credulous historian, that St. Cuthbert still worked
miracles there.  "The crowds of thirsty labourers, who had passed over
to the island with materials for the new building, were, by Edward's
interest with St. Cuthbert, enabled for a whole day to drink from a cup
which was never once replenished by mortal hand.  And multitudes were
fed by this same Edward without materials."

During the reign of Henry the First a bridge was built at Durham, the
ruins of Hexham were restored, a Leper Hospital was built at Newcastle,
and Northumberland and Durham were generally enriched.

In Stephen's reign, David, King of Scotland, fought a battle with the
English king in Northumberland; and, indeed, the history of the
centuries, to the seventeenth, is full of the accounts of battles on
the border with the English and Scotch, the Dukes of Northumberland
being often at war with the Scottish kings.  The battles were
frequently on a large scale, and the bloodshed was frightful, while the
ill-will begotten on both sides of the border was most bitter.  King
John met the Scottish king on the borders in the year 1213, and then
the two professed to be reconciled, but very little good came of it.

In the year 1215, the barons of Northumberland went to Alexander II. of
Scotland, and implored his protection against their own king, which so
incensed John, that he marched to the borders, and burned Wark,
Alnwick, Mitford Castle, and Morpeth.

In the year 1226, Henry of England, and Alexander of Scotland, entered
into an agreement, by which he was to give up Northumberland, and
receive a yearly rent of two hundred pounds.

In 1241, a terrible fire broke out in Newcastle, which destroyed a
great part of the town.  In 1282, Newcastle first sent members to
Parliament.

In 1297, the Scottish people again entered England under Sir William
Wallace.  In 1305, the Countess Buchan was punished for having placed
the crown upon the head of Robert Bruce.  She was confined in an iron
cage, and permitted to speak to no one but her female attendant, for
four years.

In 1312, the Scots, headed by Robert Bruce, made a desperate foray into
Northumbria, and in 1314, Edward II. marched into Newcastle, on his way
to Berwick, with an army of ninety thousand soldiers, which was beaten
at the battle of Bannockburn.  In 1516, the Scots again invaded
England, and famine and pestilence followed in their track.  In 1327,
Bruce came again and laid siege to the castles of Norham and Alnwick.
A truce was concluded afterward, and in 1328, David, son of Robert
Bruce, who was in his fifth year, was married to Joanna, sister of King
Edward, who was in her seventh year.  The marriage was celebrated with
great pomp, and the Scots afterward called the princess Joan Makepeace.
King David, however, again returned to England at the battle of
Nevill's Cross, and was taken prisoner.

In 1362 John Wickliffe was doing his noble work as a reformer.  And
Percy, the Lord Marshall of England, was one of his supporters.

In 1388, the battle of Chevy Chase was fought, the two sons of the Duke
of Northumberland, Sir Henry Percy Hotspur and Sir Ralph Percy, leading
the English forces.  The battle of Hamildon Hill was fought on the day
of Holyrood in 1402.  King Henry IV. having offended the Percys, the
Duke of Northumberland gave up the Castle of Berwick to the Scots; to
punish which the king brought one of the newly-invented cannon, with
which he struck down one of its towers, and then took possession of
Alnwick and other fortresses and estates.

But only to mention the names and the times of the border forays and
quarrels, would be wearisome.  It was a happy thing, indeed, for both
England and Scotland when the two were at last united, and the
strong-hearted men who had hated each other so sincerely, and committed
such terrible deeds of devastation and cruelty, began gradually to
forgive the past, and look upon each other as brethren.  It was good,
indeed, when the beautiful hills and valleys of Northumberland, instead
of being deluged with blood, wore the look of calm prosperity which
always attends peace.  And it is a pleasant consideration for true
patriots, and one which should send them to the throne of God with
words of hearty thanksgiving upon their lips, that our Queen Victoria,
whom both nations conspire to love and revere, passes from south to
north, through sunny landscapes of bountiful corn-fields and golden
orchards, when she takes her annual holiday in the Highlands of
Scotland, the land which is peculiarly dear to her.  No sounds of
widows weeping for their slain husbands and sons--no fierce
battle-cries--no terrible wailings over slaughtered families and ruined
homes--startle the still air.  But, instead, the children sing the
national anthem, as if they knew all that it means; and wherever, on
this or the other side of the Tweed, the dear familiar face, with its
crown of silvering hair, is seen, the people cry, with leaping hearts
and happy tears, "God save the Queen!"

It is impossible not to contrast the new with the old; but as we do so,
we shall be forced to acknowledge that the new is, after all, the child
of the old, born amid throes of anguish to live a free glad after-life
of liberty and honour.  It is because our fathers fought that we
possess so many privileges.  It is because they struggled and died that
we have risen and prospered.  And while we render them the thanks that
are due to them, it behoves us sacredly to guard all rights, and
diligently to carry on all good works which they commenced.

It would not be right to give even a short history of Northumberland,
without making some special reference to Alnwick, and the Percy family.

Alnwick, the county-town of Northumberland, is delightfully situated on
the south of the River Aln.  It is about half-way between Newcastle and
Berwick.  It is not now an important town, having only about eight
thousand inhabitants, but it has a history which few towns surpass in
interest.  Old customs linger long here.  The curfew-bell is still
tolled; and, until the year 1854, the custom of "leaping the well" was
observed.  This absurd, though amusing ceremony, was performed by all
young freemen previous to their being admitted to the corporate
privileges of the town.  They used to ride on horseback, carrying
swords in their hands.  They went in procession through the town until
they came to a field called the Handkerchief, where each one dismounted
and turned a stone.  The Freemen's Well is four miles from Alnwick, and
is fed by a spring, but to stop the freeman from succeeding well in his
plunge, dykes were made, and ropes stretched across, while the mud at
the bottom was industriously stirred up.  There was a race to see which
young freeman should be first at the well, and the foremost was most
heartily cheered.  Arrived there, each freeman took off his ordinary
dress and clothed himself in white, putting on a white cap ornamented
with ribbons.  At a sign, the oldest son of the oldest freeman sprang
into the well, the others after him, and then they made their way as
best they could to the opposite side of the well.  Even then the work
was not done, and all started again to "win the boundaries."

Tradition says that the custom of "leaping the well" was instituted by
King John, who, when he was hunting near, got into a bog, and was so
angry with the inhabitants of the town for not attending to it better,
that he took away the charter, and only granted a new one on condition
that every burgess, before he was admitted to the freedom of the town,
should plunge through the bog on the anniversary of the day when he had
himself been so unfortunately compelled to do so.[4]

Alnwick is a place of great antiquity.  It is supposed that the Romans
had a fort here, and that the Saxons built a castle on its site.
Before the Conquest, the castle and barony were owned by Gilbert Tyson;
and after the battle of Hastings, it came into the possession of the
Norman Lords de Vescy.  They remained in the family till 1297, when
they were bequeathed to the Bishop of Durham by Edward I.  Soon after,
they were purchased by Lord Henry de Percy, from whom it descended to
the present Duke of Northumberland.

Alnwick Castle is a noble seat, and stands where once was a Roman camp,
to the north-west of the town.  It was of great importance as a border
castle; but a hundred years ago it was very considerably changed.  In
1858, however, the noble owner had it repaired, and at a great cost
caused it to be made as nearly as possible as it was at first.  It is
perhaps the finest feudal fortress in the kingdom.  Five acres are
enclosed by the walls, and the grounds are five miles in length.  The
castle is beautifully and romantically situated.  The family residence
is in the centre of the inner court, and its decorations are
extraordinarily magnificent.  The ceiling is constructed like that of
King's College Chapel, Cambridge, and the paintings on the walls are
copies of those in Milan Cathedral.  The castle-walls are flanked by
sixteen towers.  The park abounds in rare scenery, and contains ruins
of two abbeys.  Malcolm's Cross was rebuilt by the Duchess of
Northumberland to commemorate the fall of King Malcolm and his son, at
the siege of Alnwick, in 1093.

The Percy family has been closely associated with the history of our
land.  The head of the noble house, William de Percy, who came with the
Conqueror to England, obtained from the king thirty knight's fees in
the north of England.  Agnes, daughter of the third baron, married
Josceline of Lovaine, who was descended from Charlemagne, on condition
that he should adopt either the arms, or the name of Percy.  There are
some lines under a picture of hers, that describe his choice--

  "Lord Percy's heir I was, whose lasting name
  By me survives, unto his lasting fame
  Brabant's Duke's son I wed, who for my sake
  Retained his arms, and Percy's name did take."


In King John's reign, the head of the family was one of the chief
barons who demanded Magna Charta from him, and resisted the Pope when
he made demands that would have been derogatory to the spiritual
independence of the English Crown.  The great grandson of this nobleman
was a distinguished commander under Edward III.  He acted as Marshal of
England at the coronation of Richard II., and was created Earl of
Northumberland, though he afterwards took up arms against Richard, and
placed the crown upon the head of Henry of Lancaster.  Not satisfied
with his government, he joined in rebellion with Hotspur.  He fell at
Bramham Moor, and his titles were forfeited, but were restored in the
time of his grandson, who became Lord High Constable of England.  He
was killed at the battle of St. Alban's.  The fourth Earl was murdered
by the Northumberland populace, who were enraged with him, because he
levied a tax upon the people in aid of Henry VII.  The funeral of this
nobleman cost about 15,000 pounds of our present money.  The life of
Henry Algernon Percy, the sixth Earl, and his love for Anne Boleyn, are
matters of history.  The Earl who headed the rebellion in Elizabeth's
time and who was imprisoned in Lochleven Castle, and afterwards
beheaded as a traitor at York, was the seventh.  The eighth Earl was
not less unfortunate, for he was accused of being actively engaged in a
plot, on behalf of Mary, Queen of Scots, and taken to the tower, where
he died a violent death.  The daughter of the eleventh Earl married the
Duke of Somerset, and became the mother of Algernon, who was created
Earl of Northumberland.  Sir Hugh Smithson, his son-in-law, succeeded
to the Earldom, and became Duke of Northumberland, and the present
noble family represent the ancient Percys in the female line.  The
fourth Duke was princely in his benefactions.  He spent 40,000 pounds
in the improvement of cottages on his estate, and 40,000 pounds in
building and endowing churches.  In 1857, he offered a prize for the
best model of a life-boat, and he afterwards supplied several stations
on the coast with these invaluable adjuncts.  At North Shields, he
erected "The Sailor's Home," making provision for both the temporal and
spiritual wants of the seamen, a class, in whom he felt great interest,
having, himself, in early life, served as a midshipman on board the
Tribune frigate.

The story of the years, though too often blotted and spoiled by the
passions of men that have wrought cruelty, and the sins of men, which
have brought tempests of sorrow, is yet the story of the goodness and
mercy of God.  Through all the changes that have taken place, there has
been a gradual growth of commercial power, of civilisation, morality,
and religion.  The times have always been progressive, there has been
no going back, but a continual, persistent, onward tendency, is
evident.  And though the progress may be slow, it is nevertheless very
sure.  There _is_ a Power that has said to the evil influences that in
the times of long ago desolated Northumbria, even as it has often said
to the raging billows that wash its shores, "Hitherto shalt thou come,
but no further, and here shall thy proud waves be stayed."  And that
Power it is which has kept always burning brightly the lamp which
Paulinas lighted in dark places in those far off ancient times.
To-day, indeed, no worshippers bow at the shrines of the saints, and
many things that our forefathers thought sacred are treated lightly by
their posterity.  But the real has taken the place of the unreal; truth
reigns where fiction lived, and the substance is grasped, while the
shadow is left to fade away.  The people, indeed, kneel today where
their fathers knelt, but many of them, at least, care less for gorgeous
ceremonial than their fathers cared.  And crowds have learned to
consecrate themselves to the God for whom they, in the darkness, longed
and cried.  And he who came as the Lamb of God that taketh away the
sins of the world, has, in our day, thousands, where before were only
tens.  Let us thank God and take courage.  "The Lord hath done great
things for us, whereof we are glad."  The good times have come; and yet
they are only earnests of better days still that are on their way.  Let
the children, not only of Northumbria, but of every part of our land,
sing Christian songs, and live Christian lives.  And let all the people
unite in the old, but ever new prayer "Thy kingdom come; Thy will be
done on earth, as it is in Heaven."


[1] Surtees says that the whole population of Northumbria, from the
Tees to the Coquet, lent a helping hand.

[2] The subjoined list of his works will show how marvellous was his
diligence and perseverance:--

  Commentaries on most of the Books of the Old and New Testaments.
  A Commentary on the Apocrypha.
  Two Books of Homilies.
  A Martyrology.
  A Cronological Treatise, which he entitled, "On the Six Ages."
  A Book of Autography.
  A Book on the Metrical Art.
  A Book of Hymns.
  A Book of Epigrams, and various other Theological and
    Biographical Treatises.

[3] Dean Stanley's Lecture on the "Early Christianity of Northumbria,"
delivered in the Victoria Hall, Sunderland, on April 6, 1875.

[4] "Tate's History of Alnwick."


CHAPTER III.

THE CHILDHOOD OF A HEROINE.

  "Beautiful the children's faces,
    Spite of all that mars and scars:
  To my inmost heart appealing,
  Calling forth love's tenderest feeling,
    Steeping all my soul with tears.

  "We are willing, we are ready:
    We would learn if thou would teach:
  We have hearts that yearn towards duty,
  We have minds alive to beauty,
    Souls that any heights can reach.

  "We shall be what you will make us.
    Make us wise, and make us good:
  Make us strong for time of trial;
  Teach us temperance, self-denial,
    Patience, kindness, fortitude.

  "Look into our childish faces!
    See ye not our willing hearts?
  Only love us, only lead us:
  Only let us know you need us,
    And we all will do our parts."--Mary Howitt


There is an old, old story, which always possesses a marvellous
fascination, both for the narrator and the listener.  It has been told
by thousands of persons every year since, in the beautiful garden of
Eden, it was first told by him whom God made after his own likeness to
her who was to be the mother of all the nations of the earth.  Almost
all the romance and poetry that have ever been written gather about
this old story; and yet it is the simplest thing in all the world to
tell; and may be compressed into the three words, I LOVE YOU!  Unlike
many of the stories told in our world, this cannot be told without
affecting the lives of those by whom and to whom it is related.  It is
more rousing than a trumpet call, more powerful than a royal edict.  It
makes men tender and women brave.  It gives to life zest and colour,
sweetness and grandeur; and those who hear it say no more that they are
desolate and lonely, but feel as if their spring-time of joy has come.
Moreover, it has the power of calling forth willing responses and
precious gifts; for she who hears it, frequently chooses as her answer
the pathetic words of Ruth, "Whither thou goest I will go; thy people
shall be my people, and thy God my God."

This old new story of love was told one day in the early part of the
present century by a young lighthouse-keeper, named William Darling.
It was not likely that Miss Horsley, to whom it was told, should
immediately give the wished-for reply, for she was a farmer's daughter,
living in a comfortable home, among safe fields, where the roar of the
sea could not reach her.  The life of the wife of a lighthouse-keeper
must need be isolated and monotonous; and if she consented to take upon
herself the responsibility of such a post, she must be willing to
forego many of the pleasures to which she has been accustomed, to bear
long absences from the friends of her girlhood, and to be contented
with the society of her husband alone.

But such a prospect never yet frightened the loving heart of a devoted
woman, and Miss Horsley loved William Darling.  Therefore she cared
very little where her home might be, if only she could share it with
him.  To be his comforter and helpmeet, to cheer him when the days were
dark, and to enjoy his companionship, and brighten his home, were
pleasures enough to tempt her.  So one bright afternoon, when William
was not needed in his lighthouse-tower, but was able to walk with her
about her father's meadows, or sit by her side at her father's hearth,
she told him that which he longed to hear.

It is a graver thing than it sometimes appears to the young people to
engage in such compacts.  They have much to learn and unlearn in the
years that follow their first promises.  They are not unfrequently
greatly mistaken in each other, and their after discoveries are not
always pleasing ones; and yet their entire lives are greatly moulded,
being hindered or helped to a very important extent, by the choice
which they make in their youth.  Happily, for the peace of the
home-circle, and the well-being of the human family, the years often
mellow and ripen that which is good, and mould the character into
excellence.  It was so in this case.  When Miss Horsley became Mrs.
Darling, she found that her husband was an intelligent man, fond of
books, and having a thoughtful and cultivated mind.  Moreover, he was a
Christian, and proved, by his life and conversation, that the old
truths that had been brought by Paulinus into Northumbria, had entered
info his heart.  The young wife, though she might have left a happy
home near that wonderful old fortress at Bamborough, had chosen a good
man to love her in her new home, and had no cause to be afraid of the
future.

Still, it must have been a joy to them when children came to play about
the lonely house, and mingle their merry laughter with the sad sighing
sounds of the uncomplaining sea.

We may be sure that it did not enter into the mind of either of the
young couple to suppose, that a child of theirs would ever become so
celebrated that she would be talked of in all parts of the civilised
world; and that all classes of people would unite to do her honour.  It
is well that they did not know it.  There is a mystery about the future
of every child that is one of its greatest safe-guards.  Those to whom
the care of training it for its coming life is committed, must exercise
faith in God and do their best, leaving results with him.  This is what
the parents of Grace Darling did.  And the sequel proves that though
they might not have been persons of wealth and culture, they had that
invaluable wisdom which enables parents rightly to train those
committed to their care.

It was in the year 1816 that our heroine was born.  She was called
Grace Horsley Darling, the second name to perpetuate the maiden name of
her mother.  It is said that William Darling was particularly rejoiced
when his little daughter came.  Unlike many men, whose hearts are in
their business, and who are so entirely occupied by it that they have
neither time nor thought for their families, he had plenty of leisure,
which he delighted to employ for those whom he loved.  When he was not
engaged in cleaning the lamps, or keeping them burning "from sunset to
sunrise," which is the first duty of a lighthouse-man, he liked to have
his children about him, that he might teach them all that he knew.  And
when little Grace was added to the number, she, unconscious though she
was of it, found warm hearts and strong arms waiting her, and was
received with loving welcome.

Already that home among the rocks held sturdy brothers and sisters, who
were glad to make room for the little stranger, and who were quite
prepared to teach her the first lessons that she would have to learn.
These romping boys and girls, if they were less highly favoured in some
respects than other children, had at least some advantages over the
dwellers in towns.  They had the rocks for a play-ground, and shells
and sea-weed for toys.  They played games with the wind, which tossed
their hair about, and brought the colour to their faces.  They braved
the sun, not caring that he took the delicacy from their skins and
bronzed them over.  And as they leaped about among the rocks, and over
the weeds, their loud and merry laughter, mingled with the roar of the
sea, made the sweetest harmony of which the island could boast.

So, at least, thought two gentlemen who visited Longstone Rock, the
home of the Darlings, on the day after the birth of Grace.  They came
in their little yacht to the island, having cruised about for health
and recreation, and landed on the Longstone, in order to explore it and
others of the Farne group.  The children were having holiday, too, just
then, and as they scampered about, they attracted the attention of the
visitors.

"Whose children are you?"

"We are the lighthouse children; we belong to Mr. Darling.  He lives in
the house yonder."

"You are shouting lustily enough for twice the number.  Where is your
father?"

"We will fetch him."

The gentlemen looked in admiration at the rosy faces, bright eyes, and
strong limbs of the children; and when the father came out, they
expressed their pleasure.

"We do not often see such children, Darling.  It shows that the life
among the rocks suits them.  How old are they?"

William Darling was not loth to tell the gentlemen anything they wanted
to know of his children, for, with a father's pride, he naturally
thought none were like his.

"Would you like to hear them read?" he asked.

"Yes, very much."

The children were quite willing to show off their attainments.  They
were not frightened.  Surely rock children ought to be noted for their
fearlessness; and if they are not afraid of howling tempests, such as
cause their lighthouse-home to rock, they should not be timid before a
couple of gentlemen, even though one should be a Marquis.

They acquitted themselves so well that they received great praise.

"They have evidently been well taught, Mr. Darling; and yet there are
no schools on the island, to which you could send them.  Who has been
their teacher?

"I am the teacher of my own children," said the lighthouse-man, a
little proudly.

"We teach them at home, I and my wife."

"You must be very good teachers, and I am glad that your scholars do
you so much credit.  Really, that boy of yours is a fine fellow."

Thus encouraged, it is no wonder that Darling told them what had
happened in the night.

"I have a little girl a few hours old, would you like to see her?

"Yes, very much indeed, if it is not yet too early for the young lady
to begin receiving visitors."

"Oh no; if you will kindly come into the house, I will bring her to
you."  The little bundle, so wonderfully perfect (as babies are), wrapt
closely in soft warm flannel, and looking an interesting, though a very
comical specimen of humanity, was then brought forward, and shown to
the admiring gaze of the gentlemen, who were profuse in their praises.
Men are almost always afraid to handle newly-born babies; they seem to
think they are among those articles that easily break, and are
labelled, "Glass, with care."  But no sight is more beautiful than that
of a strong rough man touching the little things with the greatest
tenderness.

William Darling's pride in his newly-born daughter was very evident,
and when she had been safely taken back and laid in her mother's arms,
and the party went out to examine the island, and learn something of
its history and natural productions, they liked their intelligent guide
none the less because they had seen that he was a kind and affectionate
father.

Indeed, William Darling was known as a steady, intelligent, trustworthy
man.  The post of the Longstone lighthouse-keeper was a very dangerous
one; and only such men as had proved their integrity, powers of
endurance, and fidelity to duty, were ever appointed to that position.
But he had given evidence that he was a man to be relied upon, who
would not shirk work, but faithfully perform it, and who might be
counted upon to be always at his post, whether others were likely to
know it or not.  He was just such a man as we want Englishmen of to-day
to be--steadfast, patient, always alike in their performance of work,
always most careful, thorough, and conscientious.  He had already
passed a time of probation, at a less important place, and then,
because he had shown himself diligent, honest, and true in it, he was
raised to the higher position of master of the Longstone lighthouse.

Let all young men who aspire to high positions, and are anxious to rise
above their fellows, be sure of this, that those who have the
apportioning of important and lucrative places of trust, judge in the
main by Christ's rule, "He that is faithful in that which is least is
faithful also in much."

Subsequent events proved that Grace Darling was worthy of such a
father.  She was baptised at Bamborough Church, and received the name
of her maternal grandmother; and soon grew to be an interesting,
toddling little maiden, the joy of her father's heart.  She was not the
youngest of the family, for there were twin-brothers born two years
after her, but it was said that Grace was the favourite always, and
that her winsome ways, and tractable and affectionate spirit, endeared
her greatly to her parents.

The Farne Isles would seem to have made rather a desolate home for the
girlhood of a romantic maiden.

Speaking of the time when St. Cuthbert dwelt there, Raine, in his
"History of Durham," says:--"Farne certainly afforded an excellent
place for retirement and meditation.  Here the prayer or repose of the
hermit would be interrupted by the screaming of the water-fowl, or the
roaring of the winds or waves--not unfrequently, perhaps, would be
heard the thrilling cry of distress from a ship breaking to pieces on
the iron shore of the island, but this would more entirely win the
recluse from the world, by teaching him a practical lesson on the
vanity of man and his operations, when compared with the mighty works
of the Being who 'rides on the whirlwind, and directs the storm.'"

Another writer says of it--"Looking at the situation and aspects of the
Farne Islands, of which Longstone is one, we cannot but be struck with
their extreme dreariness.  Not a tree nor a bush, hardly a blade of
grass, is to be seen.  The islands are twenty-five in number, many of
them with a sheer frontage to the sea of from six to eight hundred
feet.  They mostly lie north and south, parallel with each other; a few
of the smaller ones extend to the north of the larger, thus rendering
the navigation in their neighbourhood still more dangerous.  The sea
rushes at the rate of six or eight miles an hour through the channel
between the smaller islands; and previous to the erection of a
lighthouse there, many distressing shipwrecks occurred."

Howitt, in speaking of the Longstone Island, says--"It was like the
rest of these desolate isles, all of dark whinstone, cracked in every
direction, and worn with the action of winds, waves, and tempests,
since the world began.  On the greatest part of it there was not a
blade of grass, nor a grain of earth, but bare and iron-like stones,
crusted round the coast, as far as high-water mark, with limpit, and
still smaller shells.  We ascended wrinkled hills of black stone, and
descended into worn and dismal dells of the same--into some of which,
where the tide got entrance, it came pouring and roaring in raging
whiteness, and churning the loose fragments of the whinstone into round
pebbles, and piled them up into deep crevices with sea-weeds, like
great round ropes and heaps of fucus.  Over our heads screamed hundreds
of birds, the gull mingling his laughter most wildly."

But the wild scream of the sea-fowl, and the thunder of the surf, were
such common things to the little Darlings that they took but small
notice of them.  Grace, indeed, having them mingled with her mother's
cradle-song, would scarcely like to have missed the familiar sounds,
since they had lulled her to sleep at night, and awoke her in the dawn.

When it was time for her to begin her education, her father found the
task of teaching her an easy and a pleasant one; for Grace was quick
and intelligent.  Moreover, she had that first and highest
qualification of a good scholar--the love of learning.  It was no
difficulty to get her to bend all her powers to the pursuit of
knowledge, for she could not help doing so, the thoroughness that she
had inherited from her father urging her to overcome obstacles, and to
make herself perfect wherever perfection was within her reach.

She soon learned to read, and then a new world opened to her.  Little
it matters to the reader whether he sits on the rock where the
sea-waves wash up to his feet, or reclines upon a velvet coach, with
all the appurtenances of luxury round about him.  He lives in other
places and other times.  He fights in the battles that have long ago
been ended.  He climbs mountains that his eyes have never seen.  He
sails over seas where the lights flash, and the scents of fragrant
islands come sweetly over him.  In fact, if he be a passionate and
imaginative reader, he loses his life in that of his author, and is
filled with exquisite pleasure.  Such a reader was Grace Darling.  She
was not able to procure many books, for their library, though good, was
small, but those which were in her power she "read, marked, learned,
and inwardly digested."  She had a retentive memory, and there is no
doubt that to read as she did, was really of more advantage to her than
it would have been had she subscribed to Mudie, and seen all the new
novels of the day.  She was fond of romance, being romantic herself;
and the legends and traditions of heroic Northumberland were most dear
to her heart.  She read and re-read those border ballads in which all
the world delights, feeling that the prowess described in them, the
sufferings endured, the struggles made, and the victories won, were
those of her own people.  Had not Bamborough Castle, and its brave
inhabitants, witnessed it all, and could she not see the noble fortress
from her own bedroom window?  A people with so much historic lore, with
such a wonderful past, full of glorious deeds and marvellous sorrows,
must needs have some of the heroic spirit in them; and as it was born
in Grace Darling, and fostered by the very leisure and solitariness of
her girlhood, we are not surprised that it flashed forth afterward, in
a deed as courageous as, and much more noble than, many war exploits of
her forefathers.

But dearly as she loved these old romances, Grace Darling was not
allowed, even as a girl, to let them fill her life.  If the words were
not known to her, which have nerved many a girl to practical
usefulness, their spirit was--

  "Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever,
  Do noble deeds, not dream them all day long."

And she soon learned to take her share in the household duties and
difficulties.  Her brothers were sent to the mainland to finish their
education, and to prepare for the honourable career of hard work that
was before them.  But Grace could not be spared.  She was so dear to
her father, and so necessary to her mother, that they decided that
whoever left the lighthouse-home Grace must not.  She was quite willing
to remain, and was contented with her lot.  She followed her father's
example, by doing what she could both well and cheerily.  She had a
good voice, and she often sang at her work, so that her joy
communicated itself to others.  Still it was a happy time for her when
the work of the day was done, and she was able to sit down by the
fireside, and read from her favourite books, while her mother worked.

One year, however, Grace had a holiday.  It was beautiful weather, in
the end of the summer; and some of her friends sent to tell her how
lovely the corn-fields looked, and how sweet the air was on the
mainland around Bamborough.  And they said more than that.  All hands
were wanted to help with the ingathering; and as Grace was known to be
a young person who had strong arms, and was not afraid to use them, if
she could come and lend her assistance, she would receive a hearty
welcome.

Grace much wished to go, so she proceeded to endeavour to gain the
consent of her parents.

"Father, can you spare me for a holiday?"

"Why do you want a holiday, Grace?"

"The harvest is ready to be got in, and they have sent to me to go and
help."

"But that would not be a holiday, my child.  Harvesting is very hard
work."

"It would be like a holiday to me, father.  I should like to go very
much.  I have not seen a corn-field all the summer, and I know the
country must be looking very beautiful now.  I long to go.  Do let me,
if you can possibly spare me."

"Well; we must not be selfish, Grace.  You can go if you like, only
come back as soon as you can."

So Grace had her holiday that summer, nor did she return until she had
won golden opinions from the friends with whom she stayed, and among
whom she worked.

One old woman especially, who felt an affection for the girl, and who,
while they worked together, often received kindness and consideration
from her, esteemed so highly her young companion of the harvest-field,
that she always remembered her with fondness, and when, afterward, she
heard that she had saved the lives of some people, and made her name
honoured and beloved in all parts of the land, she declared that she
was not surprised, for she had known Grace Darling herself.

The girl was not allowed to remain long away, for she was wanted at
home.  By this time most of the members of the family were out earning
their own living; and the house was quiet and desolate without Grace.
When the harvest was over, therefore, and the days were growing short
and dark, she returned with many a tale to tell of what she had seen
and heard on the mainland, and we may be sure that, on some evenings
during the next winter, her reminiscences kept the household from being
dull.

Grace was now growing up into womanhood.  William Howitt, who saw her
afterward, thus describes her:--"She had the sweetest smile I have ever
seen in a person of her station and appearance.  You perceive that she
is a thoroughly good creature, and that under her modest exterior lies
a spirit of the most exalted devotion--so entire, that daring is not so
much a quality of her nature, as that of the most perfect sympathy with
suffering or endangered humanity, swallowing up and annihilating
everything like fear or self-consideration."

It will be seen from this description of our heroine, that she was, in
a word, a good girl.  She was dutiful and loving to her parents, and
kindly to all creatures.  She could not see suffering without trying to
alleviate it; nor could she stay to consider whether or not she was
putting her own life in danger when others needed her assistance.  From
all that we know of this northern maiden, we conclude that Mr. Howitt
was right.  It was scarcely daring that prompted the heroic action that
made her famous, so much as a habit of feeling the most constant and
perfect sympathy with suffering.

It is not difficult to picture this girl on the rugged Farne Rocks,
casting her quiet, observant eyes over the wide sea, and praying for
the safety of those who were tossing about in ships.  We can imagine
her, in her own mind, making heroes out of very common men, and rather
exaggerating than under-rating the sorrows of humanity.  We are sure
that no storm-distressed bird ever came to the window of the
lighthouse-home for shelter and was denied by Grace, and no shipwrecked
sailor, clinging for life to the rocks, would be afraid of other than
most merciful treatment from the hands of such a woman.  And God be
thanked that there are hundreds of thousands like her, not only along
our shores, but in every part of our land--women who fear God and love
the right, and delight in nothing so much as self-abnegation, if only
they can serve those who are needy or sad.

Let the girls of England resolve to join their ranks.  It is better to
be poor and noble, than rich and worthless--to be the daughter of a
lighthouse-keeper, and fill the life with good deeds of diligence and
faithfulness, than to be the daughter of an Earl, and of no real good
to anybody.  But the life of consecration to God and His service, and
for His sake, to all around, is lived only by those who are thoughtful
and Christian.  Let the young people thus find their joy and strength
in prayer, and in earnest resolve that their lives, even if quiet,
shall be good, and we will not fear for the future of our world.

  "Though fresh within your breasts th' untroubled springs
    Of hope make melody where'er ye tread;
  And o'er your sleep, bright shadows from the wings
    Of spirits visiting but youth be spread;
  Yet in those flute-like voices, mingling low,
  Is woman's tenderness--how soon her woe!

  "Her lot is on you--silent tears to weep,
    And patient smiles to wear through suffering's hour;
  And sunless riches, from affection's deep,
    To pour on broken reeds a wasted shower!
  And to make idols, and to find them clay,
  And to bewail that worship--therefore pray!

  "Her lot is on you, to be found untired,
    Watching the stars out by the bed of pain,
  With a pale cheek, and yet a brow inspired,
    And a true heart of hope, though hope be rain,
  Meekly to bear with wrong, and cheer decay,
  And oh! to love through all things--therefore pray

  "And take the thought of this calm vesper time,
    With its low murmuring sounds and silvery light,
  On through the dark days, fading from their prime,
    As a sweet dew to keep your souls from blight.
  Earth will forsake--oh! happy to have given
  Th' unbroken heart's first tenderness to heaven!"--Mrs. Hemans


CHAPTER IV.

LIGHTHOUSE HOMES.

  "And as the evening darkens, lo! how bright,
    Through the deep purple of the twilight air,
  Beams forth the sudden radiance of its light,
    With strange unearthly splendour in its glare.

  "Not one alone: from each projecting cape,
    And perilous reef, along the ocean's verge,
  Starts into life a dim gigantic shape,
    Holding its lantern o'er the restless surge.

  "Like the great giant Christopher, it stands
    Upon the brink of the tempestuous waves,
  Wading far out upon the rocks and sands,
    The night-o'ertaken mariner to save.

  "And the great ships sail outward, and return,
    Bending and bowing o'er the billowy swells;
  And ever joyful as they see it burn,
    They wave their silent welcomes and farewells.

  "Steadfast, serene, immovable, the same
    Year after year, through all the silent night,
  Burns on for evermore that quenchless flame--
    Shines on that inextinguishable light."--Longfellow.


No history of Grace Darling would be complete that did not contain some
reference to lighthouses; since it was in one of them that she lived,
and in association with it that her thrilling deeds were done.  The
lighthouse is not a modern invention, though modern science and art
have brought it to its present state of perfection.  The beacon-fire
was known to the ancients, and the fire-towers of the Mediterranean
were justly celebrated.

The first regular light seems to have been placed at the entrance to
the Hellespont; but of greater notoriety was the large tower on the
island of Pharos, off Alexandria, which was so ingeniously constructed
that it has been a model for many a modern lighthouse.  Some incredible
stories are told about this light, which, it is said, could be seen
over the sea for a distance of thirty-four miles!  Edrisi thus
describes it:--"This pharos has not its like in the world for skill of
construction and solidity.  It is built of excellent stones, of the
kind called Kedan, the layers of which are united by molten lead, and
the joints are so adherent that the whole is indissoluble, though the
waves of the sea from the north incessantly beat against it.  This
edifice is singularly remarkable, as much on account of its height as
of its massiveness: it is of exceeding utility, because its fire burns
night and day for the guidance of navigators, and is visible at the
distance of a day's sail.  During the night, it shines like a star: by
day, you may distinguish its smoke."

There was a remarkable pharos built at Ostia by the Emperor Claudius,
which was erected on an artificial breakwater.  Then there was the
light of Puteoli, which, in the far-away days of Rome, was of service
to the seamen who were seeking to enter the port.  Augustus, who
provided the harbour of Ravenna, enriched it with a light.  Charybdis
and Scylla had also their warning beacon, and Caprera too lifted its
light to save ancient vessels from destruction.  There was also the
Timian Tower, which was erected for navigators, but its design was
frustrated by wreckers, who lighted other fires, in order to mislead
the seamen, and lure them to ruin and death.

There was a very ancient and remarkable light at Boulogne.  It was said
to have been first built by the Emperor Caligula, in order to
perpetuate the victories he meant to win.  It became, however, of great
service as a lighthouse-tower, and it is thought that, as early as the
year A.D. 191, it flashed a friendly light across the sea.  Time,
however, and the repeated assaults of foes, robbed it of its strength
and glory.  The men of Boulogne allowed it to perish, and then thought
they were free of all obligation.  The case, however, was tried in
court, and they were sentenced either to restore it, or pay two
thousand herrings, delivered fresh and dry every year.  Very early,
indeed, there was a light-tower in our own land, on the cliff at Dover,
relics of which may even now be seen.  It was built by the Romans, of
very strong material, tufa, concrete, and red-tile brick.  It was
probably used as a lighthouse about the time of the Norman conquest,
and is now devoted to purposes of government storage.  The Colossus of
Rhodes is said to have been used as a beacon, but there is no proof
that it was so.

Englishmen are notorious for the facility they have of making money,
and some enterprising men among our forefathers lighted beacons along
the coast, and levied tolls upon those who benefited by their light;
and James I. used to sell this privilege to his subjects.  In the diary
of Lord Grenville, is found this entry--"Mem. To watch the moment when
the king is in a good temper to ask of him a lighthouse."  The voice
came from the kitchen, and to the kitchen I rushed. The idolized
form of my Maria was perched on a chair, and she was flourishing
an iron spoon in all directions, and shouting "shoo," in a general
manner at everything in the room. To my anxious inquiries as to what
was the matter, she screamed: "O!
Joshua, a mouse, shoo--wha--shoo--a great--ya, shoo--horrid mouse,
and-- she--ew--it ran right out of the cupboard--shoo--go way--O
Lord--Joshua-- shoo--kill it, oh, my--shoo."
All that fuss, you see, about one little, harmless mouse. Some women are
so afraid of mice. Maria is. I got the poker and set myself to poke
that mouse, and my wife jumped down and ran off into another
room. I found the mouse in a corner under the sink. The first time I
hit it I didn't poke it any on account of getting the poker all
tangled up in a lot of dishes in the sink; and I did not hit it any
more because the mouse would not stay still.

It ran right toward me, and I naturally jumped, as anybody would, but
I am not afraid of mice, and when the horrid thing ran up inside
the leg of my pantaloons, I yelled to Maria because I was afraid it
would gnaw a hole in my garment. There is something real disagreeable
about having a mouse inside the leg of one's pantaloons, especially if
there is nothing between you and the mouse. Its toes are cold,
and its nails are scratchy, and its fur tickles, and its tail feels
crawly, and there is nothing pleasant about it, and you are all
the time afraid it will try to gnaw out, and begin on you instead
of on the cloth.

That mouse was next to me. I could feel its every motion with
startling and suggestive distinctness. For these reasons I
yelled to Maria, and as the case seemed urgent to me I may have yelled
with a certain degree of vigour; but I deny that I yelled fire,
and if I catch the boy who thought that I did, I shall inflict punishment
on his person.

I did not lose my presence of mind for an instant.

I caught the mouse just as it was clambering over my knee, and by pressing
firmly on the outside of the cloth, I kept the animal a prisoner
on the inside.

I kept jumping around with all my might to confuse it, so that it would
not think about biting, and I yelled so that the mice would not hear
its squeaks and come to its assistance. A man can't handle many
mice at once to advantage.

Maria was white as a sheet when she came into the kitchen, and asked what
she should do--as though I could hold the mouse and plan a campaign at
the same time.

I told her to think of something, and she thought she would throw things
at the intruder; but as there was no earthly chance for her to hit
the mouse, while every shot took effect on me, I told her to stop,
after she had tried two flat-irons and the coal scuttle.

  She paused for breath, but I kept bobbing
    around. Somehow I felt no
  inclination to sit down anywhere.
    "Oh, Joshua," she cried, "I wish you had not killed the cat."

  Now, I submit that the wish was born of
    the weakness of woman's
  intellect. How on earth did she
    suppose a cat could get where that mouse was?

--rather have the mouse there alone, anyway, than to have a cat prowling
around after it.

  I reminded Maria of the fact that she
    was a fool.

  Then she got the tea-kettle and wanted
    to scald the mouse. I
  objected to that process, except as a
    last resort.

Then she got some cheese to coax the mouse down, but I did not dare
to let go for fear it would run up.

  Matters were getting desperate. I told
    her to think of something else,
  and I kept jumping. Just as I was
    ready to faint with exhaustion, I tripped over an iron, lost my
hold, and the mouse fell to the floor very dead.

  I had no idea a mouse could be squeezed
    to death so easy.
  
    That was not the end of trouble, for before I had recovered my
breath a fireman broke in one of the front windows, and a whole
company followed him through, and they dragged hose around, and
mussed things all over the house, and then the foreman wanted to
thrash me because the house was not on fire, and I had hardly got
him pacified before a policeman came in and arrested me.

Some one had run down and told him I was drunk and was killing
Maria.

  It was all Maria and I could do, by combining
    our eloquence, to prevent him
  from marching me off in disgrace,
    but we finally got matters quieted and the house clear.

  Now, when mice run out of the cupboard
    I go out doors, and let Maria
  "shoo" them back again. I can kill a mouse,
    but the fun don't pay for the trouble.

  _Joshua Jenkins._
    * * * * *
  IN SCHOOL DAYS.
    

Still sits the school-house by the road, A ragged beggar sunning;
Around it still the sumachs grow, And blackberry vines are running.

  Within, the master's desk is seen, Deep scarred
    by raps official; The warping floor,
  the battered seats, The jack-knife's
    carved initial;

  The charcoal frescoes on its wall; Its door's
    worn sill, betraying The feet
  that, creeping slow to school, Went
    storming out to playing!

  
    Long years ago a winter sun
  Shone over it at setting; Lit up its
    western window panes, And low eaves' icy fretting.

  It touched the tangled golden curls,
    And brown eyes full of
  grieving, Of one who still her steps
    delayed When all the school were leaving.

  For near her stood the little boy
    Her childish favour
  singled:
    His cap pulled low upon a face Where pride and shame were mingled.

  Pushing with restless feet the snow
    To right and left, he lingered;--
  As restlessly her tiny hands The
    blue-checked apron fingered,
He saw her lift her eyes; he felt The soft hand's tight caressing,
And heard the tremble of her voice, As if a fault confessing.

  "I'm sorry that I spelt the word; I
    hate to go above you,
  Because,"--the brown eyes lower fell,--
    "Because, you see, I love you!"

  Still memory to a gray-haired man
    That sweet child-face is
  showing.
    Dear girl!

  the grasses on her grave Have forty years
    been growing.
  
    He lives to learn, in life's hard school, How few who pass above
him Lament their triumphs and his loss, Like her,--because they
love him.

  _Whittier._
    * * * * *
  WATERLOO.
    

  It struck my imagination much, while
    standing on the last field
  fought by Bonaparte, that the battle
    of Waterloo should have been fought on a Sunday.

  What a different scene did the Scotch
    Grays and English Infantry
  present, from that which, at that very
    hour, was exhibited by their relatives, when over England and
Scotland each church-bell had drawn together its worshippers!

  While many a mother's heart was sending
    up a prayer for her son's
  preservation, perhaps that son was
    gasping in agony.

  Yet, even at such a period, the lessons of
    his early days might give
  him consolation; and the maternal
    prayer might prepare the heart to support maternal anguish.

  It is religion alone which is of universal
    application, both as a stimulant
  and a lenitive, throughout the varied
    heritage which falls to the lot of man.

  But we know that many thousands rushed
    into this fight, even
  of those who had been instructed in our religious
    principles, without leisure for one serious thought; and that some
officers were killed in their ball dresses.

  They made the leap into the gulf which
    divides two worlds--the
  present from the immutable state without one
    parting prayer, or one note of preparation!

As I looked over this field, now green with growing corn, I could
mark, with my eye, the spots where the most desperate carnage had
been marked out by the verdure of the wheat. The bodies had been
heaped together, and scarcely more than covered; and so enriched
is the soil, that, in these spots, the grain never ripens.
It grows rank and green to the end of harvest. This touching memorial,
which endures when the thousand groans have expired, and when the
stain of human blood has faded from the ground, still seems to
cry to Heaven that there is awful guilt somewhere, and a terrific
reckoning for those who caused destruction which the earth could
not conceal. These hillocks of superabundant vegetation, as the wind
rustled through the corn, seemed the most affecting monuments which
nature could devise, and gave a melancholy animation to this plain
of death.

When we attempt to measure the mass of suffering which was here
inflicted, and to number the individuals that fell, considering each who
suffered as our fellow-man, we are overwhelmed with the agonizing
calculation, and retire from the field which has been the scene of
our reflections, with the simple, concentrated feeling--these
armies once lived, breathed, and felt like us, and the time is at
hand when we shall be like them.

_Lady Morgan._
* * * * *
THE FIELD OF WATERLOO.

There was a sound of revelry by night, And Belgium's capital had gathered
then Her Beauty and her Chivalry; and bright The lamps shone o'er fair
women and brave men; A thousand hearts beat happily; and when Music
arose, with its voluptuous swell, Soft eyes looked love to eyes which
spake again, And all went merry as a marriage bell:-- But hush! hark!
a deep sound strikes like a rising knell!

Did ye not hear it? No; 'twas but the wind Or the car rattling o'er the
stony street; On with the dance! let joy be unconfined; No sleep till
morn, when youth and pleasure meet To chase the glowing hours with
flying feet-- But hark!--that heavy sound breaks in once more, As if the
clouds its echo would repeat; And nearer, clearer, deadlier than
before!
Arm! arm! it is--it is--the cannon's opening roar!

Within a windowed niche of that high hall Sat Brunswick's fated
chieftain; he did hear That sound the first amidst the festival, And
caught its tone with Death's prophetic ear; And when they smiled
because he deemed it near, His heart more truly knew that peal too
well Which stretched his father on a bloody bier, And roused the
vengeance blood alone could quell; He rushed into the field, and,
foremost fighting, fell!

Ah! then and there was hurrying to and fro, And gathering tears, and
tremblings of distress, And cheeks all pale, which, but an hour ago,
Blushed at the praise of their own loveliness; And there were sudden
partings, such as press The life from out young hearts, and choking
sighs Which ne'er might be repeated; Who could guess If ever
more should meet those mutual eyes, Since, upon night so sweet, such
awful morn could rise!

And there was mounting in hot haste; the steed, The mustering squadron,
and the clattering car, Went pouring forward with impetuous speed, And
swiftly forming in the ranks of war; And the deep thunder,
peal on peal, afar; And near, the beat of the alarming drum Roused up
the soldier, ere the morning star; While thronged the citizens with
terror dumb.

Or whispering with white lips--"The foe! they come, they come!"
And wild and high the "Cameron's gathering" rose-- The war note of
Lochiel, which Albyn's hills Have heard--and heard too have her Saxon
foes-- How in the noon of night that pibroch thrills, Savage and
shrill! But with the breath which fills Their mountain pipe, so fill
the mountaineers With the fierce native daring, which instils The
stirring memory of a thousand years; And Evan's, Donald's fame rings
in each clansman's ears.

And Ardennes waves above them her green leaves, Dewy with nature's
tear-drops, as they pass Grieving--if aught inanimate e'er grieves--
Over the unreturning brave--alas!

Ere evening to be trodden like the grass, Which now beneath them, but
above shall grow In its next verdure; when this fiery mass Of living
valour, rolling on the foe, And burning with high hope, shall moulder
cold and low!

Last noon beheld them full of lusty life, Last eve in Beauty's circle
proudly gay; The midnight brought the signal sound of strife; The
morn the marshalling of arms; the day Battle's magnificently stern
array!

The thunder-clouds close o'er it, which, when rent, The earth is
covered thick with other clay, Which her own clay shall cover,
heap'd and pent, Rider and horse--friend, foe--in one red burial
blent!

_Lord Byron._
* * * * *
THE BRIDAL WINE-CUP.

  SCENE--_Parlour,
  with wedding
  party, consisting of_ JUDGE OTIS; MARION, _his daughter, the bride_;
HARRY WOOD, _the bridegroom; a few relatives and friends; all
gathered around the centre table, on which are decanters and
wine-glasses_.

_One of the company_--Let us drink the health of the newly-wedded pair.
(_Turns to Harry_.) Shall it be in wine? (_turns to Marion_,) or
in sparkling cold water?

HARRY--Pledge in wine, if it be the choice of the company.

_Several voices_--Pledge in wine, to be sure.

MARION--(_With great earnestness_.)--O no! Harry; not wine, I pray
you.

JUDGE OTIS--Yes, Marion, my daughter; lay aside your foolish prejudices
for this once; the company expect it, and you should not so seriously
infringe upon the rules of etiquette. In your own house you may act as
you please; but in mine, which you are about to leave, for this once
please me, by complying with my wishes in this matter.

[_A glass of wine is handed to Marion, which she slowly and reluctantly
raises to her lips, but just as it reaches them she exclaims,
excitedly, holding out the glass at arm's length, and staring at
it_,] 
MARION--Oh!

how terrible.

_Several voices--(Eagerly)_--What is it? What do you see?

MARION--Wait--wait, and I will tell you. I see _(pointing to the
glass with her finger)_ a sight that beggars all description; and yet
listen, and I will paint it for you, if I can. It is a lonely spot;
tall mountains, crowned with verdure, rise in awful sublimity
around; a river runs through, and bright flowers in wild profusion
grow to the water's edge.

There is a thick, warm mist, that the sun vainly seeks to pierce; trees,
lofty and beautiful, wave to the airy motion of the birds; and
beneath them a group of Indians gather. They move to and fro with something
like sorrow upon their dark brows, for in their midst lies a manly form,
whose cheek is deathly pale, and whose eye is wild with the fitful fire
of fever.

One of his own white race stands, or rather kneels, beside him, pillowing
the poor sufferer's head upon his breast with all a brother's tenderness.
Look!

  _(she speaks with renewed energy)_ how he
  starts up, throws the damp curls
  back from his high and noble brow,
  and clasps his hands in agony of despair; hear his terrible shrieks
for life; and mark how he clutches at the form of his companion,
imploring to be saved from despair and death.

  O, what a terrible scene! Genius in
  ruins, pleading for that which can never
  be regained when once lost. Hear
  him call piteously his father's name; see him clutch his fingers
as he shrieks for his sister--his only sister, the twin of his
soul--now weeping for him in his distant home!

  See! his hands are lifted to heaven;
  he prays--how wildly!--for mercy,
  while the hot fever rushes through
  his veins.

  The friend beside him is weeping in
  despair; and the awe-stricken sons
  of the forest move silently away,
  leaving the living and the dying alone together.

  _(The judge, overcome with emotion, falls
  into a chair, while the rest of the
  company seem awe-struck, as Marion's voice grows
  softer and more sorrowful in its_ _tones, yet remains distinct and
clear.)_ It is evening now, the great, white moon, is coming up,
and her beams fall gently upon his forehead.

  He moves not; for his eyes are set
  in their sockets, and their once
  piercing glance is dim.
  In vain his companion whispers the name of father and sister; death
is there to dull the pulse, to dim the eye, and to deafen the ear.

  Death!
  stern, terrible, and with no soft
  hand, no gentle voice, to soothe his
  fevered brow, and calm his troubled soul and bid it hope in God.

  _(Harry sits down and covers his face
  with his hands)_ Death overtook
  him thus; and there, in the midst of the
  mountain forest, surrounded by Indian tribes, they scooped him a
grave in the sand; and without a shroud or coffin, prayer or hymn,
they laid him down in the damp earth to his final slumber.

  Thus died and was buried the only son of a
  proud father; the only, idolized brother
  of a fond sister. There he sleeps
  to-day, undisturbed, in that distant land, with no stone to mark
the spot.

  There he lies--_my father's son_--MY OWN
  TWIN BROTHER! A victim to this _(holds up the
  glass before the company)_ deadly, damning poison!
  Father!

  _(turning to the judge,)_ father,
  shall I drink it now?
  
  JUDGE OTIS--_(Raising his bowed head and speaking with faltering
voice)_--No, no, my child!

  in God's name, cast it
  away.
  
  MARION--_(Letting her glass fall and dash to pieces)_--Let no friend
who loves me hereafter tempt me to peril my soul for wine.

Not firmer the everlasting hills than my resolve, God helping me, never
to touch or taste that terrible poison. And he _(turning to Harry,)_
to whom I have this night given my heart and hand, who watched over
my brother's dying form in that last sad hour, and buried the poor
wanderer there by the river, in that land of gold, will, I trust,
sustain me in this resolve. Will you not, _(offers him her hand,
which he takes,)_ my husband?

HARRY--With the blessing of heaven upon my efforts, I will; and I thank
you, beyond expression, for the, solemn lesson you have taught us
all on this occasion.

JUDGE OTIS--God bless you (_taking Marion and Harry by the hand and
speaking with deep emotion_,) my children; and may I, too, have grace
given me to help you in your efforts to keep this noble resolve.

_One of the company_--Let us honour the firmness and nobleness of principle
of the fair bride, by drinking her health in pure, sparkling water,
the only beverage which the great Creator of the Universe gave to the
newly-wedded pair in the beautiful Garden of Eden.

_Dramatized by Sidney Herbert_.

* * * * *
MARY STUART.

ACT III. SCENE IV.

THE PARK AT FOTHERINGAY.
MARY. Farewell high thought, and pride of noble mind!
I will forget my dignity, and all My sufferings; I will fall before
_her_ feet, Who hath reduced me to this wretchedness.
[_She turns towards Elizabeth._ The voice of Heaven decides for
you, my sister.For the reward of rendering
this service, the pilot received a pension when too old to work.

A tremendous gale overtook the company on one occasion, which lasted
ten days, and prevented them from reaching the rock.  On the 6th
September, a very heavy sea struck the ship, which flooded the deck and
poured into the cabins below.  It was thought the vessel had foundered,
and that all on board would go down with her.  They were in perfect
darkness, and some of the men engaged in praying, some repeating hymns,
and others declared that if they could only get on shore, they would
never come on the water again.  Stevenson made his way on deck and
looked around.  The billows seemed to be ten or fifteen feet high, and
each appeared as if about to overwhelm the ship.  One man, a black,
lashed himself to the foremast, and kept watch in case the ship should
break loose from her moorings.  The next morning the sun rose and the
gale abated, but the sea was still very rough, and at the Bell Rock the
spray was thrown up to a height of forty or fifty feet.  When, at last,
the waters had grown calm, and Stevenson was able again to visit the
rock, he found that the force of the sea had removed six immense blocks
of granite twelve or fifteen paces off; and in the smith's forge the
ash-pan, though it had a heavy cast-iron back, had been washed away,
and was found on the opposite side of the rock.  Stevenson thought
there was no time to lose, so he and the men worked away at the
building, which was to be a home for the workmen, and a temporary
beacon.  They finished the erection in about one hundred and three
hours; and thinking of their heroic, courageous and persevering
conduct, one is reminded of the building of Nehemiah's wall, which was
even less difficult and dangerous than this work on the Bell Rock:--"So
built we the wall; and all the wall was joined together unto the half
thereof; _for the people had a mind to work_."

On the 6th day of October, the Bell Rock lighthouse builders
relinquished work for that year, having done little more than erect the
temporary workshops and beacon.  They were still engaged, however, in
preparing materials for the lighthouse; and the stones were laid down
as they would be in the building.  They were then carefully marked and
numbered, and made all ready to be used as soon as possible.  In the
summer of the next year the undaunted men were on the rock again.  On
the 10th of July the foundation-stone was laid; on which Mr. Stevenson
pronounced these words: "May the great Architect of the universe
complete and bless this building!"  The men then gave three cheers, and
drank to the success of the lighthouse.

They worked on that year till the 21st September; and began again--the
next on the 27th of May.  On the 8th of July, they found to their great
joy that the tide, even at high water, did not overflow the building;
and so glad were they that they hoisted flags everywhere and fired a
salute of three guns.  By the 25th of August, it was thirty-one and a
half feet above the rock.  Mr. Stevenson was so anxious about his work
that he paid two or three visits to the rock during the next winter.
He found, however, that it was uninjured by the storms, and began to
have a hope that during the coming season it would be completed.  Nor
were his hopes vain.

The men began work again on the 10th of May.  In July they had a visit
from Mrs. Dickson, the only daughter of Smeaton.  On the 29th the last
stone was landed upon the rock, and on the 30th the last course was
laid.  There had been ninety courses in all.  As soon as the work was
finished Stevenson reverently and thankfully offered this
benediction--"May the great Architect of the universe, under whose
blessing this perilous work has prospered, preserve it as a guide to
the mariners."

On the 17th December in the same year, this advertisement recorded the
fact of the lighthouse being finished:--"A lighthouse having been
erected upon the Inchcape, or Bell Rock, situated at the Firths of
Forth and Tay, in north latitude 56 degrees 29 minutes, and west
longitude 2 degrees 22 minutes, the Commissioners of the Northern
Lighthouses hereby give notice, that the light will be from oil, with
reflectors, placed at the height of about one hundred and eight feet
above the medium level of the sea.  The light will be exhibited on the
night of Friday, the first day of February 1811, and each night
thereafter, from the going away of daylight in the evening until the
return of daylight in the morning.  To distinguish this light from
others on the coast, it is made to revolve horizontally, and to exhibit
a bright light of the natural appearance, and a red-coloured light
alternately, both respectively attaining their greatest strength, or
most luminous effect, in the space of every four minutes; during that
period the bright light will, to a distant observer, appear like a star
of the first magnitude, which after attaining its full strength is
gradually eclipsed to total darkness, and is succeeded by the
red-coloured light, which in like manner increases to full strength,
and again diminishes and disappears.  The coloured light, however,
being less powerful, may not be seen for a time after the bright light
is first observed.  During the continuance of foggy weather, and
showers of snow, a bell will be tolled by machinery, night and day, at
intervals of half a minute."

The western coast of Scotland has its wonderful light as well as the
eastern.  On the Skerryvore Rock is a lighthouse erected by Alan
Stevenson, raised amid much difficulty, but which was as urgently
needed as any around the coast.  The Skerryvore Rock, although not
altogether submerged, stretches over a distance so considerable that
wrecks upon it were as common as they were awful.  In the year 1814,
the Commissioners of Northern Lights visited the reef, accompanied by
Sir Walter Scott, who declared that it was not equalled for loneliness
and desolation, even by the Eddystone or Bell Rock.  It was resolved to
build a lighthouse, but the resolution was not carried into effect
until 1834.

Mr. Alan Stevenson, to whom the honourable but difficult work was
entrusted, began by building places to shelter the men; but these
buildings were swept away by a storm in the winter of the same year.
In the following early summer, the undaunted workers began again, and
completed an erection of three storeys by September.  It was forty feet
above the rock; and here Mr. Stevenson and his men waited for the
weather, or rested from their labours.  The whole of the working season
of 1849 was spent in excavating the foundation, to do which required
two hundred and ninety-six charges of gunpowder.  Mr. Stevenson has
written an account of the Skerryvore Lighthouse, and he says that,
during the first month which he and his men spent in their curious
home, they suffered considerably from inundations.  Once, for a
fortnight, they were unable to hold communication with the mainland,
and they saw "nothing but white plains of foam as far as the eye could
reach."  One night he was aroused by the breaking of a tremendous wave
over the barrack, and all the men on the floor below uttered a terrible
cry, and sprang from their beds.  They believed that they were in the
sea; and their thankfulness at finding it was not so, may be better
imagined than described.

The foundation-stone of the Skerryvore Lighthouse was laid by the Duke
of Argyle.  The men who worked at it had need to be enthusiastic, for
they rose at half-past three in the morning, and frequently continued
toiling for thirteen or fourteen hours a day.  This so wearied them,
that they did not know how to keep awake; and Mr. Stevenson says they
frequently went off in a profound slumber while standing or eating
their meals.  This solid building was finished in 1844, and its light
is visible at the distance of eighteen miles.

There is a curious circumstance connected with the Sunderland
Lighthouse.  It formerly stood on the old pier, but when a new jetty
was built, and a light added, the old one became unnecessary, and it
was decided to demolish it.  Mr. Murray, however, an engineer, thought
it might be moved bodily, as it stood, to the place where the new
lighthouse was to be erected.  The distance was about four hundred and
seventy-five feet, the weight of the lighthouse seven hundred and
fifty-seven thousand pounds.  It possesses an octagonal tower,
sixty-four feet high, and fifteen feet in diameter at the base.  Some
openings were made at the bottom of the tower, and strong planks of oak
were introduced, then the lowest part of the building was destroyed, so
that the tower rested on the platform of timber planks, which itself
rested on a number of cast-iron wheels made like those of a railway
train, and sleepers were laid down in front and over these.  The
building passed a few feet at a time, while strong men drew the iron
chains, which were wound upon windlasses.  The work was accomplished in
thirteen hours and twenty-four minutes; and that evening the lamp was
lighted as usual.

Visitors to the Isle of Wight will have seen two remarkable lighthouses
on its coast.  That on one of the sharp rocks, called the Needles, has
a light so brilliant as to be seen at sea from a distance of fourteen
miles.  It has a fog-bell, which rings in very stormy weather, and may
be heard five miles off.  There is another valuable lighthouse at St.
Catherine's Point, which is an ornament to the beautiful neighbourhood.
Its height is one hundred feet.  In the midst of the interesting
scenery of Cape Cornwall, the visitor, gazing out to sea, will observe
the Longships Lighthouse.  It is needed, for the rocks are most
dangerous--the Armed Knight and Irish Lady being fantastic names for
huge masses that would send many a splendid ship to destruction.

Then there is the Wolfs Crag Lighthouse; and the Lizard Point
Lighthouse, which, with the wonderfully-marked rocks, will delight
those who are seeking instruction and entertainment at the same time as
they find change and rest.  The North and South Forelands have
lighthouses, and Holyhead throws its radiance over the waters that lave
the feet of the Welsh mountains.

Altogether the Englishman has reason to be thankful that his island
home, so girt about with dangerous sands and rocks, is yet so guarded
by its friendly lights that the mariner, going or returning, may be
warned of the hindrances to progress, and the "terror by night," which
lie hidden under the pitiless, deceitful waters.

No one can consider the subject of lighthouses without thinking also of
lighthouse-homes and those who inhabit them.  It is a remarkable fact
that there is no position so dreary or dangerous, but some one can be
found to fill it.  And so brave are certain individuals amongst us,
that it may almost be said they covet situations where courage,
endurance, and self-denial, are essential.  It is necessary, indeed,
that lighthouse keepers should be in many respects superior men; and he
who thinks that "any one will do to light a lamp," is mistaken.  Men
who occupy such a high position must be well tested, faithful men.  Do
they not hold in their hands the lives of emigrants seeking foreign
shores for work--good successful traders, bringing home their savings
to make widowed mothers, or aged and infirm fathers happy--sailor lads,
for whose return fair English maidens pray with love's longing, and
little children, who are to grow up into statesmen, philanthropists,
and deliverers?  Would it do for light-house-keepers to be men who
trembled at the storm, and turned pale when their tower shook, and
forgot to light the lamp, when the lightning's forked tongue was
darting hither and thither?  May a light-house-keeper put his own life
and health first, and his duty next?  Must he allow anxiety for a sick
child, or sorrow for a dying wife, to withdraw him for one evening from
his work?  No.  All that is required of a faithful soldier is required,
in even a greater degree, in the keeper of a lighthouse.  He has
therefore to receive a course of instruction, and to be subjected to
strict discipline.  He has to pass a medical examination, and produce
unexceptionable testimonials with regard to his moral character.  In a
word, he must be in all respects a most trustworthy man, or he will not
do for a lighthouse-keeper.

The first and chief rule for the guidance of the man to whom is
allotted the post of honour and danger is this--"_You are to light the
lamps every evening at sunsetting, and keep them constantly burning
bright and clear till sunrising_."  Nothing--no personal matter of
sickness or sorrow, must prevent his doing this.  While life is in him,
and his senses continue, this injunction is to be ringing in his
memory, and guiding his actions.  There is plenty of other work to do
besides.  Every part of the building is to be kept clean, and the
lightroom apparatus scrupulously so.  The glass is to be washed, rubbed
with a soft dry leather, and kept perfectly free from dust and all
impurities.

But the chief thing after all is to light the lamp, and watch to see
that it does not burn dimly, or go out.  In the long nights of winter
the watcher is relieved after a number of hours, but he must not leave
the room on any pretence until his comrade comes to take his place.  He
must not sleep, nor even take his ease; his attention is to be fixed on
the light alone.  The night experiences of such men must sometimes be
startling, and even awful.  What strange noises they must occasionally
hear, when the winds and waves are fighting out their battles!  What
fearful cries as, notwithstanding the friendly light, a vessel strikes
upon the rocks, and the people are tossed into the surging waters.
They have visitors too; often in the night the wild sea-birds,
fascinated by the light, as the moth is by the candle, come dashing
against the lantern with such violence as to break the glass.  But
whatever happens, close to the tower, or away over the stormy waters,
the man knows his duty, and does it, by keeping the light burning
brightly until the sunrising.

Life in the lighthouse must needs be very monotonous, when the house is
built upon some rock, far out at sea.  Then, for some weeks of the
worst weather, it is not possible for the keepers to receive visitors
or supplies; it is necessary therefore that an abundance of the
necessaries of life should be stowed away in the building.

The men too are provided with libraries; so that if they see few faces
of their fellows, they can at least hold communion with books; and it
was a happy thought to send all those who live in isolated positions
such companions.  But these are not the only ones.  Two, three, or four
men, are stationed at such places as the Eddystone, so that each may
take his turn in spending some time with his family on shore.  Those
lighthouses which are situated on the mainland are comfortable homes,
with their little plot of ground to cultivate, and visitors, at least
in the summer season, to talk with.  It is in the winter, and when the
house is inaccessible, that the men's powers of endurance are tried.

It will never happen again, as it did before the whole system had
reached its present state of perfection, that one man should be left on
a solitary rock, with the corpse of his comrade, while the seething
waters prevented any one from coming to his assistance.  But even now
the life is sufficiently trying.  Human nature is apt to be awkward,
and it is desirable that the light-keepers should be good tempered,
friendly men, who will not soon tire of each other, nor quarrel over
misunderstandings and differences of opinion.  It must be a happy thing
for a man who is a lighthouse watcher, to be God-fearing and Christian,
and have a wife and children about him.  Such a lighthouse as the one
in which he lives may be a Bethel, even though it be in a measure cut
off from all other human habitations.  And those who dwell in it may
well feel that they have the especial care and sympathy of the Lord
Jesus, who loved the sea, and frequented it during his stay in this
world.  How often must they long to hear His voice coming across the
turmoil of the angry waters, and saying, "It is I, be not afraid."  And
how good it must be when the shadows fall, and the night with its
mystery and dangers broods over the waves, for the man to give himself
and his dear ones into the powerful keeping of the Prince of Peace.
From such homes may well come strong brave men, and virtuous women, who
shall always be on the side of right against might--goodness against
evil.  Such a home, we may well believe, was that of James Darling, the
father of the heroic maiden of the Farne Isles.[2]


[1] "Poems by Jean Ingelow."  Longmans & Co., London.

[2] The writer is indebted for much of the information contained in
this chapter to a deeply interesting and excellent volume by Mr. W. H.
Davenport Adams, entitled, "Lighthouses and Lightships," published by
T. Nelson and Sons, London and Edinburgh.


CHAPTER V.

LIGHTHOUSE GUESTS.

  "So low did her secure foundations lie;
  She was not humble, but humility.
  Scarcely she knew that she was great, or fair,
  Or wise, beyond what other women are
  Or (which is better) knew, but never durst compare.
  For to be conscious of what all admire
  And not be vain, advances virtue higher.
  But still she found, or rather thought she found,
  Her own worth wanting, others to abound;
  Ascribed above their due to every one,
  Unjust and scanty to herself alone."--Dryden.


The loneliness of the Farne Islands must have been rather depressing to
the young people who dwelt upon them, and when a chance wind brought to
the Longstone Rock any guest to be entertained, and treated with true
British hospitality, the inhabitants of the lighthouse must have been
particularly thankful.  Birds and fishes, winds and waves, are very
well in their places, but social hearts long for something else than
these, and cannot be satisfied without communion with their kind.
Grace Darling's sympathy was with human life; and no one can read of
her without feeling that, if she could not shine in society, she could
at least be very womanly and kind with strangers, and sufficiently
entertaining to those who visited the happy, homely dwelling among the
rocks.  She would take delight in ministering to their needs, and
removing their sorrows; and we are sure that no one was shipwrecked on
the island, or visited it from curiosity or for instruction, without
taking away with them pleasant recollections of the gentle girl.

Lonely as the island was, and quiet as the lives of the inmates of the
lighthouse must have been, they were not altogether uneventful, and
they certainly were not idle.  The brothers of a family always make
much work, and sometimes not a little care for their sisters.  A good
girl cannot but be very loving toward them, and most anxious for their
welfare.  If the boys are away from home, the solicitude of the sister
is increased; and many an earnest prayer does she send up to God during
the day, and sometimes during the night, that He would bless the lads.
The tender, pitiful soul of a girl clings to her brother; and
sometimes, if the boys only knew how much they are beloved, they would
perhaps live and act very differently.  They may rest assured that no
one, unless it be their mother, feels as thankful for their joy, and as
grieved for their sorrow, as proud of their virtue, and as sad for
their sins, as the sisters who played with them, and who always feel as
if God meant them to be, in some measure, their brothers' keepers.

Grace Darling's brothers were away from the island, but they were not
forgotten by Grace.  Often, with a happy smile on her lips, and a
loving light in her eyes, she sat and worked for them, preparing some
warm garment, or pretty little gift, that should tell the boys a
pleasant, though oft-repeated tale, of their sister's love.

But the best time for Grace was when the twin-brothers came home for a
holiday.  She kept it with them, and always took care that they should
have such particularly good times that they would delight to talk of
them when they were over.  Every one who knows anything of boys and
their ways, knows how proud and flattered they are by the attentions of
a girl who is older than themselves.  And Grace was charming, for she
laid herself out for her brothers' pleasure.  Long before they came
home, she invented little surprises, in the shape of puzzles, pictures,
and games.  She knew that the most uncomfortable experience a boy can
have is to be left alone with nothing to do, and she took care that
nothing of this kind should spoil the holidays of the brothers.  She
joined in all their play.  She ran races with them--jumped with
them--sailed with them; and if they had not been too manly to cry, when
the parting time came, she would have cried with them most heartily.
They were golden days indeed for Grace when her brothers came home.

Nor was she scarcely less pleased when others, and strangers, paid a
visit to her home.

One day in September, 1832, Grace and her mother were watching the sky
and sea most anxiously.  Mr. Darling had gone to North Sunderland,
having sailed thither in his trusty coble.  They were now expecting his
return, and every five minutes seemed an hour while they waited.  He
was not coming alone, for his eldest son was to accompany him.  The
latter was at this time residing at Alnwick, but was always glad of an
opportunity to go home.  The two who watched for them prayed as they
watched.

"I hope they will not be long, Grace.  Is it not time they had
arrived?" asked Mrs. Darling.

"Scarcely yet, mother," replied Grace.  "Do not be anxious, so many
things may have delayed them."

"But I feel sure that a storm is coming.  Look at the waves out at
sea--how white they are; and every hour they are becoming more so."

"But I think they will be here before the storm comes."

"I hope they may.  If not, I fear that they will not be able to come at
all to-night."

"There is time yet."

"But the sun is setting, Grace; already the twilight is here."

"Let us trust, mother.  I think all will be well with them."

They stood looking towards the sea, and presently Grace saw that which
they were looking for.

"Here they come, mother; and there are two in the boat!"

"Where, Grace?  Are you sure it is they?"

"Quite!  Cannot you see them?"

"Oh yes, thank God; and they are coming very quickly.  They will soon
be here."

"Let us go down to the beach to meet them."

Grace went joyfully down; and as their boat came ashore, she received
them with thanksgiving.

"All well, Grace?"

"Yes, father.  Mother has been very anxious, lest you should not be
able to get here before the storm came."

"It is coming, surely.  It will be a very rough night, a night to be at
home rather than on the sea.  Let us get indoors as soon as possible."

They had not been long within the shelter of their home before the
storm burst in all its fury, and it was a storm that even they did not
often witness.  The wind, which at first had sighed as if in sorrow,
and wailed as if for woe, now roared in wild anger, rushing hither and
thither in a mad endeavour to shake and destroy all that came in its
way.  Rain pelted down upon the lighthouse, and hail beat against the
windows, while the waves, lashed to fury by the tempestuous winds,
leaped so high that they beat with violence against the lighthouse
itself.  All were glad and thankful to be within doors at such a time,
and talked compassionately of the poor fellows who were exposed to the
pitiless rigour of the elements.

Grace sat at the window watching, when presently all were startled by
an exclamation of alarm which she involuntarily uttered.

"What is it, Grace!" cried her father, rising hastily, and going to her
side.  "See, father!" said she in answer.

The sight that met Darling's eyes was sad enough.  A little yacht,
quite too small to brave such weather, was seen tossing about on the
angry waters.  One moment it seemed to rise on the top of a
wave-mountain, the next it was engulphed in the watery abyss, but all
the time the wind was driving it toward the rocks.

"William, look here," said Darling to his son.

William drew a long breath.

"She is coming with all speed to the rocks," he said.

"Yes, there is not a moment to lose.  Come, my son."

The young man needed no second bidding: if he had done, Grace would
have added her earnest words.  But she knew her father and brothers,
and hastened to get their hats and jackets, and prepare them for the
battle with the winds and waves.

"Is there anything more that I can do for you, father?"

"Yes, take care of your mother, and do not let her give way."

Mrs. Darling clung to her husband until he gently put her into the
hands of her daughter.  It is one of the trials of the wife of a
lighthouse keeper, that she must often see her husband go forth to
dangers which may lead him into death; and Mrs. Darling could not bear
this trouble with any degree of composure.  It is a singular thing that
those who live by the sea are often most alarmed at its power.  Mrs.
Darling knew what it did with helpless men; and when her husband went
out in the storm, though he had gone on an errand of mercy, she was
often so anxious about him as to be quite overpowered; and while he was
fighting with the elements she would remain at home in a state of
insensibility, from which she was with difficulty aroused.

At such times, it is generally the case that

  "Men must work, and women must weep."

And it is the women who have the worst of it.  It is not so difficult
for heroic men to rush into danger for the salvation of human life, as
it is for loving women to sit calmly at home while the lives that are
dearest to them are in jeopardy.  Mrs. Browning understood this when
she wrote her poem, "Parting Lovers," when Italy needed brave men to
die for her:--

  "Heroic males the country bears,
    But daughters give up more than sons;
  Flags wave, drums beat, and unawares
    You flash your souls out with the guns,
    And take your heaven at once.

  "But we?  We empty heart and home
    Of life's life--love!  We bear to think
  You're gone--to feel you may not come--
    To hear the door-latch stir and clink,
    Yet no more you!--nor sink."


Happily, however, on this occasion Mrs. Darling's suspense was not of
long duration; for her husband and son managed to row to the little
imperilled yacht, and succeeded, though not without danger to
themselves, in rescuing its occupants.  A few minutes more, and they
must have perished; and their joy and thankfulness at being saved at,
as it seemed to them, the eleventh hour, may be better imagined than
described.

Away to the friendly lighthouse rowed Mr. Darling and his son, and in a
very short space of time they were safely sheltered from the storm.  On
the threshold of the home, they were met by Grace, who, with her
mother, eagerly and kindly welcomed them.

"Come into the light and warmth," said Mrs. Darling, "and I will find
you some warm clothing.  Thank God that you are saved."

"Yes, indeed; and we shall never cease to feel thankful also to our
kind deliverers, for their skill and courage in saving us from death."

The party consisted of four persons--a lady, two gentlemen, and the
boatman; and were quite an addition to the little household, which was,
however equal to the emergency.

"Come with me," said Grace to the lady, "and I will find you some dry
clothing."

"Thank you," she said.  "I could not have imagined any thing like the
rain and spray with which we have been drenched; my face was quite
stung with them as they beat against me."

"Yes, it is something dreadful during a storm; and of course it seems
worse to those who are not used to it.  If you take off everything that
is wet, and exchange it for dry, I hope you will take no real harm."

The wardrobe of Grace Darling was not a very extensive one, but she
spread her belongings before the visitor with the utmost readiness and
kindness.

"Please take any article that can be of the least use to you.  I am
only sorry that I have no better ones to offer."

"Pray do not speak of that.  It will be most delightful to feel warm
and dry once more."

In the meantime, the two gentlemen were also supplied with some
clothing that belonged to the absent brothers of Grace, and presently
they all appeared in the room below, and joined the family.  They could
scarcely repress a smile as they saw each other arrayed in such unusual
attire, but it was with deep feeling that they congratulated one
another on their escape.  The guests then introduced themselves as Mr.
and Miss Dudley, and Mr. Morrington.

"We have been spending a holiday at Tynemouth," said one, "and have
been there several weeks.  This morning as the sea was calm, and the
weather lovely, we came out for a sail, little thinking that in a few
hours the scene would be so greatly changed.  It is like our
treacherous English climate."

"But we came farther than we had intended, for the sea was so
thoroughly enjoyable."

"And the gale came up so suddenly that we had not time to seek a place
of safety, and it was so very violent that we were driven quite out of
our course."

"Had you no control over the vessel?" asked Mr. Darling.

"Not the least  We were quite at the mercy of the winds, and waves."

"And they are most merciless," said one of the young men.

"I do not know how to thank you enough for your great kindness, Mr.
Darling," said Miss Dudley.  "Words are quite too weak to express the
grateful feelings of my heart; but I shall ever remember your great
courage, humanity, and kindness, in attempting and accomplishing our
rescue from a watery grave."

"Nay, nay," said the kind lighthouse keeper, "do not say any more on
the subject.  I am sufficiently rewarded for any little trouble and
risk by the happiness of knowing that I have been the means of
preserving your lives, by the help of God."

"Your heroic conduct ought to be reported to the authorities."

"But we are placed here to keep the lamps burning; and though we are
very glad to save lives, you understand that is not the work we are
paid for doing."

"You are paid though, by the consciousness of having done a good deed,
and the gratitude of those whom you have rescued."

"Certainly, but you must please excuse me now, as I must relieve my
son, and take my turn in watching by the beacon."

"And now," said Mrs. Darling, "I am sure you will be glad of some
refreshment."

Indeed they were; and Mrs. Darling, who was a good housekeeper, and had
a few delicacies in her larder, knew how to satisfy the appetites of
her guests.  It was a very cheerful party that gathered around the
lighthouse-table that evening, and when William Darling joined them
there was no lack of conversation.  The guests were evidently persons
of gentle birth and habits, and the Darlings knew how to appreciate
such society.  The social Grace was especially delighted, and almost
felt thankful for the storm that had brought such interesting and
agreeable guests to the lighthouse-home.  The two girls, differently
reared as they had been, were yet able to fraternise, and find mutual
pleasure in the society of each other; and the hours passed almost
unheeded, while the storm, which had abated none of its tempestuous
fury, raged violently without, and failed to disturb the happiness of
those who were so pleasantly occupied.

It was very late before they could bring themselves to break up the
social party, and retire to rest.

"We have not a spare room to offer you.  Will you mind sharing mine?"
asked Grace of Miss Dudley.

"Not at all.  I shall be glad to do so.  I am very tired, and do not
think that even the storm will keep me awake," replied Caroline Dudley.

"You will sleep in the boys' bed," said Mrs. Darling to the gentlemen.
"William will watch the light to-night, and so relieve his father."

The strangers slept soundly.  It seemed that the storm did but rock
them to sleep, for it was not until a late hour in the morning that
they awoke.  Miss Dudley found that her companion had already risen,
and the sun was pouring into the little room its bright unclouded
glory.  But the sea was very rough; and as soon as she had asked the
opinion of the weather-wise lighthouse-keeper as to the possibility of
returning, she found that for that day at least they must remain on the
island.  A bountiful breakfast of tea, coffee, fish, and eggs, had been
provided by the hostess, to which the visitors did ample justice.

"I am afraid, Mrs. Darling, that we shall have to encroach still
further upon your hospitality," said Dudley; "Mr. Darling informs me
that we cannot leave the island to-day, as the sea continues so rough."

"I am only too glad to have you for my guests," said Mrs. Darling,
heartily.

"As for me," said Grace, turning to her newly-found but already beloved
friend, "I could wish that the storm might last a very long time."

"I should be glad to stay too," said Miss Dudley, "if my father only
knew of our safety.  He is not strong, and the suspense may do him
serious injury.  He will be most anxious about us, I know.  He was
quite aware of the kind of vessel we sailed in, and when he saw how
severe the storm was, he would naturally conclude that we were lost.  I
am afraid of the effect that the sorrow may have upon him in his weak
state."

"He will surely not lose hope for some time," said Darling; "and
to-morrow, if all is well, you will be able to return to him."

"But our boat was so injured by being beaten against the rocks, that I
fear it is useless," remarked one of the gentlemen.

"I will take you across in my boat," said Darling, "so you need have no
anxiety on that score."

"Oh, Mr. Darling, you make us more and more your debtors."

They were consoled, however, with the thought that the suspense of Mr.
Dudley would be relieved before very long; and as nothing could be done
on that day, they resigned themselves to their situation, and prepared
to have a delightful holiday.

When breakfast was over, Grace took Caroline to the turret of the
lighthouse to enjoy the extensive view which such a point of vantage
afforded.  A better day for the purpose could scarcely have been
chosen, for the fleecy clouds floated gracefully, the air was calm, and
the sun shone forth in splendour.  The ocean had not recovered from the
effects of the angry storm, and the wild white waves leaped up as if
they would overwhelm and altogether destroy everything that offered the
least opposition.

Miss Dudley gazed spell-bound on the scene, and could not find words in
which to express her admiration; while Grace, to whom it was all very
familiar, confessed that even the could never look upon it without
feelings of wonder and delight.  She pointed out the famous Castle of
Bamborough, with its battlements and towers; then Holy Island, on which
could be seen the ruins of its ancient priory; and also the Cheviot
hills on the north.

"Have you ever heard any of the legends of our neighbourhood," inquired
Grace?  "No," replied Caroline; "but it will give me very great
pleasure to listen to them."

Nothing could have pleased Grace better than to pour into the willing
ears of the young lady who had so strangely been brought to her, and
who had so attracted her affections, the old-world stories in which she
herself so greatly delighted.  But to Miss Dudley the pleasure was even
greater.  She was naturally romantic, being possessed of a warm poetic
temperament; and what treat could have been greater to such a maiden
than to sit in the lonely lighthouse tower of the weird Longstone
Island, and listen to the mysterious fascinating legends of
Northumbria, as told in melodious accents by the lips of the
enthusiastic island girl?  What wonder that as she listened, and the
other talked, the two young hearts were drawn to each other in trustful
and admiring friendship?

They were soon recalled, however, for the three young men, Dudley,
Morrington, and William Darling, wished them to join them in a walk
about the islands.  They strolled together along the beach; and as the
tide was ebbing, the sands were firm and pleasant.  The two girls kept
together, and Grace pointed out to her friend those objects which were
the most interesting.

"That is the island on which St. Cuthbert lived, and we can see the
hermitage he built.  He came here from the priory of Lindisfarne,
because he thought that a monastic life provided too many luxuries and
enjoyments for the good and prosperity of his soul.  He thought they
distracted his mind, and prevented it from dwelling sufficiently on
religious subjects."

"But it is not necessary to become a recluse in order to serve God?"

"No, for He has placed us in families, and given us social duties to
perform.  But I suppose St. Cuthbert thought differently; and so he
came to spend his days on the island.  He must have found discomfort
and privation enough to satisfy even him, for it is said that there was
neither water nor vegetation upon the island, which was then altogether
barren and uninhabitable.  Besides that, it had the reputation of being
haunted by malignant demons, which took up their abode there.  The
saint, however, was not afraid of evil spirits, nor anything else, and
the spot became very dear to him."

"But how could he live if there was nothing on the island to eat and
drink?"

"Oh, of course he worked some miracles, and his wants were easily
supplied; at least so the legend says.  I have read a description of
the marvellous change which came over the island while he lived upon
it.  'The flinty rock bubbled with fresh water; the once barren soil,
with prolific abundance, brought forth grain; trees and shrubs, bearing
fruit, decked the smiling shores; the troubled waters clapped their
hands for joy; the plains assumed a mantle of green, embroidered with
flowers, the evil spirits were bound in eternal darkness, and angels of
light communed with the saint!'  Strange, if true, was it not?"

"It was indeed!  But what has become of the remarkable verdure?"

"Oh, it is said that although the demons were never again allowed to
return, the island became as sterile as before when St. Cuthbert died,
and no more exerted his miraculous influence on its behalf."

"Are there any relics of this wonderful saint still remaining on the
islands?"

"Yes, there are the ruins of a church, and in them is a stone coffin,
which at one time contained the remains of the saint."

Caroline laughingly replied, that as the restless body occupied a large
number of coffins before it finally found a home in Durham Cathedral,
it was only fair that the Farne Islands should have one.

"Now, let me tell you about Holy Island," said Grace.  "That also has
the ruins of an ancient priory, and possesses more historical
associations and wonderful legends than I could possibly repeat.  It is
a very beautiful island, though it is in decay, and has lost its former
glory and importance.  As early as the Saxon Heptarchy, there was a
monastery on Lindisfarne.  It was pillaged and burned by the Danes,
those terrible sea-kings who caused our country so much suffering in
the days of old, and who seemed to be so fond of Holy Island, that they
came to it again and again."

"They were wonderfully persistent, were they not?"

"They were indeed!  There are many other places of interest, Warkworth
and Dunstanborough among the rest."

"I shall try to persuade my father to pay a visit to those places
before we leave the neighbourhood," said Miss Dudley; "and now Grace,
since you have told me so much that is interesting, I will try to tell
you a little about the far different scenes among which I live."

"Do," said Grace, "I shall be glad to hear anything about your life."

Caroline's story was almost as strange to Grace as Grace's had been to
Caroline, for it had to do with a class of society about which the
young lighthouse girl knew nothing.  Miss Dudley was used to shine in
circles to which Grace Darling would not have been admitted, and her
description of the habits of thought and modes of life of the people
among whom she associated, was graphic, piquant, and most entertaining.
Like many a merry, warm-hearted girl, she cherished a half-contemptuous
opinion of much that was fashionable and gay; and to hear her speak of
the crowded assemblies, the dreary dinner parties, the exciting balls,
and the endless morning calls, was to give Grace both surprise and
amusement.

The two girls, as they thus stood, talking to each other of their lives
and associations, formed a very striking contrast.  Miss Dudley was
tall, dark and beautiful, with classic features and graceful form.  Her
mother was a Spanish lady, and from her the daughter had inherited the
splendid dark eyes and hair, as also the ardent and romantic nature,
which had thrown such a spell round Grace.  Her intellect was of the
highest order, and had been most carefully cultivated, so that her
natural enthusiasm had been restrained and disciplined, but not subdued
or weakened.  She had only just left school, which was one of the
highest class, where all the modern accomplishments necessary to a
refined education had been thoroughly taught her; and as she had moved
always in good society, her manners had acquired that easy grace and
polish which can scarcely be obtained under other circumstances.

Grace Darling, on the contrary, had, as we know, received little if any
instruction beyond that which her own father had imparted.  But
although her opportunities had been meagre, she had made the most of
them, and was at this time a well-informed girl, with good natural
abilities.  She was possessed of that simple courtesy which has its
root in self-forgetfulness, and an earnest desire to please, and which
will always prevent its owner from breaking any of those rules of
etiquette which make the wheels of society run so smoothly; and there
was an easy winning grace, and guileless sweetness of manner, about the
simple true-hearted lighthouse maiden, that won its way to all hearts.
There is no such beautifier as thoughtful goodness; and the amiable
character, and clear understanding of Grace Darling, shone through her
hazel eyes, and added to her loveliness.

Grace was rather beneath the ordinary stature, and her figure was
slender and graceful.  She had a wreath of sunny brown curls, and a
delicate clear complexion, which revealed the quick emotions of joy or
sorrow that moved her.  She was rich, too, in having a fund of good
common sense, which would enable her, with the assistance of the ready
presence of mind and dauntless courage which characterised her, to be
equal to all the emergencies of life.

The two girls, so differently trained and constituted, who were thus
brought together, would probably be the better for the short
intercourse which they had; and it is certain that both would retain
pleasant memories of their walks and talks in the island.

When evening came they all sat around the lighthouse fire, and hold a
pleasant conversation.  Nor were they content with this, but added the
delights of music to their entertainment.  Miss Dudley was prevailed on
to sing the following ballad;[1]--

  "The 'Morning Star'
  Sailed o'er the bar,
    Bound to the Baltic Sea:
  In the morning grey
  She stretched away--
    'Twas a weary day to me.

  "And many an hour,
  In sleet and shower,
    By the lighthouse rock I stray,
  And watch till dark
  For the winged bark
    Of him that's far away.

  "The Castle's bound
  I wander round,
    Among the grassy graves,
  But all I hear
  Is the north wind drear,
    And all I see--the waves."

  "Oh, roam not there,
  Thou mourner fair,
    Nor pour the fruitless tear!
  The plaint of woe is all too low--
    The dead--they cannot hear!

  "The Morning Star
  Is set afar,
    Set in the Baltic Sea;
  And the billows spread
  O'er the sandy bed
    That holds thy love from thee."


Mr. Morrington remarked that the Tynemouth Castle grounds were used as
a burial place; and then calls were made upon the other members of the
party for another song.

"William can sing," remarked Grace, looking at her brother.

"Of course he can," said Mr. Dudley; "whoever knew a light-hearted man,
used to the sea, who could not sing.  Will you please favour us, Mr.
Darling!"

William, who was anxious, like the rest of the family, to make the time
of their guests pass as pleasantly as possible, at once complied with
their request.  He sang his song to an old border tune, originally
composed to the words, "When I was a bachelor fine and brave:"--

  "Harold, the minstrel, was blithe and young;
  Many and strange were the lays he sung;
  But Harold neither had gold nor fee--
  His wealth was his harp o' the forest tree;
  And little he reck'd, as he troll'd his lay--
  'Clouds come over the brightest day.'

  "On him young Ella, the maiden, smiled;
  Never were notes like his wood-notes wild,
  Till the baron's broad lands and glittering store
  Dazzled her eye, and her love was o'er;
  Gold hushed the praise of the minstrel lay--
  'Clouds come over the brightest day.'

  "From the old church-tower the joy bells rung,
  Flowering wreaths were before her flung;
  Youth was gay, but the aged sighed--
  'She had better been the minstrel's bride;
  And Harold wept as he troll'd his lay--
  'Clouds come over the brightest day.'

  "Years have fled, and the moonbeams fall
  On the roofless towers of the baron's hall;
  The owl hath built in the chapel aisle,
  And the bat in the silent campanile,
  And the whispering ivy seems to say--
  'Clouds come over the brightest day.'

  "Years have fled, and that soft light shines
  On a quiet cot where the woodbine twines.
  A lonely heart, in a distant clime,
  On that sweet cot thinks, and the warning rhyme,
  Treasures of earth will fade away--
  'Clouds come over the brightest day.'"


The next morning the sea was calm enough for to make it safe for the
visitors to cross over, and they prepared to leave the island-home in
which they had been so kindly and hospitably entertained.  They did so
with some reluctance, being sorry to lose the friends whom they had
found.  The parting was especially hard to Grace, who had been living
in a new world during the last two days; but Miss Dudley comforted her,
by expressing a hope that they would meet again.

"Will you come and stay with us, Grace, before we leave Tynemouth," she
asked.  "I should like to do so very much," said Grace, "if father and
mother will consent."

"I will get the permission of Mr. and Mrs. Darling before I go,"
replied Miss Dudley.

She did so; and though the anticipations of the girls were not to be
realised, the hope made the parting more easy than it would otherwise
have been.

Mrs. Darling and Grace both went down to the beach to see the last of
their friends, and it was not until after many loving farewells, that
Miss Dudley could break away.

The two young men thanked Mrs. Darling most heartily, while they warmly
shook hands with her, for her motherly care and kindness.  Then Mr.
Darling took his station in the boat, and William assisted the friends
into it.

"Good-bye, good-bye, God bless you."

"Write to me soon, Grace."

The little boat went dancing away over the laughing waters, leaving
behind--as boats so often do--loneliness and regret.  Mrs. Darling went
back to her work in the lighthouse, but Grace remained on the beach
until the coble that bore her friend away had passed completely out of
sight.  She might be forgiven if, for that day, her usual cheerfulness
forsook her, and she felt as if she could not settle down to the
monotony of her life.

She was glad when toward evening her father and brother returned, and
she could learn all the latest particulars of her friend.  They
described the rapturous joy of Major Dudley at the re-appearance of the
son and daughter whom he had mourned as lost.  At first the meeting
seemed too much for him, and he trembled, and he turned pale; but
afterward he caressed them most passionately, and loaded the Darlings
with presents and thanks.

"When he heard of all that had been done for his son and daughter, and
their friend, he would not let me come away without bringing presents
for us.  See," said the lighthouse keeper, exhibiting them, "this is
for Mrs. Darling, and this for Grace."

"Miss Dudley has not sent a letter, I suppose, father?"

"No; but she has sent her love, and promises to write soon."

The letter came in a day or two, but it was not at all what Grace
wished for.  It brought the unwelcome intelligence that Major Dudley
had been summoned to the south, and they were all obliged at once to
accompany him thither, so that it was not possible for them to receive
Grace as they had hoped to do.  She therefore saw her friend no more;
and for some days she could not help feeling very sad and lonely.  But
Mrs. Darling, sensible woman as she was, knew a good cure for
melancholy.

"Grace," she said, "I want to make a few alterations in the house.  One
or two of the rooms must be thoroughly cleaned, and the furniture
placed differently, and then I think it will be more comfortable for
the winter.  I shall want your help, my child."

Grace readily responded; and before very long her face grew bright
under the influence of wholesome household work; and her parents were
delighted to hear her clear voice once more singing her favourite airs.

When, a week later, William Darling went back to Alnwick, the
lighthouse family returned to the usual quiet, even ways, which had
lately been so pleasantly disturbed, and the lighthouse guests were
hereafter little more than memories.

Does it seem that too much has been made of this little simple
incident?  Let it be remembered, that though on the mainland, in our
busy towns and centres of population, the visits of strangers, and the
joy of entertaining them, may be common occurrences, it was far
different in the case of these dwellers on the lonely Farne Islands.
We, who are used to receive the social calls of friends, and to spend
many hours a week in "chit-chat," and pleasant recreation, can scarcely
estimate the joy and refreshment which this episode brought to the
Darlings.  It was a great event to them, and was remembered and talked
over for many years afterwards.  Grace especially, though she never saw
her friend again, never forgot her, and there is no doubt that the
little intercourse she had had was not without its effects on the
after-life and character of the heroic girl.

We cannot tell for what purpose in the all-wise providence of God
strangers are brought to us whom we learn to love, and take to our
hearts as dear friends, and who are then altogether removed from us.
But we may be sure that some good end is kept in view, and perhaps
hereafter that which is mysterious may be made plain.

This life is but the beginning of things, the continuation of them will
be in heaven; and who knows but that it may be one of the pleasures
that our Father has in store for us, that there, the old friendships
may be renewed and perfected, and the scattered links all united?  If
it be so, perhaps Grace has already found her friend again.


[1] It was written at Tynemouth; and refers to the "Morning Star," a
vessel belonging to the Tyne, which was lost, with all hands, in the
Baltic.


CHAPTER VI.

CHRISTMAS AT THE LONGSTONE LIGHTHOUSE.

  "It came upon the midnight clear,
    That glorious song of old,
  From angels bending near the earth
    To touch their harps of gold:
  'Peace on the earth, good-will to men,
    From heaven's all gracious King;'
  The world in solemn stillness lay,
    To hear the angels sing."

  "Yet with the woes of sin and strife
    The world has suffered long;
  Beneath the angel-strain have rolled
    Two thousand years of wrong;
  And man at war with man, hears not
    The love-song which they bring--
  Oh, hush the noise, ye men of strife,
    And hear the angels sing."--E. H. Sears.


It does not matter very much where Christmas is kept, so long as all
the family can get together, and all hearts be filled with His love,
who came as a Babe in Bethlehem to bring blessings to the world.  Under
such circumstances, Christmas is a joyous time everywhere, and dear
friends, meeting together for a few days of social intercourse, may
well bless the season, and retain their old love for it.

It is interesting to think of the various scenes into which the grey
head and kindly face of old Father Christmas are brought with shouts of
welcome.  He comes to the palace, where flowers and perfumes give him a
taste of summer's months of gladness, and where men who occupy elevated
positions are glad to rest them in his genial smile.  He goes to the
farm-house, in the country round which the bare fields lie, and the
ground is as hard as if it never meant to be fruitful again; and the
farmer feels the winter which has a Christmas in it is almost as good
as a spring-time of promise.  He goes to the tradesmen in the town, and
the carol singers make even the busy streets melodious and suggestive
of peace and good-will; and the shopkeeper blesses the prosperity of
trade, that enables him to welcome the festive time with well-filled
tables and good cheer.  And best of all, he goes to ships at sea, and
lonely lighthouses, and places where he is really needed, to cheer sad
hearts and raise depressed spirits; and as to most places he brings the
children with him, he is generally able very successfully to accomplish
his kind mission.

At the Longstone lighthouse they kept Christmas most joyfully, and all
the children, now growing to manhood and womanhood, came home to assist.

Great preparations were made beforehand by Mrs. Darling and Grace, that
nothing might be wanting to add to the festivities of the happy
re-union.  If they could not deck the walls with holly and mistletoe
grown on the island, they could have it brought from the mainland by
the boys and girls when they came.  Pictures, curtains, and books, were
all made the most of; and to crown the whole, or rather, as the
foundation of the whole, the house was made spotlessly clean--cleaner
than usual, if that could be, for the joyous occasion.

But there was always one source of anxiety to trouble the Darlings
during December.  There was ever a chance that they could not travel.
Such things have been heard of as coaches being snowed up, and even
railways blocked with the innocent-looking snow.  But when the
travellers have to cross the sea in places where it is at no time very
smooth, the risk of such a misfortune is always much greater.  It was
often utterly impossible for boats to reach the Farne Islands from the
mainland; and no one could say, until the time came, that the Darlings
would not be kept from home by stress of weather.  It may be imagined,
therefore, with what anxiety the sea was watched, and how eager they
were to know which way the wind was, and what might be expected of the
weather.  And when, at last, the boat was seen bringing the dear ones
to their home among the rocks, very deep were the thanksgivings that
went up to God who had given them journeying mercies.

One Christmas they all met together, and were unusually happy.

"A week's holiday!" said one.  "It will be like living at home again to
be together so long."

"And to think that you are all safely here," said the mother.

"And not one of us has died during the year," added the father.

"Surely," said Grace, "we ought to be happy, if any family should, with
so much to make us so."

"And we shall be," said Mary Ann; "at least I am not afraid of it
myself."

There was a general smile at Mary Ann's expense.  She had come home
with most important news--she was going to be married, and she had
already whispered to her sisters that she had heaps of things to tell
about "him."  It has been said that a woman has but one him (hymn), and
that she is never tired of singing it!  It seemed so indeed in Mary
Ann's case, for she had scarcely reached home when she took her sisters
Thomasin and Grace aside, and began to descant most eloquently upon the
manliness and goodness, cleverness and handsomeness of her lover, whom
she boldly declared to be "the best and most kind-hearted man in the
world."  "And I will tell you all about him," she added, "though indeed
it will take the whole week to tell."

Her sisters were good-humoured and interested; and it was therefore
evident that there would be no lack of conversation during those
holidays.

If there had been, Elizabeth, the youngest, could have supplied it, for
she had just been apprenticed; and youth always imagines its own
affairs to be of most absorbing interest.  Elizabeth was learning the
millinery business, and though the making of hats and bonnets might
seem to the general public an uninviting theme on which to dwell,
anything is worth listening to that comes from lips that are beloved.

So the lighthouse-fires were kept burning brightly, and an air of
comfort and neatness reigned around.  The snug sitting-room, in which
they had played when they were little ones, held them all now, and very
delightful were the hours spent in it.  Mr. and Mrs. Darling looked
around on their blooming girls and manly sons, and felt that they were
well repaid for all the anxiety and toil which their children had
occasioned.  And when in the evenings the room was cleared, and the
merry games of blind-man's-buff and forfeits were engaged in, it may be
questioned if any British household had lighter hearts and greater
freedom from care than that of the dwellers in Longstone beacon.

"There is one thing needed to make the Christmas perfect," said Grace.

"What is that?" asked her brother William.  "The presence of Miss
Dudley?"

"No; I was not thinking of her.  She has sent me some beautiful letters
lately, and they are the most that I can expect.  But I was thinking of
peace and good-will to men.  If we lived on the mainland, in one of the
towns, we could send 'portions to those who have need!'  There are no
poor and helpless here.  But it always seems to me that Christmas time
should be filled with deeds of charity towards the suffering and
poverty stricken."

"But if the weather should change, we could perhaps take our part in
the works of Christian kindness, by succouring some poor shipwrecked
fellow," said Mr. Darling.

"But I hope the weather will not change," said his wife, who never
could quite overcome her terror of the sea when swept by tempests.

Her wish, however, was not realised, while Grace had the pleasure she
wished for.

The clear frosty weather which they had enjoyed, passed away on the
27th of December, and gave place to something very different.  The
morning rose with clouds; the wind blew a heavy gale, and torrents of
rain fell all day.  The lighthouse-tower rocked before the fury of the
tempest; and when the night came on, though the beacon was lighted as
usual, Darling had very little hope of its being of much service, since
the thick dashing rain would prevent the light from being seen.  The
gale did not abate during the whole night, and the wind and waves had
terrific power, as they beat upon the windows and walls.  William and
Robert took their father's place at midnight, and watched and tended
the light from that time till daylight.  They looked over the sea,
endeavouring to descry any vessel that might be near, but the
atmosphere was so murky that they could see nothing.

A little before daybreak the violence of the storm somewhat abated, and
the horizon became more distinct.  The young men, keeping "a sharp
look-out," thought they saw some object moving on the Naestone rock.

"It is some poor wretch shipwrecked," said William.

"Do you think it is," said Robert.  "If so, we must go out and get him
off, if possible.  Shall I call father?"

"No; do not disturb him until we are quite certain.  It will soon be
light enough for us to see."

"I can see now!  I am sure it is a man moving.  It will not be a very
safe undertaking, though."

"That does not matter.  We cannot leave the poor fellow there to
perish."

"Call father up, then.  By the time he is ready, it will be safe to
extinguish the light, and we can all go out together."

When Mr. Darling was awake, he did not hesitate for a moment.

"Get the coble ready, and we four will man it.  It will be hard if we
do not bring the poor fellow back to have a little of our Christmas
cheer."

In a few minutes Darling and his three eldest sons were in the boat,
and moving away.

"Pray, take care," shouted Grace.  "It is a very perilous attempt to
make."

"We know it," said Darling.  "Pray for us, and have no fear."

The girl felt that to have no fear was more than could be expected of
her; but she did her best to support and comfort her mother and sisters.

"Now, my lads," said Darling to his sons, "this will require all the
nerve and courage we have.  Are you ready?"

"Aye, ready," was the cheery answer; and then all hands set to work to
propel the boat to the Naestone rock, on which the waves were leaping
with awful fury.

"Hold hard, my boys."

The injunction was more easily uttered than obeyed.  The young men
could scarcely keep their seats, and were in momentary danger of being
swept altogether from the boats.

"Why, there are two of them!"

Through the spray they could now see the Naestone; and there they saw
two objects--one standing, earnestly watching the efforts of the
Darlings to reach them, the other lying helplessly on the rocks,
apparently benumbed.

The brave men put forth all their strength, and presently managed to
bring their boat near the rock, then suddenly a tremendous wave dashed
them back again, and they were almost buried beneath the waters.  The
boat rose, however, and the men, nowise daunted by the danger and
difficulty, again strained every nerve to reach the rock.  But a
terrible billow again came over them, and this time two of their oars
were snapped to pieces.  Soon after a receding wave left a space around
the rock uncovered, and Robert, eager to reach the sufferers, leaped
across.  But just then another huge wave swept the boat back, and Mr.
Darling's fears were aroused lest they should not be able to get him
off again.  They made a most strenuous effort once more to get near the
rock; and presently, while the perspiration was pouring from their
faces, and their arms and backs were aching from fatigue, and they were
feeling that they could not keep on much longer, they managed to get
near enough to enable Robert, by plunging in the sea, to reach them,
the brothers in the boat with great difficulty hauling him in.

"Did you speak to the men, Robert?" asked Mr. Darling, when the young
man had a little recovered himself.

"I spoke to one, father; the other is dead!"

"There is but one to save, then?"

"That is all."

"Come my lads, we must get him off, if possible."

"The tide is making fast.  If he is not away in an hour or two, his
chances will all be gone, for the rock will lie under deep water."

They tried again and again to get near enough to the rock to allow of
the man's escape, but they could not succeed.

"Throw him a rope!  We can do nothing else."

After several vain attempts, they succeeded in throwing a rope to reach
him.  The man was so feeble that he seemed scarcely to understand what
was going on.

"Lash yourself to it, man!"

"He has not strength to do it.  Look at him!  He is half-dead."

The Darlings shouted a word of cheer, and presently the man roused
himself to his task.  He was so weak that his hands could scarcely do
the work; but after a time, his friends saw, with joy, that he had
fastened the rope round his body.

"He has no power to help himself.  We must drag him in."

"Now then, steadily."

They were afraid that he would get beaten against the rocks and
destroyed; but, as carefully as they could, they dragged him into the
boat.  No sooner was he there, however, than he fell down in a state of
complete exhaustion.

"Now for home."

But it seemed at least, doubtful whether they would ever get there, for
the sea was so turbulent that their strength was as nothing to it; and
the difficulty was greatly increased by the loss of the oars, which had
been broken.  They made the best use of the two remaining, and they
hoisted their small sails, but the wind was against them; and if their
hearts had not been very brave, they must have quailed then.  But there
was One who watched them, as long ago He watched His followers "toiling
in rowing," and He cared for the courageous men who had gone out over
the waters to save human life, and He helped them in this hour of their
need.  After a severe struggle, they reached the shore; and never were
weary mariners more thankful to feel the friendly land under their feet
than they were.

Mrs. Darling, Grace, and the others, had been watching them with
intense anxiety, and they were on the beach, ready to welcome their
return.

"We have brought the poor fellow off the rock, and landed him safely;
but there is not much life left in him, I fancy," said Robert.

"I hope we may restore him.  Bring him in carefully," said Grace.  "He
may have been sent to us for our help and compassion--a Christmas
stranger!"

Did she think how, in return for their hospitality, the Saviour would
himself say, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of
these, my brethren, ye have done it unto Me!"

The sailor was soon laid in a warm bed, and restoratives were given to
him.  For a long time, however, the Darlings feared that their efforts
would be in vain, but, after much patience and perseverance, he began
to revive.  The women of the household had now plenty of occupation,
and Grace was one of the chief nurses of the forlorn shipwrecked man.
Every kindness and attention was heaped upon him; and the festive
season received just the pathetic touch it always wants to bring out
the love of happy hearts towards those who are sad and wretched.

The Christmas was over, and the brothers and sisters had gone back to
their various situations and occupations on the mainland before the man
was sufficiently recovered to leave his temporary home on the
Longstone.  When he began to recover he had a relapse, and a low fever
set in, which lasted for some time.  As soon as he was able to give an
account of himself he related a most pathetic tale, which quite touched
the heart of the gentle, humane Grace, who had questioned him.

"My name, Miss?  It is Logan, and I was born at Nithdale, in Scotland.
I think no man has been more unfortunate than I.  I have been
shipwrecked several times--once, only a few weeks ago, at Sunderland.
The whole crew would have been lost then, only that the Sunderland
life-boatmen came out and rescued us.  Soon after that, I got a
situation as mate on board the 'Autumn,' but my usual fate overtook me.
We were going to Peterhead, but had only been a day or two at sea, when
a gale came on.  The master made every effort to guide the vessel, but
it was of no use, and at last she was dashed among the breakers.  Then
we tried to launch the boats, but could not do it, and, as a last
resource, I and one other man clung to the mast for safety.  We were in
that situation for four hours."

"Four hours!" exclaimed Grace.

"Yes; and at last, when the tide went out, we found the Naestone rock
uncovered, and the mast hanging over it, so we dropped on the rock.  We
had not much bettered our condition, however, for a heavy sea swept
over the mast, and we could not see a vestige of it, though our only
hope of safety depended upon it.  I tried to get up a joke with my
mate, but I could see that he was losing all hope.  I told him that
perhaps we should be discovered, but he only shook his head in despair.
He talked about being resigned to his fate.  'I feel that I am dying,'
said he.  'If you should be fetched off the rock, go and see my father
and mother, and tell them how I died.  Tell my mother that my last
prayer was for her; and may God Almighty bless and comfort her.'
'Cheer up, man,' says I, 'you're not dead yet.'  But he was too far
gone to be consoled; and before he had been more than two hours on the
rock, he died."

"Poor fellow!" said Grace, who was weeping tears of sorrow and
sympathy.  "Did you not feel worse still after he was gone?"

"Yes, indeed, I felt despairing, for all my hope died when my comrade
died.  The wind was still blowing furiously, and the spray kept dashing
over me.  I saw the tide getting higher and higher, and coming nearer
and nearer, and wondered how long I had to live.  At last the waves
washed the place on which I stood, and I thought my last moments had
come.  But just then I saw your boat!  I thought I should have gone
frantic with joy; I did not know how to contain my feelings.  Oh!  Mr.
Darling, God bless you and your family for your goodness to a poor
shipwrecked sailor.  May He reward you, for I am sure I never can."

The man broke down and could say no more, while Mr. Darling wrung his
hand, and told him, what was the truth, that there was no greater joy
than to rescue those who were in danger of death.

A day or two after Logan felt better and wished to say good-bye to his
kind friends.

"I will go with you to Bamborough," said the lighthouse keeper.  "If
you go to Lord Crewe's institution, they will help you!"

"What sort of place is that, then?"

They should move steadily, and rest on the emphatic word, returning to
the side after the emotion is expressed that called them into action.

The following positions and directions are as good as any, that can
be expressed in a small compass, and they are given here for practice.
One caution must be noted, which is, that excess of action is nearly
as detrimental in oratory as no action. It becomes the speaker,
therefore, in this, as well as in everything else, that pertains to
elocution and oratory, to _avoid extremes_.

I. POSITION OF THE HAND.

1. Supine; open hand, fingers relaxed, palm upward; used in appeal,
entreaty, in expressing light, joyous emotions, etc.

2.

Prone; open hand, palm downward; used in negative expressions, etc.

3. Vertical; open hand, palm outward; for repelling, warding off,
etc.

4.

Clenched; hand tightly closed; used in defiance, courage, threatening,
etc.

5 Pointing; prone hand, loosely closed, with index finger extended;
used in pointing out, designating, etc.

II. DIRECTION.

1. Front; the hand descending below the hip, extending horizontally,
or ascending to a level or above the head, at right angles with the
speaker's body.

2. Oblique; at an angle of forty-five degrees from the speaker's body.

3. Extended; direct from the speaker's side.

4. Backward; reversely corresponding to the oblique.

ABBREVIATIONS.

R. H. S. Right Hand Supine.

  R. H. P. Right Hand Prone.
    
  R. H. V. Right Hand Vertical.
    
  B. H. S. Both Hands Supine.
    
  B. H. P. Both Hands Prone.
    

  B. H. V. Both Hands Vertical.
    
  D. f. Descending Front.
    
  H. f. Horizontal Front.
    
  A. f. Ascending Front.
    

D. o. Descending Oblique.

H. o. Horizontal Oblique.

A. o. Ascending Oblique.

D. e. Descending Extended.

H. e.

Horizontal Extended.

A. e. Ascending Extended.

D. b. Descending Backward.

H. b. Horizontal Backward.

A. b. Ascending Backward.

DIRECTIONS.

The dotted words indicate where the hand is to be raised in preparation.

The gesture is made upon the words in capitals.

The hand drops upon the italicized word or syllable following the
word in capitals. If italicized words precede the word in capitals,
it indicates that the hand is to follow the line of gesture.

The following examples have appeared in several works on Elocution--"The
New York Speaker," "Reading and Elocution," etc.

R. H. S.

_D.f._ This sentiment I* will* maintain* | with the last breath of
LIFE.

_H.f._ I* appeal* | to YOU, sir, for your de _cis_ ion.

_A.f._ I* appeal* | to the great Searcher of HEARTS for the truth of
what I _ut_ ter.

_D. o._ Of* all* mistakes* | NONE are so _fa_ tal as those which we incur
through prejudice.

_H. o._ Truth*, honour*, | JUS tice were his _mo_ tives.

_A. o._ Fix* your* eye* | on the prize of a truly NO ble am- _bi_
tion.

_D. e._ AWAY* | with an idea so absurd!

_H. e._ The* breeze* of* morning* | wafted IN cense on the _air_.

_A. e._ In dreams thro'* camp* and* court* he* bore* | the trophies of
a CON queror.

_D. b._ AWAY* | with an idea so abhorrent to humanity!

_H. b._ Search* the* records* of* the* remotest* an TI quity for a
_par_allel to this.

_A. b._ Then* rang* their proud HURRAH!

R. H. P.

_D. f._ Put* DOWN | the unworthy feeling!

_H. f._ Re* STRAIN the unhallowed pro _pen_ sity.

_D. o._ Let every one who* would* merit* the* Christian* name* | re PRESS
| such a feeling.

_H. o._ I* charge* you* as* men* and* as* Christians* | to lay a re
STRAINT on all such dispo _si_ tions!

_A. o._ Ye* gods* | with HOLD your _ven_ geance!

_D. e._ The* hand* of* affection* | shall _smooth the_ TURF for
your last _pil_ low!

_H. e._ The* cloud* of* adver* | sity threw its gloom _over all
his_ PROS pects.

_A. e._ So* darkly* glooms* yon* thunder* cloud* that* swathes*
| as with a purple SHROUD Benledi's distant _hill_.

R. H. V.

_H. f._ Arise!* meet* | and re PEL your _foe!_
_A. f._ For* BID it, Almighty _God!_

_H. o._ He generously extended* the* arm* of* power* | to ward OFF the
_blow_.

_A. o._ May* Heaven* a VERT the cal _am_ ity!

_H. e._ Out* of* my* SIGHT, | thou serpent!

_H. b._ Thou* tempting* fiend,* a VAUNT!

B. H. S.

_D. f._ All personal feeling he* de* POS ited on the _al_ tar of
his country's good.

  _H. f._ Listen,* I* im PLORE you, to the
  voice of _rea_ son!
    
    _A. f._ HAIL, universal
  _Lord_!

  
  _D. o._ Every* personal* advantage* | he
    sur REN dered to the
    common _good_.
  

  _H. o._ WELCOME!* once more to your early
  _home_!
    
    _A. o._ HAIL! holy
  _Light_!

_D. e._ I* utterly* re NOUNCE | all the supposed advantages of such
a station.

_H. e._ They* yet* slept* | in the wide a BYSS of possi _bil_ ity.

_A. e._ Joy,* joy* | for EVER.

B. H. P.

_D. f._ Lie* LIGHT ly on him, _earth_--his step was light on thee.

_H. f._ Now* all* the* blessings* of* a* glad* father* LIGHT on
_thee!_
_A. f._ Blessed* be* Thy* NAME, O Lord Most _High_.

_D. o._ We* are* in* Thy* sight* | but as the _worms_ of the DUST!

_H. o._ May* the* grace* of* God* | _abide with you for_ EVER.

_A. o._ And* let* the* triple* rainbow* rest* | _o'er all the mountain_
TOPS.

_D. e._ Here* let* the* tumults* of* passion* | _forever_ CEASE!

_H. e._ Spread* _wide_ a ROUND the heaven-breathing _calm_!

_A. e._ Heaven* | _opened_ WIDE her ever-during _gates_.

B. H. V.

_H. f._ HENCE*, hideous _spectre_!

_A. f._ AVERT*, O _God_, the frown of Thy indignation!

_H. o._ Far* from* OUR _hearts_ be so inhuman a feeling.

_A. o._ Let* me* not* | NAME it to _you_, ye chaste stars!

_H. e._ And* if* the* night* have* gathered* aught* of* evil* or*
concealed*, dis PERSE it.

_A. e._ Melt* and* dis* PEL, ye spectre _doubts_!

* * * * *

CHAPTER XII.

INTRODUCTION TO AN AUDIENCE.

The speaker should present himself to the audience with modesty, and
without any show of self-consequence, and should avoid everything
opposed to true dignity and self respect; he should feel the
importance of his subject and the occasion.

He should be deliberate and calm, and should take his position with
his face directed to the audience.

A bow, being the most marked and appropriate symbol of respect, should
be made on the last step going to his place on the platform. In
making a graceful bow, there should be a gentle bend of the whole body,
the eyes should not be permitted to fall below the person addressed,
and the arms should lightly move forward, and a little inward.

On raising himself into an erect position from the introductory
bow, the speaker should fall back into the first position of the
advanced foot.

In this position he commences to speak. In his discourse let him appear
graceful, easy, and natural, and when warmed and animated by the
importance of his subject, his dignity and mien should become still
more elevated and commanding, and he should assume a somewhat lofty
and noble bearing.

ADVICE TO STUDENTS.

The student must ever bear in mind that there is no royal road of
attaining excellence in Elocutionary art without labour.

No matter under what favourable circumstances he may have been placed for
observing good methods, or how much aid he may receive from good
teachers, he never can make any _real_ improvement, unless he does the
work for himself, and by diligence and perseverance he may achieve
a great measure of success, and free himself from many blemishes
and defects.

As the highest attainment of art, is the best imitation of nature, to
attain to excellence in art the student must study nature as it exists
in the manner of the age,--
"And catch the manners, living as they rise."
The rules of every science, as far as they are just and useful, are
founded in nature, or in good usage; hence their adoption and
application tend to free us from our artificial defects, all of
which may be regarded as departures from the simplicity of nature.

Let the student, therefore, ever bear in mind that whatever is artificial
is unnatural, and that whatever is unnatural is opposed to genuine
eloquence.

Good reading is exactly like good talking--one, therefore, who would read
well or who would speak well, who would interest, rivet the
attention, convince the understanding, and excite the feelings of
his hearers--need not expect to do it by any extraordinary exertion
or desperate effort; for genuine eloquence is not to be wooed and
won by any such boisterous course of courtship, but by more gentle
means.

But, the pupil must not be tied down to a too slavish attention to
rules, for one flash of genuine emotion, one touch of real nature, will
produce a greater effect than the application of all the studied
rules of rhetorical art.

"He who in earnest studies o'er his part, Will find true nature cling
around his heart, The modes of grief are not included all In the
white handkerchief and mournful drawl."

Before attempting to give a piece in public the pupil must practice
it well in private, until the words and ideas are perfectly familiar,
and it must be repeated o'er and o'er again, with perfect distinctness
and clear articulation,--for more declaimers break down in consequence
of forgetting the words of their piece, than from any other cause,
and the pupil must practice assiduously until there is no danger
of failure from this source.

Do not be discouraged if your early attempts are not very successful
ones, but persevere; the most renowned actors and orators were not
at all remarkable in the commencement of their career, they all,
with scarcely an exception, attained to eminence by untiring
perseverance.

Never rest satisfied with having done as you think--"well"--but be
constantly trying to improve and to do better, and do not let the
flattery of injudicious friends lead you to imagine you have a
remarkable genius for oratory or for reading--such a foolish notion
will be productive of great harm and effectually stop your further
improvement, and those who are led to believe they are great geniuses
and above the necessity of being guided by the rules suited for
more commonplace mortals, rarely, if ever, attain to eminence, or
become useful members of society.

Do not rely too much on others for instruction or advice as to the way
of reading or speaking a passage, think for yourself, read it
over carefully until you have formed a definite opinion as to
how it ought to be delivered, then declaim it according to your own
idea of its meaning and character.

Avoid everything like affectation; think of your subject and its
requirements, not of yourself, and do not try to make a great
display.

Let your tone, look and gestures be all in harmony--be deliberate,
yet earnest and natural; let nature be the mistress with art for
her handmaiden.

Do not be such a slavish imitator of others, that it can be said of you,
as it is of many--"Oh! I know who taught him Elocution.

Every gesture and every movement is in accordance with some specific
rule, and a slavish mannerism that never breaks into the slightest
originality, marks his whole delivery, and all of ----'s pupils do
exactly the same way."
Remember always that the GOLDEN RULE of Elocution is:--
BE NATURAL AND BE IN EARNEST.

CHAPTER XIII.

GENERAL EXAMPLES FOR PRACTICE.

QUICK TIME--INCREASE--HIGH PITCH--OROTUND.

Still sprung from those swift hoofs, thundering South, The dust
like the smoke from the cannon's mouth, Or the trail of a comet, sweeping
faster and faster, Foreboding to traitors the doom of disaster.
The heart of the steed and the heart of the master Were beating like
prisoners assaulting their walls, Impatient to be where the
battle-field calls; Every nerve of the charger was strained to
full play, With Sheridan only ten miles away!

Under his spurning feet, the road Like an arrowy Alpine river
flowed; And the landscape sped away behind, Like an ocean flying
before the wind; And the steed, like a barque fed with furnace ire,
Swept on, with his wild eyes full of fire;-- But, lo!

  he is nearing his heart's
  desire!
  He is snuffing the smoke of the roaring
  fray, With Sheridan only five miles away!

MIDDLE PITCH--PURE.

How peaceful the grave--its quiet, how deep!

  Its zephyrs breathe calmly, and soft is its
  sleep, and flowerets perfume it with
  ether!
  
  ASPIRATE.
  
  How ill this taper burns!
  Ha! who comes here?
  I think it is the weakness of mine eyes
  That shapes this monstrous apparition.
  
  It comes upon me! Art thou any thing?
  Art thou some god, some angel, or some
  devil, That makest my blood cold, and my hair to
  stare?
  Speak to me what thou art.
  
  OROTUND--HIGH AND VARIED PITCH.
  
  Confusion reigned below, and crowds
  on deck With ashen faces and wild questionings
  Rushed to her fated side; another crash Succeeded,
  then a pause, an awful pause Of terror
  and dismay. They see it all!
  There floats the direful cause 'longside them now!

"Ahoy!" the seamen cry; "Ahoy!

ahoy!
Four hundred souls aboard! Ahoy! ahoy!" "All will be well!" "No, no, she
heeds us not!" And shrieks of awful frenzy fill the air-- "We sink!
we sink!" but lo! the aid so near Slinks like a recreant coward out
of sight.

No sign of succour--none! Now wild despair And cowardice, thy reign has
come; the strong Are weak, the weak are strong.
The captain cries aloud--"Launch yonder boat!"

The maddened crowd press toward it, but he shouts:
"Stand back, and save the women!" They but laugh With curses their
response. Behold the waves Are gaping to receive them! still he cries
"Back, back, or I will fire!"--their reply Comes in a roar of wild
defiant groans.

PLAINTIVE--PURE.

_Pauline_. Thrice have I sought to speak: my courage fails me.
Sir, is it true that you have known--nay, are you The friend
of--Melnotte?

_Melnotte_. Lady, yes!

--Myself And Misery know the man!

_Pauline_. And you will see him, And you will bear to him--ay--word for
word, All that this heart, which breaks in parting from him Would
send, ere still for ever.

_Melnotte_. He hath told me You have the right to choose from out
the world A worthier bridegroom;--he foregoes all claim Even to
murmur at his doom. Speak on!

_Pauline_.

Tell him, for years I never nursed a thought That was not his; that on
his wandering way Daily and nightly poured a mourner's prayers.

Tell him ev'n now that I would rather share His lowliest lot,--walk by
his side, an outcast,-- Work for him, beg with him,--live upon
the light Of one kind smile from him, than wear the crown The
Bourbon lost!

_Melnotte (aside)_. Am I already mad?

And does delirium utter such sweet words Into a dreamer's ear? (_aloud_.)
You love him thus And yet desert him?

_Pauline_. Say, that, if his eye Could read this heart,--its struggles,
its temptations-- His love itself would pardon that desertion!

Look on that poor old man--he is my father; He stands upon the verge of
an abyss; He calls his child to save him!

Shall I shrink From him who gave me birth? Withhold my hand And see a
parent perish? Tell him this, And say--that we shall meet again in
Heaven!

SLOW--LOW OROTUND.
The stars--shall fade away,--the sun--himself-- Grow dim--with
age,--and Nature--sink--in years; But thou--shalt flourish--in
immortal youth,-- Unhurt--amidst the war of elements,-- The wreck
of matter,--and the crash of worlds.

MODERATE--PURE.
At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned the
venerable place; Truth from his lips prevailed with double sway,
And fools, who came to scoff, remained to pray.
The service past, around the pious man, With ready zeal, each honest
rustic ran; E'en children followed, with endearing wile, And plucked
his gown, to share the good man's smile:
His ready smile a parent's warmth expressed, Their welfare pleased
him, and their cares distressed; To them his heart, his love, his
griefs were given, But all his serious thoughts had rest in heaven.
As some tall cliff that lifts its awful form, Swells from the vale,
and midway leaves the storm.
Though round its breast the rolling clouds are spread, Eternal
sunshine settles on its head.

ASTONISHMENT AND SURPRISE.
Whence and what art thou, execrable shape!
That dar'st, though grim and terrible, advance Thy miscreated front
athwart my way To yonder gates? Through them, I mean to pass-- That
be assured--without leave asked of thee!
Retire, or taste thy folly; and learn by proof, Hell-born! not to
contend with spirits of heaven!

ANGER.
Next Anger rushed, his eyes on fire; in lightnings owned his secret
stings; with one rude clash he struck the lyre, and swept with
hurried hand, the strings.

PITY.
The Duchess marked his weary pace, his timid mien, and reverend
face; and bade her page the menials tell, that they should tend the
old man well; for she had known adversity, though born in such a
high degree; in pride of power, in beauty's bloom, had wept o'er
Monmouth's bloody tomb.

REVENGE.
And longer had she sung--but, with a frown, Revenge impatient rose;
he threw his blood-stained sword in thunder down; and, with a
withering look, the war-denouncing trumpet took, and blew a blast--so
loud and dread, were ne'er prophetic sounds so full of
woe.

COURAGE.
"Fight on!" quoth he, undaunted, but our war-ships steered away;
"She will burst," they said, "and sink us, one and all, beneath the
bay;" But our captain knew his duty, and we cheered him as he cried,
"To the rescue! We are brothers--let us perish side by side!"
HORROR.

Avaunt! and quit my sight! Let the earth hide thee!
Thy bones are marrowless, thy blood is cold:
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes Which thou dost glare with!
Hence, horrible shadow, Unreal mockery, hence!

HOPE.
All's for the best! set this on your standard, Soldier of sadness,
or pilgrim of love, Who to the shores of Despair may have wandered,
A way-wearied swallow, or heart-stricken dove; All's for the best!--be
a man but confiding, Providence tenderly governs the rest, And the
frail barque of his creature is guiding Wisely and wanly, all for
the best.

MERCY.
The quality of mercy is not strain'd; It droppeth as the gentle
rain from heaven Upon the place beneath; it is twice blessed; It
blesseth him that gives, and him that takes:
'Tis mightiest--in the mightiest; it becomes The throned monarch--better
than his crown; His sceptre shows the force of temporal power, The
attribute to awe--and majesty, Wherein doth sit the dread and fear
of kings; But mercy--is above this sceptered sway, It is enthroned--in
the hearts of kings, It is an attribute--to God himself:
And earthly power--doth then show likest God's, When mercy--seasons
justice.

LOVE.
In peace, Love tunes the shepherd's reed; In war, he mounts the
warrior's steed; In halls, in gay attire is seen; In hamlets, dances
on the green.
Love rules the court, the camp, the grove, And men below, and saints
above; For love is heaven, and heaven is love.
AWE, EXTENDING TO FEAR.
It thunders! Sons of dust, in reverence bow!
Ancient of Days! thou speakest from above!
Thy right hand wields the bolt of terror now-- That hand which
scatters peace and joy and love.
Almighty! trembling, like a timid child, I hear Thy awful
voice!--alarmed, afraid, I see the flashes of Thy lightning wild,
And in the very grave would hide my head!

REVERENCE.
O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is Thy name in all the earth! who
hast set Thy glory above the heavens. When I consider the heavens,
the work of Thy fingers; the moon and the stars, which Thou hast
ordained; what is man that Thou art mindful of him? and the son of
man, that Thou visitest him?
For Thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast
crowned him with glory and honour. Thou madest him to have dominion
over the works of Thy hands: Thou hast put all things under his
feet. O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is Thy name in all the earth!
* * * * * 
SELECTIONS.

DOMESTIC LOVE AND HAPPINESS.
O happy they! the happiest of their kind!
Whom gentler stars unite, and in one fate Their hearts, their
fortunes, and their beings blend.
'Tis not the coarser tie of human laws, Unnatural oft, and foreign
to the mind, That binds their peace, but harmony itself, Attuning
all their passions into love; Where friendship full exerts her
softest power, Perfect esteem, enliven'd by desire Ineffable, and
sympathy of soul; Thought meeting thought, and will preventing will,
With boundless confidence; for nought but love Can answer love, and
render bliss secure.
Let him, ungenerous, who, alone intent To bless himself, from sordid
parents buys The loathing virgin, in eternal care, Well-merited,
consume his nights and days:
Let barbarous nations, whose inhuman love Is wild desire, fierce
as the sun they feel; Let eastern tyrants from the light of Heaven
Seclude their bosom-slaves, meanly possess'd Of a mere lifeless,
violated form:
While those whom love cements in holy faith, And equal transport,
free as nature live, Disdaining fear. What is the world to them,
Its pomp, its pleasure, and its nonsense all?
Who in each other clasp whatever fair High fancy forms, and lavish
hearts can wish, Something than beauty dearer, should they look Or
on the mind, or mind-illumin'd face; Truth, goodness, honour, harmony
and love, The richest bounty of indulgent Heaven.
Meantime a smiling offspring rises round, And mingles both their
graces. By degrees The human blossom blows; and every day, Soft as
it rolls along, shows some new charm, The father's lustre, and the
mother's bloom.
Then infant reason grows apace, and calls For the kind hand of an
assiduous care.
Delightful task!"Come into the house; father and mother are waiting for you.  Is not
the morning lovely?  I am so glad it is.  I assure you I have been
watching the weather most anxiously," said Grace.

"So have we.  But it is a lovely August, and Grace, you must make up
your mind to return with us.  We do not intend to go home without you.
So you had better promise at once, unless you wish us to become
residents of the lighthouse."

"But I should rather like you to reside here," said Grace; "what a nice
party we should make."

Mr. and Mrs. Darling received the young folks most kindly, giving them
a hearty welcome, and expressing a hope that they would stay as long as
possible, and have a good time.

"We shall," said Mary Herbert.  "We are always happy in the Longstone
lighthouse."

The father of the Herberts was Mr. Darling's friend, so that the
children did but cement the friendship which the elders entertained for
each other.  The Misses Herbert were Grace's nearest and dearest
friends, and the young people came oftener perhaps than any others to
spend a few days on the island.

They had not been long in the house before Mr. Darling made a
suggestion, which delighted them.

"To-morrow," said he, "I have a leisure day; and I should like to join
you in an excursion.  What do you say to going over to Lindisfarne?"

"I say, let us go by all means," said Mary.  "If the day is as lovely
as this has been, it will be a splendid opportunity for a pic-nic.  Do
you not all think so?"

"I do," said George; "and let us be up early, so as to have a long day.
When I go to visit ruins, I do not like to be hurried.

"You will not have to wait for the girls," said Mrs. Darling.  "Grace
is an early riser."

"It is well to rise early, but that is not better than to spend the day
well.  I knew a man who was fond of praising himself, and blaming
others.  When he rose betimes he used to rebuke us with the words--'It
is the early bird that picks up the worm;' but when he had laid longer
than he intended, he excused himself by saying, 'It is not altogether
the early rising, but the well spending of the day, that is of the
highest importance.'  Whatever he did was right in his own eyes."

"But we will do both on our holiday," said Henry; "we will rise early,
and also spend the day well."

The weather on the following morning was all that could be desired.
The young people were animated and merry, and there was nothing to
bring a cloud over the day.  They were soon among the romantic ruins on
the Holy Island, having had a most enjoyable sail across the blue water.

"I think I should never tire of visiting these old places," said Henry
Herbert.  "They are so venerable, and therefore dear to me.  Do you
like them, Grace?"

"Yes, they are sombre and melancholy, but, to my mind, it is much more
interesting to live amongst them than in new places.  One cannot help
thinking of the past, and the strange scenes that were enacted in it."

"Do you understand much about ancient architecture?"

"No, I know almost nothing of it."

"I have always been fond of it, and I think I can give you some
explanation of these walls and relics."

"I shall be glad if you will," said Grace, whom nothing could delight
more than the acquirement of fresh knowledge.

She spent a very pleasant time listening to the young man while he
described the different characteristics of the antiquities that were
before them.

"We had better seek the others," said Grace presently; "they will be
wondering what has become of us."

At that moment, looking up, they saw that a stranger was passing the
archway.

Excursionists were not so many in those days as they are In these, and
Grace was surprised.  Henry Herbert, however, looking intently at the
new comer, said to his companion, "I believe it is an old school-fellow
of ours, who is now studying in the University of Durham.  Yes, indeed,
it is he!"

The young men greeted each other with evident satisfaction, and the
stranger was soon introduced to the others.  He was quite an
acquisition to the party, whom he was only too glad to join, as he was
taking his holiday alone.  They were all sorry when the pleasant day at
Lindisfarne was over, and it was time to return to the Longstone
lighthouse, where, however, an evening spent in the genial society of
each other fitly closed the delightful day.

The next morning all rose early; and so soon as breakfast was
concluded, they were eager to be afloat on the blue sea.

"George and I will each take an oar," said Henry, "and our friend will
attend the ladies."

"With pleasure," replied the student, as he took his seat.

"Tell us about your foreign travels, and give us a description of the
places you have visited," said Mary.

"Yes, please do," added Grace, eagerly; "that will make the time pass
pleasantly indeed."

"What will you hear about--France and Paris, or Italy and Rome?  Shall
I describe to you my journey over the mountains, or my voyage up the
Rhine?"

"Tell us anything and everything you can remember,"

"That will be said more easily than done; but I will try to tell you a
few of my experiences."

Soon the pleasant sound of merry laughter floated over the sunny water,
for the student was a good talker, and he gave most lively descriptions
of people and places.  He talked about gay Paris, until the girls
wanted to go there; and of beautiful Italy and Switzerland, until their
faces glowed, and their pulses beat more quickly.  He told of the
fortresses on the Rhine, of the pleasant holiday resorts, whose names
are even more familiar to us than they were to his listeners, and for a
time they almost fancied themselves sailing on other than British seas,
and about to visit places which, in reality, their feet might never
tread.

They were not sorry, however, to come back to Northumbria, and the
resorts to which they were really going.

"Our destination is Warkworth, is it not?" asked Mary, after a time,
during which the student's narrative had not been interrupted.

"Yes, we are about to enter the Coquet now."

"Where does the Coquet rise?"

"In the Cheviot hills; and it flows for forty miles through well-wooded
scenery, which is called Coquetdale, and then falls into the German
Ocean, below Alnwick Bay."

"You must have been studying a gazetteer lately."

"I have been; and can tell you something more of the Coquet which is
interesting."

"Pray, do so."

"I know a little about it.  It is famous for its salmon and trout, for
which it is greatly esteemed by anglers," said one.

"Among the pebbles which it washes up, cornelians, agates, and mountain
crystals, are sometimes found," said another.

"I wonder if we shall be fortunate enough to discover any of these
treasures!"

"I do not care to look for them; for when there are old castles to be
visited, I think a few little pebbles need not expect to be noticed."

Presently they came to the bottom of the hill on which the famous
fortress of Warkworth formerly stood, and there, at the landing-place,
they fastened the boat.  The hill was steep, but the young people
enjoyed the fun of climbing it all the more for that; when they reached
the top, they were well repaid for their trouble.

"What a magnificent view!" exclaimed the student.

"Do you say so," cried Grace, "who have seen the beautiful spots in so
many countries?  I am myself very proud of our Northumberland, but that
you should show any delight, is almost a surprise to me."

"Nay, why should it be?  'A thing of beauty is a joy for ever;' but the
joy is still greater when the beautiful objects are our own."

"What splendid old ruins they are!" exclaimed Ellen.

"Yes," said George; "although the keep remains, all the rest being in
ruins, it has a most imposing appearance."

"How grand it must have been before its glory passed away!"

"Yes, it must indeed!  Even now it is not so gloomy as many ruins are."

"Perhaps that is because the stones keep their natural colour."

"To whom does it belong?"

"To the Percy family.  We shall find their arms on several parts of the
'keep.'"

"That must have been restored, since it alone remains."

"Yes, it has been; and, indeed, it was well worthy of preservation."

"We must visit the tower, the chapel, and the baronial hall, each of
which will reward inspection."

They looked at each in turn, and their admiration expressed itself in
appreciative words.  It would not have been satisfactory had they not
visited also some of the subterranean cells.

"You must come and see the donjon keep, girls," said George.

But the girls could not repress a shudder, as they did so, for their
sympathetic spirits felt for the poor prisoners who ages ago had been
incarcerated in the terrible dungeon.

"You see it has no means of admission," explained the student, "but by
a very narrow aperture; so that the prisoners had to be lowered into it
by ropes."

"And how could they ever get back again when their term of imprisonment
was over?"

"I am afraid few, if any, ever did come back again."

"How glad we ought to be that we live in times that are so very
different."

"Indeed, we ought.  It seems as if it can scarcely be the same world
when we contrast the past with the present," said Grace.

They examined the castle very carefully, and then went to the
hermitage.  To reach this they had to cross the river, as it is on the
opposite side.

There were wonders to delight them all; for the hermitage includes a
room and chapel, cut in the solid rock.  It contains the effigies of a
lady and a hermit.  It has been immortalised by Dr. Percy's beautiful
ballad--

  "Dark was the night, and wild the storm,
    And loud the torrent's roar,
  And loud the sea was heard to dash
    Against the distant shore."


"How are we to get to the hermitage?" inquired the student.

"We have to walk along this narrow footpath, close to the river."

"It is quite a romantic path."

Indeed it was; for on one side were high perpendicular rocks, on the
top of which was a grove of oaks, and on the other side the pretty
river.

"These oaks are very valuable, not only because of the beauty they lend
to the scene, but also because they make a shelter from the sun."

"Yes, and from the wind too, in winter."

"Do you not feel as if you are treading on hallowed ground, Grace?  I
experience emotions among ruins felt nowhere else."

Both she and Henry Herbert felt a delight in being there, and the
former especially tried to people the scene as it was of old, and
realise the days of the far-away time which it represented.

"There is a spring issuing from a rock, and the water is cool and most
delicious.  Try it for yourselves."

They found it very refreshing; and having drunk some, they entered the
chapel.  It is very beautiful, decorated like a cathedral, and almost
perfect.

  "Each proper ornament was there
    That should a chapel grace,
  The lattice for confession framed,
    And holy water vase."


"Is it not a wonderful place?" exclaimed the girls; "it is all in good
condition--the altar is quite entire."

"And so is the monument to Isabel Widdrington."

It was with difficulty that they could bring themselves to leave a
place so interesting on account of its hallowed associations; but as
they wished also to visit Dunstanborough, they could not delay their
departure.

Dunstanborough Castle stands upon a bold basaltic rock, and is thirty
feet above the sea-level  It is supposed to have been built by the
Lancaster family, in the year 1315, and the Yorkists destroyed it after
the battle of Hexham.  It has never been rebuilt, and nothing is left
of it but its outer walls.

"It looks a very melancholy place," was the opinion expressed by the
holiday folks, "and very fierce and warlike."

"Perhaps that is partly because of the black frowning rock on which it
stands," suggested one.

"How very rugged the shore is; and what a quantity of sea-weed," said
Ellen Herbert; and, indeed, it was not easy to move over the broken
cliffs, since the accumulation of wrack made it dangerous.

"We must go and see the Rumble Churn," said one, who knew what a treat
it would be to those who had never seen it.

"It is an immense chasm, four hundred feet in length and fifty in
depth," continued the informant.

They regarded it with awe and wonder.  The sea came rushing in with a
tremendous roar, bursting and boiling into foam, and seeming as if it
would leap over the tower, and submerge the hill altogether.  It has
been said of it--"The breaking of the waves into foam over the extreme
points of the rocks, the heavy spray, the noise of the disturbed
waters, and the foam whose echo returns through the towers, are most
awful and sublime."

Of course, such ruins as those of Northumbria could not exist without
having many interesting legends attached to them; and with one of these
the student was acquainted, and this he resolved to narrate to the
party.

When the young people had been sufficiently awed by looking into Rumble
Churn, it was time for them to partake of refreshment and rest.

"Shall I tell you the legend of the Wandering Knight of Dunstanborough
Castle?" then asked the student, to which inquiry a chorus of eager
voices responded in the affirmative--the girls declaring that to hear
it there, among the very ruins, would be most delightful.

"In ages gone by," then began the young man, "a Red Cross Knight,
returning from the holy land, sought shelter from the storm beneath the
ruined archway of the castle--

  "A braver knight ne'er trod afar
  The hallowed fields of Salem's war."

Suddenly there fell upon his ear the tolling of a convent bell; and
scarcely had the sound died away, ere a long loud shriek proceeded from
the ponderous walls of the castle.  The startled knight grasped his
ready sword--the gates flew open, and a light appeared from a lamp held
by a shadowy hand.  A hollow voice addressed the awe-struck knight,
conjuring him, if his heart were inaccessible to fear, and if unmoved
he could look upon danger's wildest form, to follow; for within the
desolated castle a lovely maid was spell-bound, and his might be the
power to break the enchantment which bound her there.

"Lead on," the gallant knight replied.  Preceded by the magic lamp, the
knight passed through the silent court, the chapel, and at last the
vaults where reposed the ashes of the departed dead.  They entered a
magnificent hall, lighted with bright burning lamps, outvieing in
number the stars of heaven.  A hundred columns descended from the lofty
roof, and to each of these was tied a bronze charger, mounted by a
marble warrior, fully armed.  In the centre of the apartment was a
mystical altar, composed of emeralds, and inlaid with diamonds, and
upon this stood a crystal globe, encircled with a wreath of coral.
Kneeling within the circle was a youthful maiden, surpassing in
loveliness the brightest imagery of Eastern poets.

  "Long gazed the knight on this captive bright,
    And thus at length began--
  'O, Lady, I'll dare for thee whatever
    May be done by mortal hand!'"


Not a word in reply proceeded from the lips of the beauteous lady.  At
length the hollow tone of the awe-inspiring guide broke upon the
death-like stillness, revealing that the lady should not be freed from
the spell that bound her till some daring hand should unsheathe the
magic sword, or blow the mystic horn worn by a giant warrior, who kept
guard by the magic vase.  If the Red Cross Knight would attempt the
deed, the choice of drawing the sword, or blasting the horn; was left
to himself; but on whichever he decided, on no account must he cast it
from him, or a dark and fearful doom would be his fate.

"After a momentary hesitation, the knight drew from its scabbard the
ponderous sword; but scarcely had he done so than upsprung the giant of
marble, and blew a blast so loud and fearful as to awaken a thousand
echoes.  With a deafening noise each sable charger pawed the pavement,
and the riders, unsheathing their glittering brands, rushed on to
attack the single warrior, who, with shuddering horror, beheld the
magic sword had become a living serpent.  Forgetful of his guide's
commands, he flung it from him, and drew forth his own well-tried
blade.  In a moment the lights faded into total darkness, and the
haunted hall became as silent as a grave.  A groan of anguish first
broke upon the stillness, and next a voice of anger, in hollow murmurs,
spoke--

  "'Devoted wretch! whose coward hand
  Forsook the consecrated brand,
  When one bold thrust, or fearful stroke,
  At once the powerful spell had broke,
  And silently dissolved in air
  The mock array of warriors there--
  Now take thy doom, and rue the hour
  Thou look'dst on Dunstanborough tower!
  Be thine the canker of the soul,
  That life yields nothing to control!
  Be thine the mildew of the heart,
  That death alone can bid depart!
  And death--thine only refuge--be
  From age to age forbidden thee!'"


"A blow from the giant then stretched the pale warrior senseless upon
the marble floor.  In that deep trance he remained till the dawn of
morning; and when he awoke, all the pageantry of the previous evening
was gone, and he lay beneath the ruined portal--himself arrayed in
wretched weeds, and his gallant courser, which had borne him unharmed
amid the din of battle, gone.  Centuries have passed by, yet still the
wandering knight lingers amid the desolate towers of Dunstanborough,
vainly attempting to gain an entrance to the enchanted hall."

They all thanked the student, as they rose to leave, and one of the
girls remarked that she wished she could see the wandering knight.

It was now time to return home, and they all walked down to the boat,
the student keeping by the side of Grace, and enjoying an earnest
conversation, which left pleasant memories on the minds of both to
recall and dwell upon in after-days.  Neither did they soon forget the
sail over the water.  The moon was shining brightly, and threw its path
of light across the rippling sea.  There was no fun, and but little
conversation, for all were tired; but there was not one of them but
would be the better for the peaceful hours thus spent.

The next day the Herberts went home; but the holidays and pleasant
social intercourse did not even then come to an end.

"You know you are to return with us, Grace," said Miss Herbert.

"I should like to do so, for some reasons very much, but"--

"But what!"

"I do not care to leave home, and be away from my father and mother,"
said Grace.

"Now, Grace, you must not be foolish.  You will appreciate your home
all the more for having been absent from it for a time," said Miss
Herbert.

"And a change will be good for you," urged her sister.

"Besides, you can help us very much with the harvest again this year.
We shall begin to-morrow," said George.

Grace hesitated; and it was not until her parents, though admitting
that they would miss her very much, and that the lighthouse would be
most lonely when she had gone, yet pressed her to go for a few days,
that she consented.

She found the "adieus" very difficult to utter, when she went away, for
she was a home-loving girl.

"You will be sure to send for me, mother dear, if you should
particularly want me," she said.

"Yes, Grace, you may be sure of our doing so."

"When the last moment really came, she was even then half inclined to
go back to the lighthouse instead of into the boat, which was waiting
for her, though she knew that she would greatly enjoy the visit.

"You will have to put Grace into the boat yourself, Mr. Darling," said
Mary.  "Here is room for her beside me."

Mr. Darling took the hint, and lifted his daughter in his arms and
seated her by the side of Miss Herbert; and the next moment the boat
was dancing merrily over the waves.

The warm welcome which our heroine received from Mr. and Mrs. Herbert,
showed that they cherished a kindly affection for her.  She was made to
feel indeed how glad they were to receive her as their guest, by the
care which they exhibited to make her thoroughly happy and comfortable,
In this they were seconded by all the members of their family, among
whom the gentle lighthouse-maiden was a decided favourite.

"You have come from play to work, Grace," they said, "for we shall
begin harvest operations to-morrow."

But Grace replied that such work would be as good as play to her.  At
least they would be carrying on the pleasures which they had begun on
the Farne Islands, and in the neighbourhood; for if they could not take
excursions, they would all be together, and their work at any rate
would be done merrily enough.  There was one missing, however; for, on
the night of their arrival at Mr. Herbert's, the young student left
them for the Highlands of Scotland, where he intended to spend part of
his vacation.  Grace did not forget him, for he was one of whom she
often spoke pleasantly as long as she lived; and such a holiday as they
had spent together, though short, had been very delightful, and would
be sure to be remembered by one whose life was on the whole very
uneventful, until the great event occurred.

The harvest fields of the Herberts presented a most lively appearance;
for a large number of country girls, and active young men, were engaged
in them.  They reaped the fields in those days with the sickle; and had
not come to our own times, when the work is mostly done by a machine,
and all the music, poetry, and pleasure, seem to have gone out of the
operation.  Harvest-time used to be of all the year the most merry and
joyous.  Masters and men were then on the best of terms, and worked
together in harmony.  Friendship seems too often quite left out of the
contract now, when people do their work by steam, and have not time, as
they seem to think, to cultivate good fellowship.

In Grace Darling's time, as we have said, there were merry days in the
harvest-field, and she herself very gladly helped.  Indeed, all hands
had to assist, and it was only by so doing that the harvest could be
gathered in time.  But the reaping, and binding into sheaves, and
carrying home, as well as the gleaning, were done with so much
merriment that it was like a pic-nic out of doors.  Good bread and
cheese, and brown ale, would be served to the labourers, and they would
see by many signs that their employers felt a kindly sympathy with
them, as well as a personal, and not altogether disinterested
solicitude in their work.

And so the good harvest was gathered in, and then, when the last sheaf
was set up, and the laden waggon went slowly away from the bare fields,
the harvest-home was celebrated.

Who that has lived a country life for many years, does not remember
with pleasure those merry feasts?   The Herberts had one of the best,
and really old-fashioned kind.  Everybody was invited, and nobody
thought of declining that invitation.  Master and men met together as
equals, and the tables were heaped with good cheer.  No slow and solemn
feasts were those of the harvest homes.  Laughter, loud and long, was
heard continually, and the hilarity became somewhat tumultuous as the
evening advanced.  Mr. Herbert's granary was taken possession of, and
the party adjourned there for a dance.  The two best fiddlers of the
neighbourhood were engaged for the occasion, and they struck up a
lively reel The young people were quite ready for a good country dance,
and they indulged in it to their heart's content.  Dance succeeded
dance, until it was wonderful that they could longer continue, even at
that pleasant pastime.  But had they grown tired a new impetus would
have been given to the festivities by the appearance of Mrs. Herbert,
with her daughters and Grace.  At the moment when they entered, George
was leading to her seat a pretty rosy-cheeked girl, with whom he had
been dancing, but, on seeing the lighthouse-maiden, he went immediately
to her side, and solicited her to become his partner for the rest of
the evening.  After that the villagers began again, and kept up the
mirth until late at night, when they returned to their homes much
gratified with their pleasant entertainment.

Every girl has a romance, and Grace had her's.  The attentions of
George Herbert had been those of a brother, but during this visit they
partook of a warmer character.  He lingered by her side, occasionally
pressing her hand with a warmth that brought the blood to her cheeks,
and made her turn away from his glances.  She understood what was
meant; and it is almost certain that her heart was in a measure touched
by that which she saw in him.  But she did not mean to yield.  She
loved her home and her parents; and knowing what she was to them, she
resolved not to encourage the attentions of any lover.  George Herbert
was generous and kind--too generous and kind for her to wish to give
him pain, and she therefore contrived, as most women can, and all
gentle and modest women will, if possible, under such circumstances, to
prevent him from acknowledging his love.  She must have refused him had
he made a declaration; but he was her friend, and she did not wish to
wound him.  She therefore showed unmistakably that his feeling for her
was not returned, and the young man was not slow to take the hint.

At length the holiday was over, and the time came for Grace to return
home.  She knew that her father would bring the boat over for her, and
she therefore went down to the shore to meet him.  When she saw him
tears of joy came into her eyes; and as soon as he stepped on the
beach, she clung to him with fondest emotion.

"Are you ready to come home, Grace?" he asked.

"Yes, father, quite ready.  I have had a very happy time, but there is
no place like home.  How is mother, and has the time seemed long to her
as to me?"

"She is well, but is wishing for your return.  Are Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
at home?"

"Yes, and they are both waiting to receive you.  Come with me."

He went, leaning on his daughter's arm, and feeling the exquisite
pleasure of a parent whose children are lovely and good, and loving and
beloved.  When he reached the house, he was most warmly welcomed by the
Herberts, who told him, however, that they did not like to spare Grace
so soon; but as her father had the greatest right to her, they supposed
they must submit.

"Come and look at my stacks, Darling," said Mr. Herbert; and the two
men had a walk together.  The lighthouse-keeper greatly enjoyed an
opportunity of holding intercourse with his fellow men, and was not
sorry to have this errand.  George was busy preparing his fowling-piece
for the next day, for it was the 12th of August, and he was much
gratified at Mr. Darling's admiration of his spaniels, two beautiful
creatures, that fawned about their master, and showed their attachment
to him by caresses.  George was unusually gay--too gay, indeed, to be
quite natural and Grace sighed, as she saw him.

"There is nothing like shooting," he said; "I shall have some most
happy hours on the moors with my gun and dog.  There is nothing like a
free unfettered life, such as the sportsman loves.  I delight in it,
and would exchange it for no other.

"He is not in the least distressed at my going away," thought Grace;
"and yet he seemed to care for me.  If he did, his love is not worth
having; for if he were sincere and faithful, he could not so soon cast
me off.  I am glad I do not care for him, if such is his character."

But Grace sighed as she said it, even to herself.  In thus judging,
however, she did him great injustice; for a closer observer might have
seen that his spirits were forced, and his gaiety assumed.  He did
feel, and most acutely; but he was a manly young fellow, and did not
intend his heart to be broken by any girl.  Therefore, not seeing that
his affections were reciprocated, he determined, with a decision of
character that was peculiar to him, to overcome the feelings that could
only be productive of pain.  He was resolved, too, that he would
conceal from her the fact that he was affected by her indifference.  He
could not quite do as he wished, however, for he was too honest to be a
good dissembler, and his voice faltered, and his hand trembled, as he
uttered a hurried good-bye.  His emotions imparted the most painful
regret to Grace, whose eyes filled with tears when she turned to bid
farewell to the rest.  They--Ellen, Mary, and Henry, went down to the
water, and there affectionately parted from their friend.  Long after
the boat had left the shore, she saw them watching its progress over
the waves.  But though she looked eagerly for George, she could not see
him.  Immediately after uttering his adieus he hastily disappeared; and
though she would like to have had one more look, it was not to be.
That Grace was disappointed was evident from the deep sigh that escaped
her; but like a sensible girl, she turned her thoughts away from this
painful subject to the home-love that was waiting for her.

"I think, father," said she, "that our home on the Longstone rock, is
the very best and loveliest that any one could have; and that I should
be quite content to stay in it always."

"I am glad you feel so, Grace, for we do not want to lose you," said
her father, fondly.

Assuredly that bright little island, which lay like a gem in the midst
of the sunny ocean, was an object which was calculated to awaken
admiration in a less partial and enthusiastic mind than that of Grace
Darling.  The laughing waves were flowing with a soft and tranquil
motion, and gently laving the pebbly shore.  Sea-birds were skimming
the waves, their graceful plumage gilded by the setting sun, and ever
and anon darting beneath the waters.  The sky was serene and beautiful,
tinged with the rich and glorious hues of a summer's evening; and the
orb of light was retiring to rest, reflecting a bright and splendid
halo around him.

The feelings of Grace became so animated and joyous as she neared home,
that it was with difficulty that she could keep her seat.  When at last
she reached the shore, she bounded up the ragged pathway with a light
step, and was soon within the well-known walls.  She had never before
thought her home looked so bright and cheerful; so true is it that
there is a charm about the place where we dwell with our own kindred,
however humble, which is never experienced anywhere else, even among
the most beautiful and picturesque scenery.

  "There blend the ties that strengthen
    Our hearts in hours of grief,
  The silver links that lengthen
    Joy's visits when most brief.

  "Then dost thou sigh for pleasure?
    Oh do not wildly roam;
  But seek that hidden treasure
    At home--dear home!"


It is a great safeguard to girls to love their homes.  If they find
their highest delight in contributing to the pleasure of brothers and
sisters, and the comfort of those who have tended their infant years,
it is a good sign.  But those maidens who are impatient of the family
restraints, and who cannot be happy unless they are enjoying the
excitements of society, are in danger of losing the winning graces of
true womanhood.  It is at home that there is opportunity for the
display of all that is sweet and good in the female life and character;
and it is there that true goodness shines the most brightly.  Let
English girls remain attached to their own home-circles, and deserve
such praise as the wise man gives to the excellent woman--"Many
daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all."


CHAPTER X.

THE PERILS OF THE OCEAN.

  "Then rose from sea to sky the wild farewell;
  Then shrieked the timid, and stood still the brave;
  Then some leaped overboard with dreadful yell,
  As eager to anticipate their grave;
  And the sea yawned around her like a hell,
  And down she sucked with her the whirling wave,
  Like one who grapples with his enemy,
  And tries to strangle him before he die.

  "And first one universal shriek there rushed,
  Louder than the loud ocean, like a crash
  Of echoing thunder; and then all was hushed,
  Save the wild wind, and the remorseless dash
  Of billows; but at intervals there gushed,
  Accompanied by a convulsive splash,
  A solitary shriek, the bubbling cry
  Of some strong swimmer in his agony."--Byron.


It seems a sudden transition to turn from summer pic-nics to
shipwrecks; but every reader knows how often, even in the midst of the
world's pleasures and gaieties, mankind is startled by thrilling
stories of the tragic experiences of some of the great human family.

It has already been said that Grace Darling, in her lonely life upon
the Longstone rocks, surrounded only by the changeful elements, must
often have found in them her unconscious tutors.  Who has not felt his
soul expand under the influence of a boundless ocean-prospect!  But it
is the sea in storms, when it tosses about the ships which have dared
to invade it, as an angry child throws away its toys, that it is most
grand and awful.  And this object is the one that is often present to
those who live by it.  It may be that the best lessons which the sea
taught the lighthouse girl were those connected with its angry hours;
and that the repetition of startling casualties which she witnessed, or
of which she heard, may have played an important part in schooling her
to that degree of coolness and intrepidity which were necessary for the
sublime act which made her famous.

It is only natural that, in our island, great interest should be
manifested with regard to those who "go down to the sea in ships," and
it may not therefore be deemed out of place to make in this book a
reference to some of the most remarkable, and saddest, of the marine
disasters which have occurred to make the people of our nation mourn.
Every one who is at all acquainted with wreck returns will know how
impossible it would be to notice, in the space available, more than a
hundredth part of such occurrences.  But two or three examples will
suffice.

The name of the "Royal George" will at once suggest itself to the
reader's memory.  On August 29th, 1782, this ship, with many hundred
souls aboard, sunk, at anchor, in the broad glare of day and in full
sight of all on land, in the roadstead at Spithead.  The British
sailors were exceedingly proud of this vessel, and amongst her
commanders had been such men as Admirals Anson, Boscawen, Rodney, and
Howe, and although she was not considered equal in appearance to many
others, she was believed to outrival them in her powers of sailing.
The "Royal George" had seen very active service, and there had been
some thought of putting her out of commission, and the officers of the
Admiralty decided upon keeping her in dock for the winter, but during
the August of 1782 she underwent repairs, with a view to sending her
out once more.  Accordingly, on Thursday morning, the 29th of the same
month, the ship moored slowly out of harbour, bearing a freight of
eight hundred men, with wives, mothers, sisters, and sweethearts,
besides those who had been permitted to remain on board for a part of
the day.  It was a pleasant scene on deck, and the happiness and gaiety
of the company seemed in harmony with the beauty of the morning.  The
mid-day meal was made ready and begun, when a quick movement was felt,
and a flood of salt water came pouring through a port-hole that had
been most carelessly left unclosed.  A stiff breeze caught her
broadside, and the "Royal George" turned slowly over and sank.  As soon
as the disaster was perceived, an officer ran to the ship's captain to
inform him that it was capsizing.  Kempenfelt, the admiral, was at his
desk below deck; his coxswain, notwithstanding the danger, attempted to
reach him, but unsuccessfully, for the waters had already engulphed
him.  His loss was deplored in all the land; he was generally esteemed,
and his great abilities were acknowledged by the State.  And now the
dauntless sea-warrior, who had met and repulsed many a foe, and had
looked upon death in a variety of forms, found his own end, not in the
force of the enemy's bullet, nor in the violence of the storm, but in a
calm sea, on a bright August morning.  A reward of one hundred pounds
was offered for the body, but it was never recovered.  An old journal,
which appeared a few days after, in this way concludes the announcement
of it--"Thus perished one of the most brave and amiable characters that
ever filled either a private or public situation."

A few minutes after the "Royal George" sank, only her topmasts were
visible.  The greater part of the (one thousand two hundred) people,
and chiefly the women and children, were in the cabins, and therefore
immediately perished; but of over two hundred on deck, the majority
were rescued.  The efforts put forth to save the drowning were marked
by another calamity.  A victualling sloop, which had gone with other
vessels to the rescue, was drawn into the vortex of a whirlpool caused
by the sudden submersion of the "Royal George."

Many heart-rending accounts have been given on the Hard at Portsmouth,
and by boatmen at Southsea, of the saddening spectacle around the ship
as she sank.  Human forms were discovered in every direction, and seen
to sink, to rise no more.  Many managed to keep afloat for a time, but
having their strength buffetted out by the waves, threw up their hands
in terror, and disappeared.  Screams for aid mingled with wild prayers
for mercy.  Seventy are believed to have been picked up and saved by
the boats.  For days after corpses were seen, carried along by the
tide, and secured, to be decently buried.

The news did not arrive in London until the day after, as in those
times, there were no other means of transporting messages than the
ordinary mail.  Intelligence was received at the Admiralty with the
deepest regret, and throughout the country a thrill was felt at the
announcement.  Subscription lists were immediately opened for the
benefit of those who survived.  We give a copy of one of the numerous
appeals framed for assistance:--


"ROYAL GEORGE."

"Whereas, by the truly deplorable and hapless loss of His Majesty's
ship, the 'Royal George,' wherein about seven hundred officers and
sailors of heroic soul, Britain's pride, have shared an equal fate, it
cannot but be that many widows and children are reduced to the most
poignant distress.  In order, therefore, to relieve in part their pangs
of misery and despair, and actuated by that humanity which has ever
characterised this nation, the gentlemen that frequent the 'Barley Mow'
in Salisbury Court, Fleet Street, have entered into a voluntary
subscription, in the hope that so laudable an example will soon be
extended into every part of His Majesty's dominions.

"A subscription book will be kept open for two months at the bar of the
'Barley Mow,' in Salisbury Court, Fleet Street, and at Mr. Mazzingby's,
No 17, Chancery Lane; at the expiration thereof the money so subscribed
shall be paid to the committee now appointed at 'New Lloyd's'
Coffeehouse, and by them appropriated to so charitable a plan."


Before long, rumours were heard, declaring the vessel to have been
mismanaged, and Captain Waghorne was ordered to attend a court-martial
on the 9th of the succeeding September, to be held on board the
"Warspite."  One of the ship's carpenters explained that he had just
time enough to warn his brother before he made his own escape through a
port-hole, and affirmed that the vessel was really unfit for service;
but as its condition was not the immediate cause of the catastrophe,
the charge against the captain was dismissed.

Hopes were still entertained that the ship might yet be restored, and
made fit for service again.  One man guaranteed to raise her for 20,000
pounds.  But for years she remained in her watery bed, until, by reason
of the obstruction caused to the passage of other vessels, the matter
again called for attention, and, in 1817, the divers concluded a
protracted inspection.  The decks were completely dislodged; and, in
fact, all that remained of the once magnificent man-of-war, was a pile
of disjointed and sodden timbers.  All hopes of her restoration were
abandoned after the accounts given by the divers of their survey; and
the ruins were eventually dispersed by the force of powder.

Another memorable wreck was that of the "Halsewell," off Dorsetshire,
January 6, 1786, by which one hundred and sixty-six lives were
sacrificed.  Belonging to the East India Company, she was one of the
finest and best of merchant men, made to carry seven hundred and
fifty-eight tons, and under command of Mr. Richard Pierce.  At the time
of the disaster, she was making her third voyage out.  A valuable cargo
was taken in, as usual, at Gravesend, and she cleared the Downs on the
first day of the New Year, bearing with her about four hundred and
forty passengers, amongst whom were a few ladies.  With the captain
were his two daughters, and two other young ladies connected with the
family.  Other ladies, who had been sent to England on account of their
health, being restored, were about to return to their friends in India.
Some had just left school, some were going to seek a home abroad, and
others a wider field of labour.  A Mr. Schutz was intent upon gathering
an accumulation of wealth, which he had acquired there previously,
intending, on his return, to spend the rest of his days in quietness
and comfort.  As is generally the case with these vessels, the scarlet
uniform of the military shone conspicuously, and the soldiers' wives
and families contributed a large part of the total number of passengers.

The day after starting a breeze sprang up, and an endeavour was made,
by drawing in towards shore, to gain the beach for the pilot boat.  The
air became misty, and the winds blew contrary.  As night drew on, with
no fairer prospect, anchor was dropped, and every sign of a storm was
visible--snow descended over the almost stationary vessel, and the
sails could scarcely be furled by reason of the frost.  At four o'clock
in the morning, a hurricane blew.  The vessel drove, and the command
was given to weigh anchor, and steer for the open sea.  The pilot,
unable to be landed the preceding day, was now passed over to a
homeward bound brig, and the "Halsewell" proceeded on her perilous
voyage, when she was met by a new gale from the south, and a deal of
water was shipped, and, worse than all, a leak was found to have been
made, which soon filled the vessel to the depth of five feet.  Every
pump was set to work, but mishaps followed one another, and the stream
increased to such an extent that another two feet of water was rapidly
made.  It was a fearful condition to be in--in a treacherous channel,
with a high wind, and vessel pretty well beyond control.  The
possibility of striking on one of the numerous rocks was obvious.  In
tearing away the masts, five of the seamen fell overboard and were
drowned.  About breakfast-time order began to be restored on the ship,
and she managed to get into the wind's course, where she remained for a
couple of hours, giving the terrified people courage to hope for the
best, especially as they learned that the water in the hold was
decreasing.  The ship was, however, rapidly losing all power to
withstand the elements, and it was settled to sail back to Portsmouth.

The gale increased on Thursday night, and with more serious effect.
Notwithstanding the combined endeavours of the men, the ship still rode
for the shore, when, discovering their dangerous proximity to St.
Alban's Head, they dropped the anchor, and it became necessary to let
fall another to hold the ship.  Again she drove, when Captain Pierce,
and Mr. Meriton, the chief officer, decided that all hope of saving her
must be abandoned, and the best means were considered for preserving
the lives of the passengers.  The captain, consumed with anguish as he
thought of his own two daughters, begged Mr. Meriton to contrive some
way of escape.  The chief officer, having no particular interest to
disengage him from the contemplation of what was his duty, replied that
nothing could be done, until the emergency became inevitable and
present.  The captain, glancing up to heaven, avowed his readiness to
follow the chief officer's advice, hoping that daylight might discover
a more favourable state of affairs.

St. Alban's Head is so dangerous a reef that no vessel meeting it in
collision could stand the shock.  Immediately after the hurried
conference before mentioned, the "Halsewell" ran violently up against
the rock.  The passengers, who had been waiting together for death for
some time, became excessively agitated, and many a shriek rose over the
disturbed waters.  Every soul rushed on deck, almost unable to
distinguish the face of a friend in the dark gloom of that fearful
morning.  The sides of the vessel were being completely stove in as she
was repeatedly beaten upon the rocks.  The chief officer retained his
presence of mind to the end; he proposed that all should keep to the
side that presented itself to the shore, so that at any possible moment
they might leap over in an endeavour to gain it.  The ladies were
discovered in the round-house, and the officers, exhibiting true
manliness of character, strove to alleviate their sufferings, ignoring
their own danger.  The steep snowy cliffs that sparkle in the clear
rays of the sun like crystal, and the bold promontories that inspire
one with awe and delight, viewed from a safe point, were looked upon
with dismay and terror by the occupants of the doomed ship.  The light
of another day broke, when the vessel was seen to be blocking up the
entrance to a large cave scooped out by the continued force of the
waves.  With that gregarious feeling always experienced in times of
danger, the people gathered silently and sadly together in the
roundhouse, now and then disturbed by a piercing wail from one of three
negresses who had sought refuge there.  Various articles of furniture
and other effects were strewed about in all directions.  Such a picture
greeted Mr. Meriton on leaving the deck.  He at once struck a light,
and sat down in their midst, until the issues of the morning should
decide him on a course of action.  Never oblivious of the comfort of
others, while forgetful of his own, he managed to procure a few oranges
to refresh the ladies.

Above deck many were leaving the ship, and trusting to the waves
casting them on the contiguous shore.  A sudden lurch, accompanied by a
breaking up of the deck, and ominous creaking of adjacent timbers,
confirmed the distressing conviction that all would soon be over.
Looking up, Mr. Meriton perceived that the vessel had literally snapped
asunder.  Whatever might be accomplished, now was the time to attempt
it.  Seeing a plank, reaching, as he supposed, to the shore, he
ventured upon it, only to find out that he had laboured under a
mistake.  He was immediately projected into the sea, and carried with
the tide into the cavern; but succeeding in clasping a jagged spar of
elevated rock, he gained by its aid a place of temporary safety.  It is
impossible to tell how many were killed by being thrown against these
rocks by the relentless waves, but that numbers were, is certain.

In the blackness of night, the last despairing cry of many expiring
souls filled the ears of the survivors, acute with terror, until they,
in turn, becoming exhausted, would unresistingly glide into the
seething foam, to be swallowed up by the remorseless ocean.

Yearning for the dawn, these wretched people hailed its early glimmer,
only to sink into a lower state of despair, as its light plainly showed
them to be even in a worse situation than they had imagined.  They were
completely shut in one great overhanging enclosure of rocks, entirely
hidden from the land, and from which escape seemed to be impossible.
In such a condition one would suppose that any ray of hope which might
previously have existed would have died out, yet, with the persistent
courage and sanguine temperament of the sailors, they dared to believe
in the possibility of escape; and with this forlorn hope, attempted to
gain the summit of the cliffs, which a few effected in a very wonderful
manner.  The quarter-master and cook, succeeding first, gave the alarm,
when a number of quarrymen, together with a Mr. Garland, hastened down
to the beach to render assistance.

The chief officer, never losing spirit for one instant, although
considerably wounded by contact with the rocks, managed to grasp with
his hands a shelving piece of rock, which had afforded foothold to a
solitary soldier, who, nevertheless, was trembling in the expectation
of it giving way at any moment.  Mr. Meriton, who was looking for the
same mishap, observed with joy the end of a rope coming towards them.
This the soldier eagerly embraced, and was drawn up in safety.  At the
same time, the narrow ledge that was supporting Mr. Meriton gave way,
but providentially another end of rope was in view, and this, with a
dexterous spring, he managed to obtain.

Meanwhile, Captain Pierce and the young ladies still remained in the
round-house, remarking, sorrowfully, the absence of the chief officer.
Mr. Rogers, who was third mate, replied that he had gone aloft to see
how matters stood with them.  The captain, sorely distressed on account
of his daughters, took a calm and lengthy survey, to see if any chance
might present itself to him for their safety; but all he could discover
before him was an extensive front of perpendicular rock, so he and the
third officer returned, to prepare the ladies for the worst.  The
captain, drawing his daughters to him, held them firmly in each arm,
and thus together they went down, and so death found them!  The third
officer, a midshipman, and one of the passengers, determined, at any
risk, to leave the ship, as they were well aware that to remain in her
was inevitably to perish.  Accordingly they hastened on to the poop.  A
moment later, and they must have been swept away by a gigantic wave,
that reared itself over the vessel, and which half-drowned, in the
noise of its descent, the screams that rose from the cabin below.  A
hencoop, which had been grasped by a couple of passengers, landed them
in an exhausted condition upon a rock.  Mr. Schutz and the midshipman
had both disappeared.  Twenty-seven men gained access to a rock, but
seeing that, as the tide flowed, they would stand in danger of being
swept off, they strove to make for the cavern, but all, except eight,
were drowned in the attempt.  Messrs. Rogers and Brimer, who were among
the number, succeeded in approaching the cavern, and ensconced
themselves on shelving ledges worn by the action of the sea; and this
fearful situation they were compelled to retain, witnessing the
fruitless and violent efforts of their expiring companions, while their
ears were filled with their stifled cries.  Mr. Rogers saw Mr. Meriton
on the rock, a few feet from himself, and they congratulated one
another upon their escape, and together watched the final plump of the
"Halsewell" into the depths of the ocean.  A distressing fact was, that
some of the men, even at the moment when succour was near, unable to
hold out any longer, were precipitated into the sea.  Owing to the
brave and humane conduct of the quarrymen, those who had survived were
placed in comfortable quarters before night; but these were a small
minority of those who started gaily out in that ill-fated ship.

On the 26th February, 1852, the "Birkenhead" went down off the Cape of
Good Hope, carrying with her four hundred and thirty-eight souls.  The
noble example of our British heroes, who found a watery grave by the
sinking of the above-named vessel, will never be forgotten.  It is
unsurpassed in all the annals of our country's history.  The ship was
sent out at the time of the Caffre war.  It was a fine evening, and
there was land ahead, toward which the "Birkenhead" was steering at
ordinary speed.  She was splendidly built, and had conveyed a large
band of soldiers and their families from Cork--had left a few troops at
Cape Town, and was now proceeding to Algoa Bay with a few detachments
of the 12th, 74th, and 91st regiments, and from thence to Buffalo River
with others.  The total number of troops amounted to something over
five hundred; and in addition to these, were the wives and children of
some of the men, and one hundred and thirty-two of the ship's crew.
Nearly all of these were asleep in their cabins.  Captain Wright, of
the 91st, was on deck, with an officer of the watch, and they held a
short argument concerning a light which was visible on the port side.
They could not agree as to which beacon it was, but they were convinced
it was to mark a point of danger.

About two o'clock A.M., on the 26th, they unconsciously ran the vessel
on a bed of rock, which was covered by the sea to a sufficient depth to
hide it from sight.  The shock was followed by such a tide flowing in
at the opening thus effected, that many of the slumberers must have
passed from one sleep into another with scarcely any knowledge of the
passage.  The awakened troops, with their officers, immediately rushed
on deck--the captain, Mr. Salmond, being among the first to arrive
there.  The steam was turned off, the small anchor cast, and boats
lowered, in case there should be any necessity for using them.  Colonel
Seton gathered the officers together, and begged them to see that order
and silence were maintained in their respective regiments.  Captain
Wright was asked to work with the commander.  Without the slightest
apparent emotion, the men went about their work as calmly as they would
have executed an ordinary practiced manoeuvre.  No signs of fear were
evident, but discipline was strictly regarded.  Sixty men, in
successive lots of twenty, worked at the chain pumps, and another sixty
looked after the boat tackles; while all who were not needed in the
management of the vessel stood in marching order on the poop for
ballast.  The horses were all pitched out, and some of them turned
their heads for the land, which could be plainly distinguished in a
starry night, about sixteen furlongs off.  A boat was prepared for the
women and children, who awaited it in breathless silence, and all were
carefully disposed of in its capacious sides.  They had but just moored
off when the vessel struck again, making another breach for a swifter
flood, both shocks coming within fifteen minutes of each other.  The
bow snapped from the foremast, the bowsprit flew through the air up to
the foretopmast, and the funnel, toppling overboard, dragged in its
rear the starboard paddle-box and boat.  The second boat had reached
the waves bottom upmost, and notwithstanding there was another in the
middle of the ship, she could not be reached.  The water speedily put
out the fires, compelling the engine-drivers to leave their station and
ascend to the upper deck.  It was known to be a certainty that the
vessel must sink, and that very shortly, nevertheless there was no
setting aside the tasks they had received orders to perform, although
they were well aware that everything they did was useless, so far as
the righting of the ship was concerned.  Still every man kept to his
post, even though he were overtaken by the waters and overwhelmed by
them.  Many, indeed, must have perished at the pumps, while others,
keeping by the tackle, were struck down by falling timbers.

When the funnel was lost, every man was on the poop; three boats were
afloat, containing all the women and children.  The decisive moment
having arrived, when all must be committed to the waves, the commander
advised all who could to swim to the boats; but as in all probability
this would lead to their being sunk, on account of the vast numbers
requiring accommodation, several officers, in the face of this order,
implored the men to stay in their present position, rather than
sacrifice the women and children in attempting to save themselves.  One
or two had already started at the captain's bidding; but the majority
waited behind, with the officers standing firmly and in orderly rank,
in calm expectation of a speedy dissolution, uttering no repining, no
words of mourning for their fate, or expressions of fear, but each man,
in his loyalty to duty, quietly and inwardly prepared to meet his
death!  It is a touching and inspiring picture, that may well emulate
every bosom to deeds of heroism.  The stern of the vessel, which had
reared as the bow descended, gave a sudden plunge and went under also,
and those who had swarmed its deck felt the force of the waters
uplifting them as their footing sank beneath them, and they were left
to struggle as they might with the briny element.

The last sentence the captain spoke was to give the order for a boat to
take up Mr. Brodie, whom he saw fighting with the waves.  When the
vessel was gone from under him, he was seen making his way to a block
of woodwork, which was floating near; but a clumsy log bearing heavily
towards him stunned him, and he at once disappeared.  Colonel Seton
also made his grave with the brave troops he had commanded.  Captain
Wright and a few others managed to keep their heads above water by
clinging to a drifting spar, and about two hundred men for a time held
on to pieces of the wreck, part of the mainmast supporting a great
number.  The principal portion of the deck being undestroyed, it served
as a raft for those who could reach it, but the numbers were thinning
rapidly, as one after another became exhausted and sank; and three
boats were carried away, bottom uppermost.

Cornet Bond, having with him a life-preserver, succeeded in filling it
with air, and by its aid reached the land in safety.  Drowning men were
struggling in all directions, and their groans and cries were fearfully
appalling.  Two men, who were cleaving the water finely, not far
distant from him, Mr. Bond perceived to go under all in a moment
shrieking, being seized by the voracious sharks which abound on that
coast.  The cornet had two miles to swim, which he accomplished with
difficulty.  As he neared the shore, he found himself caught in a
forest of tangled sea-weed, from which he at last extricated himself
after severe exertion.  Having achieved his own preservation he looked
round for some trace of life, and was surprised to find his own horse
as the first object he should meet with in his strange and perilous
situation.

As soon as morning dawned, Mr. Bond sought the place where he had
effected his landing to help nine of his companions, who were nearing
the shore on the raft.  He climbed over the crags in search of a
favourable place to approach, where he assisted them in gaining a
footing.  They were almost in a state of nudity, having been compelled
to rush from their berths without waiting to attire themselves.  They
observed three others in a like condition, floating in by the aid of a
spar, and sent up to heaven an earnest petition that they might have
the power to rescue them, and eagerly waited their chance.  The three
men had no control whatever over the spar; it was as much as they could
do to preserve their hold.  Washed about backwards and forwards, their
peril seemed imminent; but at last a fortuitous wave carried them on to
the rocks amid the rejoicings of their compatriots.  Captain Wright and
five others drifted towards Point Danger, where they encountered
serious obstacles to their landing in the immense growths of seaweed,
and the wall of surf that spanned the beach.  In order to lighten the
weight depending on the fragment of wreck that had sustained them until
now, Wright separated from it, trusting to his own prowess to reach the
shore.  Several others followed his example, and all were successful in
their endeavours; and after walking a little way up the country, they
fell in with Captain Wright and his company.  During the day they
lighted on a fisherman's hut, but nothing was available there, so Mr.
Wright trudged off to a farm-house, about a couple of leagues distant,
where he procured and forwarded articles of food to those he had left
half-famished in the hut.  The following day, waifs from the wreck
being continually helped ashore by those already landed, the number
amounted to sixty-eight men, including eighteen sailors, and these all
found temporary refuge at Captain Small's farm.

But coming back to the scene of the disaster, it will be remembered
that the women and children were packed carefully in the cutter, under
the superintendence of Mr. Richards, and ordered to keep within a
restricted limit of the wreck.  As it disappeared, the boat was rowed
up to take in as many as possible, but then numbers more were left
straining with wistful eyes after the heavily-freighted craft, as she
slowly receded.  It was with bitter pangs that Mr. Richards was obliged
to refuse the help he could not give to the poor drowning wretches, for
the boat was near swamping with the burden she already bore.  Here,
again, the breakers threatened to prevent a landing.  Vast flakes of
foam were hurled over the boat, as she fought her way against the tide.
Seeing, therefore, that the waves formed an invincible barrier at the
point they were striving to reach, Mr. Richards drew back into the
open, and signalling to the other boats to keep clear also, he rowed
for several miles along the coast in hopes of finding a smoother sea,
but to no purpose.

Break of day showed them, in easy distance, a schooner, which was
followed by the indefatigable commander; but as they could not succeed
in making themselves observed, and a favourable wind springing up, the
schooner soon shot further ahead, and was lost to sight.  Again,
however, it appeared, and another effort was made to attract attention
by elevating a shawl, which happily served to arrest its progress.  The
helpless company were received on board the "Lioness" of Cape Town,
having suffered terribly during the twelve hours they had been tossing
in their little open bark on the sea.  They had neither eaten nor drunk
of anything since their departure from the ship, and their depression
of spirits had been considerably increased by the uncertain fate of
their friends.  Thirty-six men had already been taken up and provided
for by Captain Ramsden and his wife, whose ready sympathy and care were
warmly appreciated by the suffering men.

Mr. Richards and Mr. Renwick, being assured by the captain that he
would await their return, started out again in the cutter to the scene
of the wreck, hoping to find that some of the passengers and crew had
managed to survive, but no human form was to be seen in any direction,
and they reluctantly retraced their journey.  The number of souls saved
by the schooner amounted in all to one hundred and sixteen.  Many who
had held on to floating timbers, lost their hold, as strength ebbed
away.  Others, who perseveringly clung till morning, seeing no prospect
of help, struck out for land, which the greater part were enabled to
reach, while the remainder either became powerless by long exposure and
over-exertion, or were seized and devoured by the ravenous sharks.  The
purser of the "Birkenhead," with several companions, were drifting on
one piece of wreck, when they observed a portion of a boat that was
floating towards them, just under the surface of the water.  They
became filled with eager anticipations.  But release was not to come
just yet, for the boat slowly passed them, never coming within reach,
and they were forced again to wait in hope of another opportunity.
Happily, this erelong presented itself, in the identical schooner which
had preserved the lives of so many of their comrades.

Captain Small having promised to do his best for the comfort of the men
who had thus unexpectedly invaded his farm, Captain Wright set out
again for the shore, wandering along, for several days, in order that
he might rescue any poor fellow that had perchance reached the land, in
all probability to perish there without assistance.  Here he was aided
by the crew of a whale-boat, who coasted along with him inside the line
of the sea-weed barrier.  They came upon two men clinging to pieces of
wood amongst the slippery weeds, just in time to save them from the
jaws of death; and two others were discovered by Captain Wright, lying
in holes of the rock, where they had crawled, too faint to move any
farther.  These four, owing to the kindness and attention of the
captain, were shortly and fully restored.

Again, one or two officers returned to renew the quest, but their
efforts were fruitless.  Corpses they found washed ashore for burial,
but no more living men were seen.  As soon as intelligence of the
catastrophe was received at Cape Town, a steamer, "Rhadamanthus," was
dispatched to take a survey of the spot.  Captain Small was relieved by
this vessel of the unfortunate men who had been thus necessarily
quartered upon him; and they were conveyed to Simon's Bay, touching
there on Monday, March 1st.  The "Rhadamanthus" having thoroughly
explored the coast where the wreck had occurred, was able to state with
certainty that not one person living had been left behind of those who
had formed the passengers and crew of the "Birkenhead."

Captain Wright, an officer of capacity and experience, accustomed to
the strictest forms of martial order and law, felt bound to say that
the power of discipline in the troops, and their quick obedience to
command, was greater than he had deemed possible, and excited the more
astonishment as the men were principally new to the service.  Each one
acted promptly on the judgment, and at the order of his superior
officer, and not a sound of murmuring escaped a man until the waters
engulphed him.  "All officers received their orders, and had them
carried out, as if the men were embarking instead of going to the
bottom; there was only this difference, that I never saw any
embarkation conducted with so little noise and confusion."

The "Birkenhead" started for Algoa Bay, bearing a freight of six
hundred and thirty persons, out of which number, one hundred and
ninety-two alone reached their destination.  A court-martial was held
for inquiry, when it was admitted that the vessel should have been kept
farther out at sea, so as not to have incurred the dangers of that
rocky coast; but appended to the verdict was the following remark--"If
such be the case, the court still are not precluded from speaking with
praise of the departed, for the coolness which they displayed in the
moment of extreme peril, and for the laudable anxiety shown for the
safety of the women and children, to the exclusion of all selfish
considerations."

On the 26th October, 1859, was lost the "Royal Charter," in which four
hundred and fifty-nine persons perished.  This vessel was on a return
voyage from Melbourne, Australia, and was conveying men and women, who
had once been emigrants, back to their native land.  Through wind and
wave, right onward steer!
The moistened eye, the trembling lip, Are not the signs of doubt or
fear.

Thou, too, sail on, O Ship of State!
Sail on, O Union, strong and great!
Humanity, with all its fears, With all the hopes of future years, Is
hanging breathless on thy fate!
We know what Master laid thy keel, What Workmen wrought thy ribs of
steel, Who made each mast and sail and rope, What anvils rang, what
hammers beat, In what a forge, and what a heat, Were shaped the anchors
of thy hope!

Fear not each sudden sound and shock; 'Tis of the wave, and not the
rock; 'Tis but the flapping of the sail, And not a rent made by the
gale!
In spite of rock and tempest's roar, In spite of false lights on the
shore, Sail on, nor fear to breast the sea; Our hearts, our hopes,
are all with thee:
Our hearts, our hopes, our prayers, our tears, Our faith triumphant
o'er our fears, Are all with thee,--are all with thee!

_Longfellow._
* * * * *
ROCK OF AGES.

_"Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in Thee!"_
Sang the lady, soft and low, And her voice's gentle flow Rose upon the
evening air With the sweet and solemn prayer:
"Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in Thee!"

Yet she sang, as oft she had When her heart was gay and glad, Sang
because she felt alone, Sang because her soul had grown Weary
with the tedious day, Sang to while the hours away:
"Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in Thee!"
Where the fitful gaslight falls On her father's massive walls.
On the chill and silent street Where the lights and shadows meet,
There the lady's voice was heard, As the breath of night was stirred
With her tones so sweet and clear, Wafting up to God that prayer:
"Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in Thee!"
Wandering, homeless thro' the night, Praying for the morning light,
Pale and haggard, wan and weak, With sunken eye and hollow cheek Went a
woman, one whose life Had been wrecked in sin and strife; One, a lost
and only child, One by sin and shame defiled; And her heart with
sorrow wrung, Heard the lady when she sung:
"Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in Thee!"
Pausing, low her head she bent, And the music as it went Pierced
her blackened soul, and brought Back to her (as lost in thought
Tremblingly she stood) the past, And the burning tears fell fast,
As she called to mind the days When she walked in virtue's ways.

When she sang that very song With no sense of sin or wrong:
"Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in Thee!"
On the marble steps she knelt, And her soul that moment felt More than
she could speak, as there Quivering, moved her lips in prayer, And the
God she had forgot Smiled upon her lonely lot; Heard her as she
murmured oft, With an accent sweet and soft:
"Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in Thee!"

Little knew the lady fair, As she sung in silence there, That her voice
had pierced a soul That had lived 'neath sin's control!
Little knew, when she had done, That a lost and erring one Heard her--as
she breathed that strain-- And returned to God again!

_F. L. Stanton._
* * * * *

BEETHOVEN'S MOONLIGHT SONATA.

It happened at Bonn. One moonlight winter's evening I called on Beethoven,
for I wanted him to take a walk, and afterward to sup with me. In
passing through some dark narrow street he paused suddenly. "Hush!"
he said, "what sound is that? It is from my symphony in F," he said
eagerly. "Hark, how well it is played!"
It was a little, mean dwelling; and we paused outside and listened.
The player went on; but in the midst of the finale there was a sudden
break, then the voice sobbing: "I can not play any more--it is so
beautiful, it is so utterly beyond my power to do it justice. Oh! what
would I not give to go to the concert at Cologne!"
"Ah, my sister," said her companion, "why create regrets when there
is no remedy?

We can scarcely pay our rent."
"You are right; and yet I wish, for once in my life, to hear some really
good music. But it is of no use."
Beethoven looked at me. "Let us go in," he said.

"Go in!" I exclaimed. "What can we go in for?"
"I will play to her," he said, in an excited tone. "Here is feeling--
genius--understanding. I will play to her, and she will understand
it!" And before I could prevent him his hand was upon the door.

A pale young man was sitting by the table, making shoes; and near
him, leaning sorrowfully upon an old-fashioned harpsichord, sat a young
girl, with a profusion of light hair falling over her bent face. Both
were cleanly but very poorly dressed, and both started and turned
towards us as we entered.

"Pardon me," said Beethoven, "but I heard music and was tempted to enter.
I am a musician."

The girl blushed and the young man looked grave--somewhat annoyed.

"I--I also overheard something of what you said," continued my
friend.

"You wish to hear--that is, you would like--that is--shall I play
for you?"
There was something so odd in the whole affair, and something so comic
and pleasant in the manner of the speaker, that the spell was
broken in a moment, and all smiled involuntarily.

"Thank you," said the shoemaker; "but our harpsichord is so wretched, and
we have no music."
"No music!" echoed my friend. "How, then, does the fraulein--"
He paused and coloured up, for the girl looked full at him, and he
saw that she was blind.

"I--I entreat your pardon," he stammered; "but I had not perceived
before.
Then you play from ear?"
"Entirely."
"And where do you hear the music; since you frequent no concerts?"

"I used to hear a lady practicing near us, when we lived at Bruhl two
years. During the summer evenings her windows were generally open, and
I walked to and fro outside to listen to her."
She seemed shy, so Beethoven said no more, but seated himself quietly
before the piano, and began to play. He had no sooner struck the first
chord than I knew what would follow--how grand he would be that
night! And I was not mistaken. Never, during all the years
I knew him, did I hear him play as he then played to that blind girl
and her brother. He was inspired; and from the instant that his fingers
began to wander along the keys, the very tone of the instrument began
to grow sweeter and more equal.

The brother and sister were silent with wonder and rapture.
The former laid aside his work; the latter, with her head bent
slightly forward, and her hands, pressed tightly over her breast,
crouched down near the end of the harpsichord as if fearful lest
even the beating of her heart should break the flow of those magical
sweet sounds.

It was as if we were all bound in a strange dream, and only
feared to wake.

Suddenly the flame of the single candle wavered, sunk, flickered,
and went out.

Beethoven paused, and I threw open the shutters, admitting a flood
of brilliant moonlight. The room was almost as light as before, and
the illumination fell strongest upon the piano and player. But the chain
of his ideas seemed to have been broken by the accident. His head dropped
upon his breast; his hands rested upon his knees; he seemed absorbed
in meditation.
It was thus for some time.

At length the young shoemaker rose, and approached him eagerly, yet
reverently--"Wonderful man!" he said, in a low tone, "who and what are
you?"
The composer smiled as he only could smile, benevolently, indulgently,
kingly.

"Listen," he said, and he played the opening bars of the symphony
in F.

A cry of delight and recognition burst from them both, and exclaiming,
"Then, you are Beethoven!" they covered his hands with tears and
kisses.

He rose to go, but we held him back with entreaties, "Play to us once
more --only once more!"
He suffered himself to be led back to the instrument. The moon shone
brightly in through the window and lit up his glorious rugged head and
massive figure. "I will improvise a sonata to the moonlight!" looking
up thoughtfully to the sky and stars--then his hands dropped on the
keys, and he began playing a sad and infinitely lovely movement,
which crept gently over the instrument like the calm flow of moonlight
over the dark earth.

This was followed by a wild, elfin passage in triple time--a sort of
grotesque interlude, like the dance of sprites upon the sward. Then came
a swift _agitato finale_--a breathless, hurrying, trembling movement,
descriptive of flight, and uncertainty, and vague impulsive terror,
which carried us away on its rustling wings, and left us all emotion
and wonder.

"Farewell to you," said Beethoven, pushing back his chair, and
turning towards the door; "farewell to you."

"You will come again?" asked they, in one breath.

He paused, and looked compassionately, almost tenderly, at the face of
the blind girl. "Yes, yes," he said, hurriedly, "I will come again,
and give the fraulein some lessons.

Farewell! I will soon come again'"
They followed us in silence more eloquent than words, and stood at their
door till we were out of sight and hearing.

"Let us make haste back," said Beethoven, "that I may write out that
sonata while I can yet remember it!" We did so, and he sat over it till
long past day-dawn. And this was the origin of that Moonlight Sonata
with which we are all so fondly acquainted.

* * * * *

OVER THE HILL FROM THE POOR-HOUSE.

I, who was always counted, they say, Rather a bad stick any way,
Splintered all over with dodges and tricks, Known as "the worst of
the Deacon's six;" I, the truant, saucy and bold, The one black
sheep in my father's fold, "Once on a time," as the stories say,
Went over the hill on a winter's day-- _Over the hill to the
poor-house._
Tom could save what twenty could earn; But _givin'_ was somethin'
he ne'er would learn; Isaac could half o' the Scriptur's speak--
Committed a hundred verses a week; Never forgot, an' never slipped;
But "Honour thy father and mother" he skipped; So _over the hill
to the poor-house!

_
As for Susan, her heart was kind An' good--what there was of it, mind;
Nothin' too big, an' nothin' too nice, Nothin' she wouldn't sacrifice
For one she loved; an' that 'ere one, Was herself, when all was said
an' done; An' Charley, an' Becca meant well, no doubt, But any one
could pull 'em about;
An' all o' our folks ranked well, you see, Save one poor fellow,
and that was me; An' when, one dark an' rainy night, A neighbour's
horse went out o' sight, They hitched on me, as the guilty chap That
carried one end o' the halter-strap.
An' I think, myself, that view of the case Wasn't altogether out o'
place; My mother denied it, as mothers do, But I'm inclined to believe
'twas true.
Though for me one thing might be said-- That I, as well as the horse,
was led; And the worst of whiskey spurred me on, Or else the deed
would have never been done.
But the keenest grief I ever felt Was when my mother beside me
knelt, An' cried and prayed, till I melted down, As I wouldn't for
half the horses in town.

I kissed her fondly, then an' there, An' swore henceforth to be honest
and square.

I served my sentence--a bitter pill Some fellows should take who never
will; And then I decided to go "out West," Concludin' 'twould suit
my health the best; Where, how I prospered, I never could tell, But
Fortune seemed to like me well, An' somehow every vein I struck Was
always bubbling over with luck.

An' better than that, I was steady an' true, An' put my good resolutions
through.
But I wrote to a trusty old neighbour, an' said, "You tell 'em, old
fellow, that I am dead, An' died a Christian; 'twill please 'em
more, Than if I had lived the same as before."

But when this neighbour he wrote to me, "Your mother's in the poor
house," says he, I had a resurrection straightway, An' started for her
that very day.
And when I arrived where I was grown, I took good care that I shouldn't
be known; But I bought the old cottage, through and through, Off
some one Charley had sold it to; And held back neither work nor
gold, To fix it up as it was of old.

The same big fire-place, wide and high, Flung up its cinders toward the
sky; The old clock ticked on the corner-shelf-- I wound it an'
set it agoin' myself; And if everything wasn't just the same, Neither
I nor money was to blame; Then--_over the hill to the poor-house!_

One blowin', blusterin', winter's day, With a team an' cutter I started
away; My fiery nags was as black as coal; (They some'at resembled the
horse I stole); I hitched, an' entered the poor-house door-- A poor
old woman was scrubbin' the floor; She rose to her feet in great
surprise, And looked, quite startled, into my eyes; I saw the whole of
her trouble's trace In the lines that marred her dear old face; "Mother!"
I shouted, "your sorrows is done!
You're adopted along o' your horse-thief son, Come _over the hill from
the poor-house!_"
She didn't faint; she knelt by my side, An' thanked the Lord, till I
fairly cried.
An' maybe our ride wasn't pleasant an' gay, An' maybe she wasn't wrapped
up that day; An' maybe our cottage wasn't warm an' bright, An' maybe
it wasn't a pleasant sight, To see her a-gettin' the evenin's tea, An'
frequently stoppin' an' kissin' me; An' maybe we didn't live happy
for years, In spite of my brothers and sisters' sneers, Who often
said, as I have heard, That they wouldn't own a prison-bird; (Though
they're gettin' over that, I guess, For all of them owe me more or
less;) But I've learned one thing; an' it cheers a man In always
a-doin' the best he can; That whether on the big book, a blot Gets
over a fellow's name or not, Whenever he does a deed that's white,
It's credited to him fair and right.

An' when you hear the great bugle's notes, An' the Lord divides his
sheep and goats; However they may settle my case, Wherever they
may fix my place, My good old Christian mother, you'll see, Will be
sure to stand right up for me, With _over the hill from the
poor-house_.

_Will Carleton_.

* * * * *
THE WORLD FROM THE SIDEWALK.

Did you ever stand in the crowded street, In the glare of a city
lamp, And list to the tread of the millions feet In their quaintly
musical tramp?

As the surging crowd go to and fro, 'Tis a pleasant sight, I ween,
To mark the figures that come and go In the ever-changing
scene.

Here the publican walks with the sinner proud, And the priest in his
gloomy cowl, And Dives walks in the motley crowd With Lazarus,
cheek by jowl; And the daughter of toil with her fresh young heart
As pure as her spotless fame, Keeps step with the woman who makes
her mart In the haunts of sin and shame.

How lightly trips the country lass In the midst of the city's ills, As
freshly pure as the daisied grass That grows on her native hills;
And the beggar, too, with his hungry eye, And his lean, wan face and
crutch, Gives a blessing the same to the passer-by As they give
him little or much.

Ah me! when the hours go joyfully by, How little we stop to heed Our
brothers' and sisters' despairing cry In their woe and their bitter
need!
Yet such a world as the angels sought This world of ours we'd call,
If the brotherly love that the Father taught; Was felt by each
for all.

  Yet a few short years and this
  motley throng Will all have passed away, And the rich and the poor
and the old and the young Will be undistinguished clay.

And lips that laugh and lips that moan, Shall in silence alike be
sealed, And some will lie under stately stone, And some in the Potter's
Field.

But the sun will be shining just as bright, And so will the silver moon,
And just such a crowd will be here at night, And just such a crowd
at noon; And men will be wicked and women will sin, As ever since
Adam's fall, With the same old world to labour in, And the same God
over all

  .
    
  * * * * *
    HIGHLAND MARY.
  
        Ye banks, and braes, and streams around The castle o' Montgomery,
Green be your woods, and fair your flowers, Your waters never
drumlie!

  There simmer first unfauld her robes, And
    there the langest tarry!
  For there I took the last farewell O' my sweet Highland
    Mary.
  
        How sweetly bloomed the gay green birk!

How rich the hawthorn's blossom!

As, underneath their fragrant shade, I clasped her to my bosom!

  The golden hours, on angel wings,
    Flew o'er me and my dearie;
  For dear to me as light and
    life Was my sweet Highland Mary.

  
    Wi' monie a vow, and locked
  embrace Our parting was fu' tender';
    And, pledging aft to meet again, We tore ourselves asunder; But oh!

  fell death's untimely frost, That
    nipt my flower sae early!
  Now green's the sod and cauld's
    the clay, That wraps my Highland Mary!

  O pale, pale now, those rosy
    lips I aft hae kissed sae fondly!
  
    And closed for aye the
  sparkling glance That dwelt on
    me sae kindly!

And mouldering now, in silent dust That heart that lo'ed me dearly!
But still, within my bosom's core, Shall live my Highland Mary.

_Robert Burns._
* * * * *

CALLING A BOY IN THE MORNING.

Calling a boy up in the morning can hardly be classed under the head
of "_pastimes_," especially if the boy is fond of exercise the day
before. And it is a little singular that the next hardest thing to getting
a boy out of bed is getting him into it. There is rarely a mother who
is a success at rousing a boy. All mothers know this; so do their
boys. And yet the mother _seems_ to go at it in the right way. She
opens the stair door and insinuatingly observes, "Johnny.", There is no
response.
"Johnn_y_." Still no response. Then there is a short, sharp, "_John_,"
followed a moment later by a long and emphatic "John Henry." A grunt
from the upper regions signifies that an impression has been made; and
the mother is encouraged to add, "You'd better be getting down here
to your breakfast, young man, before I come up there, an' give you
something you'll feel." This so startles the young man that he
immediately goes to sleep again; and the operation has to be
repeated several times. A father knows nothing about this trouble. He
merely opens his mouth as a soda-water bottle ejects its cork, and
the "JOHN HENRY" that cleaves the air of that stairway goes into that
boy like electricity, and pierces the deepest recesses of his nature,
and he pops out of that bed, and into his clothes, and down the
stairs, with a promptness that is commendable.

It is rarely a boy allows himself to disregard the paternal summons.
About once a year is believed to be as often as is consistent with
the rules of health. He saves his father a great many steps by his
thoughtfulness.

* * * * *

AN ORDER FOR A PICTURE.

O good painter, tell me true, Has your hand the cunning to draw Shapes
of things that you never saw?
Aye? Well, here is an order for you.

Woods and cornfields a little brown,-- The picture must not be over
bright,-- Yet all in the golden and gracious light Of a cloud when the
summer sun is down.

Alway and alway, night and morn, Woods upon woods, with fields of
corn Lying between them, not quite sere, And not in the full, thick,
leafy bloom, When the wind can hardly find breathing room Under
their tassels,--cattle near, Biting shorter the short green grass,
And a hedge of sumach and sassafras, With bluebirds twittering all
around,-- Ah, good painter, you can't paint sound!
These and the little house where I was born, Low, and little, and
black, and old, With children, many as it can hold, All at the
windows, open wide,-- Heads and shoulders clear outside, And fair
young faces all ablush; Perhaps you may have seen, some day, Roses
crowding the self-same way, Out of a wilding, way-side bush.
Listen closer. When you have done With woods and cornfields and
grazing herds; A lady, the loveliest ever the sun Looked down upon,
you must paint for me; Oh, if I only could make you see The clear
blue eyes, the tender smile, The sovereign sweetness, the gentle
grace, The woman's soul and the angel's face That are beaming on
me all the while!
I need not speak these foolish words; Yet one word tells you all I
would say,-- She is my mother: you will agree That all the rest may
be thrown away.
Two little urchins at her knee You must paint, sir; one like me,--
The other with a clearer brow, And the light of his adventurous
eyes Flashing with boldest enterprise; At ten years old he went to
sea,-- God knoweth if he be living now,-- He sailed in the good
ship "Commodore," Nobody ever crossed her track To bring us news,
and she never came back.
Ah, 'tis twenty long years and more Since that old ship went out
of the bay With my great-hearted brother on her deck; I watched him
till he shrank to a speck, And his face was toward me all the
way.
Bright his hair was, a golden brown, The time we stood at our
mother's knee; That beauteous head, if it did go down, Carried
sunshine into the sea!
Out in the fields one summer night We were together, half afraid,
Of the corn leaves' rustling, and of the shade Of the high hills,
stretching so still and far,-- Loitering till after the low little
light Of the candle shone through the open door, And, over the
hay-stack's pointed top, All of a tremble and ready to drop The
first half hour the great yellow star That we, with staring, ignorant
eyes, Had often and often watched to see Propped and held in its
place in the skies By the fork of a tall, red mulberry tree, Which
close in the edge of our flax field grew, Dead at the top,--just
one branch full Of leaves, notched round, and lined with wool, From
which it tenderly shook the dew Over our heads, when we came to
play In its handbreath of shadow, day after day,-- Afraid to go
home, sir; for one of us bore A nest full of speckled and thin-shelled
eggs,-- The other, a bird, held fast by the legs, Not so big as a
straw of wheat:
The berries we gave her she wouldn't eat, But cried and cried, till
we held her bill, So slim and shining, to keep her still.Naturally enough the strain upon the vessel, caused
by its greatly increased motion on account of the violence of the
weather, widened the leak.  The firemen reported that they could not
keep the fires burning, as the leakage had increased to such an extent
that the water put them out.  The captain ordered two men to be
employed in pumping water into the boilers, but no good came of that,
for as fast as they pumped the water in it escaped again through the
leak.

The storm continued to rage with unabated fury, and it was felt by all
on board that they were in imminent danger.  The captain strove to keep
up the courage of the men and passengers, but their anxious faces told
too surely of the sinking hearts within.

"Where are we now?" was the question asked at ten o'clock; and those
who asked, would have given not a little to be in happy British homes,
safe from the fury of the winds and sea.

"We are off St. Abb's Head," was the reply, shouted at the top of the
man's voice, that it might be heard, for in the din and roar it was
difficult to make each other understand.

Presently the enginemen, working hard at their engines, found that
their efforts were entirely vain.  They persevered until it was evident
that perseverance was useless and then they represented the case to the
captain.

"The engines will not work, sir," they said, "though we have done our
best to make them."

The captain looked, and felt extremely anxious, for he knew that a
terrible danger menaced the vessel, and all on board.

"Hoist the sails fore and aft," was the order, for it was well known
that there was great probability of their drifting ashore.  The vessel
was put about, and every endeavour made to keep her before the wind,
and away from the rocks.  It was thought by some that an attempt would
be made to anchor, but it was not so.  The vessel was not long before
it had become perfectly unmanageable; and those who were helpless to
guide her felt, with dismay, how near they were to destruction and
death.  The tide was setting in to the south, and the ship drifted in
that direction.

All this time it was raining heavily, and the fog was so thick that
nothing could be distinctly seen.  It was impossible to tell where they
were; and in darkness and uncertainty, fearing the worst, and quaking
with terror, the unhappy passengers and crew waited for their doom, as
men and women have done so often under circumstances similarly
appalling.  There was nothing they could do but wait and pray; and they
were the happiest who could keep alive in their bosoms the faintest
spark of hope, and who, being ready either to live or die, had
confidence in the strong arm and watchful care of Him who holds the
waters in the hollow of His hand.

At length there was a startled cry, "Breakers to leeward!" and that
discovery increased the excitement and terror a hundredfold.  All eyes
were strained in the endeavour to ascertain something of their
position, and presently the Farne Lights became visible.  After a
moment's consultation, the awful truth made the men desperate.  There
was no doubt as to the imminent and immediate peril in which they were,
for the dangerous character of the coast of the islands was well known.
The captain and men, aroused to almost superhuman effort by the awful
catastrophe that was coming upon them, tried to avert what seemed
almost inevitable, by endeavouring to run the vessel through the
channel that lies between the Farne Islands and the mainland.  But the
gloomy apprehensions of all who understood the state of the case were
rather increased than diminished by the attempt; for the vessel would
not answer her helm; and the furious, turbulent sea tossed her hither
and thither, making her the sport of its own awful will.

It was between three and four o'clock when, with her bow foremost, the
"Forfarshire" struck on the rock.

Those who are not acquainted with the Farne Islands can scarcely form
an idea of the ruggedness of those rocks, which stand up in the ocean
as if intent on destroying all that comes near them.  The rock on which
the "Forfarshire" struck is so sharp and rugged that it is scarcely
possible for persons to stand erect upon it, even when it is dry, and
it descends sheer down into the water more than a hundred fathoms deep.

The shock, therefore, and the awful scene that followed, may be
imagined, but cannot be described.  The night was round about the
helpless passengers, and added to their danger and dismay.  The sea was
tremendously high, and the waves seemed to be so many graves rising to
receive the bodies that must shortly drop into them.  The noise and
tumult were so great as to bewilder those who listened.  The wind
howled in its rage, and mingled with the thunder of the waters.  The
sea-gulls screamed as they flew madly about the ship, and towards the
shore.  The women shrieked so piercingly that their voices could be
heard above all other sounds, and were by far the maddest and most
mournful of all.  Nor was this surprising, for the great vessel was
lifted up by the action of the water, and again forced upon the jagged
rock, while the beams and timbers gave way, and that to which the
passengers and sailors had trusted their lives proved itself little
better than a grave.

The bustle and confusion on board were naturally very great at this
juncture.  All tried to find their way on deck, but some did not live
to reach it.  Others, as soon as they had gained that which they hoped
was a place of safety, were at once swept off into the great deep below.

At this time some of the crew, eager to save themselves, lowered the
larboard quarter-boat, and sprang into it.  Among these were James
Duncan, the first mate, to whom some blame seems to have been attached,
and Mr. Ruthven Ritchie, of Perthshire.  It is little wonder that in
such a crisis all should do what could be done to save themselves.  But
we have some memorable instances of unselfish heroism on the part of
British sailors, who have even lost their own lives in saving those of
others.

"It is the signal of death," was the hurried conclusion to which many
came when they felt the shock of the vessel on the rock.  Then followed
a most heart-rending scene.  The master lost all self-control in his
anguish and terror; but, perhaps, that is not surprising when it is
remembered that he had on board his own wife.  It is so natural for a
woman to think that her husband can save her from everything; and this
woman clung to the master, and looked into his face with imploring
eyes, "Oh, save me! save me!  Surely you can do something!  Do not let
me drown.  Oh, my beloved, will you not save me?" she cried, holding
him in her arms, while the tears ran down her white face.

"Would to God that I could, my darling," was all the man could say, as
he felt his utter helplessness to protect her, or any of those who had
been committed to his care.  Other women there were who called upon
him, and upon the sailors, and most of all upon God, though their cries
seemed altogether unavailing.  The men were more quiet.  They looked
death in the face calmly, though still they clung to the doomed vessel,
hoping against hope to the very last.

Many of the passengers were asleep in their berths when the vessel
first struck.  The steward ran down to give the alarm without loss of
time.

"For God's sake, get up, all of you.  The vessel is on the rocks, and
we shall all be drowned."

What a terrible awakening it was for those who had gone calmly to sleep
the night before!  No warning had been given to them.  They little knew
how the angels wrote above their cabin, "There is but a step between
thee and death."  With busy brains, planning all sorts of work for
future years, and dreaming of worldly success and prosperity, they laid
down to sleep.  While the night yet lasted came the terrible cry,
"Behold, the bridegroom cometh: go ye forth to meet Him."  And what
terror and affright the message caused, only He knew who looked down
from Heaven into the souls of the men and women.  Was it not a pity
that they had not thought of this before?  If only they had been His
friends, they would not have feared to see His face.  But to those who
had persistently turned deaf ears to His invitations, the cry, "Prepare
to meet thy God," sounded like a summons to eternal doom.

To others, however, it was not so.  They looked across the waters to
another shore, where the lights are always burning, and where shining
ones stand to welcome the weary voyagers who would safely gain it.  As
they saw the danger they knew that the shore they loved was not far
away; and when they cried in strong faith, "Come, Lord Jesus, come
quickly," they heard the still small voice of their God saying, "It is
I, be not afraid."  Death by drowning was for them only a short swift
passage to the heavenly land, where "there shall be no more sea."  And
though life must have been dear to them--for every one had some tie to
keep him below--still, there was not one Christian but would be willing
"to depart and be with Christ, which is far better," and the summons,
though it was brought by seething waters and howling winds, could not
be unwelcome.  For a few seconds there would be nothing but darkness,
pain and bewilderment, but then all would be over, and their day would
begin.  "They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more.  The Lamb
which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead
them to living fountains of water, and God shall wipe all tears from
their eyes."  Happy, indeed, are they, for they "have washed their
robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb; and they shall
serve Him day and night in His temple."

But what of them who have always been His despisers?  In the days of
their health they cried--"We will not have this man to reign over us;"
and now, what could He be to them but a judge whom they feared?  To
them death by drowning was a very different thing from that which it
was to those who were his friends.  It gave them too little time to
prepare.  They wanted to pray, but the waters were over their heads,
and in the darkness they could not find Him.  They wanted to repent,
but no space for repentance was given to them then.  It was too
late--too late!  They had had time.  For months and years the patient
Spirit had been striving with them; but they had resisted Him.  Christ
had been saying--not as a judge, but as a pleading Saviour--"Come unto
me, all ye that labour, and I will give you rest."  "Behold, I stand at
the door and knock.  If any man will hear me, and open the door, I will
come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me."  But it had
been no use.  Deaf ears, that would not hear His voice, blind eyes,
that saw no beauty in Him that they should desire Him, unresponding
lips that would give Him no invitation--these were all that the Lord
had met with.  And now it was too late, for that storm had burst, and
the ship was settling down, and there remained for the rejecters of
Christ nothing but hopeless desolation!

Does not this, and every shipwreck, cry aloud to the sons of men to be
wise?  "Now is the accepted time, now is the day of salvation."  "To
day, if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts."  Death must
come soon, and it may come any night, and, rousing the sleeper, may
hurry him into eternity.  Is it not folly to remain unprepared?

The "Forfarshire," soon after the first shock, was struck by a powerful
wave, which lifted her for a moment off the rock, but only to dash the
doomed ship on it again with greater violence than before.  On this
occasion, the sharp edge of the rock struck the vessel about midships
aft of the paddle-boxes.  Then the survivors rushed on deck, and about
three minutes later, another shock cut the vessel completely in halves.

The part containing the stern, quarter-deck and cabin, was instantly
carried away, with all who were upon it, and went rushing into the
terrible current, known by the name of the "Piper Gut."  This current
is so tremendously strong, that, even in calm weather, it runs between
the islands at the rate of six miles an hour; and the fate of those
who, in a hurricane, were borne through the rapids, is indeed terrible
to contemplate.

It has been said that the larboard quarter-boat was launched by the
chief mate, James Duncan.  Only one passenger was, however,
saved--namely, Mr. Ritchie.  He heard the steward's cry of alarm; and
immediately sprang from his berth, and, seizing his trousers, rushed
upon deck.  He noticed that some of the sailors were leaping into a
boat, and without loss of time, and with great presence of mind, he at
once seized a rope, and by a marvellous effort swung himself into it.
He afterwards looked upon his escape as nothing short of miraculous.
Just as the boat was leaving the ship, two persons made frantic efforts
to detain it.  They were the aunt and uncle of Mr. Ritchie.  They
endeavoured to seek his place of safety, but perished in the attempt,
for, instead of gaining an entrance into the boat, they fell into the
water, and perished before the eyes of their nephew, who was powerless
to aid them.

Those in the boat had a narrow escape.  The night was dark and cold,
but Mr. Ritchie had nothing on excepting his shirt and trousers.  All
the time he was in the boat he was occupied in baling out the water
with a pair of shoes, for if this had not been perseveringly done, the
boat would have sunk, and all in her have perished.  No one knew how to
steer; but Providence guided the men rightly, for there was but one
means of escape from the dangerous breakers, which must have dashed the
boat against the rocks.  Not one of them could say where this outlet
was; but they were guided through it unawares.  Surely every man must
have felt grateful to Him who had taken them safely through such
dangerous waters!  About eight o'clock on Saturday morning, they were
picked up by a Montrose sloop, bound for Shields; and the whole nine
who had embarked in the boat were saved.  Mr. Ritchie had some money in
his pocket, with which he was able to buy necessary food and clothing.

Those who had been left on the wreck were less fortunate.  It has been
stated that the fore-part of the vessel remained on the rock; but the
situation of the poor wretches thus exposed was most perilous.
Gigantic waves kept dashing over them; and one of these swept the
captain and his wife away into the boiling sea.  He had not been able
to save her; but he died with her, as a brave man would do.  Let us
hope that they went together to the rest and joy in Heaven.

There were only nine left on the wreck which still stuck to the
rock--four of the passengers, and five of the crew.  Words cannot
describe their sufferings while they held on for dear life; the waves,
which had hurried away so many of their companions, continually rising,
as if in a malicious endeavour to secure them also for their prey.
While strength remained, they cried and screamed for help, though even
as they did so, their hearts sank within them, for it seemed utterly
vain to hope that their shrieks would be heard above the awful clamour
of the winds and waves.  Now and then they died into complete silence,
and then one of the number would shout for help, while the others
feebly, but with all their strength, seconded his endeavours.  They
were half-frozen by the cold; and the heavy seas that washed over them
tore off their clothing, leaving them nearly naked.  They made frantic
exertions to hold on, and resist the fury of the waves, but, as the
night wore slowly away, these endeavours quite exhausted the sufferers,
and left them almost prostrate.

One spectacle was particularly agonising.  It has been mentioned that
Mrs. Dawson, one of the passengers, had declared before the vessel
started, that, if she could, she would leave it, and would not sail.
But her husband did not come in time, and she had therefore gone with
the rest.  She was among the number of those who were in the fore-part
of the vessel, and which clung to the rock.  She had with her two
children, a boy and a girl, aged respectively eight and eleven years.
She held them firmly, one by each hand, resolved to save them if a
mother's love could do it.  But they were delicate, and could not
endure the continued buffeting of the waves.  They were so beaten and
battered by being thrust to and fro against the rock that they both
died; but even after they were dead, Mrs. Dawson refused to believe it,
and still held them firmly by the hand.  The mother's heart might have
broken quite had she known, but as it was she was eventually saved.

Scarcely less wonderful was the escape of a man named Donovan, one of
the firemen of the ill-fated vessel.  He lay on the rock for three
hours in the greatest suffering, being beaten by the terrible waves as
they washed over him, stripping him by the force of their blows.  But
all that time he held on to a strong spike-nail; and though his hands
were bleeding, and almost raw, he would not let go, for he knew that if
he did he would lose his only chance of safety.

So they waited and prayed for deliverance, while the terrible moments
wore into hours.  It must have seemed to them that God had forgotten to
be gracious, and that they were forsaken both by Him and their fellow
men.  But many an agonising prayer rose to heaven, and at last, though
they little expected it, succour was nigh.  It is true that it came by
a maiden's hands, but God was, indeed, the deliverer.  His time often
seems very late, and His coming long delayed, but, after all, He knows
the right moment, and those who put their trust in Him will not be
confounded.  Over the stormy water came a little boat on an errand of
mercy; and He, without whom not a sparrow can fall, was Himself in it,
aiding and blessing His servants.  Let us see how wonderfully He had
cared for the few survivors on the Farne rocks, and by what
enthusiastic heroism He had filled the breast of the youthful
lighthouse-girl.  And let us learn from it to trust in Him when our
times of need come.

  "Say not my soul, 'From whence
    Can God relieve my care?'
  Remember that Omnipotence
    Has servants everywhere."


CHAPTER XII.

GRACE TO THE RESCUE.

  "Thus her compassion woman shows,
    Beneath the line her acts are these;
  Nor the wide waste of Lapland snows,
    Can her warm flow of piety freeze.
  From some sad land the stranger comes,
    Where joys like ours are never found,
  Let's soothe him in our happy homes,
    Where freedom sits with plenty crowned.

  "Man may the sterner virtues know,
    Determined justice, truth severe;
  But female hearts with pity glow,
    And women holds affliction dear;
  For guiltless woes her sorrow flows,
    And suffering vice compels her tear;
  'Tis hers to soothe the ills below,
    And bid life's fairer views appear.

  "To woman's gentle kind we owe
    What comforts and delights us here;
  They, its gay hopes on youth bestow,
    And care they soothe, and age they cheer."--Crabbe.


That night Grace could not sleep.  Had she been any other girl, indeed,
there would have been nothing remarkable in that, for the storm was
tremendous.  But dwellers in lighthouses are so used to storms, that
generally they take but little notice of them; and the fact that this
storm really sent a thrill of solicitude to the hearts of the Darlings,
is enough to convince us that it must have been of an unusually furious
nature.

On this memorable 6th of September, 1838, when the "Forfarshire"
sailed, a fisher boat came from North Sunderland to the Longstone rock,
bringing packets and letters for the Darling family.  At that time the
weather was comparatively fine and the sea calm; and there wore no
particular signs to warn them of any material change in the atmosphere.
The day passed much as usual, but towards evening heavy masses of
clouds collected, and those who were weather-wise knew that it was
likely to become tempestuous.  These surmises soon became certainties;
and presently a tremendous wind arose, and beat around the rocks and
the lighthouse that was upon them; and a deluge of rain began to fall.
The storm grew worse every half-hour until even the calm spirit of Mr.
Darling was perturbed.

"Oh, hark at the winds!  I do not know when they have blown with so
much fury," he said.

Mrs. Darling's face was pale, and Grace found it quite impossible even
to concentrate her thoughts upon her favourite books, while the tumult
raged outside.

"I hope it will soon be more quiet," she said.  "Nobody could sleep in
such a storm as this."

"May God have mercy upon the poor fellows at sea tonight," said her
father; "for many a one is in great danger because of this gale."

"The wind seems to sigh in every cleft of the rocks tonight," said his
wife.  "I hope we are safe, William."

"Our tower will not be blown down," said her husband, smiling away her
fears.  "I wish all the sailors were as safe as we are."

"I am not afraid," said Grace; "but no one can listen to this awful
wind without feeling some emotion and awe."

"It is, indeed, an awful wind," said Darling, "and one does not care to
hear it, though his own home be as firm as a rock."

They sat together, scarcely speaking, until a late hour; but as the
night advanced, the storm raged yet more furiously.

"It seems as if the very spirit of mischief is abroad," remarked Grace.

"But as we can do no good by staying up," said her mother, "we had
better retire to rest."

Grace, however, was strangely loth to do so; and when, at last, she
went to her own room, she could not sleep.  Even when she was sinking
into a doze, a terrible gust of wind would beat against the wall, and
make the girl's heart leap within her, and cause her to listen in
breathless attention to the mighty battle that was raging without.  So
she lay for several hours; and even when at last she fell asleep, her
slumbers were very disturbed, and her dreams most uneasy.

In the morning, before daylight dawned, something awoke her.  She rose
hastily in bed, with wide-opened eyes, that seemed to listen intently.

"What was it that awoke me, I wonder!  It might have been the wind; and
yet it seemed to me more than the wind.  It must have been human cries,
but cries uttered in the most awful distress, or they could not have
been heard above the gale."

So she said to herself, as with white face, and trembling pulses, she
listened, and scarcely dared to breathe.

"Perhaps, after all, I was dreaming," she thought, as for a few moments
she did not hear the sound she waited for.  "The wailings of the winds
might have deceived me, though I should not have thought they could do
so, since I am so used to hear them."

Again she listened; and presently she heard piercing, penetrating cries
of those whose agony had become almost unbearable.

Then she sprang out of bed, with some such thought as this--"O God,
help me, and show me what is right to do."  With trembling, agitated
fingers, she hastened to dress, and then, without losing a moment
needlessly, she hurried to her father.

"Why, Grace, what is the matter, child!" said he.

"Oh, father, I feel sure there has been a wreck near!  I have heard the
most awful shrieks that I ever in my life heard before; and I am sure
some poor wretches are drowning."

"Nonsense, Grace!  You were very nervous last night, and you look as if
you have not slept.  Your fears have mastered you.  That which you
thought a cry was only the wind.  At least we may hope so; for I do not
think you could hear screams, or anything else, in such a storm."

"But, father, I am sure that the cries came from human beings in
extremity.  Do believe me, for I know it is the truth, and not any
foolish fancy of mine.  Listen for yourself."

"It is no use, Grace; nothing can be heard but the wind."

"But, father, I know there is a wreck not far from the island."

Mr. Darling shook his head, and tried to appear indifferent.

"Even if it is so, Grace, we can do nothing," said he.

"Oh, yes, father, we must go to their rescue," replied his daughter.

"What is the use of your talking like that, Grace?  If your brothers
were at home, we might attempt it; but now it is altogether out of the
question."

"No, indeed, father, it must not be out of the question.  Can we let
our fellow creatures perish without making an effort to save them?  If
we did so, I am sure we should never, either of us, be happy again.  Do
let us go, father!  I can help you in the rowing of the boat, and God
will protect us.  Only think what it would be to save the lives of
those poor half-drowned men and women?"

"But I don't think it can be right, Grace."

"Oh, father, why do you lose time?  It cannot be right to hesitate,"
said the girl, in convincing tones.

Mr. Darling looked anxiously through his telescope.  It was scarcely
light, and there was a heavy mist hanging over the island.  The wind
was not as violent as it had been, but the sea was still very furious.
William Darling strained his eyes as he looked through the good glass,
and presently he saw that which he looked for.  About half-a-mile away,
there were the shipwrecked sufferers, still clinging to their only
hope, the broken pieces of the ship.  He thought for a moment or two,
and Grace's earnest pleading prevailed.  He knew that she never before
had been called upon to render such assistance; but he knew too, that
she was a brave girl, and would do her best.

"Very well, Grace; I will let you persuade me, though it is against my
better judgment."

Grace joyfully kissed her father, and he began to prepare.

"What will your mother say, Grace?" he asked the next moment.

The loving girl dreaded her more than the waves.  Mrs. Darling, when
she heard of it, could not give her consent.

"Oh, William, I cannot believe that you will be so mad!  If there has
been a shipwreck, and lives lost, what is the use of your adding your
own death to the number?  Nothing can save you.  The boat will not live
ten minutes in such a sea."

"Oh yes, my dear; I think we will come back again all right.  Don't
make yourself miserable for nothing," said her husband.

"Do you not care, William, that you leave me a desolate widow, with
none to provide for me?  You are wicked to go.  It is tempting
Providence, and you ought to be afraid to do it," said the wife,
through her tears.

"Hush! mother dear," said Grace.  "Indeed, we must go.  How can we
remain quietly here, while our fellow creatures are crying out for
help?"

"Grace, you are a foolish girl; you ought not to urge your father to
lose his life, nor to be so willing to risk your own.  Think of me, and
what I shall do if both of you are drowned."

It was, after all, the natural cry of such a woman as Mrs. Darling.  It
is not every body that can bear to risk a beloved life, that the lives
of strangers may be saved.  The wife of the lighthouse-keeper was very
sorry for the poor wretches who were clinging to the rock in the cold
and rain; but why should her own home be put in jeopardy that they
might be rescued!  How many women, the wives of soldiers, or sailors,
or missionaries, have felt the same?  And yet it is generally the cause
of right and humanity that wins the day.

Mrs. Darling clung to her husband as if she would not let him go, but
Grace remained true and steadfast to her noble purpose, and only waited
till the mother grew a little more calm, to press the matter again, and
before long they could see that she half-yielded.  That was enough!

"Good-bye, mother.  God will bring us back to you in safety, never
fear; and no doubt we shall bring some poor half-drowned creatures with
us, so you had better get the beds warmed and have everything
comfortable," said Grace, in strong, cheering tones.

Mrs. Darling found that all her beseeching was in vain; and she could
only hope for the best, and keep herself as quiet as possible.  She
was, however, half-frantic with fear, as she bade them good-bye, and
then watched, with streaming eyes, the fragile little boat venture out
upon the awful waters.  And yet she could not but feel that they were
doing rightly, and at the last she had herself helped to launch the
boat.  But she wrung her hands as she saw them go, and prayed earnestly
to God that he would indeed take care of them, and bring them safely
back to her.

It is said that Grace was the first to seize an oar, and spring into
the boat; but her father, who was a brave man, quickly followed, and
the two were soon working together in harmony.  They scarcely spoke at
first, William Darling only giving Grace a few directions with regard
to the management of the boat, and then both used their utmost
endeavours to propel her towards the desired spot.

One moment we must linger to look at the heroic girl as she sits firmly
in the boat, with a steady light in her eyes, lips firmly compressed,
and strong brave heart.  Could we have seen Grace Darling in more
attractive guise?  The thunderous waves were leaping and foaming around
the little boat; the dark clouds were lowering, and the winds blowing
furiously.  The afrighted sea-birds looked at them, and screamed
shrilly as they saw the boat rocked to and fro, now leaping on the top
of a wave that tossed it high, and now sinking down, down, as if it
were going to the very bottom of the deep.  But Grace was not afraid.
She scarcely thought of the danger; for her heart and sympathy were
with those who were on the rock.  Long before she got to them, her
imagination pictured the patient faces, full of pain, which would grow
bright when they saw her; and as she thought of them, her arm gained
new strength, and she went on again more energetically than before.
Was she, indeed, a girl?  Had she sisters, who cried out if a pain
touched them, and who were always helplessly appealing to men for help?
Did she know what fear was?  Yes; she knew that she would always be
afraid of her own thoughts, if she did not what she could to rescue the
shipwrecked strangers.

On they went, over the stormy waters, every minute being nearer their
goal.  The foam dashed in the face of the intrepid girl, and the salt
water made her eyes smart; but she did not relax her efforts, but kept
nobly and steadily at her work.  Her father could not but admire her
courage; and the sight of it gave him even more determination to
succeed.

"Are you getting tired, my girl?" he asked presently.

"Not very, father.  We shall do it," she replied.

"Yes, I really hope we shall.  There they are, poor wretches, glad
enough to see us, I know.  It is a good thing it is an ebb tide.  If it
had not been, we could not have passed between the islands.  It will be
flowing when we come back; and if there are no sailors to help us, we
may as well make up our minds to stay on the rocks with the others, for
we shall not be able to get home again."

"Do not let us meet trouble half-way, father; the sailors will be able
to help us."

They pulled hard a little longer, and then contrived to reach the rock
on which the sufferers were waiting.

"Pray, take care, Grace."

"All right, father.  Do not be afraid.  I will not risk all by my
mismanagement."

"If the coble is beaten against the rocks, she will be smashed to
pieces."

"I will take care, father.  Cannot you land now?  See, there is a
chance.  Now, father!"

With a tremendous effort, Darling got on the rock, and immediately
Grace rowed the boat back so as to keep her afloat on the water, and
free of the dangerous reefs.

In the meantime, the sufferers on the rock had taken hope.

"There is a boat coming," one had shouted to the rest; and the very
words had a miraculously quickening force in them.  They looked eagerly
out, but could scarcely believe that it would be in the power of those
two occupants to rescue them.

"One is a woman," said a sailor, with moisture in his eyes.  "God bless
her; she is an angel sent from Heaven to succour us."

This man let the tears stream down his weather-beaten cheeks, while he
watched the girl's heroic efforts, and prayed fervently that God would
bless and prosper them.

William Darling could scarcely help weeping, too, while he looked at
the sufferers, for their state was truly dreadful.  They had strength
enough left, however, to cry to him, and bless him and his; and he was
thankful to find the sailors not so utterly exhausted, but that they
were able to render some assistance.

"Who is to be the first?" cried Darling.  "The boat is ready, and by
God's help we shall save you all.  Cheer up.  Hope for the best, and
help yourselves as much as possible."

His cheery words had a magic effect upon the sufferers, who immediately
"took heart again," and rose to their feet in faith and hope.

The greatest care and caution were necessary, in order to get the
survivors safely into the boat.  Poor Mrs. Dawson, we may be sure, was
one of the first, who, in a half-fainting, and very weak condition, and
bemoaning the loss of her children, was safely placed in the coble by
the kind assistance of Grace, her father, and the sailors.  The
bereaved mother found a friend and sympathiser in Grace, whose womanly
pity flowed in tears, and whose kind heart was greatly touched by the
signs of suffering that she saw.  At present, however, she had no
leisure to express her pity; for all her care was needed to assist in
the escape of the others.  As one by one they entered the little boat,
and thanked God for their deliverance, Grace could not quite keep the
tears of joy from her eyes.

"God bless you; but ye're a bonny English girl," said one poor fellow,
as he looked most wondering at her; and the praise of the half-drowned
man, whose life she had saved, was dearer to Grace Darling than any of
the praises that were afterwards heaped upon her.  Her young arms
ached, and her back was full of pain, when the last sufferer was safely
in the boat, and they prepared to row back to the land; but little
cared she for that, since God had given her the joy she craved.

The return was even more perilous than the outward journey had been.
The coble was full of precious human beings; but the sea abated none of
its fury, that it might ride the more safely.  But divine strength was
behind that of the slender arms of William Darling's daughter, and the
girl's matchless heroism did not fail her now.  Her powers of endurance
were great, her purpose good, and her devotion strong; and she did not
relax her efforts until their own loved Longstone rock was reached.

Mrs. Darling, whose face bore signs of the most intense anxiety, went
to the beach to meet them on their return, and eagerly embraced her
husband and child, when they stepped from the boat.  Surely, if ever a
mother had reason to be proud of her daughter, it was the mother of
Grace Darling.

"You are back in safety, then," said she, while the tears of welcome
sprang to her eyes.

"Certainly, mother.  Did I not tell you that God would take care of us!
And see, we have brought nine persons from the rock."

"And saved nine lives!" exclaimed Mrs. Darling.

"That depends a little upon your nursing, mother.  We have taken them
from the rocks, but they are in a most deplorable condition," said
Grace.

They were indeed; but the hospitable lighthouse-home was ready to
receive them, and thither they were all conveyed.

At first, they were so hungry and tired, so bruised and broken, that
they could not talk much.  Besides, they had--many of them, at
least--lost their friends and personal belongings, and were feeling sad
and miserable enough.  But Grace, though her limbs must have been
aching, and she must have felt weary and exhausted, began to minister
to their wants as soon as they were safely in her father's house; and
for the next three days and three nights she found plenty of delightful
occupation in soothing their sorrow, and nursing them back to health
and strength.  As these returned, the survivors became more and more
conscious of the great debt which they owed to Grace Darling.  They
told her what their feelings were when they saw the boat coming toward
them, and Grace herself, like an angel of mercy, in it.  And Mrs.
Darling explained that, but for Grace, their rescue would not have been
attempted, since even the brave heart of her husband failed before the
awful possibilities of venturing on such a sea with only two pair of
hands.  How must they, who owed their lives to the undaunted heroism of
the kindly maiden, have loved and almost worshipped her, as they saw
her moving, in most beautiful simplicity and modest unostentation,
among them in her own home!

As for Grace; it may safely be said that she did not know that she had
done anything at all remarkable until the world told her so.  It is
almost certain that she did it because she could not help it.  Have I
not seen the strongest fall, The fairest led astray?
And shall I on my only son Bestow a curse this day?

No; heaven forbid! "Here, waiter, bring Bright water unto me; My son will
take what father takes, My drink shall water be."
_W. Hoyle._

* * * * *
THE LITTLE HERO.

From Liverpool 'cross the Atlantic, The good ship floating o'er the
deep, The skies bright with sunshine above us, The waters beneath us
asleep; Not a bad-temper'd mariner 'mongst us, A jollier crew never
sail'd, 'Cept the first mate, a bit of a savage, But good seaman as
ever was hail'd.
One day he comes up from below deck, A-graspin' a lad by the arm, A
poor little ragged young urchin, As ought to bin home with his marm.

An' the mate asks the boy pretty roughly How he dared for to be stow'd
away?
A-cheating the owners and captain, Sailin', eatin', and all without
pay.

The lad had a face bright and sunny, An' a pair of blue eyes like
a girl's, An' looks up at the scowling first mate, boys, An' shakes
back his long shining curls.

An' says he in a voice clear and pretty, "My stepfather brought me
a-board, And hid me away down the stairs there, For to keep me he could
not afford.
And he told me the big ship would take me To Halifax town, oh, so far;
An' he said, 'Now the Lord is your Father, Who lives where the good
angels are!'" "It's a lie," says the mate,--"Not your father, But some
o' these big skulkers here, Some milk-hearted, soft-headed sailor, Speak
up! tell the truth! d'ye hear?"
Then that pair o' blue eyes bright and winn'n', Clear and shining
with innocent youth, Looks up at the mate's bushy eyebrows, An'
says he, "Sir, I've told you the truth!"

Then the mate pull'd his watch from his pocket, Just as if he'd bin
drawing his knife, "If in ten minutes more you don't tell, lad,
There's the rope! and good-bye to dear life!" Eight minutes went by all
in silence, Says the mate then, "Speak, lad, say your say!" His eyes
slowly filling with tear-drops, He falteringly says, "May I pray?"
An' the little chap kneels on the deck there, An' his hands he
clasps o'er his breast, As he must ha' done often at home, lads,
At night time when going to rest.

And soft came the first words, "Our Father," Low and clear from that
dear baby-lip, But low as they were, heard like trumpet By each true
man aboard o' the ship.
Every bit o' that pray'r then he goes through, To "for ever and ever.
A-men!" An' for all the bright gold in the Indies, I wouldn't ha'
heard him agen!

  Off his feet was the lad sudden lifted,
  And clasp'd to the mate's rugged
  breast, An' his husky voice
  muttered, "God bless you," As his lips to his forehead he press'd.

"You believe me now?" then said the youngster, "Believe you!" he
kissed him once more, "You'd have laid down your life for the truth,
lad; I believe you! from now, ever-more."
* * * * *
WANTED.

The world wants men--light-hearted, manly men-- Men who shall join
its chorus and prolong The psalm of labour and the song of love.

  The times wants scholars--scholars who shall shape The doubtful
  destinies of dubious years, And land the ark that bears our country's
  good, Safe on some peaceful Ararat at last.
      
  The age wants heroes--heroes who shall dare To struggle in the solid
      ranks of
  truth; To clutch the monster error by the throat; To bear
      opinion to a
  loftier seat; To blot the era of oppression out, And lead a universal
  freedom in.
      
  And heaven wants souls--fresh and capacious souls, To taste its
      raptures, and expand like flowers Beneath the glory of its central
sun.

It wants fresh souls--not lean and shrivelled ones; It wants fresh
souls, my brother--give it thine!

If thou, indeed, wilt act as man should act; If thou, indeed, wilt be
what scholars should; If thou wilt be a hero, and wilt strive To help
thy fellow and exalt thyself, Thy feet at last shall stand
on jasper floors, Thy heart at last shall seem a thousand hearts,
Each single heart with myriad raptures filled-- While thou shalt
sit with princes and with kings, Rich in the jewel of a ransomed soul

.

* * * * *
GOD, THE TRUE SOURCE OF CONSOLATION.

O Thou, who driest the mourner's tear, How dark the world would be,
If, when deceived and wounded here, We could not fly to Thee!
The friends who in our sunshine live, When winter comes, are flown; And
he who has but tears to give, Must weep those tears alone.
But Thou wilt heal the broken heart, Which, like the plants that
throw Their fragrance from the wounded part, Breathes sweetness out
of woe.

When joy no longer soothes or cheers, And e'en the hope that threw A
moment's sparkle o'er our tears, Is dimmed and vanished,
too!
Oh! who would bear life's stormy doom, Did not Thy wing of love
Come brightly wafting through the gloom Our peace-branch from above!
Then, sorrow, touched by Thee, grows bright With more than rapture's
ray, As darkness shews us worlds of light, We never saw by day.

_Moore._
* * * * *
SANTA CLAUS IN THE MINES.

In a small cabin in a Californian mining town, away up amid the snow-clad,
rock-bound peaks of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, sat a woman, in widow's
weeds, holding upon her knee a bright-eyed, sunny-faced little girl,
about five years old, while a little cherub of a boy lay upon a bear-skin
before the open fireplace. It was Christmas Eve, and the woman sat
gazing abstractedly into the fireplace. She was yet young, and as the
glowing flames lit up her sad face they invested it with a wierd
beauty.

Mary Stewart was the widow of Aleck Stewart, and but two years before
they had lived comfortably and happy, in a camp on the American
River.

Aleck was a brawny miner; but the premature explosion of a blast
in an exploring tunnel had blotted out his life in an instant, leaving
his family without a protector, and in straitened circumstances.
His daily wages had been their sole support, and now that he was gone,
what could they do?

With her little family Mrs.

Stewart had emigrated to the camp in which we find them, and there
she earned a precarious livelihood by washing clothes for the miners.

Hers was a hard lot; but the brave little woman toiled on, cheered by
the thought that her daily labours stood between her darling little ones
and the gaunt wolf of starvation.

Jack Dawson, a strong, honest miner, was passing the cabin this
Christmas Eve, when the voice of the little girl within attracted
his attention.

Jack possessed
  an inordinate love for
    children, and although his manly spirit would abhor the sneaking
practice of eavesdropping, he could not resist the temptation to
steal up to the window just a moment to listen to the sweet, prattling
voice.

The first words he
  caught were:

"Before papa died we always had Christmas, didn't we, mamma?"
"Yes, Totty, darling; but papa earned money enough to afford to make
his little pets happy at least once a year. You must remember, Totty,
that we are very poor, and although mamma works very, very hard,
she can scarcely earn enough to supply us with food and clothes."

Jack Dawson still lingered upon the outside. He could not leave, although
he felt ashamed of himself for listening.

"We hung up our stockings last Christmas, didn't we, mamma?" continued
the little girl.

"Yes, Totty; but we were poor then, and Santa Claus never notices
real poor people. He gave you a little candy then, just because you
were such good children."
"Is we any poorer now, mamma?"
"Oh! yes, much poorer. He would never notice us at all now."
Jack Dawson detected a tremor of sadness in the widow's voice as
she uttered the last words, and he wiped a suspicious dampness from his
eyes.

"Where's our clean stockings, mamma? I'm going to hang mine up anyhow;
maybe he will come like he did before, just because we try to be
good children," said Totty.

"It will be no use, my darling, I am sure he will not come," and
tears gathered in the mother's eyes as she thought of her empty
purse.

"I don't care, I'm going to try, anyhow. Please get one of my stockings,
mamma."
Jack Dawson's generous heart swelled until it seemed bursting from
his bosom.

He heard the patter of little bare feet upon the cabin floor as
Totty ran about hunting hers and Benny's stockings, and after she
had hung them up, heard her sweet voice again as she wondered over
and over if Santa really would forget them.

He heard the mother, in a choking voice; tell her treasures to get
ready for bed; heard them lisp their childish prayers, the little girl
concluding: "And, O, Lord! please tell good Santa Claus that we are
very poor; but that we love him as much as rich children do, for
dear Jesus' sake--Amen!"

After they were in bed, through a small rent in the plain white
curtain he saw the widow sitting before the fire, her face buried
in her hands, and weeping bitterly.

On a peg, just over the fire-place, hung two little patched and faded
stockings, and then he could stand it no longer. He softly
moved away from the window to the rear of the cabin, where some
objects fluttering in the wind met his eye.

Among these he searched until he found a little blue stocking which he
removed from the line, folded tenderly, and placed in his overcoat
pocket, and then set out for the main street of the camp. He entered
Harry Hawk's gambling hall, the largest in the place, where a host
of miners and gamblers were at play. Jack was well known in the camp,
and when he got up on a chair and called for attention, the hum of
voices and clicking of ivory checks suddenly ceased. Then in an
earnest voice he told what he had seen and heard, repeating every word
of the conversation between the mother and her children. In conclusion
he said:

"Boys, I think I know you, every one of you, an' I know jist what kind
o' metal yer made of. I've an idee that Santy Claus knows jist whar
thet cabin's sitiwated, an' I've an idee he'll find it afore mornin'.
Hyar's one of the little gal's stock'n's thet I hooked off'n the
line. The daddy o' them little ones was a good, hard-working miner, an'
he crossed the range in the line o' duty, jist as any one of us is liable
to do in our dangerous business. Hyar goes a twenty-dollar piece right
down in the toe, and hyar I lay the stockin' on this card table--now
chip in much or little, as ye kin afford."
Brocky Clark, a gambler, left the table, picked the little stocking up
carefully, looked at it tenderly, and when he laid it down another twenty
had gone into the toe to keep company with the one placed there
by Dawson.

Another and another came up until the foot of the stocking was
well filled, and then came the cry from the gambling table:

"Pass her around, Jack."
At the word he lifted it from the table and started around the hall.
Before he had circulated it at half a dozen tables it showed signs
of bursting beneath the weight of gold and silver coin, and a strong
coin bag, such as is used for sending treasure by express, was procured,
and the stocking placed inside of it. The round of the large hall was
made, and in the meantime the story had spread all over the camp.
From the various saloons came messages saying:

"Send the stockin' 'round the camp; boys are a-waitin' for it!"
With a party at his heels, Jack went from saloon to saloon.

Games ceased and tipplers left the bars as they entered each place,
and miners, gamblers, speculators, everybody, crowded up to tender
their Christmas gift to the miner's widow and orphans.

Any one who has lived in the far Western camps and is acquainted with
the generosity of Western men, will feel no surprise or doubt my
truthfulness, when I say that after the round had been made, the
little blue stocking and the heavy canvas bag contained over eight
thousand dollars in gold and silver coin.

Horses were procured, and a party despatched to the larger town down on
the Consumnes, from which they returned near daybreak with toys,
clothing, provisions, etc., in almost endless variety.

Arranging their gifts in proper shape, and securely tying the mouth
of the bag of coin, the party noiselessly repaired to the widow's humble
cabin. The bag was first laid on the steps, and other articles
piled up in a heap over it.

On the top was laid the lid of a large pasteboard box, on which
was written with a piece of charcoal:

"Santy Clause doesn't allways Giv poor Folks The Cold Shoulder in
This camp."

Christmas day dawned bright and beautiful.

Mrs. Stewart arose, and a shade of pain crossed her handsome face
as the empty little stockings caught her maternal eye.

She cast a hurried glance toward the bed where her darlings lay sleeping,
and whispered:

"O God! how dreadful is poverty!"
She built a glowing fire, set about preparing the frugal breakfast,
and when it was almost ready she approached the bed, kissed
the little ones until they were wide awake, and lifted them to the
floor.

With eager haste Totty ran to the stockings, only to turn away sobbing
as though her heart would break. Tears blinded the mother, and clasping
her little girl to her heart, she said in a choking voice:

"Never mind, my darling; next Christmas I am sure mamma will be richer,
and then Santa Claus will bring us lots of nice things."

"O mamma!"
The exclamation came from little Benny, who had opened the door and
was standing gazing in amazement upon the wealth of gifts there
displayed.

Mrs. Stewart sprang to his side and looked in speechless astonishment.
She read the card, and then, causing her little ones to kneel down with
her in the open doorway, she poured out her soul in a torrent of
praise and thanksgiving to God.

Jack Dawson's burly form moved from behind a tree a short distance away,
and sneaked off up the gulch, great crystal tears chasing each
other down his face.

The family arose from their knees, and began to move the stores into
the room. There were several sacks of flour, hams, canned fruit, pounds
and pounds of coffee, tea and sugar, new dress goods, and a
handsome, warm woollen shawl for the widow, shoes, stockings, hats,
mittens, and clothing for the children, a great big wax doll
that could cry and move its eyes for Totty, and a beautiful red
sled for Benny. All were carried inside amidst alternate laughs
and tears.

"Bring in the sack of salt, Totty, and that is all," said the mother. "Is
not God good to us?"

"I can't lift it, mamma, it's frozen to the step!"
The mother stooped and took hold of it, and lifted harder and harder,
until she raised it from the step.

Her cheek blanched as she noted its great weight, and breathlessly she
carried it in and laid it upon the breakfast table.

With trembling fingers she loosened the string and emptied the contents
upon the table. Gold and silver--more than she had ever thought of
in her wildest dreams of comfort, and almost buried in the pile of
treasure lay Totty's little blue stocking.

We will not intrude longer upon such happiness; but leave the joyful
family sounding praises to Heaven and Santa Claus.

_Anon._
* * * * *
A LEGEND OF BREGENZ.

Girt round with rugged mountains The fair Lake Constance lies; In
her blue heart reflected Shine back the starry skies; And, watching
each white cloudlet Float silently and slow, You think a piece of
Heaven Lies on our earth below!

Midnight is there: and Silence, Enthroned in Heaven, looks down
Upon her own calm mirror, Upon a sleeping town:
For Bregenz, that quaint city Upon the Tyrol shore, Has stood above
Lake Constance A thousand years and more.

Her battlements and towers, From off their rocky steep, Have cast
their trembling shadow For ages on the deep:
Mountain, and lake, and valley, A sacred legend know, Of how the
town was saved, one night, Three hundred years ago.

Far from her home and kindred, A Tyrol maid had fled, To serve in the
Swiss valleys, And toil for daily bread; And every year that fleeted
So silently and fast, Seemed to bear farther from her The memory
of the Past.

She served kind, gentle masters, Nor asked for rest or change; Her friends
seemed no more new ones, Their speech seemed no more strange And when
she led her cattle To pasture every day, She ceased to look and
wonder On which side Bregenz lay.

She spoke no more of Bregenz, While longing and with tears; Her Tyrol
home seemed faded In a deep mist of years; She heeded not the
rumours Of Austrian war and strife; Each day she rose, contented,
To the calm toils of life.

Yet, when her master's children Would clustering round her stand, She
sang them ancient ballads Of her own native land; And when at morn
and evening She knelt before God's throne, The accents of her
childhood Rose to her lips alone.

And so she dwelt: the valley More peaceful year by year; When suddenly
strange portents Of some great deed seemed near.

The golden corn was bending Upon its fragile stalk, While farmers,
heedless of their fields, Paced up and down in talk.

The men seemed stern and altered-- With looks cast on the ground; With
anxious faces, one by one, The women gathered round; All talk of flax,
or spinning, Or work, was put away; The very children seemed afraid
To go alone to play.

One day, out in the meadow With strangers from the town, Some secret
plan discussing, The men walked up and down.
Yet now and then seemed watching A strange uncertain gleam, That looked
like lances 'mid the trees That stood below the stream.

At eve they all assembled, Then care and doubt were fled; With jovial
laugh they feasted; The board was nobly spread.
The elder of the village Rose up, his glass in hand, And cried, "We
drink the downfall Of an accursed land!

"The night is growing darker, Ere one more day is flown,
Bregenz, our foemens' stronghold, Bregenz shall be our own!" The
women shrank in terror (Yet Pride, too, had her part), But one poor Tyrol
maiden Felt death within her heart.

Before her stood fair Bregenz; Once more her towers arose; What were
the friends beside her?
Only her country's foes!
The faces of her kinsfolk, The days of childhood flown, The echoes of
her mountains, Reclaimed her as their own.

Nothing she heard around her (Though shouts rang forth again), Gone
were the green Swiss valleys, The pasture, and the plain; Before
her eyes one vision, And in her heart one cry, That said, "Go forth,
save Bregenz, And then, if need be, die!"

With trembling haste, and breathless, With noiseless step, she sped;
Horses and weary cattle Were standing in the shed; She loosed the
strong, white charger, That fed from out her hand, She mounted, and
she turned his head Toward her native land.

Out--out into the darkness-- Faster, and still more fast; The smooth
grass flies behind her, The chestnut wood is past; She looks up;
clouds are heavy; Why is her steed so slow?

  Scarcely the wind beside them Can pass them
    as they go.
  
    "Faster!" she cries, "O faster!"
  Eleven the church-bells chime:
    "O God," she cries, "help
  Bregenz, And bring me there in
    time!"

  But louder than bells' ringing, Or lowing of
    the kine, Grows nearer in the
  midnight The rushing of the Rhine.
    
  Shall not the roaring waters Their
    headlong gallop check?
  The steed draws back in terror-- She leans
    upon his neck To watch the flowing darkness; The bank is high and
steep; One pause--he staggers forward, And plunges in the deep.

  She strives to pierce the blackness,
    And looser throws the rein;
  Her steed must breast the waters
    That dash above his mane.
  
    How gallantly, how nobly,
  He struggles through the foam, And
    see--in the far distance Shine out the lights of home!

  Up the steep bank he bears her,
    And now, they rush again Towards
  the heights of Bregenz, That
    tower above the plain.
  They reach the gate of Bregenz Just as the
    midnight rings, And out
  come serf and soldier To meet the
    news she brings.

  
    Bregenz is saved! Ere
  daylight Her battlements are manned;
    Defiance greets the army That
  marches on the land.
    And if to deeds heroic
  Should endless fame be paid,
    Bregenz does well to honour That noble Tyrol maid.

  Three hundred years are vanished, And
    yet upon the hill An old
  stone gateway rises.
    To do her honour still.

And there, when Bregenz women Sit spinning in the shade, They see
in quaint old carving The Charger and the Maid.

And when, to guard old Bregenz, By gateway, street, and tower, The
warder paces all night long And calls each passing hour:
"Nine," "ten," "eleven," he cries aloud, And then (O crown of Fame!)

  When midnight pauses in the skies, He calls
  the maiden's name!
  
  _Adelaide A. Procter._
  * * * * *
  A TARRYTOWN ROMANCE.
  
  'Twas in ye pleasant olden time, Oh!
  many years ago, When husking bees and singing-schools
  Were all the fun, you know.
  
  The singing-school in Tarrytown, A quaint old town
  in Maine-- Was wisely taught and grandly
  led By a young man named Paine.
  
  A gallant gentleman was Paine, Who liked the lasses
  well; But best he liked Miss Patience
  White, As all his school could tell.
  
  One night the singing-school had met; Young Paine,
  all carelessly, Had turned the leaves
  and said: "We'll sing On page one-seventy."
  
  "'See gentle patience smile on pain.'" On Paine
  they all then smiled, But not so gently as they
  might; And he, confused and wild.
  

  Searched quickly for another place, As quickly gave it
  out; The merriment, suppressed before, Rose now
  into a shout.
  
  These were the words that met his eyes (He
  sank down with a groan); "Oh! give me grief for
  others' woes, And patience for my own!"
  _Good Cheer._
  * * * * *
  THE BISHOPS VISIT.
  Tell you about it? Of course, I will!
I thought 'twould be dreadful to have him come, For Mamma said I
must be quiet and still, And she put away my whistle and drum--

And made me unharness the parlour chairs, And packed my cannon and
all the rest Of my noisiest playthings off up stairs, On account
of this very distinguished guest.
Then every room was turned upside down, And all the carpets hung
out to blow; For when the Bishop is coming to town, The house must
be in order you know.
So out in the kitchen I made my lair, And started a game of
hide-and-seek; But Bridget refused to have me there, For the Bishop
was coming--to stay a week--
And she must make cookies and cakes and pies, And fill every closet
and platter and pan, Till I thought this Bishop so great and wise,
Must be an awfully hungry man.
Well, at last he came; and I do declare, Dear grandpapa, he looked
just like you, With his gentle voice and his silvery hair, And eyes
with a smile a-shining through.
And whenever he read, or talked, or prayed, I understood every
single word; And I wasn't the leastest bit afraid, Though I never
once spoke or stirred;
Till, all of a sudden, he laughed right out To see me sit quietly
listening so; And began to tell us stories about Some queer little
fellows in Mexico.
All about Egypt and Spain--and then He wasn't disturbed by a little
noise, But said that the greatest and best of men Once were rollicking,
healthy boys.
And he thinks it no great matter at all If a little boy runs and
jumps and climbs; And Mamma should be willing to let me crawl Through
the bannister-rails, in the hall, sometimes.For whom, belike, the old man grieves still more
  Than for their fellow-sufferers engulphed
  Where every parting agony is hushed,
  And hope and fear mix not in further strife.
  'But courage, father! let us out to sea--
  A few may yet be saved.'  The daughter's words,
  Her earnest tone and look, beaming with faith,
  Dispel the father's doubts; nor do they lack
  The noble-minded mother's helping hand
  To launch the boat; and with her blessing cheer'd,
  And inwardly sustained by silent prayer,
  Together they put forth, father and child!
  Each grasps an oar, and, struggling, on they go--
  Rivals in effort; and, alike intent
  Here to elude and there to surmount, they watch
  The billows lengthening, mutually cross'd
  And shattered, and regathering their might,
  As if the wrath and troubles of the sea
  Were by the Almighty's sufferance prolong'd
  That woman's fortitude--so tried, so proved--
  May brighten more and more!

            "True to that mark,
  They stem the current of that perilous gorge,
  Their arms still strengthening with the strengthening heart,
  Though danger, as the wreck is neared, becomes
  More imminent.  Nor unseen do they approach;
  And rapture, with varieties of fear
  Incessantly conflicting, thrills the frame
  Of those who, in that dauntless energy,
  Foretaste deliverance; but the least perturb'd
  Can scarcely trust his eyes, when he perceives
  That of the pair--tossed on the waves to bring
  Hope to the hopeless, to the dying, life--
  One is a woman, a poor earthly sister;
  Or, be the visitant other than she seems!
  A guardian spirit sent from pitying heaven,
  In woman's shape!  But why prolong the tale,
  Casting weak words amid a host of thoughts
  Arm'd to repel them?  Every hazard faced,
  And difficulty mastered, with resolve
  That no one breathing should be left to perish,
  This last remainder of the crew were all
  Placed in the little boat, then o'er the deep
  Are safely borne, landed upon the beach,
  And in fulfilment of God's mercy, lodged
  Within the sheltering lighthouse.  Shout, ye waves!
  Pipe a glad song of triumph, ye fierce winds!
  Ye screaming sea mews in the concert join!
  And would that some immortal voice,
  Fitly attuned to all that gratitude
  Breathes out from flock or couch through pallid lips
  Of the survivors, to the clouds might bear--
  (Blended with praise of that parental love,
  Pious and pure, modest and yet so brave,
  Though young so wise, though meek so resolute)
  Might carry to the clouds, and to the stars,
  Yea, to celestial choirs, GRACE DARLING'S name."


By a less-known writer, but one who was evidently a keen admirer of
Grace, the following lines were also written:--

  "'Over the wave, the stormy wave,
    Hasten, dear father, with me,
  The crew to save from the wat'ry grave,
    Deep in the merciless sea.
  Hear ye the shriek, the piercing shriek,
    Hear ye the cry of despair?
  With courage quick the wreck we'll seek,
    Danger united we'll dare.

  "'Out with the boat, the gallant boat;
    Not a moment to be lost.
  See! she's afloat, proudly afloat,
    And high on the waves we're tossed;
  Mother, adieu, a short adieu;
    Your prayers will rise to heaven.
  Father, to you--your child and you--
    Power to save is given.

  "'I have no fear, no maiden fear;
    My heart is firm to the deed,
  I shed no tear, no coward tear;
    I've strength in the time of need.
  Heard ye the crash, the horrid crash?
    Their mast over the side is gone;
  Yet on we dash, 'mid lightning flash,
    Safe, through the pelting storm.

  "'The wreck we near, the wreck we near;
    Our bonny boat seems to fly;
  List to the cheer--their welcome cheer--
    They know that succour is nigh.'
  And on that night, that dreadful night,
    The father and daughter brave,
  With strengthened might they both unite,
    And many dear lives they save.

  "Hail to the maid, the fearless maid,
    The maid of matchless worth,
  She'll e'er abide the cherished pride
    Of the land that gave her birth.
  They send her gold, her name high uphold,
    Honour and praise to impart;
  But, with true regard, the _loved reward
    Is the joy of her own brave heart_."


Very beautiful are the following lines, which appeared in the
"Newcastle Chronicle," and were written by Miss Eleanor Louise
Montague:--

  "Sweet spirit of the merciful,
    That smoothed the watery way!
  From the true throb of heart to heart
    Thou wilt not turn away;
  Oh! softly, wilt thou lend thine ear,
    When 'mid the tempest's war,
  The feeble voice of woman's praise
    Shall greet thee from afar.

  "I see thee in thy rock-built home,
    Swept by the dashing seas,
  I hear thy voice as on that night
    It stilled the rushing breeze.
  When stirred by heavenly visions,
    Thou didst burst the bonds of sleep,
  To take thy place in peril's path--
    The angel of the deep!

  "Oh, where was then the tender form
    That quailed to every blast!
  Like the bread-gift to the famished,
    'Upon the waters cast!'
  True to thy woman's nature still,
    While scorning woman's fears,
  Oh, strongest in her gentleness,
    And mightiest in her tears!

  "Fair as thine own heroic deed
    Thou risest on my dream,
  A halo is around thee,
    'Tis the tempest's lightning gleam--
  Upborne by every billow,
    And o'erswept by every gale,
  One sound hath nerved thy noble heart--
    The dying seaman's wail!

  "Thine eye onto the wreck is turned--
    Thy hand is on the oar--
  Where is that death-prolonging shriek?
    It thrills the seas no more!
  A human soul to life hath risen
    Where'er thy wing hath waved:
  The wail is hushed--the storm is past--
    The perishing are saved!

  "Thou standest, like thy native home,
    A beacon lit on high;
  Thy name comes o'er the waters
    Like a nation's gathering cry;
  And England's sons shall hail thee,
    Where'er that name shall thrill,
  A glory upon every wave--
    A light on every hill!"


So much praise was enough to turn the head of any less sensible girl
than our heroine; but one who knew wrote of her after this time, in the
"Berwick and Kelso Warder:"--"It is indeed gratifying to state, that
amidst all the tumults of applause, Grace Darling never for a moment
forgot the modest dignity of conduct which became her sex and station.
The flattering testimonials of all kinds which were showered upon her,
never produced in her mind any feeling but a sense of wonder and
pleasure.  She continued, notwithstanding the improvement of her
circumstances, to reside at the Longstone lighthouse with her father
and mother, finding, in her limited sphere of domestic duty on the
sea-girt islet, a more honourable and more lasting enjoyment than could
be found in the more crowded haunts of the mainland, and thus afforded,
by her conduct, the best proof that the liberality of the public had
not been unworthily bestowed."

A paper written in the "Scotsman" on the subject is exceedingly good,
and no doubt amazed and delighted Grace as much as those that were more
apparently eulogistic; for to a sensible, modest girl, too much praise
is more disagreeable than none at all.

"_The Grace Darling Mania_.--Never was poor girl in so fair a way of
being spoiled as Grace Darling.  We were amongst the first to
acknowledge the credit due to this young damsel for her exertions at
the wreck of the 'Forfarshire;' but really we begin to have serious
apprehensions lest she herself should be whirled away by the tide of
public favour which has set in so strongly towards her.  Truly, the
storm which roared and whistled over the Fern rocks on the night of her
achievement has awakened a pretty echo in the mainland.  Not only have
large sums of money been collected throughout the country to reward the
little heroine, but various silver cups and medals have been presented
to her, both from private individuals and humane societies.  Five
pounds, it is said, have been given by one person (though not to her)
for a lock of her hair, while the painter, the sculptor, and the poet,
have caught the mania, and endeavoured to give permanence to her
celebrity.  She has even been represented on the London stage in the
person of Mrs. Yates, and some whispers were lately afloat of her
appearing in Batty's arena in _propria persona_.  She is also, we
perceive, made the subject of a tale now in course of publication;
while a vessel lately launched at Sunderland has been called after her
name.  In short, Grace Darling is the fashion.  Dukes and Duchesses
have entertained her as their guest, and she has even been honoured and
rewarded by Royalty itself.  What mortal girl could bear up against
such rewards--such flatteries?  Without detracting from her really
praiseworthy conduct, there is, we think, in the sensation she has
created, a little touch of the romantic.  Had Grace Darling been a
married woman, dwelling in some poor alley in an ordinary town, and
with no rarer or prettier an appellation than Smith, Brown, M'Tavish,
or Higginbottom, a greater deed would, perhaps, have won her less
favour.  But a young woman--a sea-nymph--inhabiting a rock in the
ocean, and coming to the few survivors of the wreck, like a bird of
calm over the troubled waters--who, that has a beating pulse, could
resist!  Grace Darling, too, is a name to take one's heart and one's
memory; and although 'a rose by any other name would smell as sweet,'
we cannot for all the pretty pleading of Juliet, read or speak about
roses without feeling something of their fragrance.  If, previous to
that deed which has gilded her humble name, any honest fisher-lad ever
saw in Grace Darling more to admire than even the world has seen since,
he will win a true heart if he contrive to keep her affections.  Those
who have accidentally risen are, in general, the least inclined to
stoop; and if she do not number suitors with Miss Burdett Coutts or
Queen Victoria herself, Malthus or Martineau, one, or both of them,
must answer for it.  Meanwhile with Grace Darling we have no quarrel;
and if her modesty only outlive the honours heaped upon her, we shall
be the first to acknowledge that her courage has deserved them."

Many a laugh, we may be sure, had the lighthouse-family over such
articles, though there can be no doubt that the good sense of Grace
caused her to take advantage of every lesson taught to her, whether by
words of praise or blame.  We cannot, perhaps, exalt her deed too
highly, but it should always be borne in mind, that she would have been
just as good a girl if the "Forfarshire" had never been wrecked on the
coast of the Farne Islands.  Grace was heroic already, but the
catastrophe brought her qualities of courage, endurance, and humanity,
to the front.  One feels glad to know that all the praise did not make
her other than the humble British girl, though few, perhaps, could pass
through such an ordeal of adulation unscathed.  The flatteries had,
however, a ludicrous as well as a touching side, as may be seen from
the following extract.  Hero-worship leads to the hoarding of many
things, including bark of trees, stones, mortar, old rags, and hair;
and it is little wonder if Grace found the latter tendency rather
inconvenient.

"Grace Darling's name is now as well known throughout the island as
Queen Anne's; and to tell people of the decease of the one is about as
necessary as to warn them of the living glory of the other.  Grace is
the admired of all admirers, and far is it from us to wish her grace
diminished in men's eyes, or herself less a darling than she is at
present.  But the enthusiasm of gratitude and idolatry is becoming
somewhat alarming.  We know not how the persons who, principally by her
intrepidity, were saved from the wreck of the 'Forfarshire,' may feel
towards their 'good angel in the hour of fate,' but every body else
seems to think of her as one to whom they owe the life of some being
related to themselves by blood, and inestimably prized by affection.
The universal feeling in this case shows us how truly

  'One touch of nature makes the whole world kin.'


"All feel individually grateful to Grace Darling; and not a stranger
that talks of her but knows her intimately.  But, as we have said, the
expression of this feeling of love and reverence is assuming an awkward
character.  It has taken, it appears, the shape or shapes of infinite
demands upon her generosity in a minor way--of countless and
incalculable requests addressed to her by admirers of heroism, whenever
stirred out of their arm chairs but to accommodate themselves, and
trumpeters of intrepidity who have fainted at the bare idea of getting
wet-footed, that she will be so exceedingly self-devoted and munificent
as to clip from her head a curl--just one--as a token by which her name
and nature may be identified and treasured up; just one ringlet--one
apiece, for upwards of ten thousand applicants scattered over various
parts of the kingdom, but all linked together by a common sentiment.
The last report is (we quote the newspapers) that Grace is nearly bald;
that lock after lock has gone, each finding its way into ring, brooch,
or locket, until

  'The Darling of life's crew'

discovers, like Caesar, that a laurel crown may be worn for use as well
as ornament--may hide as well as adorn.  Really, a lock at a time is an
extravagance--a hair should suffice; for if ever it could be said that

  'Beauty draws us by a single hair,'

it may be said of the moral beauty of Grace Darling.

"It is impossible to guard ourselves against the tendencies to
enthusiastic devotion for the living life preserver, because the very
name is a provocative.  Were two such words ever before combined to
form a name?--the one expressing the natural quality of the bearer of
it, and the other defining what her deeds have made her in the regard
of others."

Not only was Grace Darling herself likely to be made bald by the
request of her loving admirers, but those who belonged to her shared
the same inconvenience.  One of her younger brothers was away at sea,
and did not know of his sister's fame until he came into the Thames.
No sooner, however, was his name heard than he had to answer a number
of questions.  Did he know anything of the Longstone lighthouse?  Had
he a sister?  Was the great Grace Darling any relation to him?  As soon
as it was known that he really belonged to the same family, he was
himself exalted into a hero of the second class, and people thronged
round to look at, admire, and cross-question him.  The young fellow
bore it all very good-humouredly--in fact, he rather liked it.  But
after a time his numerous and newly-found friends conceived the idea of
possessing a lock of the Darling hair, and the young man could not well
refuse so flattering a request.  So one helped herself, and told her
friend, who told his friend, and so it went on; and the end was, that
young Darling, who possessed a curly head of hair, became completely,
and rather irregularly shorn.

We give two other extracts from papers that appeared at the time, or
soon after.  The following is from the "Spectator:"--

"It is not often that heroines of real life possess the adventitious
attractions of a pretty name, or a charming person; but Grace Darling
has both.  She would unquestionably have been loved and admired as
heartily had she been Dorothy Dobbs, with a wide mouth, snub nose, and
a squint; but it is pleasant to find coupled with a fine and generous
nature, a lovely face, and a name at once euphonious and cherishable.
Grace Darling!  Poet or novelist need not desire one better fitted to
bestow on a paragon of womanhood; we would see it embalmed in a sonnet
by Wordsworth, or a lyric by Campbell; but it will live in our land's
language, even if not immortalised in song."

The "Sunderland Herald," of November 22nd, contained the following
interesting article on the Darlings:--

"Grace Darling, the heroine of the day, was born on the 24th of
November, 1815; consequently she will be twenty-three on Saturday, the
24th inst.  She is rather short in stature, being only five feet two
and a half inches in height, but well proportioned.  Her features are
admirably adapted for the skill of the painter, and equally so for the
chisel of the sculptor.  She is modest and remarkably pleasant in her
manners, and perfectly free from the shy awkward gait of country girls
in general.  And you will be surprised when I inform you, that there is
excellent accommodation to be met with at the Longstone lighthouse,
although it stands alone, upon a barren rock, five miles from the
mainland.  The tower is very ingeniously constructed, and contains a
well-furnished sitting room, in which is a capital collection of
popular works, and three or four comfortable bedrooms.  These, with an
abundance of good, wholesome, homely fare, together with the very
cheerful service of Grace and her parents, render a visit to the Farne
Islands a treat of no ordinary description.  Grace was taught to read
and write by her father, together with seven of her brothers and
sisters; and their school-room was the lantern of the lighthouse.

"William Darling, the father of Grace, is only in the fifty-fourth year
of his age, though he looks much older His face reminds me of the late
Thomas Stothard, R.A., the painter of the Canterbury Pilgrimage, and
his person, of the venerable Earl Grey.  He reads much, and is most
passionately fond of natural history.

"Mrs. Darling is a hale, comely old lady, bordering on threescore, and
may be found engaged three parts of the day at her spinning wheel.  It
is true she assisted to make ready the boat at day-break, on the
morning of the melancholy wreck of the 'Forfarshire,' but her heart
failed when her husband and child pushed off; and, as the wave receded
from the rock on which she stood trembling, with tears she exclaimed,
'Oh, Grace, if your father is lost, I'll blame a' you for this
morning's work?'  And who would censure the mother under such
circumstances, especially when the fact is known, that she was left
alone on the island to witness their struggles as they crossed a pass
between the Longstone rocks and those on which the surviving sufferers
of the ill-fated 'Forfarshire' were anxiously looking out for help?
The particulars of that noble deed have already been published, but I
happen to have a newspaper account of another heroic action by the same
family, which took place in the month of December, 1834, and was thus
noticed in the 'Berwick Advertiser':--

"On Saturday night, December 27th, about eleven o'clock, the sloop
'Autumn,' of Peterhead, coal-laden, ran upon the Naestone rock, outside
the Farne Islands, and immediately sunk; the master, in endeavouring to
get the boat launched, unfortunately went down with the sloop!  The
other two men (being the whole of the crew), clung to the mast and
topmast, and as the tide receded, descended the ship's deck, and
finally, about four o'clock in the morning, the rock appeared, which
they got upon, and remained there till about eight o'clock, when they
were discovered by the lighthouse-keeper, Darling, who most
providentially, having his three sons with him spending their
Christmas, got out their boat, and got alongside the rock about nine
o'clock (half an hour before it was covered by the returning tide), and
with great exertion succeeded in getting a rope thrown to one of the
men, who, having lashed himself, was dragged through the sea to the
boat; the other poor fellow, having previously died upon the fatal
rock, was left there.  With very great exertions Darling and his sons
gained the lighthouse, having broken two of their oars whilst
attempting to approach the rock; and thus crippled, they got a small
sail set, but the wind being against them, they had much difficulty in
regaining the island.  Very great praise is due to Darling and his sons
for their great exertions--having run a considerable risk in
approaching the rock with a heavy sea.  A signal gun upon each island
where the lighthouses are, would be of very great use in cases of
accidents of this sort, when assistance could be immediately had from
North Sunderland, Bamborough, or Holy Island--for had it not been for
the circumstance of Darling's sons being there, this poor fellow must
inevitably have perished."

We are sure that the birthday of the heroine referred to in the above
extracts was celebrated in many a home, and that hundreds of thousands
of people wished her many happy returns of the day, a wish which,
however, was not to be realised.  But there can be no doubt that the
day was a most happy one to her; for it is not many who, looking back
upon a past year, can think of any good deed that deserves to stand
side by side with that of Grace Darling.

The following birthday lines were written for her by Mr. J. G. Grant,
of Sunderland:---

  "Maid of the Isle, heroic Grace!
    'Midst desert rocks and tempests thrown,
  As though in sternest clime and place,
  Where life and man have scarce a trace,
  Maternal Nature would embrace
    A heroine of her own!

  "Methinks, while yet in cradled sleep,
    She loved and destined thee to be
  A dweller of the craggy steep,
  A watcher of the stormy deep,
  And bade its wild waves nurse and keep
    Thy heart as strong and free.

  "She bade thee draw a deep delight--
    An influence kind--an impulse brave,
  From every season in its flight,
  From gentle Spring and Summer bright,
  From golden Autumn, and the might
    Of winter's wind and wave.

  "By every aspect she could show,
    In heaven above and earth below,
  She bade thy spirit statelier grow,
  And 'champion human fears!'
  Courage and love she bade thee know,
  And with the noblest passions glow,
    And melt with noblest tears!

  "Like Ocean's daughter--Peril's bride--
  She nurs'd thee by the roaring tide,
    The playmate of its storms,
  And bade thee be in soul allied
  With moral grandeur, strength and pride,
  To her thy monitress and guide
    In all her moods and forms.

  "To thee she said, in accents bland,
  'These desert rocks and wild sea-land
  Shall be as dear a father-land
    As ever yet was dearest;
  'Midst all of lone, and stern, and grand,
  Thy heart shall burn, thy soul expand,
  And thou shall know and understand
    _My_ voice in all thou hearest

  "'Day's radiant arch--night's cloudy dome,
  Alike shall see thee fearless roam,
  And life to thee shall dear become,
    And thou its humblest forms shall blend
  With the sweet charities of home,
  S'en the poor sea-bird on the foam
    Shalt be to thee a friend!'

  "This nature wills; her will avails,
  Thy matchless deed may show.
  Thy lofty heart that did not quail
    When raged on high the stormy gale,
  And ocean rag'd below.
  A meed of glory shall not fail!
  Grace Darling's is the noblest tale
  That e'er made woman's cheeks look pale,
    Or man's with envy glow!

  "Heroic girl! these volumes take,
  For proudest admiration's sake;
    Proud volumes so possess'd!
  And may my own brave Constance make
  A kindred admiration wake
    In thy congenial breast!

  "And wouldst thou know, 'heart-honoured maid!
  How thrice a thousand-fold repaid
    My humble gift may be?
  With cheerful hand and heart unbraid
  The band thy modest brow that shades,
  And send, with three kind words convey'd,
    One little tress to me!

  "Be this a birthday doubly bless'd!
  Joy to thine aged mother's breast!
  And long, caressing and caress'd,
    May her maternal kiss,
  While peaceful years melt calm away,
  Make to thy heart each natal day
    As joyous e'en as this!

  "Brave daughter of a sire as brave
  As ever risked a surging grave,
    In tides of stormiest swell!
  Thou that didst share that fearful strife,
  All joy be to thee, maid or wife!
  And may'st thou brave the storms of life
    As fearlessly and well."


It may be interesting to the reader to know that the boat which carried
Grace Darling and her father to the "Forfarshire," is probably in
existence at the present day, It came into the possession of Mr. George
Darling, of North Sunderland, who was the brother of Grace; and he took
great care of it--this boat, with a history of which so many people had
thought with tears in their eyes!  He had often been solicited to sell
it, and at last did so, to Major Joicey, of Stocksfield-on-Tyne.
Pieces of this boat have come in for the affection usually bestowed on
interesting relics, for some planks that were taken out for repairs
have been preserved as great treasures, and snuff-boxes and other
articles have been made from them.  But nothing is needed to keep in
the hearts of the people of our own and other lands the memory of the
gallant deed.  Grace Darling is loved still, and we do not forget our
beloved ones.

These records give some idea of the enthusiasm which had been awakened
by the splendid deed which has been related.  Cold-hearted critics
there were, no doubt, who, never having done an unselfish action in
their lives, would not believe in Grace Darling's disinterestedness,
and buttoned their pockets closely when asked to contribute towards the
testimonial which was presented to her.  But these were very few.  The
greater number who heard of the heroine's name were generous in their
praise, so that her name became a household word among them, and they
were right, for they learned the blessedness of giving.


CHAPTER XIV.

A VISIT TO ALNWICK CASTLE.

  "A young rose in the summer-time
    Is beautiful to me,
  And glorious are the many stars
    That glimmer on the sea;
  But gentle words and loving hearts,
    And hands to clasp my own,
  Are better than the brightest flowers
    Or stars that ever shone.

  "The sun may warm the grass to life,
    The dew the drooping flower,
  And eyes grow bright, and watch the light
    Of Autumn's opening hour;
  But words that breathe of tenderness,
    And smiles we know are true,
  Are warmer than the summer time,
    And brighter than the dew.

  "It is not much the world can give
    With all its subtle art,
  And gold and gems are not the things
    To satisfy the heart;
  But oh, if those who cluster round.
    The altar and the hearth,
  Have gentle words, and loving smiles,
    How beautiful is earth!"--C. D. Stewart.


It has already been intimated that one of the pleasures which was given
to Grace, as the reward of her heroic deed, was caused by the kindly
notice and sympathy of one of the most noble ladies of the
north--namely, the Duchess of Northumberland.  We have already referred
to some of the members of this ancient family, and their baronial
residence, Alnwick Castle.  In the midst of the congratulations and
honours which were heaped upon her, the humble lighthouse maiden was
startled, as well as gratified, to receive an invitation from Her Grace
to visit her.  It is not difficult to imagine the flutter of excitement
which this caused, nor to picture Grace, with glowing cheeks and bright
eyes, as she talked of the event with her father and mother.  She was,
indeed, almost overcome by the prospect of it, and terribly anxious
lest she should not acquit herself properly in the interview.  It may
be safely said that she was far more afraid of facing the great people
than she had been of contending with the wild and angry waves.  She
knew what to expect from them, but she was rather puzzled to know what
was expected of her when she should appear before the noble ladies and
gentlemen who wished to see her.  Still, of course, she must go bravely
to the one as she had gone to the other; for such an honour, which
would certainly occur only once even in her eventful life, must not be
slighted.  She greatly mistrusted herself, for she had lived very
quietly in her lighthouse-home, and was thoroughly unversed and
inexperienced in the ways of the great world; and the thought of going
into such illustrious society as that of the Duchess might well have
made even more worldly-wise people than Grace Darling perturbed and
anxious.

"I am sure," she said, "that I shall make some stupid mistake, or not
be able to answer the questions that are put to me as I ought."

"Perhaps not," said her father.  "It is a trying ordeal for you, Grace,
but I do not think you need be afraid; for every one speaks of the
Duchess as a most kind and condescending lady.  Of course, she will not
expect from you those forms and ceremonies which other people render,
for she will know that your education has been of a different sort from
that which is given to those who have to shine in courts; but I am
quite sure she will make you feel at your ease, and that this visit
which you dread will be most pleasurable."

Thus comforted, Grace was able to bear to look forward more calmly to
the coming honour.  Mr. Darling was a wise man, and he knew how to make
even this visit a simple and natural thing, by introducing some of the
home element into it.

"We will first go and see William," he said, for his son was living at
Alnwick, "and make him happy by a visit.  He will almost be too proud
of his sister now, I imagine."

"It will be very good to see him," said Grace, who loved her brother,
and who thought henceforth of him when she thought of her visit to the
castle.

At last the day arrived on which she was expected.  She dressed in her
usual simple style, and looked neat, pretty, and unpretending, as she
always did.  Her mother was quite satisfied with her appearance, and
went down to the water's edge with her to bid her good-bye, and see her
start with her father.

They had a pleasant sail over the sea, and a warm greeting from
William, and then they went together to the castle.

It is a grand old place; and as they approached it, the heart of Grace
Darling was moved with admiration and awe.  She thought of the olden
times, and all the scenes which those walls had witnessed, and begged
her father now and again to wait, while she examined the different
devices and relics that were visible.  Through the gloomy archway they
passed, and then the castle, with its towers and battlements, was
before them, and presently they had entered the court.  As soon as
their names were known, they were at once admitted, and an usher
conducted them up the spacious staircase, where the emblazoned
escutcheons were numerous, end where the lofty ceiling especially
attracted the admiration of the girl.  They were then led into a
splendid saloon, whose walls were hung with portraits of the Percy
family; and here the Duchess of Northumberland received the heroine of
the Farne Isles.

For a moment Grace felt embarrassed as she recognised the fact of the
personality of the lady who, with gentle dignity, stood before her.
But soon, when the kindly voice of the Duchess addressed the girl, she
ventured to lift her hazel eyes to the fair face of the questioner, and
then she met a smile so sweet and reassuring that her timidity
vanished.  It may be safely affirmed that the visit gave fully as much
pleasure to one as to the other; and the Duchess, allowing this to be
seen, was able to elicit from Grace her own description of the brave
and perilous feat which had gained the honour of an introduction to the
castle.  When his daughter had finished, however, Mr. Darling asked
permission to give his version of the affair, remarking that the
modesty of his daughter had caused her to omit several points of
interest.  The Duchess listened to him with respect, and now and then
asked a question, which caused the man to feel that her heart was
touched by the deed of heroism that his daughter had performed.

When she had been made acquainted with the facts from the lips of those
who were better able than any one beside to give an account of them,
the Duchess complimented them both on their courage, intrepidity, and
humanity, remarking to Grace that she would always feel particularly
interested in her, and would adopt her as her special protegee.

"You will perhaps be surprised to find," said the Duchess, graciously,
"that the fame of your heroic deed has reached the Court of the Queen,
and has been talked of in the presence of Her Majesty, who has
commissioned me to express to you her approval of your conduct."

Tears came to Grace's eyes, and she could scarcely speak, though every
fresh sentence made her again and again bow in humility; and her
courtesy expressed her thanks better than words could do.

"Nor is that all," said the Duchess.  "Her Majesty has commanded me to
be the bearer of a present to you, and I trust it will contribute to
your comfort and delight.  The Queen is quick to recognise any good
deeds of her subjects, and those who save life are especially dear to
her.  I am sure you will be gratified by the notice of the Royal Lady."

She was, indeed; but had she attempted to say so tears must have
fallen, and the girl was really too much excited to speak.  Her father,
however, who saw how matters stood, took the burden himself.

"Your Grace will, I hope, kindly pardon my daughter," he said.  "She is
overwhelmed by the condescension of your Grace, and that of the Queen;
but, indeed, I know that she is most anxious to thank you, and does it
in her heart, if she cannot trust herself to put her sentiments into
words."

The Duchess looked first at the slender, frightened girl, and then at
the venerable form of her aged-looking father, and, as she thought of
the deed which they had done between them, she accorded them most
generous praise and admiration.

"Let me give you now Her Majesty's present," she said, handing a packet
to Grace, "and also ask you to accept from the Duke and myself a token
of our appreciation and regard."

After this Mr. and Miss Darling were conducted by an attendant to one
of the housekeeper's rooms, where they were asked to partake of some
refreshment.  They had never before seen such a display of magnificence
and elegance; and as they took their meal, they could scarcely help
smiling at the contrast between their own humble home and the luxuries
which were strewn around them.  The housekeeper knew how at once to
please the Duchess and her visitors, and make the latter feel at home,
even while they wondered at the splendour around them.  She wanted to
make the lighthouse-keeper and his daughter really happy, and give them
such a treat as they would always remember with pleasure; and in her
efforts she was seconded by all the other members of the household, who
vied with each other in their attentions to their homely, but
celebrated guests; and the respect, and even deference with which they
were treated could not be otherwise than grateful to the feelings of
those whom Alnwick that day delighted to honour.

When the repast was ended, Grace and her father were asked if they
would like to look over the castle, and see its treasures, both ancient
and modern.  They replied that they would be greatly delighted to do
so, and a very pleasant time was spent in visiting and examining the
different apartments.  They saw the library, which set Grace longing,
for good books were her delight; and such books as those in the library
at Alnwick had hitherto only been seen by Grace in her dreams.  Next to
the library, she admired the chapel, which is indeed worthy of all
admiration, for the magnificence and beauty of its adornments can
scarcely be surpassed.

Grace Darling was particularly interested in all that she saw.  She had
not grown up in an ignorant, uncultured state, and her familiarity with
books, and especially with ballads, caused her to observe everything
around that presented new ideas and lessons.  She had quick powers of
perception, and nothing was unnoticed or misunderstood by her.  It is
absurd to see the blank astonishment, or dull sleepy inertness with
which some tourists look upon the castles and other great show-places
of our country.  They evidently do not understand what is said, though
they are anxious to "do" the thing properly, and to secure a guide for
the purpose of assisting them.  But Grace brought a large amount of
intelligence to bear upon this visit, and she received proportionate
pleasure and instruction in consequence.

When the rooms had been visited, Grace and her father passed into the
court-yard, when the porter, whose office it was to conduct strangers
around the building, came forward to act as their guide.

"So you have seen the interior of the castle, Mr. Darling?  It is a
very grand place, both outside and in, and there are wonderful pictures
and so on, but I assure you that I shall have the pleasure of showing
you things far more astonishing and interesting than you have seen yet.
Come with me!  Now, this is the seat of Henry Hotspur, what do you
think of that?"

Old memories came rushing over Grace, and especially of the border
ballads which she had learned long ago.

  "Lord Percy made a solemn feast,
    In Alnwick's princely hall,
  And there came lords, and there came knights,
    His chiefs and barons all."


"Now, come into the armoury, Miss Grace, for there are things there
that are particularly well worth looking at.  Now, these are weapons
used in the French war.  The Duke of Northumberland raised an army of
volunteers, and he supported them, too, and these are the arms we used."

"Were you then one of the volunteers who served under the command of
His Grace?" inquired Miss Darling.

"Yes, indeed," said the man, with a touch of natural pride; "I was one
of them, and would not have been left out of the number for a good
deal."

"What are these things?" inquired Grace, as they stood near some very
simple implements of warfare.

"They were brought from Otaheite," replied their guide.  "Take them in
your hands, Miss Grace, and see what you think of them, and what use
you could make of them."

"I understand the use of an English oar much better," said Grace, with
a smile, and this brought another of the many compliments which the
guide passed upon her prowess and gallantry.

"This is one of the canoes which they use," he continued; "will you get
in and endeavour to paddle yourself across the lake?"

Grace was delighted to make the attempt, and still more pleased when
she succeeded in it.

After the usual remarks of the guide had been duly attended to, he
directed their attention to the donjon-keep--an abode so full of dreary
horror, that to it might justly be applied Dante's motto above the
gates of Eblis.  Mr. Darling and Grace pursued this tour around the
ramparts of the castle, admiring afresh the view down the soft green
sloping lawn, to the beautiful and varied windings of the Aln.  They
and their guide had by this time become familiar, and many a treasured
legend and traditionary tale were told relating to the house of Percy.

Stopping near a piece of artillery of an unusual design, their
conductor desired them to observe with attention its form and
appearance, for (continued he) I must tell you a singular circumstance
respecting this field-piece.  "Many years ago this cannon was taken by
a party of English soldiers, during an engagement with the Spanish army
on the banks of the Tagus, brought to this country, and some time after
presented to His Grace.  It happened on a Sunday morning, that two
Spanish officers, passing through Alnwick, desired to see through the
castle.  When arrived at this particular spot, they stopped short, one
of them exclaiming, 'By heavens! this is the cannon lost by my men on
the banks of the Tagus!'  'Ha, ha!  Mr. Darling, was it not a good joke
that this very Spanish officer should have come all the way to Alnwick
Castle to find a favourite piece of cannon lost by himself in his own
country?'  When His Grace returned from church, I took an opportunity
of relating the whole circumstance, and that I believed, from their
manners, they would have liked to have taken it away with them.  The
reply made by His Grace was--'They should have taken more care of it
when they had it.'  'Ha, ha! young lady, they should have taken more
care when they had it!'" [1]

After this the pleasant visit soon came to an end; but even before it
did so, Grace found it difficult to concentrate her thoughts upon the
remarks of their amusing guide.  The mention of the word Spain brought
to the mind of the girl a lady whom in all fidelity she loved still,
who was at that time dwelling in that country--namely, Miss Caroline
Dudley.  The girl felt that to see her friend again would give her
greater pleasure than many of the honours that were heaped upon her;
and she could not resist the feeling of regret and melancholy that
stole over her as she thought of the great distance between them.  She
wondered, no doubt, whether the fame of her deed would reach the ear of
her friend, and if so, what she would think of it.  Woman-like, Grace
would surely value much more the simple expression of approbation which
fell from the lips, or was written by the hand of one whom she loved,
than all the flatteries which the press heaped upon her, and the crowd
endorsed.

The day spent at the castle remained in the memory of Grace for another
reason than that of the kindly notice of the Duchess of Northumberland.
It was known in Alnwick that the heroine whom they all delighted to
honour was in the neighbourhood, and the town became astir with the
news.  All who were acquainted with Grace knew that she shrank from
publicity and formality; but such an opportunity could not be allowed
to pass unimproved, and therefore the folk did their best to show the
maiden how much they loved her for her heroic conduct.  The news was
rapidly circulated through the town, and an immense crowd gathered
outside the castle, and waited for the Darlings.  No sooner did they
appear than the concourse sent up such a cheer that the air rang with
it.  Surely no people can shout like the English can; for they put
their hearts into their voices when their enthusiasm has been really
aroused, and then the applause has a most thrilling sound.  It was,
however, almost more than Grace could bear, and it frightened her so
much that she clung to her father for his protection.  Again the loud
hurrahs rose in the air, and Grace's face turned pale, and her heart
beat violently.

"Do not be afraid, Grace.  Only look at the people, and you will find
that they are all your friends."

Truly they were; and though, like English crowds, they were a little
boisterous, and though they did press closely to Grace, in order to
have a look at her, and though they tried to touch her hands, or at all
events her clothes, their faces were so friendly, and they looked so
good-humoured, and were evidently so delighted with their own good
fortune, that it was impossible for Grace to feel very antagonistic.
Still she could not help shrinking from so public a manifestation of
the feelings of the people, even though the feelings themselves were
kindly toward her; and as the crowd which escorted her increased in
numbers, and became even more noisy in its demonstration of delight,
she was heartily glad when the abode of her brother was reached, and
she could shut the door upon the admirers, and find the quiet for which
she longed.

She was even more glad when it was time to return to her dear island
home; and when she reached it, she found there had been visitors to the
lighthouse, who had regretted to have missed seeing her.

She and her father had been gone some time when a boat came to the
island; and two men landed--one elderly, and the other young and
handsome.  They were dressed like seamen, but were evidently of a
superior class to that of the ordinary sailor.

They found Mrs. Darling, and immediately inquired after her husband and
daughter, and were not a little surprised and gratified when they heard
that Grace had been summoned to Alnwick Castle, on a visit to the
Duchess of Northumberland.

"You may well be proud of your honour, Mrs. Darling," said the elder
man.  "Pretty Grace will be holding her head high after such favour,
and lucky will the lad be who wins her love.  What do you say, Tom?"

The young man thus addressed said nothing, but his evident
embarrassment, and increase of colour, showed that Grace's heroism had
touched his heart.  He showed his feelings so plainly that he had to
endure the usual penance inflicted in such cases, for both Mrs. Darling
and the young man's companion laughed heartily at him.

"You will stay until my husband and daughter return!" said Mrs.
Darling, with her usual hospitality; and the younger man looked eagerly
toward his companion.

"No, thank you, we cannot," replied the latter.  "It will be getting
dark soon, and we must reach Holy Island before the shadows come.  Now
then, Tom, hand out the parcel we have brought for Grace, and let us be
going."

They had left the island about an hour when Grace and her father
reached it.  Mrs. Darling was anxious to hear all they had to tell her
of the eventful day; and her mother's pride received much gratification
when she learned all the particulars.

Then she told them of the visitors that she had had; and at the mention
of Tom's name, the colour came into Grace's face.  She knew Tom very
well.  He was an orphan, and his bachelor uncle, who had now
accompanied him, had taken care of him since his parents died.  He was
a frequent visitor at the lighthouse, and long before Grace Darling's
name was famous, it had become dear to him.  The girl knew that Tom
loved her, and it was this knowledge which made her blush.  It is true
that Tom had never confessed to the feeling that glowed in his breast,
but Grace, with a woman's quick-wittedness, comprehended it.  Her
mother wondered if she also returned it; but at present,
notwithstanding her blushes, she did not give him the love that he
evidently felt for her.

So ended one of the most eventful days in the girl's history; and very
happy it must have made her to feel that her simple effort in the cause
of humanity had commended itself both to the rich and great, and to
those who lived in the humbler walks of life.  So true it is that a
good deed, by whomsoever performed, is recognised and admired by all
who know of it.  The world is not as cold as it seems.  And sometimes
it can feel, not envy and malice only, but real admiration and respect.
It is a pity that there are not more good deeds done, and more of the
right kind of enthusiasm created.


[1] "Grace Darling," by W. & T. Fordyce.  1839.  [Transcriber's note:
This date was blurred--it appears to be 1839, but may be 1889.]


CHAPTER XV.

THE DARLING FAMILY AT HOME.

  "The merry homes of England!
    Around their hearths by night,
  What gladsome looks of household love
    Meet in the rudy light!
  There woman's voice glows forth in song,
    Or childhood tale is told,
  Or lips move tunefully along
    Some glorious page of old.

  "The cottage homes of England!
    By thousands on her plains,
  They are smiling o'er the silvery brooks,
    And round the hamlet fanes;
  Through glowing orchards forth they peep,
    Each from its nook of leaves;
  And fearless there the lonely sleep,
    As the bird beneath their eaves.

  "The free fair homes of England!
    Long long in hut and hall
  May hearts of native proof be reared
    To guard each hallowed wall!
  And green for ever be the groves,
    And bright the flowery sod,
  Where first the child's glad spirit loves
    Its country and its God."--Mrs. Hemans.


It was said by One who knew the hearts of men, "A prophet is not
without honour save in his own country and in his own house," and there
is a pathos and truth about it that is often felt.  Still, sometimes it
happens, very happily for those whom it concerns, that the best friends
one has are those of one's own household.  It was certainly so in the
case of Grace Darling.  She was always the favourite of her brothers
and sisters, and so delighted were they with the deed she had done, and
the honours she had won, that it is a wonder that they did not come
home to the lighthouse in a body to congratulate her and share in her
many honours.  They did, however, look forward to the Christmas
holidays on that occasion, with most pleasant anticipations, believing
that the festival of the year, so memorable in the history of their
family would be one of the most happy they had ever spent.  And so it
was--to Grace especially.  She looked forward to it most eagerly, for
the praise she had received had made her, not less, but more loving to
these friends of her own home.  Most of them she had not seen for a
year, and she thought with a thrill of delight of the joy that was in
store for her when they should again be happily together.  She was glad
to have received the praise and gifts she had, because she knew that it
would be a gratification to them, and she often imagined the pleasure
with which she would show them the testimonials and presents which had
been given to her.  Indeed, it is said that so excited was she, that
she could not sleep for thinking about it.

At last the long-looked-for time came, and the Darling family was
altogether once more in their beloved lighthouse home, and the
anticipations were realised.  At first, there was actually a little shy
reserve, or distance, in the manner of some of them, as if they
expected that their sister would have become a fine lady since so much
fuss had been made with her.  But Grace, who soon detected this
feeling, laughed so merrily at the absurdity of the idea that it soon
vanished, and they were brought to see and feel that her honours had
not made her one whit less affectionate and humble than she was when
they all lived together, and their sister had not been so much as heard
of in the great world.  They gathered thankfully and joyously around
the cheerful fire, and looked into each other's faces, seeing only
pleasure and peace there, and the hours passed swiftly, as they thought
of Him who came to bring salvation to the world.  He seemed to have
touched anew the hearts of the Darlings, and made them full of peace
and good-will to all the world.

Letters, even at Christmas time, are looked for most eagerly by the
dwellers in the lonely lighthouses around our coast; and during these
holidays a letter came to the Darlings which filled the whole family
with joy.  It was from the Trinity House, London, and it contained a
high eulogium upon the heroic conduct of Mr. Darling and Grace, and
said that the managers had pleasure in appointing Mr. Brooks Darling to
be his father's assistant.  They had observed the frequency of wrecks
on the coast near the Farne Islands, and saw that another man was a
necessity, and felt that none could better discharge the duty than one
of the same family.  The "Berwick Advertiser" thus speaks of the
appointment:--

"The gentlemen of the Trinity House, London, have appointed Mr. Brooks
Darling, son of Mr. William Darling, to be his assistant at the outer
lighthouse.  This is a most judicious step.  The Trinity House has also
placed another man on the inner Farne light, making three men now upon
the island.  An agent of Lloyd's is also to be appointed at Bamborough."

Brooks Darling had already shown himself worthy of the honoured name
which he bore.  He was one of the brave men who went out from North
Sunderland to the wreck of the "Forfarshire," and placed his life in
jeopardy, as did his six companions, by doing so.  They managed to gain
the Farne lights, however, and remained there during the continuance of
the storm.  He had shown that he also possessed the characteristics of
his family, for he was intrepid, courageous, and humane.

He would have plenty of opportunities in his new position for the
display of these qualities.  It had often caused his father the
greatest pain to witness wrecks which he was utterly powerless to aid.
One man could do almost nothing alone under such circumstances; and his
heart had often ached as he saw noble ships, and more valuable human
lives, destroyed on the terrible rocks.  But now that his son would be
with him, he felt that together they might be the means of saving, not
a few, but many.  It will therefore be seen that this change
contributed more than a little to the joys of that Christmas time.  It
may be interesting to state that a son of Brooks Darling is now (1876)
the keeper of the Souter Point lighthouse, Durham.

It was found on this occasion that there was no need to resort to the
usual active Christmas games in order to make the time pass pleasantly,
for nothing was so agreeable and interesting to the family now as long
conversations.  Grace, of course, was ever the chief object of all
their admiration, and they never wearied of asking her questions and
hearing her account of honours she had received and visits she had
paid.  Besides talking to them, however, "Aunt Grace" joined in the
games, which, for the amusement of the children, were entered into, and
the aged couple, Mr. and Mrs. Darling, watched with delight the merry
pleasures of their grand-children, and the kindly attentions of their
beloved home-staying Grace, who was never too busy or too tired to sing
ballads, or tell stories, to the children, who were even now proud and
fond of their famous aunt.

But it was after the children had gone to bed that the grown-up people
had the best of the pleasure.  One night when the weather was wild, and
the wind whistled around the house, and the sea was tossing up its dark
waves, Robert succeeded in getting from Grace a description of her
sensations when she went out to the wreck of the "Forfarshire."

"How did you feel, Grace," he asked, "when you found yourself alone
with father out on the stormy water?  Confess now that you were very
much frightened, and that when you saw how distressed mother was, you
were half inclined to give up the attempt.

"No," said Grace; "I shall not confess to that which is not true.  I
never stopped to think of the danger, and certainly did not in the
least realise it.  Perhaps, if I had done so, I should have been afraid
to venture; but the fact was, I thought of nothing but the awful agony
of those who might be drowning.  Their shrieks put every thing else out
of my head and heart, and the only fear that I had was that we might
not reach the wreck in time to be of any use.  Even now I often fancy I
can hear their screams, and the thought makes me shudder."

"But you could not tell what you might be going to meet.  It was quite
possible that you should have been yourselves drowned in the attempt,"
said Robert.

"Oh yes, but I was not afraid of that.  I had strength and courage for
whatever we might encounter; and when the soldier is not afraid, half
the battle is won."

"That is true.  But how could you bring yourself to go, Grace, in spite
of our mother's prayers and entreaties?"

"Well, my passion to save those drowning creatures swallowed up every
other thought.  If it had not been so, I could not have disregarded
mother's tears as I did.  I am not at all surprised that she felt as
she expressed herself.  It was only natural and right that she should
do so.  And really, when I think of all that she must have endured when
she saw us tossing about on the waves, and knew that perhaps she would
never see her beloved husband and wayward daughter again, the wonder is
that she was not less composed than she was, and that she had trust and
calmness enough to go down to the beach, and help us launch the boat.
But, oh, Robert, if you could have seen the joy and thankfulness with
which the poor creatures welcomed us--as if we had been angels--you
would understand that to do such a thing was worth all the trouble and
risk."

"Oh yes; I am sure I should feel the same," said Robert.

"Certainly you would, for you know what it is; you were one of those
who were so anxious to rescue poor Logan, don't you remember?  And you
therefore know the joy that comes from performing a kind and brave
action."

"Yes, Grace, I remember very well.  It is four years ago this Christmas
since we brought him from the very jaws of death to the lighthouse.
Poor fellow!  I felt wonderfully interested in him.  I wonder what has
become of him, and if he is any more fortunate now than he used to be.
Father, has he ever written to you?"

"No, he has not," replied Mr. Darling, "and I cannot think how it is
that he has not.  But many things may have prevented him.  Perhaps he
has gone abroad, or has been ill, or something of that sort.  He
promised to write to me as soon as he had got a berth, and I do not
think he has forgotten his promise.  Ho was quite overpowered with
gratitude when I parted from him, and magnified the kindness we had
shown him so much that it is very unlikely that he would have omitted
to write, unless something had really prevented him."

"Grace," said Elizabeth, "I am not yet satisfied with that which you
have told us about your visit to Alnwick.  I want to know much more,
and, indeed, I think you should tell us every item about it, from first
to last."

"I am quite willing," said Grace, smilingly.  "What is it you want so
particularly to know?"

"Tell us how you felt when you first saw the Duchess.  As for me, I am
sure I should have been so frightened that I should not have dared to
look at so great a lady, and I am sure that I never should have spoken
to her."

"Oh," said Grace, "the truth is, that the sight of the Duchess did make
me feel as I had never felt before in my life, and I was indeed afraid
to lift my eyes from the ground.  But when she spoke to me, it was
different.  She begged me not to feel timid, and really, I felt that
she was intending to be kind, and that there was absolutely nothing to
be frightened about.  She has such a kind way of speaking, that nobody
could long feel timid in her presence.  I assure you, Elizabeth, that
before the interview was ended, instead of feeling alarmed at the
Duchess, I quite loved her.  They took a few steps nearer and again
waited, eyes and ears and uplifted hoofs asking the question, "Why
doesn't he come?

Why does he let those dreadful creatures go so close?" Then, as we
bent over their fallen hero, they knew he was forever lost to them, and
fear sent them speeding out of sight.

X.

A MOUNTAIN DRAMA.

But hunting does not make one wholly a brute, crying, 'Kill, kill!'

at every chance. In fact I have no more to confess in that line.
Another side to it is shown by an incident that happened about a week
later.

We were riding leisurely along, a mile or so from the spot where my
antelope had yielded his life to my vanity, when we saw, several
miles away in the low hills, two moving flecks of white which might
mean antelope.

We watched. The two spots came rapidly nearer, and were clearly
antelope.
We were soon able to make out that one was being chased by the
other; then that they were both bucks, the one in the rear much the
heavier and evidently the aggressor.

Then from behind a hill came the cause of it all--a bunch of lady antelope,
who kept modestly together and to one side, and watched the contest
that should decide their master. Surely this unclaimed harem was my
doing!

All at once, the two on-coming figures saw us. The first one paused,
doubtful which of the two dangers to choose. His foe caught up
with him.

He wheeled and charged in self-defence, their horns met with a
crash, and the smaller was thrown to the ground.

He was clearly no match for his opponent.

He sprang to his feet. His only safety was in flight, but where?
His strength was nearly gone. He ran a short distance away from us,
circling our cavalcade.

His foe was nearly up to him again.

He stopped an instant with uplifted foot, then turned and made directly
for _us_.

Three loaded guns hung at our saddles, but no hand went towards them.
Not thirty feet away from our motionless horses the buck dropped,
exhausted. We could easily have lassoed him. His adversary kept
beyond gunshot, not daring to follow him into the power of an enemy
all wild things fear; and an eagle who had perched on a rock near
by, in hopes of a coming feast, flapped his wings and slowly flew
away to search elsewhere for his dinner.

The conquering buck walked back to his spoils of war, and soon
marshalled them out of sight behind a hill.

The young buck almost at our feet quickly recovered. He was not
seriously hurt, only frightened and winded.

He rose to his feet and stood for an instant looking directly at us,
his head with its growing horns held high in the air, as if to
thank us for the protection from a lesser foe he had so boldly asked
and so freely received of an all powerful enemy.

Then, turning, he lightly sped over the plain in an opposite direction,
and the eagle, who had kept us in sight until now, perhaps with a lingering
hope, rose swiftly upwards and was lost to sight.

One elk with an eleven-point crown, and one antelope, of the finest
ever brought down, is the tax I levied on the wild things. Of the
many, many times I have watched them and left them unmolested, and of
the lessons they have taught me, under Nimrod's guidance, I have
not space to tell, for the real fascination of hunting is not in the
killing but in seeing the creature at home amid his glorious surroundings,
and feeling the freely rushing blood, the health-giving air, the
gleeful sense of joy and life in nature, both within and
without.

XI.

WHAT I KNOW ABOUT WAHB OF THE BIGHORN BASIN.

A fourteen-inch track is big, even for a grizzly.

That was the size of Wahb's. The first time I saw it, the hole looked big
enough for a baby's bath tub.

We were travelling in Mr. A.'s pack train across the Shoshones from Idaho
to Wyoming. It was the first of October, and by then, in that region,
winter is shaking hands with you--pleasant hands to be sure, but a
bit cool. The night before we had made a picturesque camp on the lee
side of a rock cliff which was honeycombed with caves.

A blazing camp fire was built at the mouth of one of these and we
lounged on the rock ledges inside, thoroughly protected from the wind
and cold. A storm was brewing.
We could hear the pine trees whistle and shriek as they were lashed
about in the forest across the brook. The lurid light of the fire
showed us ourselves in distorted shadows. The whole place seemed
wild and wicked, like a robber camp, and under its spell one thought
things and felt things that would have been impossible in the sun
shine, where everything is revealed. It began to snow, but we laughed
at that. What did it matter in the shelter of the cave? For the
first time in days I was thoroughly toasted on all sides at once.
We had changed abruptly from the steam-heated Pullman to camping
in snow, and it takes a few days to get used to such a shock. We
told tales as weird as the scene, until far into the night. The
next morning the sun was bright, but the cook had to cut a hole in
the ice blanket over the brook to get water.But Grace had
not been spoiled or changed by the flatteries she had received.  She
was one of "the people," and did not aspire to leave their ranks.  Her
sympathies were with them; and she asked nothing better than to spend
her life among them.

Besides this characteristic, Grace Darling's attachment to her home was
very strong and sincere.  Like the Shunammite of old, she would have
said, "I dwell among mine own people;" and every Christmas that came
did but endear to her heart the parents whom she honoured, and the
brothers and sisters whom she loved.  She clung to them, making their
interests her own, and delighting in nothing more than lifting the
burdens from their shoulders, and scattering about their pathways the
flowers of joy and contentment.  And we are sure that she did that
which she longed to do; and that when the festival was over, and each
went back to the duties of his or her life, the memory of the love and
tenderness of their honoured sister would be as inspiration and
strength to them.  A good life is never lived in vain.  Its influence
is far-reaching and lasting, and all who come within its circle are the
better for it.  Let the women of England remember that their power is
in their love, and that the homes they know shall surely be bright or
dark, sad or happy, as they shall make them, by their meek or gentle
spirit, and unselfish, devoted affection.  Grace Darling's love of home
and kindred may well be imitated by all who are trying to do that which
is right.  Women should understand that their home-life is the most
important, and give to it their devotion and love.


CHAPTER XVI.

AN EARLY DEATH.

  "Grieve not that I die young--is it not well
  To pass away ere life hath lost its brightness?
  Bind me no longer, sisters, with the spell
  Of love and your kind words.  List ye to me:
  Here I am blessed, but I would more be free--
  I would go forth in all my spirit's lightness.
          Let me depart!

  "Ah, who would linger till bright eyes grow dim,
  Kind voices mute, and faithful bosoms cold?
  Till carking care, and toil, and anguish grim,
  Cast their dark shadows o'er this fleeting world,
  Till fancy's many-coloured wings are furled,
  And all, save the proud spirit, waxeth old!
          I would depart!

  "Thus would I pass away--yielding my soul
  A joyous thank-offering to Him who gave
  That soul to be, those starry orbs to roll.
  Thus--thus exultingly would I depart,
  Song on my lips, ecstasy in my heart.
  Sisters--sweet sisters--bear me to my grave;
          Let me depart!"--Lady Flora Hastings.


We may be sure that Grace Darling's friends greeted her birthday with
the old fashioned, but significant wish, "Many happy returns of the
day."  She had become exceedingly dear to them, and they wanted to keep
her with them.  Life is not too bright at any time, but it becomes dark
indeed when our friends die.  There are some lives that seem necessary,
not only to their own immediate circle, but to the world at large, and
there are many who desire that they may live long.  It was so in the
case of our heroine.  Wherever she appeared, she stirred men's hearts
to deeds of heroism and courage, and the world seemed to need her stay
in it.  Moreover, for her own sake it appeared desirable that she
should linger in a state in which she received so much honour, and was
so greatly and universally beloved.  As yet, she scarcely knew how
sincerely she was appreciated, and how much good her simple
unselfishness and devotedness had done.  Had she lived until the
shadows of old age crept on her, and she who had helped others needed
help herself, then indeed she would have known how tenderly the people
of England had enshrined her in their hearts.  They wished it.  It is a
deeply-seated belief that long life is a blessing, and that to die
early is a misfortune.  The belief, popular as it is, may be a mistaken
one; but it dwells in almost all hearts, and it would have kept Grace
Darling here had it been possible.

But it was not.  A voice, very low, but so clear and distinct that it
was most plainly heard, was already speaking to the very soul of the
lighthouse-girl.  She heard it in those quiet evenings when her eyes
looked over the sea, and she often wondered what the wild waves were
saying.  In the busy mornings, when her hands took up the household
tasks, in order to lighten her mother's burdens, she received the
summons which had surely been sent to her.  And even then she prepared
to go.  Not for her were long years spent in the enjoyment of those
comforts which kind friends had provided for her.  Hers was to be the
early fading of the flower, for the insidious disease which carries off
so many beloved ones from our midst had already marked her for his
prey.  Says a writer of her--"She died in that beautiful period of her
life when all seems hallowed, so that the heart turns to her in her
loveliness, beauty, innocence, and purity, and venerates her as a gem
of virtue and a true heroine;" and he adds, "We are apt to regret that
one so deserving should be cut down so young."  And all who contemplate
the life of Grace Darling must feel the same.  And yet we need not
suppose that the prayers of her friends were unheard or unanswered.  If
that which we call death were really ceasing to live, then indeed we
might well pray to have this life continued.  But the Christian knows
better; and to him there is great significance in those words written
long ago--"He asked life of Thee, and Thou gavest it him, even length
of days for ever and ever."  This life is but the beginning.  It is
continued under other circumstances, and in a better land; and in that
land we may be sure Grace Darling has found a happy home.

She was never particularly robust.  She had not a strong frame; and it
will be remembered that in our description of her in these pages, it
was remarked that she was of slight build, and had a clear complexion.
In the year 1851 [Transcriber's note: 1851 is what is in the book, but
since Grace Darling died in 1842, it should probably be 1841.], and
when she had only for a short time enjoyed the fruit of her heroic
deed, it became evident that her health was declining.  There is always
room for hope, however, when the patient is young, and when, as in the
case of Grace, the disease is consumption.  Its first attacks are so
insidious that the danger is not always realised.  The victim looks
more lovely than ever, and so well besides, that it seems as if it
cannot be anything great that is the matter.  And the symptoms do not
seem to be alarming.  There is but a feeling of weakness and
weariness--a pain in the side, not very bad, perhaps, and a cough,
which may be only the result of a cold.  There seems nothing to
frighten one in such common-place symptoms.  Only, unfortunately, these
things are stubborn, and do not yield to treatment.  And after a time,
it is seen that the flesh wastes, the eyes become bright, and there are
heavy night perspirations, especially towards morning.  There is fever,
loss of strength, and loss of appetite, and at last the sad truth is
borne in upon the shrinking mind, that it is clearly a case of
consumption.

We can imagine what consternation this sad conviction brought to the
inmates of the Longstone lighthouse, for it is well known that there is
but little hope that consumption is ever curable.  The friends of Grace
did the best they could; and toward the end of the year she removed to
Bamborough, her medical attendant having advised her to do so.

The removal probably prolonged her life for a season, for it was not
until the autumn of the following year that she died.  But although she
lived on it was evident, even to herself, that no real good was being
done.  She stayed some time, long enough to give the thing a fair
trial, hoping and patiently waiting for a change, but no change came.
Everything was done that could be to make the sufferer more
comfortable, and to keep her hopeful and happy.  Indeed, Grace was very
tranquil, and even cheerful, though all this time she clung to life,
and would gladly have prolonged it if it had been possible.

"I think," she said, "that if I could be farther away from the sea, I
should perhaps get better."

"Perhaps you would," said her friends eagerly, catching at anything
that was at all hopeful, and they at once made arrangements to have her
removed from Bamborough to some inland place.  It was decided that she
should go to Wooler, and great hopes were entertained that so complete
a change would be beneficial.  Wooler is a small market-town in
Northumberland, eighteen miles north-west of Alnwick, and is situated
on the borders of the county.  The scenery is very delightful, for it
is in the midst of a country varied with sunny hills and picturesque
glens, which belong principally to the Cheviot range, the Humbleton,
Hedgehope and Beamish-head hills.  It will be seen, therefore, that the
air is pure, and there is no doubt that the place would be life-giving
to many who should seek convalescence there.  But neither bracing
atmosphere, nor picturesque scenery, had any effect upon Grace Darling;
and it became evident to the anxious eyes that watched her most closely
and fondly, that she continued to grow gradually worse.

But even then those who loved her were not willing to let her pass away
without making other efforts.

"Grace," they said, "perhaps another doctor could think of some other
remedy.  Could you bear the journey to Newcastle!  If we went there, it
is possible that some of the great physicians could do you good.  Are
you willing to try?"

"Yes," said Grace, "I am quite willing.  I think I could bear the
journey, and of course, in so large a place, we could have the very
best advice."

"Then we will go to Newcastle; for it may be that, after all, you will
recover."

Those who so spoke, however, had no great hope, though it was only
natural that they should be extremely anxious to neglect no means that
could possibly be used for her recovery.

"I should like my father to go with me to Newcastle," said Grace, "and
accompany me when I have to consult the doctor."

"Oh, yes; we can easily make an arrangement with father to do that.  I
will write to him about it."

It was settled that the Newcastle plan should be tried, and Mr. Darling
arranged to meet his daughter at Alnwick.

Everything relating to the gentle heroine of the "Forfarshire" was
interesting, and it was not possible for her to visit this place again
without the people knowing of it.  Their hearts were touched with grief
at the signs of approaching dissolution which they saw in her, and many
eyes were filled with tears as they beheld her thin face and wasted
form.  They could not help contrasting this visit with that other which
we have so recently described, when soon after her heroic action, she
came among them, apparently in good health, and with a long life of
happiness before her.  A canoe of this sort would have served us for
living in entirely, we should have had no occasion to land excepting
to obtain our provisions; and having performed our day's journey,
might have anchored fearlessly at night.

Finding we could not induce our people to land, we agreed to continue
on all night. The eastern horizon became very dark, and the lightning
more and more vivid; indeed, I never recollect having seen such strong
fork lightning before in my life. All this denoted the approach of a
storm.

At eleven P.M. it blew somewhat stronger than a gale, and at midnight
the storm was at its height. The wind was so strong, that it washed
over the sides of the canoe several times, so that she was in
danger of filling.

Driven about by the wind, our frail little bark became unmanageable;
but at length we got near a bank, which in some measure protected
us, and we were fortunate enough to lay hold of a thorny tree against
which we were driven, and which was growing nearly in the centre
of the stream.

Presently we fastened the canoe to its branches, and wrapping our
cloaks round our persons, for we felt overpowered with fatigue, and
with our legs projecting half over the sides of the little vessel, which,
for want of room, we were compelled to do, we lay down to sleep. There
is something, I believe, in the nature of a tempest which is favourable
to slumber, at least so thought my brother; for though the thunder
continued to roar, and the wind to blow,--though the rain beat in
our faces, and our canoe lay rocking like a cradle, still he slept
soundly.

The wind kept blowing hard from the eastward till midnight, when it
became calm. The rain then descended in torrents, accompanied by
thunder and lightning of the most awful description. We lay in our
canoe drenched with water, and our little vessel was filling so fast,
that two people were obliged to be constantly baling out the water to
keep her afloat.

The water-elephants, as the natives term the hippopotami, frequently came
snorting near us, but fortunately did not touch our canoe.

It was thought that this might be done with care, and it was therefore
arranged that on a certain day the removal should take place.  There
was a touching incident connected with this which shows how real was
the kindly attachment which the Duchess felt to the lighthouse-maiden.
Her Grace came quiet [Transcriber's note: quite?] unattended, and
dressed in the plainest attire, to the lodging of Grace to take her
last farewell.  It is not too much to say that both felt the parting
greatly, and Grace could not but be deeply affected by the kindly
manner of her noble friend.

Grace Darling only lived ten days after her removal to Bamborough.

She was nursed with the most assiduous care and tenderness--her eldest
sister, Thomasin, never once leaving her through the whole of the
latter part of her long illness.  But the love of her dear ones, though
it might soothe the last moments, could not prolong her life, and she
rapidly became worse.  She knew that she must die, but she was not
afraid of death.  She watched for the last change, knowing that it must
come, and feeling no alarm at its approach.  She was ready to go, and
was only listening for the welcome voice of the messenger "to fly away
and be at rest."  Her sister says that, during the whole of her trying
illness, she never once beard her murmur or complain; but with
Christian fortitude and trust she gently loosed her hold of earth, and
turned her face to the home that had been prepared for her above.

"I should like to see my brothers and sisters before I die," she said.

"And they would be most grieved not to see you," was the assuring reply.

"Some of them may not be able to come, because of the nature of their
occupation," she continued, "but I feel that I have not much more time,
and that all who can come should do so now."

They were accordingly summoned, and had the mournful satisfaction of
hearing her last adieus.

"I wish to give you each some token of my love before I die," she said;
and with her own hands, and with the most perfect calmness, she
distributed her gifts among them.

As may well be supposed, their grief was very great, and they felt as
if they could not bear to part from her.  But she comforted them with
the assurance of her own sure and certain hope of a joyful resurrection.

"Do not mourn for me," she said; "I am only exchanging this life for
one far better.  If I remained here, I should be subject to trouble and
sickness, but in dying, I go to be with Christ, my Saviour."

Just before she died, she earnestly exhorted her relations to meet her
in the eternal world of blessedness and peace, and then the look which
they dreaded to see spread over her features, and she peacefully passed
away, "to be with Christ, which is far better."  And those who looked
at her could but say, "Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from
henceforth; yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their
labour; and their works do follow them."

The tidings of the death of the heroine of the Farne Islands was
received everywhere with the most sincere regret.  People had loved,
even more than they had admired her, and they had delighted to think
that she would live long to enjoy the fruit of her matchless deed.  It
was not to be, however, and all that was left to her admirers was to
show their sympathy and affection by letting her life and death teach
them some salutary and valuable lessons.

She was interred in the graveyard of the ancient Church of Bamborough,
on the Monday after her death, and the funeral was numerously attended
by those who were anxious to render her the last tribute of respect.
The pall was borne by Robert Smeddle, Esq., of Bamborough Castle;
William Barnfather, Esq., from Alnwick Castle; the Rev. Milford Taylor,
of North Sunderland, and Mr. Fender, Surgeon, Bamborough.  Her father
and her brother William were chief mourners, and eight of her more
immediate relatives followed.  Mr. Evans, Officer of Customs,
Bamborough, and a young man from Durham, who had most sincerely and
fondly loved Grace, were also among the mourners.  And after them came
an immense concourse of people of all ages, and belonging to all
classes of society, many of whom were deeply affected.

It may be said, indeed, that the world which had applauded her, now
mourned her loss.  Death comes alike to the lowly dweller in the
cottage-home and the nobleman in his mansion, but it seems particularly
sad when such people as Grace Darling are stricken down so early in
life.  But though she so soon left the world which she brightened by
her presence, her good deed did not die with her, and its influence
remains still.  Who can tell how much Grace Darling has had to do with
the change which has certainly come over people's minds with regard to
the training and education of girls?  It is not now considered a thing
to be proud of that a girl should be delicate and useless.  Such
expressions as "young ladyish" and "missish" have far less meaning now
than they used to have; for girls of all classes are more sensible,
strong, and courageous, than they were at one time.  Some heroic
actions are performed by young women every day; and it may be they have
gained their inspiration from the story of the maiden of the Farne
Isles.  We cannot but lament her early death; but she, "being dead, yet
speaketh;" and her voice, that was so gentle and meek in her lifetime,
is heard still in all lands where her name is familiar.  And her quiet
death-bed was so hallowed a scene, that as we turn from it we cannot
but think of the home to which she has gone, where the good and
illustrious of all ages and all lands have met together.  And there may
it be the privilege of the writer and readers to greet her when this
life is over.

We cannot better close this chapter on the death of the heroine, than
by quoting some beautiful lines written by J. E. on the occasion of her
death:--

  "And art thou gone--the young, the brave!
    The heroine of the wreck and storm!
  Who manly strength and power gave
        To woman's form!

  "The toiling mariner to cheer,
    On Longstone's height
  No more the careful hand shall rear
        The friendly light

  "And 'mid the shipwreck's wild alarm,
    And tempest's swell, oh! never more,
  By pity moved, thy sturdy arm
        Shall grasp the oar!

  "Thou, who the elements defied!
    The spoiler--invidious, slow,
  (He spares not youth, nor wealth nor pride),
        And laid thee low!

  "And he who all thy perils shared,
    Thine aged sire, of thee bereft,
  To muse on all thy courage dared,
         Is lonely left.

  "Thus, while though all the wave-washed north
    Is told to thrilling ears the tale,
  Each heart is sad, each lyre gives forth
         A sound of wail.

  "Yet trust we to thine anxious eye
    Did heaven's own beacon fire appear,
  To guide thee, 'neath the dark'ning sky,
         Thy course to steer.

  "Trust that the Saviour was to thee
    The ark upon the 'whelming wave,
  The life-boat, 'mid the yawning sea
        Of sin to save.

  "That now, where joy, and light, and peace,
    Are by His living presence poured,
  Where storms are o'er and tempests cease,
        Thy bark is moored."


CHAPTER XVII.

"BEING DEAD, YET SPEAKETH."

      "What wouldst thou be?
  A blessing to each one surrounding me,
  A chalice of dew to the weary heart,
  A sunbeam of joy bidding sorrow depart,
  To the storm-tossed vessel a beacon-light,
  A nightingale song in the darkest night,
  A beckoning hand to a far-off goal,
  An angel of love to each friendless soul--
      Such would I be.
  Oh, that such happiness were for me."--Frances Ridley Havergal.


It would be little use either to write or read any biography or record
of deeds and lives, unless some good lessons could be learnt from the
same.  But

  "Lives of great men all remind us
  We may make our lives sublime,
  And departing leave behind us,
  Footprints on the sands of time."


From the life of Grace Darling several sermons could be preached,
especially for those members of her own sex who are interested in her
and her heroic exploit.  Nor need the preacher be at a loss for texts,
for Grace is an illustration of the words of the wise man in the last
chapter of the Book of Proverbs.  Several of the verses especially
appear adapted to show what kind of girl she was; and if the reader
will take a few, it will be seen how aptly in her own life she
exemplified the teaching, which she must often have read, and with
which she must have been very familiar.

"Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies."
Grace Darling was, of necessity, after her act had made her famous,
well known, and constantly watched.  But there is only one report
concerning her, and that is, that she was the personification of pure
and simple goodness.  It would not have been very wonderful if the
tongues of malice and envy had found something hard to say of her, but
we never hear of the shadow of a suspicion of any kind having rested
upon her fair name.  She possessed in herself the three Graces--Faith,
Hope, and Charity.  She was tender and pure.  She impressed all who
knew her by the unostentatious faithfulness of her spirit, and purity
of her life.  She seems to have been actuated every day by the one
desire, to do her duty.  She wished to serve God, obey her parents, and
do any good work that might be in her power.  And who does not see how
much better she was than a useless fine lady, who could do nothing but
pass her life in idleness?  Who will not own that King Solomon was
right when he said that the price of a virtuous woman is far above
rubies?  Gold and gems shine, but the pure light of a good woman's life
sheds a better and more enduring radiance on the world than any jewels
could do.  And her value no one can estimate.  Had the father of Grace
Darling been asked to take a sum of money in exchange for his daughter,
it is certain that the world would scarcely contain enough to have
satisfied him.  Rubies!  Oh, they need not be mentioned in the same
breath.  The weary, sinful, suffering earth could do very well without
rubies; but good women are what it sighs and groans for.

And there is not a girl who reads these pages, but can become that most
valuable treasure--a good woman.  It is possible to every one of them
to attain to that degree of excellence to which Grace Darling reached.
They may not, as has already been said, have the same opportunity of
saving life by going out over the stormy waters to the rescue of the
perishing; but they can be, if they cannot do, the same.  And the world
does not so much need a few heroines, as it needs a large number of
good common-place women.  There is not a home in the whole of our land
but would be the brighter and better for any number of these women, as
mothers, wives, daughters, aunts, cousins, or servants.  The millennium
will have come when all our women are virtuous, when they who are the
very chief over the home-loving peoples are pure, modest, true-hearted,
honourable, dignified, devoted, and, in a word, virtuous.  But if any
one is in doubt as to how these good qualities are to be obtained, let
them know that God can give them to one as well as another.  They come
in answer to prayer; and those women who steal away sometimes to their
chambers, and there pour out their souls in earnest entreaty to Him
from whom every perfect gift must come, are the women who bring serene
faces into the family circle, and pleasant smiles to dissipate the
gloom.  These are the women who will be patient among irritating
circumstances, who will give the soft answer that turneth away wrath,
who will never make man's care the greater, but who will hold weary
heads to their bosoms, and prove what comforters and helpmates they can
be.  Such women may all who wish to claim sisterhood with Grace
Darling, become.

"She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms."
Among the many monitors which speak to the women of the present day,
there is one to which it would be well that they should give heed, for
it says to them, be strong.  These are times when strength is needed.
It has become a trite saying, that we live at a railroad pace; and it
seems as if it is no use trying to slacken the speed, and there is
nothing to do but to go forward, as all the world is doing.  But there
never were times that made such heavy demands upon physical and mental
strength.  There seems no room for the feeble.  They are almost certain
to be pushed and jostled out of the way.  And women that are really
weak have not only to suffer themselves, but they are the cause of
suffering to other people also.  Therefore it becomes our daughters to
cultivate the strength which they will so surely need.  And it is quite
possible to do this.  Grace Darling was not naturally strong, she was
but a slender girl, whose life passed away soon; but she would not have
been able to take an oar and propel the boat across the seething waves,
if she had not had plenty of fresh bracing air, and out-of-door
exercise.  The times are past when there could be any other feeling
than scorn for women who, not being really afflicted with disease, are
useless.  Let it be understood, as indeed it is beginning to be, that
strong women are needed for the work of these days, and let all who
would not be mere logs floating down the stream, listen to the
injunction, and gird her loins with strength, and strengthen her arms.

"She stretcheth out her hands to the poor, yea, she reacheth forth her
hands to the needy."  Every one who knew Grace Darling knew that she
had a most pitiful and compassionate heart.  But that was not enough,
though many women, it would seem, are satisfied with it.  Some there
are who weep tears over the imaginary sorrows of a heroine in the last
sensational novel, who would not move away from their own firesides to
respond to the cry of real misery.  No good comes of such pity, and
such compassion is a dishonour to the name.  It is not enough to feel
for sorrow with the heart, the hands must be stretched out in prompt
readiness to help.  It was so in the case of the daughter of the
lighthouse-keeper, and it was in consequence of this that her short
life was blessed.  Nor is it enough to relieve the distress which comes
to the door, and presents itself to the eye.  It is said of Solomon's
ideal woman, that she "stretcheth out" and "reacheth forth" her hands.
Grace Darling did this.  She went out to those who needed her succour,
though it is possible that many of her sisters would have contented
themselves with simply going down to the beach to welcome the poor
wretches, if they should be fortunate enough to reach the shore.  Grace
felt otherwise; and those who would do good in the world must be
willing to seek, as well as to save, those who are lost.

"_Mal._ My masters, are you mad? or what are you? Have you no wit,
manners, nor honesty, but to gabble like tinkers at this time of
night? Do you make an alehouse of my lady's house, that you squeak
out your cozier's catches without any mitigation or remorse of voice?
Is there no respect of place, person, nor time, in you?

"_Sir To._ We did keep time, Sir, in our catches. Sneck up!"
"Sneck up," according to Mr. C. Knight, is explained thus:--
"A passage in Taylor, the Water Poet, would show that this means 'hang
yourself.' A verse from his 'Praise of Hempseed' is given in
illustration."
"Snick up," according to Mr. Collier, is said to be "a term of contempt,"
of which the precise meaning seems to have been lost.
Various illustrations are given, as see his Note; but all are wide
of the meaning.

Turn to Halliwell's _Dictionary of Archaic and Provincial Words_, 2d
edition, and there is this explanation:--
"SNECK, that part of the iron fastening of a door which is raised
by moving the latch.

To _sneck_ a door, is to latch it."
See also Burn's Poems: _The Vision, Duan First_, 7th verse, which
is as follows:--
"When dick! the string the snick did draw,-- And jee! the door gaed to
the wa'; An' by my ingle-lowe I saw, Now bliezin' bright, A tight,
outlandish Hizzie, braw, Come full in sight."
These quotations will clearly show that "sneck" or "snick" applies to a
door; and that to _sneck_ a door is to shut it. I think, therefore,
that Sir Toby meant to say in the following reply:--
"We did keep time, Sir, in our catches. Sneck up!"
That is, close up, shut up, or, as is said now, "bung up,"--emphatically,
"We kept true time;" and the probability is, that in saying this,
Sir Toby would accompany the words with the action of pushing an
imaginary door; or _sneck up_.

In the country parts of Lancashire, and indeed throughout the North
of England, and it appears Scotland also, the term "sneck the door"
is used indiscriminately with "shut the door" or "toin't dur."

And there can be little doubt but that this provincialism was known
to Shakspeare, as his works are full of such; many of which have either
been passed over by his commentators, or have been wrongly noted,
as the one now under consideration.

Shakspeare was essentially a man of the people; his learning was from
within, not from colleges or schools, but from the universe and himself.
He wrote the language of the people; that is, the common every-day
language of his time: and hence mere classical scholars have more
than once mistaken him, and most egregiously misinterpreted him, as I
propose to show in some future Notes.

R.R.

* * * * *

FOLK LORE.

_Death-bed Superstition_. (No. 20. p. 315.).--The practice of opening
doors and boxes when a person dies, is founded on the idea that the
ministers of purgatorial pains took the soul as it escaped from the
body, and flattening it against some closed door (which alone would
serve the purpose), crammed it into the hinges and hinge openings;
thus the soul in torment was likely to be miserably pinched and squeezed
by the movement on casual occasion of such door or lid: an open or
swinging door frustrated this, and the fiends had to try some other
locality.

The friends of the departed were at least assured that they were not
made the unconscious instruments of torturing the departed in their
daily occupations. The superstition prevails in the North as well
as in the West of England; and a similar one exists in the South
of Spain, where I have seen it practised.
Among the Jews at Gibraltar, at which place I have for many years
been a resident, there is also a strange custom when a death occurs
in the house; and this consists in pouring away all the water
contained in any vessel, the superstition being that the angel of
death may have washed his sword therein.

TREBOR.

* * * * *
_May Marriages_.She knew what
it was to rise early in the morning, and assist her mother in all good
household duties.  She had quick, ready hands, that could perform
whatever was required of them.  She would have despised herself had she
been idle.  It was not hers to take upon herself the responsibilities
of the mistress of a household, but, if it had been, no one doubts that
she would have performed them nobly.  But as it was, she found enough
to employ her, and it may safely be said that she would have been
ashamed to eat the bread of idleness.

And there is not a woman living but ought to be ashamed of it, too.
Even if she be rich, and there is no need for her to labour in order to
assist the bread-winner in his arduous duties, there is still plenty of
work for all willing hands.  No lady ought to be content to pass her
life in cutting holes to mend them up again; in playing a little,
reading novels, and visiting.  There ought to be some real tangible
good done.  And there is need around every woman.  There are poor
children for whom warm garments may be cut and made, poor women who may
be helped, and, indeed, a thousand ways in which a woman may, by
diligence, benefit others.  And she will certainly do it, if "she
looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of
idleness."

"Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all."
This is very high praise, but Grace Darling deserves it.  Few women, if
any, have done so good a deed as she.  It was not for the sake of
winning renown, praise, or reward.  There were no witnesses of her act,
excepting her aged father, and the poor creatures to whose help she had
come.  It would have been very different had it been a deed that could
have been done before an admiring world.  For instance, Joan of Arc was
a noble girl, full of inspiration and courage; but her deeds were great
as the world looks on greatness, and there was much of pomp and show
about her achievements.  But this girl went out on the angry waters in
the grey light of an early morning, with the simple purpose in her
heart of saving from drowning those whose lives were in jeopardy.  She
did not care whose lives they were.  They might be only those of a few
poor sailors or emigrants.  It did not matter to Grace.  They were
human lives, and therefore precious.  She must have had the purest
motives in what she did, and in this she excelled many women who have
been praised.  Dear, indeed, she was to the hearts of her father and
mother, and all who were more immediately concerned, and dear also to
the world, which admired her heroic virtues.  Another sermon which she
preaches from this chapter is, that women should not be satisfied with
less than the best.  Even good actions and kind words are not enough;
they must be the sincere expressions of good and pure motives.

"Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain; but a woman that feareth the
Lord, she shall be praised."  There have been other illustrious women
besides Grace Darling: some, whose beauty has been so great, that men
have gone mad over it, and hearts have been broken, and homes made
desolate by it.  But when we come to search for any good which came of
it, we cannot find it.  Beauty was there, but not "the fear of the
Lord."  When these two are seen together, then indeed there is

  "A perfect woman, nobly planned,
  To warn, to comfort, and command."


Grace Darling was not what is called beautiful; but she had a pleasant
face, and she made no wrong use of it.  She had favour, too; but,
perhaps, in her case, it was not deceitful.  But better than beauty or
favour is conscientiousness, that fears to do wrong and displease God.
It is true that she did not parade her religion, and even refused to
give satisfactory answers to some of those who sat in judgment over
her, and wished to pry into her Christian experience; but no one could
know her, or could read the records that have come down to us, without
knowing that she was "a woman who feareth the Lord."  There is a rule
by which she never needed to have feared to be judged, "By their works
ye shall know them."  And Grace Darling's life showed only good fruits.
Her heart must have been right, or her actions must not have been so
worthy.  And few women ever found greater truth in the words, "She
shall be praised."  She was praised, indeed, most eloquently and
generously.  She had not to complain that she was not appreciated, for
honours were heaped upon her, both while she lived and after she was
dead.  And now a new generation adds its honours to those which were
rendered by the old.

Will not the women who read this history also take the wise words to
heart?  Favour is deceitful.  To be praised is not enough to satisfy a
woman's heart alone.  To be admired and flattered may be pleasant while
it lasts; but it does not last long.  People soon tire of their
favourites, and cast them aside for new ones; and then there is
desolation indeed in the hearts of those that have been carelessly
rejected.  And beauty is vain.  It is often a snare to its possessor.
The love which owes its being to nothing besides is not particularly
worth having.  For beauty fades; and the faded flower is often thrown
away as something that is worthless.  But beauty and favour are indeed
God's gifts, which many women know how to use to His glory, and the
good of those who love them, or are in any way connected with them.
But it is only where these things are sanctified and controlled by the
fear of God that they are really valuable possessions.  A 3 B. coin
apparently by the portrait of Tiberius.--Legend defaced: _Rev._ The
type known by collectors as the altar of Lyons:

_Ex._ (ROM)AE ET AV(G.)
3. A 3 B. of Herennia Estruscilla.--_Rev_. The usual seated figure of
Pudicitia; and the Legend, PVDICITIA AVG.

According to Col. Smyth, Akermann, and other authorities, no third brass
of this empress exists; but the specimen before me has been decided
as undoubtedly genuine by many competent judges.

4. A 3 B. coin of the Emperor Macrinus, struck in some of the
provinces.--_Obv._ A bearded portrait of the emperor: Leg., AVT.
K.M.O.C.C. MAKPINOC: _Rev._ An archaic S.C. in a laurel garland, above L
and beneath C. I am anxious to know to what locality I may ascribe this
coin, as I have not been able to find it described.

  E.S.T.
  

* * * * *
QUERIES PROPOSED, NO. 2.

When reflecting on my various pen-and-ink skirmishes, I have sometimes
half-resolved to _avoid controversy_. The resolution would have been
unwise; for silence, on many occasions, would be a dereliction of those
duties which we owe to ourselves and the public.
The halcyon days, so much desired, may be far distant! I have to
comment, elsewhere, on certain parts of the _Report_ of the
commissioners on the British Museum--which I hope to do firmly, yet
respectfully; and on the evidence of Mr. Panizzi--in which task I
must not disappoint his just expectations. I have also to propose
a query on the _blunder of Malone_--to which I give precedence, as
it relates to Shakspeare.CHAPTER XVIII.

CONCLUSION.

  "Where no shadow shall bewilder,
  Where life's vain parade is o'er,
  Where the sleep of sin is broken,
  And the dreamer dreams no more;
  Where no bond is ever sundered;
  Partings, claspings, sob, and moan,
  Midnight waking, twilight weeping,
  Heavy noontide--all are done;
  Where the child has found its mother,
  Where the mother finds the child,
  Where dear families are gathered
  That were scattered on the wild,
  Brother, we shall meet and rest,
  'Mid the holy and the blest."--Bonar.


Very little remains to be told, either of Grace Darling or her family.
The grief of the latter was of the most poignant kind, when their
famous and beloved daughter had really left them.  Death creates great
desolation for those who are left behind; and the more excellent the
deceased has been, the greater is the loss which is felt.  But when
this world has but been exchanged for a better, there are consolations
for the mourners, who feel that the parting is for a little while only,
and who look forward to a joyful re-union.

  "A few more years shall roll,
    A few more seasons come;
  And we shall be with those that rest
    Asleep within the tomb.

  "Then, O my Lord, prepare
    My soul for that great day;
  O wash me in thy precious blood,
    And take my sins away.

  "A few more suns shall set
    O'er these dark hills of time;
  And we shall be where suns are not,
    A far serener clime.

  "A few more storms shall beat
    On this wild rocky shore;
  And we shall be where tempests cease,
    And surges swell no more.

  "A few more struggles here,
    A few more partings o'er,
  A few more toils, a few more tears,
    And we shall weep no more.

  "A few more Sabbaths here
    Shall cheer us on our way;
  And we shall reach the endless rest,
    The eternal Sabbath day."


In this case the absence was a short one, for in four years the mother
and daughter were together again.  Mrs. Darling died on October 18th,
1848, and at the time of her death was seventy-four years old.  The
money which had been collected for Grace had been invested, and at her
death the interest was paid to her father and mother, which greatly
added to their peace and comfort during their declining years.  Mr.
Darling, the father of the heroine, and companion of her perils, lived
until the year 1865.  He was fourteen years younger than his wife; and
when he died, on the 28th May, he was seventy-nine years old.  Jerome
and the princess strolled away to talk of blighted hopes, Russia,
serfdom, wedlock, and the conflagration of the Kremlin, Penelope
made the necessary preparation; and I, in my character of a fidgety
old gentleman, first advised and then assisted her.

I am afraid the young damsel had designs upon my heart, for she put
several questions to me on the state of vassalage in England; and
when I developed succinctly the principles and advantages of our
free constitution, and said some eloquent things that formed a
French edition of 'Britons never shall be slaves,' she became quite
enthusiastic; her cheeks flushed, her eyes brightened; and with a
sort of Thervigne-de-Mericourt gesture, she cried: 'Vive la
République!'

Had this happened in the night, or had the wave come
unperceived, they must all have perished.  As it was, they were without
shelter or food until they were seen from the shore, when relief was
sent to them.

William Darling had another narrow escape when he was about fourteen
years old.  At that time his father kept the light on the Brownsman,
and the lighthouse was eighty feet high.  The lad once went to the top
and fell, but, fortunately, was caught about half-way by a projecting
piece of wood.  His father, having missed him, went to look for him,
and was startled to find him apparently dead.  He was taken into the
house, however, and means were used for his restoration, which, after a
few hours, were successful.

  "My times are in thy hand,
    Whatever they may be;
  Pleasing or painful, dark or bright,
    As best may seem to thee."

  "My times are in thy hand,
    Why should I doubt or fear?
  A father's hand will never cause
    His child a needless tear."


William Darling afterwards became a strong, fine fellow; and at the age
of eighteen, was six feet two inches high.  In his latter years he was
very greatly respected by his numerous friends around Bamborough, who
admired him, not only for the gallant deed which he achieved with his
daughter, but for the sterling qualities of his life and character.  He
was buried with his wife and daughter, and a younger son, who had been
the first to die, in Bamborough Churchyard, and the following is a copy
of the inscription on their tomb:--

  IN MEMORY OF
  THOMASIN DARLING,
  WIFE OF WILLIAM DARLING OF THE FARNE ISLES,
  WHO DIED OCTOBER 16, 1848,
  AGED 74 YEARS,

  ALSO OF
  GRACE HORSELEY DARLING,
  THEIR DAUGHTER,
  WHO DIED OCTOBER 20, 1842,
  AGED 26 YEARS,

  ALSO OF
  JOB HORSELEY DARLING,
  THEIR SON,
  WHO DIED DECEMBER 6, 1830,
  AGED 20 YEARS,

  THE ABOVE
  WILLIAM DARLING,
  LATE OF THE LONGSTONE LIGHT, AND THE BELOVED
  HUSBAND OF THOMASIN DARLING,
  WHO DIED AT BAMBOROUGH, MAY 28, 1866,
  AGED 79 YEARS.


I never quoted the Irish edition. If _C._ can prove that Malone superintended
it, he may fairly tax me with a violation of my new canon of criticism--not
otherwise. What says Mr.
James Boswell on that point? I must borrow his precise words: "The
only edition for which Mr.

Malone can be considered as responsible [is] his own in 1790." [_Plays
and poems of W.S._ 1821, i. xxxiii.]
2. I am said to have "repeated what _C._ had already stated."

  --I consulted the _Shakspere_ of Malone, and verified my recollections,
when the query of "Mr.Rich in the beauteous grace of Christian love,
  A noble act thy generous soul displayed;
  Compassion nerved thy arm its strength to prove.
  Exalted female!  Virtues grace thy name.

  Daring, as thou hast done, the billows' rage;
  A nation's praise attests thy well-earned fame,
  Records thy valour on historic page;
  Lovely and brave, Britannia's daughters show,
  In active life, benevolence and zeal;
  Nobly they seek to stem the tide of woe,
  Giving kind aid life's numerous cares to heal."


There have since been two worthy memorials of Grace Darling and her
heroic deed, erected--the one in Bamborough Churchyard, and the other
in St. Cuthbert's Chapel, on the Farne Island.  The former contains a
recumbent figure of Grace; and the other, which was put up on the 9th
September, 1844, bears this inscription--

  TO THE MEMORY OF
  GRACE HORSELEY DARLING,
  A NATIVE OF BAMBOROUGH, AND AN INHABITANT OF THESE ISLANDS,
  WHO DIED OCTOBER 20, 1842,
  AGED 26 YEARS.


But the best memorial is in the hearts of the people, who love and
revere her still.  The name of Grace Darling will not be allowed to
sink into oblivion.  "No. You're wrong. She hasn't gone there.
And she's come to harm."
"Why in God's name do you say that?" burst out Richard.

"I know. I've known all the evening. That's really why I came back here
after the service. That talk about forgiveness was just something
I made up as an excuse. I knew quite well that something was wrong with
mummie." His pale eyes sought first Richard and then Ellen. "Don't
you believe a person might know if something happened to another
person," he asked wistfully, "if they loved them enough?""Needs there the praise of the love-written record,
    The name and the epitaph graved on the stone!
  The things we have lived for, let them be our story,
    We ourselves but remembered by what we have done.

  "Not myself, but the truth which in life I have spoken,
    Not myself, but the seed that in life I have sown,
  Shall pass on to ages--all about me forgotten,
    Save the truth I have spoken, the things I have done.

  "So let my living be, so be my dying;
    So let my name lie, unblazoned, unknown;
  Unpraised, and unmissed, I shall still be remembered--
    Yes, but remembered by what I have done."--Dr. Bonar.