Down I went, and leaned over the wicket-gate, gazing at the unnamed
cottage. The brick pathway was scrubbed as clean as a penny, and the
stone step and the floor of the little kitchen as well. The garden was
a maze of fragrant bloom, with never a weed in sight. The fowl cackled
cheerily still, adding insult to injury, the pet sheep munched grass
contentedly, and the canaries sang in their cages under the vines.
Mrs. Bobby settled herself on the porch with a pan of peas in her neat
gingham lap, and all at once I cried:--

"'Comfort Cottage'! It is the very essence of comfort, Mrs. You who
confided to each ocean breeze Your coming conquests, and made loud
acclaim Of your own grandeur and exalted fame; You who have catered
to they world's disease; You who have drunk hate's wine, and found
the lees; Lie down!

and let all men forget your name!

You dreamed of world dominion! you! the spawn Of hell and hatred--Foe to
all things free - Sworn enemy to honour, truth and right; Too poor a
thing now for the Devil's pawn, Let the large mercy of the outraged
sea Engulf and hide you evermore from sight.

DEEP UNTO DEEP WAS CALLING

They rode through the bannered city - The King and the Commoner, And the
hopes of the world were with them, And the heart of the world was
astir.With her cow and
her vegetable garden, to say nothing of her procrastinating fowl, she
manages to eke out a frugal existence, now that her eldest son is in a
blacksmith's shop at Worcester, and is sending her part of his weekly
savings. But it has been a poor season for canaries, and a still poorer
one for lodgers; for people in these degenerate days prefer to be nearer
the hotels and the mild gaieties of the larger settlements. It is all
very well so long as I remain with her, and she wishes fervently that
that may be for ever; for never, she says, eloquently, never in all her
Cheltenham and Belvern experience, has she encountered such a jewel of a
lodger as her dear Miss 'Amilton, so little trouble, and always a bit of
praise for her plain cooking, and a pleasant word for the children, to
whom most lodgers object, and such an interest in the cow and the fowl
and the garden and the canaries, and such kindness in painting the
name of the cottage, so that it is the finest thing in the village, and
nobody can get past the 'ouse without stopping to gape at it! The
enthusiasts, who always possess that priceless treasure self-satisfaction,
and a boundless capacity for wonder (which is always ready to exercise
itself with anything that is big, however ugly), and the "Palaces,"
and "Halls," and "Cascades," and "Altars," and "Bridal Wreaths" they
see there are not only finer than real ones (if you would believe them!)
but so grand and wonderful as to be really indescribable. So we find them,
by their turgid and stupid reports, which are all alike, and all dreary
and silly.Of course he could not suggest anything: men
never can; although he offered to come there and lodge for a month at
twenty-five pounds a week. All at once, one morning, a happy idea struck
me, and I ran down to Mrs. Bobby, who was weeding the onion-bed in the
back garden.

"Mrs. - Shoulders back, and heads erect, Faces full of light.
Smiling like a morn in May, Moving like a breeze, Ten thousand men a day
Coming over seas.

Weary soldiers worn with war Lifted up their eyes, Shadows seemed
to fade a bit, Dawn was in the skies.I want you to serve five-o'clock tea in your
garden."

"But, miss, thanking you kindly, nobody would think of stoppin' 'ere for
a cup of tea once in a twelvemonth."

