
The horsemen rode generally two by two, partly in front of the waggons
as advance-guard, and behind as rear-guard, each corporal with his men
in his place by his Veld-Kornet. The Krugersdorpers were no longer
allowed to leave their places before they had permission from their
corporal. Even those burghers who were most disorderly in the beginning
now saw the necessity of discipline, and were obedient to the commands
of their officers.

It was a mixed crew of old and young. But the majority were still in the
prime of life, and proof against the privations of guerilla life. The
old men among us were all men whose powerful constitutions were yet
unbroken. It was praiseworthy of them that in their old age they were
willing to suffer the difficulties and dangers of a wandering life for
their country's sake, for although their constitutions were strong, they
were susceptible to cold and damp, the effects of which they could not
shake off. There were also many brave little boys, who were thus early
initiated into the privations of commando life; but they shared all
bravely, in a careless spirit of adventure.

Here and there were some Uitlanders who had remained faithful to us. All
the others had gradually disappeared, either because they were taken
prisoners, or killed through their somewhat foolhardy courage, or
because they had left the country in disappointment. The townspeople
were by no means superior to the farmers. There were traitors and
'hands-uppers' among them as well. We have been bitterly disappointed in
people of all classes, but particularly in the so-called 'gentlemen.'

Our condition and appearance were indeed striking. During the heat of
the day, when the dust lay thickly about us, we sat in our ragged
clothes, with shaggy, uncombed beards, on our poor, hardly-treated
ponies, meekly staring in front of us, seemingly indifferent to the
moral hurt that we were suffering and the physical pain that we felt in
all our limbs after a long, tiring ride. Clothes are worn at the
present day, partly as a concession to the fastidiousness of the whites,
and largely from vanity. Our blacks are exceedingly fond of
dress; the more glaring and clashing the colours the greater
the joy of possession.

The party go off in the shimmer of Sunday's finery, and just out of sight
all will be discarded and "planted," for the favourite costume
for the walk-about is that of the previous generation. Having
spent the whole day in blissful innocence of clothes, they return
in the evening in their gaudy attire, fresh as from a comic
garden-party.

BROTHER AND SISTER
As they grow up, brothers assume towards their sisters an attitude of
reserve almost amounting to repugnance. The boy will not eat anything
the sister has cooked, nor knowingly touch anything she has handled. The
more contemptuous and austere his bearing towards her the more proper
it is. Nelly's brother paid a visit to the island, and she cooked a huge
damper at the kitchen stove.

When it was taken to the camp, hot and fragrant, "Billy" at once inquired
who had cooked it. Nelly, wishing that her brother should not deprive
himself of his share, told a white lie in the one word, "Missis!" Billy
ate heartily and was none the worse, while Nelly, who is fond of
Billy, notwithstanding his official detestation of her, chuckled at the
successful deception.

THE RAINBOW
One of childhood's most fascinating fables was, that at the places
where the rainbow touched the earth would be found a bag of gold and
glittering gems. Among some North Queensland blacks almost exactly
the same fairy tale is current. "Muhr-amalee," remarked a boy, pointing
to a rainbow which seemed to spring from the Island of Bedarra. "That
fella no good. Hot, burning. Alonga my country too many. Come out
alonga ground, bend over, go down. Subpose me go close up kill 'em
along spear, run away and plant. Bi'mby come back, find plenty red stone,
yalla stone. Fill 'em up dilly-bag. Old man bin tell 'em. Me no go
close up along Muhr-amalee. Too fright!" 
SWIMMING FEATS
In their endurance as long-distance swimmers, and in the ease with
which they perform various incompatible operations in the water,
there are few to equal the coastal blacks of North Queensland.It is impossible to enter into the sufferings of the married men. Much
was suffered in silence. Some men got messages from their wives
imprisoned in refugee camps, bidding them surrender for the sake of
their wives, since fighting was of no avail and the country was already
lost. Who shall blame the man who rides away with an anxious heart to
his wife and children, no matter what the consequences may be to
himself? Another woman, with a different disposition and a different
heart, sends word secretly to her husband that life in the prison camp
is endurable, and that he must fight to the end. Then he stays, and
proves himself worthy of the courage of his wife.

Some men gave the impression that they were indifferent to the suffering
of wife and child. These were the scum of our people, who in time of
peace were not of much importance, but were necessary for our fight. But
the majority, by far the greater majority, were men who, even in the
most troubled times, were faithful to the comrades with whom they began
this struggle, the struggle for our independence.

Whenever we came to a 'uitspanplek' (a place where there is water to be
found for the horses), some of us had to seek hurriedly for wood to make
the fire, others to fetch water, and others to help in various ways. It
was a regular struggle for existence. Those who came first got the least
disagreeable work. Wood was scarce on the Hoogeveld where we happened to
be, and the water was muddied by the first water-carriers. When the sun
was very warm we made a shelter with our guns and our blankets. Our
meals were simple. They consisted of meat and 'mealie-pap' morning,
noon, and night, often for weeks without salt. We made coffee of burnt
grain ground in a coffee-mill. During the war we learnt to drink all
sorts of coffee--of wheat, oats, barley, sweet potatoes, maize, and even
of peaches. We became so accustomed to a simple mode of life that our
wants were few indeed. Even sugar we no longer missed. And we remained
healthy and strong.

We lay in small groups round the fires, leaning against our saddles. Our
moods were brighter after our tired bodies had had the needful
refreshment and rest. The groups were often picturesque, some of us
lying at our ease with soiled books in hands, others grouped round the
fire, every now and again adding wood to the flames, and others, again,
picking mites out of the biltong with a pocket-knife.

A shower had not much effect upon us. We were accustomed to letting our
clothes dry on our bodies. Nature is very kind to people who are day and
night in the open air. If the sun did not shine soon after a shower, we
made a very deplorable appearance in our dripping clothes. But we never
grumbled. We were generally cheerful, unless we were exhausted from
fatigue.

We suffered most on those long nights when, for some reason or other, we
could not sleep, for many of the burghers were troubled with fears for
their dear ones. Often, after a long ride, we were too tired to prepare
a meal, but simply flung ourselves against our saddles and slept before
we had time to let our thoughts wander. But if the enemy were not at our
heels, we often passed the long nights in sleeplessness, gazing up at
the stars with the most bitter feelings in our hearts. No wonder that
many a burgher grew gray. We were often kept awake by the tethered
horses stumbling among the groups. Sometimes a man would jump up and
strike at them till all the others awoke, too, and then there was great
hilarity in the quiet of the night.

Sometimes a constant rain cast a shadow over the sunny Hoogeveld and
made our lives sombre and almost unbearable. Then our tattered garments
could not dry on our bodies, and everything about us was wet and dirty.
Even in dry weather fuel was almost unattainable, for the treeless
Hoogeveld had been almost exhausted by the many large commandos which
had visited the 'uitspan' places. In wet weather it was almost an
impossibility to make a fire.

Whoever had an ailment passed unpleasant nights then; each night meant a
nail in his coffin. Even the constant rain the burghers bore cheerfully,
and many a joke was passed along during an interval in the downpour. But
in the morning, as we dragged our weary limbs out of our mud-baths,
shivering from cold, we did not venture to put the conventional
question, 'Did you sleep well?' to each other.

The spirit among the burghers was very different from what it had been.
No swearing was heard, and quarrelling was exceptional. Thefts, too,
were seldom committed. We called ourselves 'sifted'; traitors and
thieves had gone over to the stronger party. I do not believe that any
European army would have kept its moral tone so high under such
demoralizing circumstances as did that small army of Boers with the help
of their religion. Ropes are made from the bark of the tree. By its power
of dissolving stains the papaw has acquired the name of the melon
bleach; the leaves, and a portion of the fruit are steeped in water,
and the treated water is used in washing coloured clothing,
especially black, the colours being cleaned and held fast.

In the country in which it is supposed to be endemic it is believed
that if male animals graze under the papaw tree they become BLASE; but
science alleges that the roots and extracted juice possess aphrodisiac
properties, and who among us would not rather place credence upon this
particular fairy tale of science than the fairy tales of swarthy and
illiterate and possibly biassed gentlemen.

And as to its beauty-bestowing attributes, an admirer's word might
be quoted as a final note of praise--
"The strange and beautiful races of the Antilles astonish the eyes
of the traveller who sees them for the first time.

It has been said that they have taken their black, brown, and olive
and yellow skin tints from the satiny and bright-hued rinds of the
fruit which surround them.

If they are to be believed, the mystery of their clean, clear complexion
and exquisite pulp-like flesh arises from the use of the papaw fruit
as a cosmetic.

A slice of ripe fruit is rubbed over the skin, and is said to dissolve
spare flesh and remove every blemish. It is a toilet requisite in use
by the young and old, producing the most beautiful specimens of the
human race."
THE CONQUERING TREE
Inconsequent as Nature appears to be at times and given to whims, fancies
and contradictions, only those who study with attention her moods may
estimate how truthful and how sober she really is. She is honest in all
her purposes, and though changeful and gay in apparel never cheap nor
meretricious. A slim-shafted palm shooting through the leafy mantle,
and swaying airily a profuse mass of fiery red seeds, distinctive
in shape, may be the prototype of a flirt, but the flirtation which
arrests attention and bewitches the beholder is also innoxious.

When she noticed that he was in
earnest, she forbade him to go, as his father had been killed already,
and he would in all probability be killed too. He merely answered,
'Because they have shot my father, I mean to shoot them now,' and rode
away.

We did not like remaining long in one place doing nothing. We always
became impatient, and wished to know when we could move on. But the
Commandant always answered that he could not tell. And the more sensible
of us thought, 'It depends on khaki.' This was really the case now. On
the evening of January 28 we got the order to be in readiness. While
General Beyers, with 400 or 500 men, passed to the rear of the enemy to
destroy the Boksburg mines, our commando of horsemen moved rapidly in
the direction of Boesmanskop in the Heidelberg district, to cut off the
enemy who were pushing on to our part of the Hoogeveld. We arrived at
Boesmanskop the following morning.

The parts of the country that we now passed through had not yet been
destroyed by the enemy, but everywhere else the houses and farms were
burnt and ruined in the most barbarous way. We were very anxious,
therefore, to cut off the enemy's advance. They were camped to the
north-west of Boesmanskop. A strong Boer guard occupied this kopje--the,
only one in the neighbourhood; for the rest, the surroundings were the
ordinary Hoogeveld with its mounds. We pushed up in a long line over a
'bult' that ran north-west of Boesmanskop. To this division belong the
greater number of the
WILD DOGS.

The wild dog, as existing in considerable numbers or communities,
seems to be nearly extirpated in the southern parts of Europe; but
there are several cases on record, of dogs having assumed native
independence.They did so in this instance, and the bombs flew far beyond
us. Corporal Botman ordered me to stay with the horses at the foot of
the 'bult,' while the burghers crept on to the top a few hundred paces
further, expecting eventually to charge the enemy. Suddenly I heard,
twice over, a noise like that of a train in the distance. By degrees
her ferocity abated.
In the course of two months, she became perfectly reconciled to her
original abode, and, a twelve-month afterwards (1822), she ran
successfully several courses.

There was still a degree of wildness in her appearance; but, although
at perfect liberty, she seemed to be altogether reconciled to a domestic
life.

In 1784 a dog was left by a smuggling vessel on the coast of
Northumberland. He soon began to worry the sheep for his subsistence,
and did so much mischief that he caused very considerable alarm.Four or five thundered around me in quick
succession, as I fell and stooped and grasped the bridles of the rearing
horses. Some of the horses pulled the bridles out of my hands and raced
down the valley.

But the left wing of the enemy was surrounding us, and, like a swarm of
birds that rise on the wing, the burghers fled back in among the
tethered and the straying horses, and retreated as fast as they could.
The enemy now bombarded Boesmanskop, so that the retreating burghers in
the valley had a bad time of it with the bombs flying over their heads.

Many waggons of Boer families, fleeing for their lives, were pushing
along the sides of the long mounds, and the enemy's bombs burst in their
midst more than once--perhaps accidentally, perhaps because they knew
that 'the Boer nation must be swept off the face of the earth.'

Such sinfulness and such burglarious conduct on the part of respectable
hens that had the most discreet upbringing, that had never been allowed
to play in anybody else's yard, and that had never been permitted
to wander from the paths of virtue, was a sore affliction.The
burghers did their best to make a stand in order to give the waggons a
good start, but retreated in good order when they saw no chance of
checking the enemy's forward movement. Fortunately, a heavy shower fell
in the afternoon and hindered the enemy in their advance, else many a
waggon would have fallen into their hands.

