Johnnie Jones began to play, too, and was enjoying himself very much,
when unfortunately a stray ball struck his cheek. It did hurt, but not
nearly enough to cry about, for all the balls were soft. Johnnie Jones,
however, began to cry, called the children "unkind," which was foolish,
and ran away home.

As soon as he entered the house, Mother gave him some of the medicine.
Never was anyone more surprised than Johnnie Jones, when he tasted it!
It is worth while to quote from a report made by Dr. Ohnesorg and Mr.
Dresel on Wittenberg in March, 1916:

The police dogs are not now a cause of complaint on the part of the
prisoners.

--(_Miscel_. 16 [1916] p. 85).

Dr. Austin in "My Experiences as a German Prisoner" writes:

For a long time previous to our arrival at Magdeburg we had been
informed that large and savage dogs were to be provided to aid the
sentries....

They were certainly savage enough, but were always led by a sentry, or
chained in their den, and were never let loose on us. (p. 141).

To return to Chaplain O'Rorke's narrative: "When we first arrived [the
barrack warder] had adopted the rôle of gaoler in his demeanour towards
us, but after a while he became civil and deferential, and--when his
son was captured in the war--actually sympathetic." (p. 45.) At Torgau
"the meals, though far from sumptuous and not always palatable, were
sufficient for our needs." (p. 43.)

BURG.

At Burg, at the canteen, "we used to treat one another to a whole
roll or a cake and a cup of excellent coffee; and, until they were
put on the _verboten_ list, to a chop or steak.

       The serving was done under the direction of a kind, motherly _Frau_
at the one canteen, and by a polite German boy-waiter at the other....

The regular meals seemed to be provided by the proprietor of the
larger canteen under contract with the German Government.

They were served at 8 a.m., 12 noon and 6-30 p.m. In quality they were
superior to the Torgau fare, but in quantity scarcely sufficient
in the depth of winter for hungry young men.

Still it must be remembered that they cost only 1s. 6d. a day" [out of
the daily pay allowed]. Weekly baths were the regulation, but "it was
often possible for pushing natures to get an extra bath on other days,"
by a method which works all the world over. At Burg "the new Commandant
was a tall, well-made, soldierly figure. He had a strong face, curiously
resembling an owl."
They were so accustomed to hear him cry over every little trouble,
that they thought nothing of his crying then. If they had known he was
really hurt, they would have been kind and helped him up. As it was,
they merely told him not to be such a cry-baby and ran off and left him.

Just then Father came by on his way home, and when he saw Johnnie Jones
leaning against the fence, crying, he thought, too, that the little boy
had become a cry-baby again. If he had seen Johnnie Jones fall, he would
have picked him up and carried him home in his arms; but not knowing
that the little boy was really hurt, he took hold of his hand, and
walked home with him. Johnnie Jones was trying his best not to cry, but
I think the bravest boy in the world might not have been able to keep
back the tears, with such a sore leg and arm.

As they entered the house, Mother said: "Oh little son! crying again?"

When she had heard of the accident, she told Johnnie Jones that she
was sorry, and would try to help him after lunch. But as soon as she
saw that he could eat nothing at all, she asked Father to carry him
upstairs, where she examined the injured leg and arm. When she found
them so badly scraped and bruised, she was greatly distressed.

"You poor little boy!" she exclaimed, "No one realized that you were
really in pain."

After she had bathed and bandaged the leg and arm, and made Johnnie
Jones comfortable, she brought his lunch up to him, and while he was
eating, told him this story:

Once, a long, long time ago, there lived a man whose name has been
forgotten. He lived with other men and their families out in the pasture
lands, and there he tended the sheep. Now a great many wolves lived near
by, which often tried to steal into the fold and carry off the sheep.
Everyone kept a close watch for these wolves, and when any person saw
one he would cry out, "wolf! There may be some affectation in this
attitude, but it is to be preferred, I think, to the complete ostracism
of work of the enemy called for by a noisy but, I believe, small
section on this side. _Die Weissen Blätter_ appeared in January, 1915,
with the following announcement:

It seems good to us to begin the work of reconstruction in the midst
of the war.

The community of Europe is at present apparently destroyed. Is it not the
duty of all of us who are not bearing arms to live from to-day onwards
according to the dictates of our conscience, as it will be the
duty of every German when once the war is over?

Evidently the editor has in his mind a contrast between the dictates
of conscience and the dictates of officialism.

He was born in Alsace, so he may well know this contrast. We are
learning it here. In the February number the _Krieg mit dem Maul_
(war with the mouth) was most vigorously condemned:

If journalists hope to inspire courage by insulting the enemy, they are
mistaken--we refuse such stimulants. We dare to maintain our opinion that
the humblest volunteer of the enemy, who, from an unreasoned but
exalted sentiment of patriotism, fires upon us from an ambush,
knowing well what he risks, is much superior to those journalists
who profit by the public feeling of the day, and under cover of
high-sounding words of patriotism do not fight the enemy, but spit
on him.

*       *       *       *       *


Johnnie Jones's Birthday Party


A few days before Johnnie Jones's fifth birthday, Mother asked him what
he would like to have for a birthday present.

"A party," he answered immediately, "and I want to invite all the
children who live on this street."

"Very well," Mother said, "we'll write the invitations now, on your own
note paper."

Johnnie Jones gave her a joyful hug, and ran to his desk for the paper.
Mother wrote upon every sheet: "Johnnie Jones will be very glad to have
you come to his birthday party, Saturday afternoon, from three until
five o'clock." She addressed an envelope to each one of his playmates,
and Johnnie Jones stamped, sealed and mailed the invitations as soon as
they were written.

Next day the postman brought the answers. The children accepted with a
great deal of pleasure.

Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday seemed very long days to impatient
Johnnie Jones.

"I sometimes think," he said to Mother, "that Saturday isn't coming this
week."

But, when he awoke one morning, Saturday had come at last, and the party
was to be that very day.

While Mother was helping him to dress in his party clothes, she said:
"Remember to make everyone glad that he came to your party, and to play
whatever the children wish, even if they do not choose your favorite
games."

I give the following quotations from an article by Dr. Berry in the
_Nation_ of August 21, 1915.

"There is no doubt that the prisoners suffered badly during the winter....
Typhus decimated them earlier and more universally, probably owing to
the way in which they were crowded together. Outside the town our
prisoner pointed out a cottage adjacent to a brick-kiln, where he,
with 250 men, had stayed some months without beds, blankets, or
even straw to sleep on, and with the scantiest of food."When all the children had arrived and all the necklaces were finished,
the boys and girls gathered in the long hall, where Johnnie Jones's
roller coaster was ready for them. Each child had three rides, and
enjoyed them all, for the hall was unusually long, and with a good
start, one could go to the end of it, almost as fast as the lightning
flashes.

Of course, Johnnie Jones had his three rides after the others, because
he was the host, and the children his guests.

"Now we may go to the parlor for our games," he said as he led the
children down the front stairway.

The parlor was large, so there was room enough for the children to run
freely about. They played "Drop the Handkerchief," and "Blind-Man's
Buff," and "Going to Jerusalem," until they were tired and ready for a
more quiet game. Johnnie Jones let the others choose the games, and he
watched that every child had a chance to play.

After the children had rested a moment, Mother invited them to march
up-stairs again, for the "real" party. In January, 1915, National Councillor
A. Eugster was deputed to visit French prisoners in Germany. In general,
the Swiss reports[4] give an almost exactly similar impression to
those made by the United States.

As regards the food, M. Eugster remarks that the sum of 60 pf. (just over
7d.) is allowed daily for the German private, and exactly the same
sum for the prisoners. In his second report, made in March, he points
out that the food question has become more serious and (as far as
his experience goes) complaints are more numerous. He summarises very
reasonably the difficulties of the case, especially as regards the
bread problem.

Prisoners were originally allowed 500 grammes daily, but when the
bread rations of the German civilians were reduced from 250 to 200
grammes, some reduction in the prisoners' allowance was only to be
expected, and their ration was fixed at 300 grammes. They would otherwise
have been allowed two and a half times as much as the Germans themselves.
Potato meal was allowed to make up the quantity, but the result
was not good.

Writing in March, M. Eugster says: "There are to-day from 750 to 800,000
prisoners in Germany. Allowing 300 grammes per man, this makes a daily
consumption of 240,000 kilos. of bread (about 235 tons). This is not a
bagatelle at a moment when the importation of cereals is impossible."[5]
By Art. 7 of the Hague rules an arrangement between belligerents
as to prisoners should be possible, and Eugster suggests that meal
might be sent under neutral care to the camps, and bread baked there
under neutral surveillance.

GENERAL RESULT.

M. Eugster's reports on the individual camps convey almost exactly the
same impression as the American reports. At Sennelager the English
doctor spoke highly of the treatment of the wounded, and the French
doctors readily acknowledges that German wounded and French wounded
were treated alike.

At Zossen a sculptor was at work in his studio, a painter painted
landscapes, a gardener ornamented the grounds, and a musician had his
compositions rendered by a choir of 150 to 200 practised singers. It is
the best educated prisoners, remarks the deputy, who are the most
content.

Summarising the impressions of his first tour, Herr Eugster says: "I am
glad ... to be able to assert that the French prisoners are humanely
treated.

In such distracted times errors and mistakes can easily occur, but
on the whole one can say that Germany does her duty by her French
prisoners."

It is not surprising to learn that M. Eugster received anonymous
letters reviling him for not producing evidence to support the
prejudices of the writers.

Some readers of this account may indeed be made suspicious by his German
name. M. Eugster was fully alive to these suspicions, and he suggested
that a German and French Swiss might with advantage visit camps jointly.
The suggestion was carried out, and in the third series of visits
Dr. de Marval accompanied him.

       The general evidence is as before.

VERMIN.

The Swiss reports are in some respects more outspoken than the
American ones.

The heading "vermin" occurs in almost all. It requires a special campaign
to deal with the lice, but the campaign seems to be carried on with
vigour.

TACT.

There is another point. "We must not forget," writes Eugster, "that to
be a prisoner is in itself a very trying fate." It needs a little contact
with prisoners to realise _how_ hard their fate is, and how easily the
wrong way with them may produce soured and embittered men.

Writing of Halle in May, Eugster and de Marval remark: "The relationship
between the Commandant and the prisoners is correct, but without
cordiality; the subordinates were often wanting in tact." I confess it
is simple words like these that depress me more than rumours of
starvation or bad housing.

Anyone knows that authority does not readily become the friend of the
fallen. The military manner, even when acquired by Englishmen, is not
always pleasant, and the sergeant who bullies his own men is not likely
to be more considerate to prisoners. Let us face plain facts in these
matters, and remember that all imprisonment is rather terrible, and
that all absolute authority (especially among underlings) is apt to
become tyrannous. In the prison camps of every nation it is examples
of a foolish military officialdom that make for embitterment and
degradation; and in these camps, too, it is the tact which comes
of true insight, that is doing much for that brotherhood of hearts
which is the only way to peace.

"These people," says Eugster in another place, "ought to be treated with
tact. They should not be treated as enemy prisoners, but as men and
chivalrous adversaries.

A little consideration, not costing much, will make a good impression.

At that very instant
the king and queen fell asleep, too. So did the animals, but the birds
flew away. Even the little flies, who had been buzzing on the walls,
went fast asleep. Then it was very still everywhere, because no one was
stirring to make a noise. Even the trees were quiet, for their leaves
had all dropped off, and they seemed to be sleeping too.

They slept a long, long time.

Then, the most splendid prince in all the world approached the palace
gate. This prince had wonderful golden hair, and he was clothed entirely
in shining gold. He rode in a chariot so bright that it could be seen
for many miles. His horses were swift and he travelled fast, on his
journey throughout the world.

When at last he reached the princess's house, he regarded it with
wonder.

"How very quiet," he murmured. "Can it be that anyone lives in this
gloomy place?"

He stepped out of his chariot and tiptoed in, through the open door. He
stepped so softly that no one could have heard him, but he shone so
brightly that he made the whole house light.

The splendid prince saw that everybody and everything was fast asleep.

In their rooms he found the king and queen.

At last he came to the room where lying upon her bed was the princess.

Very lovely she was, in her dress as white as snow trimmed with pearls
and diamonds. The prince leaned over to see her better, and he made the
diamonds sparkle so brilliantly that if you had been there you would
have needed to close your eyes.

"This is the most beautiful princess in all the world," said the prince.
"I wish she would waken."

Then he kissed her.

Immediately the beautiful princess opened her eyes and looked at the
prince. At that same moment the king and queen awoke from their sleep.
So did the animals, and all the flowers, and the little buds on the
trees. The flies began to buzz about on the walls, and the birds came
flying back, singing their sweetest songs.

The princess was very happy to be awake again. She attired herself in a
lovely dress, indeed the loveliest one that she possessed. It was bright
green, with jewels as clear as the rain drops. Then the king and queen
ordered a marriage feast, and the beautiful princess married the
splendid prince.

       *       *       *       *       *


Johnnie Jones and the Butterfly


"Be careful! Don't step on that caterpillar," said Mother.

"Why not?" asked Johnnie Jones. "It's such an ugly caterpillar."

"It can't help being ugly," Mother answered, "and besides some day it
will be a beautiful butterfly."

"Really?" Johnnie Jones asked, much surprised. Then Mother told him a
story about a caterpillar and a butterfly.

Once upon a time, a little caterpillar was crawling slowly up a tree.
"Oh! dear," he said to himself, "I wish I had wings like the birds, and
could fly away to the top of a tree, instead of having to crawl slowly
about."

A beautiful butterfly was resting a moment near by and heard what the
little caterpillar said, "How would you like to be a beautiful butterfly
such as I am," she asked him, "and go flying about all day, sipping
honey from the flowers?"

"I should like it very much indeed," he answered, "but you see I am only
an ugly little caterpillar who can do nothing but crawl, and I have to
be very careful to avoid being stepped upon."

  "I'll tell you a lovely secret,"
    Whispered the butterfly.
  "Next summer you will surely be
    As beautiful as I,

  "Because my gauzy wings you see,
    Are very, very new.
  A caterpillar once was I
    And crawled about like you."


The ugly little caterpillar did not believe the beautiful butterfly. He
just laughed.

  "Oh!" said the lovely butterfly,
    "All that I say is true.
  But you can't stay there very long,
    There's work for you to do.

  "To the very top of this big tree
    You must begin to go,
  Because all little crawling things,
    They are so very slow.

  "There you must even change your skin
    Till it becomes dark brown.
  And you must spin a rope of silk
    To tie you tightly down.

  "You will sleep through the long cold winter,
    When the icy winds do blow.
  You will sleep through the long cold winter,
    When everywhere there's snow.

  "But by and by, in the spring-time,
    How happy you will be!
  For you will wake and find yourself
    A butterfly like me!

  "Then work on, crawling little thing,"
    Whispered the butterfly,
  "For winter's coming very fast,
    And so good-by, good-by."


'There are none there, only dead.' 'Wait, we will give you some
light.' A few words in German which we cannot understand. Will they
simply shoot us down?

Suddenly two splendid rockets go up: we can see as if it were midday.
We are half a dozen marines and are standing twenty metres from the
German trenches. On the other side of the wire entanglements an officer
and men, behind the breastwork pointed helmets and caps.
All remains quiet. We look round carefully. 'Nothing.

There are only corpses here. We are going back, you go back, too.' 'Merci,
camerades français!' calls the officer, and his men repeat the
greeting of their superior. As soon as we are behind our breastwork
our Lieutenant gives a command loud enough to be heard at sixty
metres.When the cold, snowy days came, the
little caterpillar knew nothing whatever about them, for he was fast
asleep.

At last, after a long, long winter, there began to be signs of spring.
Soon, soft warm little rain drops began to fall on the chrysalis (for
that is what we call the sleeping caterpillar), whispering: "Spring is
coming and it's time to awake!" Soon, soft warm little sunbeams began to
dance on the chrysalis, whispering: "Spring is almost here, it is time
to awake!" Soon soft, warm little breezes began to blow the chrysalis
about, whispering: "Spring is here, and it is time to awake!"

