Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


THE OCEAN AND ITS WONDERS, BY R.M. BALLANTYNE.


CHAPTER ONE.

WHAT THE OCEAN HAS TO SAY--ITS WHISPERS--ITS THUNDERS--ITS SECRETS.

There is a voice in the waters of the great sea.  It calls to man
continually.  Sometimes it thunders in the tempest, when the waves leap
high and strong and the wild winds shriek and roar, as if to force our
attention.  Sometimes it whispers in the calm, and comes rippling on the
shingly beach in a still, small voice, as if to solicit our regard.  But
whether that voice of ocean comes in crashing billows or in gentle
murmurs, it has but one tale to tell,--it speaks of the love, and power,
and majesty of Him who rides upon the storm, and rules the wave.

Yes, the voice of ocean tells but one tale; yet there are many chapters
in that wonderful story.  The sea has much to say; far more than could
possibly be comprehended in one volume, however large.  It tells us of
the doings of man on its broad bosom, from the day in which he first
ventured to paddle along shore in the hollow trunk of a tree, to the day
when he launched his great iron ship of 20,000 tons, and rushed out to
sea, against wind and tide, under an impulse equal to the united
strength of 11,500 horses.  No small portion of the ocean's tale this,
comprising many chapters of deeds of daring, blood, villainy, heroism,
and enterprise.  But with this portion of its story we have nothing to
do just now.  It tells us, also, of God's myriad and multiform
creatures, that dwell in its depths, from the vast whale, whose speed is
so great, that it might, if it chose, circle round the world in a few
days, to the languid zoophyte, which clings to the rock, and bears more
resemblance to a plant than to a living animal.

The sea has secrets, too, some of which it will not divulge until that
day when its Creator shall command it to give up its dead; while others
it is willing to part with to those who question it closely, patiently,
and with intelligence.

Among the former kind of secrets are those foul deeds that have been
perpetrated, in all ages, by abandoned men; when no human ears listened
to the stifled shriek, or the gurgling plunge; when no human eyes beheld
the murderous acts, the bloody decks, the blazing vessels, or the final
hiss of the sinking wrecks.

Among the latter kind of secrets are the lives and habits of the
creatures of the deep, and the causes and effects of those singular
currents of air and water, which, to the eye of ignorance, seem to be
nothing better than irregularity and confusion; but which, to the minds
of those who search them out, and have pleasure therein, are recognised
as a part of that wonderful, orderly, and systematic arrangement of
things that we call Nature: much of which we now know, more of which we
shall certainly know, as each day and year adds its quota to the sum of
human knowledge; but a great deal of which will, doubtless, remain for
ever hidden in the mind of nature's God, whose ways are wonderful, and
past finding out.  _Tac_, In. _Um_, With, for. _Tum_, _Sum_ Con, Con _Tun_,
For, of.

Postpositions All twelve, I find the syntax and the meaning is dexo
as described in the columns. Other prepositions that uses our
language, are met with the adverbs in the same language, which lacks
these prepositions _contra between, to, hasta_, but he fills it with
our _sin_ voice _atsi_, and that word is always front, and never
can be postponed, so it is not settled between postpositions and also
means _not_. All these postpositions that have significance in the
company of words that precede them, but by themselves, and outside the
company say anything, and never be found without the order that I
have explained. Other warnings deserves this treaty, if it is
omitted now consist of these phrases (in the stream), and because
a thing is pure postponement, and another thing is unique.

Art in our Castilian with the explanation of this is confused prepositions.
_Esta Letter is to John, and this letter is to ganar_, eg, is not the
same in the _para_ one another, but it sounds the same, and this
belongs to the syntax but not in this case.

CHAPTER IX.

The combination . Conjunctions is the work, and tie the parts of speech
among themselves. There are several types of joining. I will only
discuss some conjunctions, and are as follows. _Ené_, However:
but, then. _Yuta_, O, u. _Ara_, Y; later.

_Imatcun_, Si; provided. _Hia_, Too. _Aia_, Too. _Hi_, Y; too. _Yehela_,
Though. The common ones are: _Aia; Hi; Hia, Jan; Ara_, meaning that
top dixe.

The first three are always postponed, and locked the words, verbs,
and sentences, and so we call copulative. And do not be other. This is
a big confusion tratadito and well being castilla ire first, then
language. Therefore: Therefore _Nisiasum_. Why not? _Enem At inca_.
De qualquer way _Ucsi_. Because _Usi_. Quando, _Cochop_.

Otherwise, _Cochop ecue_. Also, _Cati cata_. Why? _Incagtet: Intsista:
Intsisum: Inca_. CHAPTER X. THE Interjection. _Atseitac ¡! _ Is
the same as when tenth admired; oh! _Ha: Nu_, these two are the same
as: Already oygo: I: si. _Iscane! ! _ Poor me. _Aná ¡! _ Mother! that
express the pain. _Que ¡! _ Listen: listen addresses. _Minini ¡! _
Idem, but when there is familiarity between those who speak. is
explained as the treaty of the eight parts of speech warning that
there are this language are: Name, Pronoun, Verb, _Participio_,
adverbs, prepositions, say postponement, conjunctions, and
interjections.

And we can not exclude only the article but the _Participio_ and so shall
we, that are seven parts of speech in this language Mutsun. CHAPTER XI.
From the figures of Metaplasmo. One of the hardest things at the
beginning of learning the language I was to understand the figures you
use, and speech, and construction, then that dire. Metastesis. It is
investing some letters when you have the floor, or voice, and this
is typical of children who almost can not even pronounce, and the
mothers and fathers talk to them the letters that have disrupted
the voice, and out of the way they should be, eg _Onlemu_, instead
_Onelmu_, which means _Hacer in suelo_ stripes.

Another example: _Coor_, instead of _Coró_ which means _Pie_. And so of
the other words of this figure. Sinalefa. It's just when a voice
in voice and that voice is also still and silent voice of the first voice,
eg _Tsotco AISA etse_. All this just three voices in the voice and the
middle of the _a_ is removed, and said gracefully _Tsotco ais
etse_, which means right away, or in order, they sleep.

Syncope. It is removed when the environment of voice any letter or syllable,
eg _Maam_, instead of _Macam_. Apocopation. It is when you remove
any letter at the end of the voice, eg _Ar_, instead of _Aru_, meaning
_antes: me_, instead of _men_, Your, & c. Apheresis. It is when you
remove any letter at the beginning of the voice, eg _et_ instead of
_iet_. Antithesis. It is when the voice gets a letter for another,
eg _hic _en _hac_ moves instead of the _a_ in _i_. This figure is
very common as well as the other: but it has this peculiarity, that
if the voice, or verbs ending in _u_ ago _huc_; if _i, hic_; if _o,
hoc_, and all must be _hac_, ô _haca_, moved in the first _a_ _E, i,
O_, and _u_. You have this mixed language Figures of Antithesis,
and apocopation; eg _Quipi hic_, instead of _Quipi haca_; _a_ is moved
in the _i_, and removed the last _a_. Also of Apheresis and apocopation:
_Canmes et jatsa_; instead _Can ICTE jatsa_ months, removed the first
_i_, and the latest _e_, the first example, and confirmed this
truth in the second.

We understand the parts of speech are includes this language when committing
their voices in shape, or two, in a word, and even three figures in one
voice. Do not put more examples, because it would expand, and this is
enough to understand the use by nature, not art, or both together
as figuratively. Elipis From Figure. This figure is omitted when it
is committed in Prayer a few words, which are necessary to complete the
grammatical sense, not necessary for intelligence or the sense
of the term. Use the language of this figure many times, for example: _
Anita men? _ ¿Donde vas tu? language and does not say _elepu_, you, but
it is omitted. _Macque, Tacca_: Ai I go, big brother, and language
is omitted _tina accu_, ô _elepu_, which reads: _ai entro_, ô _voy.

Men unisi_ not want, and no language expresses _no, epsie_, but is
meant by this figure. CHAPTER XII. The syntax of this language. Syntax
is the same as construction, manufacture, or composition of parts
of speech each other: or syntax is the order and dependency that have
the words to one another to form the sentence. This is proper
construction and set forth, or natural, and figuratively. From the
above we can infer that the language used in the syntax of the two
natural modes, and figuratively, and for this our language is pure
anastrophe because it reverses the order grammar naturally keep our
words in prayer.

The first thing we asked our natural syntax, noun is the name that
appears before the adjective, and this is regularly the contrary,
the adjective precedes the noun name, eg _Misia imiu_; another _Tolon
me munus_; another _Tsutsunagte gin_; another: _Capnen nana pire_; another
_Aium jurecuas ruc_, & c., after which we'll see. _Misia; Tolón;
tsutsunagte; capnen; jurecuas_; are all adjectives, and the precedence
of these names Substantive Natural _imiu, munus, gin, pire_ and _ruc_.
Order our syntax is no natural or lack of words in a sentence, and syntax
in this regard is the absence of our regular words. In these examples:
_Misia imiu: Nice todo_ in our natural language and as we shall:
_Todo is bonito_.

In another example: I _Tolon munus: Well your porqueria_, ô _roña_, we
say: _Tu got a lot porqueria_, ô _roña_, & c. Here warn the reader of
the construction investment and the lack of words in the language
of our respect and no one but us could understand the valiesemos
anastrophe and Elipis which is ours. Upset this fundamental
principle, it is necessary to also disrupt the rules of our syntax: that
is, consistency, speed, and the construction of which I will try in
the following paragraphs. Section 1. The matches are three: nominative
and verb; of noun and adjective; of relative and antecedent. The first
concerts in number and in person. But here is what we need to
repeat the verb diximos communalization or verb singular and
plural verb; dixe that this is the same as our group, because they speak
to crowds. However, this language has this line of nominative and
verb, and it concludes in number and in person, although the verb
is plural or collective, eg _Jupama ichon_, and also _Jupama itson_:
Other; _Can ole_, and also _can olse_.

In both these examples there are four Concord nominative and verb, though
it must be assumed that the verb has never at any time within the same
range finishing time, must always be harmony, the person who wants to
be: more in verb plural or collective, if the collection, plural or
crowd, is incompatible with the person, that is, if the person
does not support the plurality, and joins the verb concord is poor
and not well this prayer; vg : _Can semson_ I die or I die a lot,
because once one dies, and not many: and _yo morimos_ Castilla is
good or harmony, and this should be borne in mind, if you want (how
to) speak purity, naturalness and elegance.

Section 2. It is also the language of harmony noun, and adjectives,
and this conclusion only in number and case and not on gender, because
she does not have; eg _Maccu misimin_; good husband: seriously ill and
concord say _Maccu misiminac_ because _maccu_ is singular and plural
is _misimimac_, or talk of many. The same in this: _Muquiuquinis
hatcamac_ old firm, nor in castilla is well: but if _Muquiuquinis
hatcasmin_ old prieta because the noun and adjective are unique
and are on the payroll.

  Dixe that this language has
  no gender, and so the same is to say in these Natural Castilla
_Marido_ or _esposo bueno_ that _buena; old prieto_ that _vieja
prieta_ and also devoid of our articles as dixe in 1.

Cap. in this book. Section 3. _Que, qual, who cuyo_ are relative pronouns,
and these stories is what we are trying this for the other remaining
concord explain. All are less _que_ plural, whose voice we use in both
numbers. All these are told in related languages, or are named as
follows: _Numan, ANPI, Atte, Attenane_, as dixe talking about pronouns.
_Numan_, Ô _que_, simply finish and serve the same as our _que_ for
when you need to use it. More like this language, little has as
dixe, it has no genders, no papers, who are here harmony, we must say
that this does not concord or better to say, wherever appropriate, we
should use it, as _que_ use of Spanish in our prayers. I do not want
to omit this word _que_ here on what I should have said, when it was
joining. When the _que_ is joining, or particle (as stated in the Latin
grammar) cup is always in prayer, for example: I want you to be good:
_Ihuipsen, ca, men miste_. _que_ When the interrogative is relatively
neutral, said that language _Intsis_, ô _Ista_ and dexo examples of
this. When the expletive _que_ is like, we say _que_ or _he_ in this
language, it is said, _Ha_! to ask and always when it is said on the
_numan_. CHAPTER XIII. the arrangements to have parts of speech that
supports this language. 1. The name applies to another noun in genitive
noun behalf without the preposition _de_, or any other factor but the
genitive is always precede the noun it governs, eg _Purchu rucca:
Patrecma esgen_: _Purchu_ & c., and genitive are _Patrecma_ of
_rucca_ and _esgen_, which means De purchu house, or house Purchu:
Parent strawberries, or the milling of the Fathers.

Diximos already in decline, the nominative, the genitive, and vocative not
have a different finish, but in the context of the sentence syntax is
called when an event or another, as we know them by their Latin Prayer
when context is a case and not another, but no distinct termination.
2.

The name noun governs the verb, because that is the mobile as the action,
or passion, is the verb which expresses these works, and so this has to
conclude with one example: _Purchu_, if there is no verb, nothing is said
but to appoint a man called Purchu: but if one adds _guarca_ as saying
the action Purchu ie: _Purchu llora_, which is strictly nominative
concord and verb. 3.

The verb governs the noun name or pronoun, when all are the end of the
action and mean person or a thing, and so it is said: _Can muisin
Diosse_: I want to God-this is: I love God. _Can Esso equets se_: Yo
sin aborezco to this is: I aborezco sin.

As I said in the beginning, and many times, and now I repeat this because
his own place, that our postpositions prepositions are in this
language, and in these two examples are _se. God, equets se_. Paraque
understand the syntax of this language translating materials, and
then express in prayer paraphrase perfect Castilian, as shown above.
It is noteworthy that many verbs and embed themselves in explaining
whether the terms of their significance, and in this case does not
govern any substantive name eg _Muraste men sitnun_: Grew up and
your son or daughter. Other: _Semoste Abatonio_: dead, or died Antonio
Abad and other examples of this class of verbs, which is
called neutral, or better intransitive, that is passing its term or
meaning to * * * * thing or person. Dixe also talking about
the verb, which in this language All verbs can be reduced to assets
and liabilities, and not as much confusion as verbs (not while) we
were taught in Latin grammar. See footnote 6 to 7 ^ ^ ay of Art Nebrija,
De Institutione grammaticae, Lib. 3, and can also be our art of
Spanish grammar Cap. 7, par. 1, n. 88. _Se, E, ne, huy, tsa me, TCA,
CT, um, ium, sum, tun_, and not whether any other posposition are
all attached to the name noun, pronoun ô governed verb.

Examples of all. 1 ^ o. _Oquegte ca mucurma_SE: fired, before the â
mugeres me, this is the mugeres fired. 2 ^ o. ¿_Attena Ayón soton_E?
Who will bring the fire, that is: Who will bring the fire? 3 ^ o. _Cua
Met aisan_E: So you then they _les_ ie: Just tell them, or: So
tell them. 4 ^ o. _Neppe Appa_HUAS: This Father _A, ô para_; This is
for the Father. 5 ^ o. Guatemalan _Chien hac Tausest_SA: Now comes the
younger brother _con_ ie: Now comes its little brother. 6 ^ o. _Otso
Appa_ME: Go _con_ Father, that is: Go with your father. This means
_me_ at home, as I said in another place. 7 ^ o. _Ripuin Ca isu_TCA:
Espinosa I _en_ hand, that is: I am the thorn in your hand. 8 ^ o.
_Agûis_TAC, _cannis Tion_: left-handed, or left _con_ my shot: this is:
I shot with the left. 9 ^ o. _Tapur_UM _cames et jatsa_: Palo _con_ I
love you then paste that is: I have to stick with a stick. 10 ^ o.
_Sialquinin USEC jai_IUM: pit was crazy, cock mouth _con_ ô ie: The
pit cock with her mouth. 11 ^ o. _Nottos cannis HACA isa_SUM: Pego
my hands _con_ ie: I shook hands with, or with the hand. 12 ^ o. _Najan_TUN
_can Tsetcan_: Here I come to this is: I come from there. Are all
postpositions as explained in the language with examples and those
that are marked with a line like - and in many examples not only the
postponement, but there are also many figures, which in dixe Cap.
11.

Of this work. 4. The governing verb to another verb, and in this case is
the first determinant, and the second determined: and so it is said:
_Ihuten ca ama_: I want to eat me. But if given the verb governed
determinant of joining any requests for prayer at the indicative mood,
subjunctive ô, this has always been to express that is not joining
_que_. eg _Huasaca Tihon, ausic, Queta, humun_: The auron born to fly,
or materials: Auron was born to fly after that.
Soundings taken elsewhere
showed that somewhat similar plateaus existed in other parts of the
Atlantic, and now the whole of Western Europe is being bound more
firmly, by additional cables, to the eastern seaboard of America.

This great and glorious achievement has been the result of the discovery
of two truths,--of a truth in science on the one hand, and a truth in
regard to the structure of the bed of the sea on the other.  The study
of electricity and of deep-sea soundings was begun and carried on for
the sake of the discovery of _truth_ alone, and without the most distant
reference to the Atlantic Telegraph,--yet that telegraph has been one of
the results of that study.  Who can tell how many more shall follow?
And even were no other result ever to follow, this one may prove to be
of the most stupendous importance to the human race.

Another discovery that has been made by deep-sea sounding is, that the
lowest depths of the ocean are always in a state of profound calm.
Oceanic storms do not extend to the bottom.  When the tempest is lashing
the surface of the sea into a state of the most violent and tremendous
agitation, the caverns of the deep are wrapped in perfect repose.  This
has been ascertained from the fact that in many places the bottom of the
sea, as shown by the specimens brought up by Brooke's apparatus, and
more recently by Professor Thompson's deep-sea dredge, is composed of
exceedingly minute shells of marine insects.  These shells, when
examined by the microscope, are found to be unbroken and perfect, though
so fragile that they must certainly have been broken to pieces had they
ever been subjected to the influence of currents, or to the pulverising
violence of waves.  Hence the conclusion that the bottom of the sea is
in a state of perpetual rest and placidity.

Indeed, when we think of it, we are led to conclude that this must
necessarily be the case.  There are, as we shall presently show,
currents of vast size and enormous power constantly flowing through the
ocean; and when we think of the tremendous power of running water to cut
through the solid rock, as exemplified in the case of Niagara, and many
other rivers, what would be the result of the action of currents in the
sea, compared with which Niagara is but a tiny rivulet?  Ocean currents,
then, flow on a bed of still water, that protects the bottom of the sea
from forces which, by calculation, we know would long ago have torn up
the foundations of the deep, and would probably have destroyed the whole
economy of nature, had not this beautiful arrangement been provided by
the all-wise Creator.


CHAPTER THREE.

WAVES--SYSTEM IN ALL THINGS--VALUE OF SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE--ILLUSTRATIVE
ANECDOTE--HEIGHT OF WAVES--DR. SCORESBY--SIZE, VELOCITY, AND AWFUL POWER
OF WAVES--ANECDOTES REGARDING THEM--TIDES.

When a man stands on the deck of some tight-built ship, holding on to
the weather bulwarks, and gazing with unphilosophic eye through the
blinding spray at the fury of the tempest--by which the billows are made
to roll around him like liquid mountains, and the ship is tossed beneath
him like a mere chip, the sport and plaything of the raging waters--he
is apt to think, should his thoughts turn in that direction at all, that
all is unmitigated confusion; that the winds, which blew west yesterday
and blow east to-day,--shifting, it may be, with gusty squalls, now
here, now there, in chaotic fury,--are actuated by no laws, governed by
no directing power.

Yet no thought could be more unphilosophical than this.  Apart
altogether from divine revelation, by which we are informed that "all
deeps, fire, and hail, snow, and vapour, and stormy wind," are
"fulfilling God's word" (which information we are bound to receive as a
matter of faith if we be Christians, and as a matter of necessity if we
be men of common sense, because it is mere absurdity to suppose that the
"stormy winds," etcetera, are _not_ fulfilling God's word--or will), we
now know, to a great extent from practical experience and scientific
investigation, that the winds blow and the waters of the ocean flow in
grand, regular, uninterrupted currents.  Amongst these there are
numberless eddies, which, perhaps, have tended to fill our minds with
the idea of irregularity and confusion; but which, nevertheless, as well
as the grand currents themselves, are subject to law, and are utterly
devoid of caprice.

In regard to these matters there is much about which we are still in
ignorance.  But the investigations of late years--especially those
conducted under the superintendence of Captain Maury of the American
Navy, and Doctors Carpenter and Thompson of England--have shown that our
atmosphere and our ocean act in accordance with a systematic
arrangement, many facts regarding which have been discovered, and
turned, in some cases, to practical account.  See Note 1.

A very interesting instance of the practical use to which scientific
inquiry can be turned, even in its beginnings, is given by Maury.  After
telling us of the existence and nature of a current in the ocean called
the Gulf Stream, he gives the following account of the manner in which
upon one occasion be made use of his theoretical knowledge.

In the month of December 1853, the fine steam-ship _San Francisco_
sailed from New York with a regiment of United States troops on board,
bound for California by way of Cape Horn.  She was overtaken, while
crossing the Gulf Stream, by a gale of wind, in which she was dreadfully
crippled.  Her decks were swept, and, by one single blow of those
terrible seas that the storms raise in the Gulf Stream, more than in any
other part of the Atlantic, one hundred and seventy-nine souls, officers
and soldiers, were washed overboard and drowned.

The day after this disaster she was seen by one vessel, and again, the
next day, December 26th, by another; but neither of them could render
her any assistance.

When these two vessels arrived in the United States and reported what
they had seen, the most painful apprehensions were entertained by
friends for the safety of those on board the steamer.  Vessels were sent
out to search for and relieve her.  But where should these vessels go?
Where should they look?

An appeal was made to know what light the system of researches carried
on at the National Observatory concerning winds and currents could throw
upon the subject.

The materials they had been discussing were examined, and a chart was
prepared to show the course of the Gulf Stream at that season of the
year.  Two revenue cutters were then appointed to proceed to sea in
search of the steamer, and Maury was requested to "furnish them with
instructions."

It will be observed here that the gentleman thus appealed to was at the
time engaged in his study at Washington, utterly ignorant of all that
had occurred within the previous few weeks on the stormy Atlantic,
except through the reports brought thence by ships.  These reports
furnished him with meagre data to proceed upon--simply that a crippled
steamer had been seen in a certain latitude and longitude on a
particular day.

But this information was sufficient for the practical man of science.
Proceeding upon the supposition that the steamer had been completely
disabled, he drew two lines on the chart to define the limits of her
drift.  This his previous knowledge of the flow of the Gulf Stream at
all seasons of the year enabled him to do.  Between these two lines, he
said, the steamer, if she could neither steam nor sail after the gale,
had drifted.  And that she could neither steam nor sail he had good
reason to suppose from the account of her brought in by the vessels
above mentioned.  A certain point was marked on the chart as being the
spot where the searching vessels might expect to fall in with the wreck.

While these preparations were being made, two ships fell in with the
wreck and relieved the crew.  This, however, was not known at the time
by the anxious friends on shore.  The cutters sailed on their mission,
and reached the indicated spot in the sea, where, of course, their
assistance was now unnecessary.  But when the vessels that had relieved
the crew of the wreck arrived in harbour and reported where the wreck
had been last seen, it was found to be within a few miles of the spot
indicated by Maury!

Thus, upon very slight data, a man of science and observation was
enabled, while seated in his study, to follow the drift of a wrecked
vessel over the pathless deep, and to indicate to a rescue party, not
only the exact course they ought to steer, but the precise spot where
the wreck should be found.

The waves of the ocean are by no means so high as people imagine.  Their
appearance in the Atlantic or Pacific, when raised by a violent storm,
is indeed very awful, and men have come to speak of them as being
"mountains of water."  But their sublime aspect and their tumultuous
state of agitation have contributed much to deceive superficial
observers as to their real height.  Scientific men have measured the
height of the waves.

Not many years ago a vessel, while crossing the Atlantic, was overtaken
by a violent storm.  The sea rose in its might; the good ship reeled
under the combined influence of wind and waves.  While the majority of
the passengers sought refuge from the driving spray in the cabin, one
eccentric old gentleman was seen skipping about the deck with unwonted
activity--now on the bulwarks, now on the quarter-deck, and anon in the
rigging; utterly regardless of the drenching sea and the howling wind,
and seeming as though he were a species of human stormy petrel.  This
was the celebrated Dr Scoresby; a man who had spent his youth and
manhood in the whale-fishing; who, late in life, entered the Church,
and, until the day of his death, took a special delight in directing the
attention of sailors to Him whose word stilled the tempest and bade the
angry waves be calm.  Being an enthusiast in scientific research, Dr
Scoresby was availing himself of the opportunity afforded by this storm
to _measure the waves_!  Others have made similar measurements, and the
result goes to prove that waves seldom or never rise much more than ten
feet above the sea-level.  The corresponding depression sinks to the
same depth, thus giving the entire height of the largest waves an
elevation of somewhere between twenty and thirty feet.  When it is
considered that sometimes the waves of the sea (especially those off the
Cape of Good Hope) are so broad that only a few of them occupy the space
of a mile, and that they travel at the rate of about forty miles an
hour, we may have some slight idea of the grandeur as well as the power
of the ocean billows.  The forms represented in our illustration are
only wavelets on the backs of these monster waves.

Waves travel at a rate which increases in proportion to their size and
the depth of water in which they are formed.  Every one knows that on
most lakes they are comparatively small and harmless.  In some lakes,
however, such as Lake Superior in North America, which is upwards of
three hundred miles long, the waves are so formidable as to resemble
those of the ocean, and they are capable of producing tremendous
effects.  But the waves of the sea, when roused to their greatest
height, and travelling at their greatest speed, are terrible to behold.
Their force is absolutely irresistible.  Sometimes waves of more than
usually gigantic proportions arise, and, after careering over the broad
sea in unimpeded majesty, fall with crushing violence on some doomed
shore.  They rush onward, pass the usual barriers of the sea-beach, and
do not retire until horrible devastation has been carried far into the
land.

Maury gives the following anecdote from the notes of a Russian officer,
which shows the awful power of such waves.

"On the 23rd of December 1854, at 9:45 a.m., the shocks of an earthquake
were felt on board the Russian frigate _Diana_, as she lay at anchor in
the harbour of Simoda, not far from Jeddo in Japan.  In fifteen minutes
afterwards (10 o'clock) a large wave was observed rolling into the
harbour, and the water on the beach to be rapidly rising.  The town, as
seen from the frigate, appeared to be sinking.  This wave was followed
by another; and when the two receded, which was at fifteen minutes past
ten, there was not a house, save an unfinished temple, left standing.
These waves continued to come and go until half-past two p.m., during
which time the frigate was thrown on her beam-ends five times; a piece
of her keel, eighty-one feet long, was torn off; holes were knocked in
her by striking on the bottom, and she was reduced to a wreck.  In the
course of five minutes the water in the harbour fell, it is said, from
twenty-three to three feet, and the anchors of the ship were laid bare.
There was a great loss of life; many houses were washed into the sea,
and many junks carried up--one two miles inland--and dashed to pieces on
the shore.  The day was beautifully fine, and no warning was given of
the approaching convulsion: the sea was perfectly smooth when its
surface was broken by the first wave."

Monster waves of this kind occur at regular intervals, among the islands
of the Pacific, once and sometimes twice in the year; and this without
any additional influence of an earthquake, at least in the immediate
neighbourhood of the islands, though it is quite possible that
earthquakes in some remote part of the world may have something to do
with these waves.

One such wave is described as breaking on one of these islands with
tremendous violence.  It appeared at first like a dark line, or low
cloud, or fog-bank, on the sea-ward horizon.  The day was fine though
cloudy, and a gentle breeze was blowing; but the sea was not rougher, or
the breaker on the coral reef that encircled the island higher, than
usual.  It was supposed to be an approaching thunder-storm; but the line
gradually drew nearer without spreading upon the sky, as would have been
the case had it been a thunder-cloud.  Still nearer it came, and soon
those on shore observed that it was moving swiftly towards the island;
but there was no sound until it reached the smaller islands out at sea.
As it passed these, a cloud of white foam encircled each and burst high
into the air.  This appearance was soon followed by a loud roar, and it
became evident that the object was an enormous wave.  When it approached
the outer reef, its awful magnitude became more evident.  It burst
completely over the reef at all points, with a deep, continuous roar;
yet, although part of its force was thus broken, on it came, as if with
renewed might, and finally fell upon the beach with a crash that seemed
to shake the solid earth; then, rushing impetuously up into the woods,
it levelled the smaller trees and bushes in its headlong course; and, on
retiring, left a scene of wreck and desolation that is quite
indescribable.

"Storm-waves," as those unusually gigantic billows are called, are said
to be the result of the removal of atmospheric pressure in certain parts
of the ocean over which a storm is raging.  This removal of pressure
allows the portion thus relieved to be forced up high above the ordinary
sea-level by those other parts that are not so relieved.

The devastating effects of these storm-waves is still further
illustrated by the total destruction of Coringa, on the Coromandel
Coast, in 1789.  During a hurricane, in December of that year, at the
moment when a high tide was at its highest point, and the north-west
wind was blowing with fury, accumulating the waters at the head of the
bay, three monstrous waves came rolling in from the sea upon the devoted
town, following each other at a short distance.  The horror-stricken
inhabitants had scarcely time to note the fact of their approach, when
the first wave, sweeping everything in its passage, carried several feet
of water into the town.  The second swept still further in its
destructive course, inundating all the low country.  The third, rushing
onward in irresistible fury, overwhelmed everything, submerging the town
and twenty thousand of its inhabitants.  Vessels at anchor at the mouth
of the river were carried inland; and the sea on retiring left heaps of
sand and mud, which rendered it a hopeless task either to search for the
dead or for buried property.

We have spoken of waves "travelling" at such and such a rate, but they
do not in reality travel at all.  It is the undulation, or, so to speak,
the _motion_ of a wave, that travels; in the same manner that a wave
passes from one end of a carpet to the other end when it is shaken.  The
water remains stationary, excepting the spray and foam on the surface,
and is only possessed of a rising and sinking motion.  This undulatory
motion, or impulse, is transmitted from each particle of water to its
neighbouring particle, until it reaches the last drop of water on the
shore.  But when a wave reaches shallow water it has no longer room to
sink to its proper depth; hence the water composing it acquires _actual_
motion, and rushes to the land with more or less of the tremendous
violence that has been already described.

Waves are caused by wind, which first ruffles the surface of the sea
into ripples, and then, acting with ever-increasing power on the little
surfaces thus raised, blows _them_ up into waves, and finally into great
billows.  Sometimes, however, winds burst upon the calm ocean with such
sudden violence that for a time the waves cannot lift their heads.  The
instant they do so, they are cast down and scattered in foam, and the
ocean in a few minutes presents the appearance of a cauldron of boiling
milk!  Such squalls are extremely dangerous to mariners, and vessels
exposed to them are often thrown on their beam-ends, even though all
sail has been previously taken in.  Generally speaking, however, the
immediate effect of wind passing either lightly or furiously over the
sea is to raise its surface into waves.  But these waves, however large
they may be, do not affect the waters of the ocean more than a few yards
below its surface.  The water below their influence is comparatively
calm, being affected only by ocean currents.

The tides of the sea--as the two great flowings and ebbings of the water
every twenty-four hours are called--are caused principally by the
attractive influence of the moon, which, to a small extent, lifts the
waters of the ocean towards it, as it passes over them, and thus causes
a high wave.  This wave, or current, when it swells up on the land,
forms high tide.  When the moon's influence has completely passed away,
it is low tide.  The moon raises this wave wherever it passes; not only
in the ocean directly under it, but, strange to say, it causes a similar
wave on the opposite side of the globe.  Thus there are two waves always
following the moon, and hence the two high tides in the twenty-four
hours.  This second wave has been accounted for in the following way:
The cohesion of particles of water is easily overcome.  The moon, in
passing over the sea, separates the particles by her attractive power,
and draws the surface of the sea away from the solid globe.  But the
moon also attracts the earth itself, and draws it away from the water on
its opposite side thus causing the high wave there, as represented in
the diagram, _figure 1_.

The sun has also a slight influence on the tides, but not to such an
extent as the moon.  When the two luminaries exert their combined
influence in the same direction, they produce the phenomenon of a very
high or spring-tide, as in _figure 2_, where the tide at _a_ and _b_ has
risen extremely high, while at _c_ and _d_ it has fallen correspondingly
low.  When they act in opposition to each other, as at the moon's
quarter, there occurs a very low or neap-tide.  In _figure 3_ the moon
has raised high tide at _a_ and _b_, but the sun has counteracted its
influence to some extent at _c_ and _d_, thus producing neap-tides,
which neither rise so high nor fall so low as do other tides.  Tides
attain various elevations in different parts of the world, partly owing
to local influences.  In the Bristol Channel the tide rises to nearly
sixty feet, while in the Mediterranean it is extremely small, owing to
the landlocked nature of that sea preventing the tidal wave from having
its full effect.  Up some gulfs and estuaries the tides sweep with the
violence of a torrent, and any one caught by them on the shore would be
overtaken and drowned before he could gain the dry land.  In the open
sea they rise and fall to an elevation of little more than three or four
feet.

The value of the tides is unspeakable.  They sweep from our shores
pollution of every kind, purify our rivers and estuaries, and are
productive of freshness and health all round the world.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The gentlemen here referred to are agreed as to the fact of systematic
arrangement of currents, though they differ in regard to some of the
causes thereof and other matters.


CHAPTER FOUR.

THE GULF STREAM--ITS NATURE--CAUSE--ILLUSTRATION--EFFECT OF SMALL POWERS
UNITED--ADVENTURES OF A PARTICLE OF WATER--EFFECT OF GULF STREAM ON
CLIMATE--ITS COURSE--INFLUENCE ON NAVIGATION--SARGASSO SEA--SCIENTIFIC
EFFORTS OF PRESENT DAY--WIND AND CURRENT CHARTS--EFFECTS ON COMMERCE--
CAUSE OF STORMS--INFLUENCE OF GULF STREAM ON MARINE ANIMALS.

Of the varied motions of the sea, the most important, perhaps, as well
as the most wonderful, is the Gulf Stream.  This mighty current has been
likened by Maury to a "river in the ocean.  In the severest droughts it
never fails, and in the mightiest floods it never overflows.  Its banks
and its bottom are of cold water, while its current is of warm.  It
takes its rise in the Gulf of Mexico (hence its name), and empties into
the arctic seas.  Its current is more rapid than the Mississippi or the
Amazon, and its volume more than a thousand times greater."

This great current is of the most beautiful indigo-blue colour as far
out as the Carolina coasts; and its waters are so distinctly separated
from those of the sea, that the line of demarcation may be traced by the
eye.  Its influences on the currents of the sea, and on the climates and
the navigation of the world, are so great and important, that we think a
somewhat particular account of it cannot fail to interest the reader.

The waters of the Gulf Stream are salter than those of the sea; which
fact accounts for its deeper blue colour, it being well known that salt
has the effect of intensifying the blue of deep water.

The cause of the Gulf Stream has long been a subject of conjecture and
dispute among philosophers.  Some have maintained that the Mississippi
river caused it; but this theory is upset by the fact that the stream is
salt--salter even than the sea--while the river is fresh.  Besides, the
volume of water emptied into the Gulf of Mexico by that river is not
equal to the _three thousandth part_ of that which issues from it in the
form of the Gulf Stream.

Scientific men are still disagreed on this point.  They all, indeed,
seem to hold the opinion that _difference of temperature_ has to do with
the origination of the stream; but while some, such as Captain Maury,
hold that this is the _chief_ cause, others, such as Professor Thompson,
believe the trade-winds to be the most important agent in the matter.
We venture to incline to the opinion that not only the Gulf Stream, but
_all_ the constant currents of the sea are due chiefly to _difference of
temperature and saltness_.  These conditions alter the specific gravity
of the waters of the ocean in some places more than in others; hence the
equilibrium is destroyed, and currents commence to flow as a natural
result, seeking to restore that equilibrium.  But as the disturbing
agents are always at work, so the currents are of necessity constant.
Other currents there are in the sea, but they are the result of winds
and various local causes; they are therefore temporary and partial,
while the _great_ currents of the ocean are permanent, and are,
comparatively, little affected by the winds.  Every one knows that when
a pot is put on the fire to boil, the water contained in it, as soon as
it begins to get heated, commences to circulate.  The heated water rises
to the top, the cold descends.  When heated more than that which has
ascended, it in turn rises to the surface; and so there is a regular
current established in the pot, which continues to flow as long as the
heating process goes on.  This same principle of temperature, then, is
one of the causes of the Gulf Stream.  The torrid zone is the furnace
where the waters of the ocean are heated.  But in this process of
heating, evaporation goes on to a large extent; hence the waters become
salter than those elsewhere.  Here is another agent called into action.
The hot salt waters of the torrid zone at once rush off to distribute
their superabundant caloric and salt to the seas of the frigid zones;
where the ice around the poles has kept the waters cold, and the absence
of great heat, and, to a large extent, of evaporation, has kept them
comparatively fresh.  In fact, the waters of the sea require to be
stirred, because numerous agents are at work day and night, from pole to
pole, altering their specific gravity and deranging, so to speak, the
mixture.  This stirring is secured by the unalterable laws which the
Creator has fixed for the carrying on of the processes of nature.  The
currents of the sea may be said to be the result of this process of
stirring its waters.

It is curious and interesting to note the apparently insignificant
instruments which God has seen fit to use in the carrying out of his
plans.  The smallest coral insect that builds its little cell in the
southern seas exercises an influence in the production of the Gulf
Stream.  It has been said, with some degree of truth, that one such
insect is capable of setting in motion the entire ocean!  The coral
insect has, in common with many other marine creatures, been gifted with
the power of extracting from sea water the lime which it contains, in
order to build its cell.  The lime thus extracted leaves a minute
particle of water necessarily destitute of that substance.  Before that
particle can be restored to its original condition of equality, every
other particle of water in the ocean must part with a share of its
superabundant lime!  The thing _must_ be done.  That bereaved particle
cannot rest without its lime.  It forthwith commences to travel for the
purpose of laying its brother-particles under contribution; and it
travels far and wide--round and round the world.  Myriads upon myriads
of coral insects are perpetually engaged in thus robbing the sea water
of its lime; shells are formed in a similar manner: so that our particle
soon finds itself in company with innumerable other particles of water
in a like destitute condition.  It rises to the surface.  Here the sun,
as if to compensate it for the loss of its lime, bestows upon it an
unusual amount of heat; and the surrounding particles, not to be
outdone, make it almost unlimited presents of salt.  Full to overflow
with the gifts of its new companions, it hastens to bestow of its
superabundance on less favoured particles; joins the great army of the
ocean's currents; enters, perchance, the Gulf of Mexico, where it is
turned back, and hastens along with the Gulf Stream, with all its
natural warmth of character, to ameliorate the climate of Great Britain
and the western shores of Europe.  Also note that in his childhood saw
represent Lope de Rueda, which should happen in Segovia in the year 1558,
or perhaps later in Madrid or any other city immediately. Dedúcese of
works written in his mature age, this show vividly impressed the young
Cervantes, and possibly came from this particular his love of dramatic
literature, you do not ever quit. In its extended mocedad two years
at the University of Salamanca, as it should be included in the
registration thereof. The conscientious Navarrete could not, indeed, find
them, but the clever and funny scenes from the life and habits of students
at this university, which are read in _The Vidriera_ licensed in _The
fingida_ aunt and the second part of _Don Quijote_, show that could
only be traced who saw and studied by itself. It is likely that also
belong to the memories of this time the lively interlude, entitled _The
Salamanca_ cave. D. Juan Lopez de Hoyos seems to have been the first
who encouraged the young poet in his career. In this famous teacher,
whose school was part of his literary education, he was commissioned
to write poems to mourn the death of Isabel de Valois, whose work
helped him in his disciple.

In describing the funeral, the teacher praises Cervantes, author
of a sonnet, a quatrain and some elected, and he calls his dear
and beloved disciple. Was then twenty-one years. Launched on this
path once poetic, the heat continued, and as he says in his _Viaje to
Parnaso_ wrote countless romances, sonnets dozens, and probably also by
this time composed _The Filena_, pastoral novel undoubtedly similar
to those of Montemayor and Gil Polo. These works of his youth are gone,
not to assume that among the romances of _Romancero general_ has some of
his [2].

But the young poet, whose pecuniary resources were never plentiful,
he needed an occupation that proveyese better livelihoods, and entered
this reason, no doubt, in the service of Cardinal Acquaviva in July,
which came from papal legacy on the court of Spain in 1568, along with
Rome the same year. Such a position was not humiliating at the time,
because most Spaniards are not noble, and disdained to serve popes and
cardinals, drawn by the desire to see the world, the protection they
were, and the prospect of profit, to reconcile with their condition. The
impressions that Cervantes was living in this long journey is to
show their latest works.

In the two _Persiles_ traveling pilgrims Periandro and Aristela
by Valencia, Catalonia and Provence to Italy, Route, which appears to
have followed him, cheering these pictures with your own comments. Catalonia
had particularly liked most, because in _Galatea_ on the novel by _Las
doncellas_ and _Don Quijote_ makes accurate descriptions of the country
and its customs. His residence in Rome, his memory is durable, it was
not long. In _The Vidriera_ licensed one of his novels, the flame of
world domination and queen of cities, adding that as well as the claws
of the lion is clear what their strength and greatness, and is
recognized by Rome marble fragments , lost their roofs and ruined
baths, magnificent colonnades and large amphitheatres, and the
sacred stream, whose banks countless holy relics of martyrs buried
in the waves. troca Cervantes Soon his peaceful life in the house
of the bishop of the troubled militia, because if the weapons, as
he put it, ennobles all, mainly to highlight the most illustrious
prosapia.

Sat thus on the square thirds Spaniards, who then occupied Italy,
ordinarily resident in Naples. Here he embarked in the year 1571 for
Messina, meeting point of the brackets together to defend the cross
against the crescent. Served as a simple soldier in the company of
Diego de Urbina, following the Allied fleet, headed by D. Juan de
Austria, the waters of Lepanto, and took an active part in the battle.
At the start of calenturas was sick, and the entreaties of the master
and companions who remained quiet in his bed, "said he wanted
better to die for their God and King to regain his health cowardly, and
asked his captain to put at the most dangerous. Concediósele he called
and fought with unparalleled bravery with the crew of the ship, killing
only 500 of the Turkish galley _Almirante of Alejandría_, and
seized the flag of Egypt.

Cervantes, exposed to live fire, was wounded by three bullets, two in the
chest and once in the left hand, then lost it completely. Instead of
complaining about FGM, education always with pride, because their
involvement was proven in the most glorious event that saw the past
and will perhaps centuries to come [3]. On October 7 in 1571 appears to
have always been pleasant memory, the console that many troubles
and hardships of his life, since even in his later years he says
in his _Viaje to Parnaso_, where the view extends its desert area
of the seas, he comes to mind the heroic feat of heroic D.

Juan, in which he took part, although at a lower, with burning thirst for
military renown, manly courage and noble heart. That was, indeed, their
value, when D. Juan de Austria, the day after the battle, he traveled
throughout the navy, and distinguished individuals to Cervantes sent
to add to his salary plus a major. You know that the victory was not
great results. The enemy of Christianity then made sure that his
best friend were the petty disagreements of the Christian princes:
Felipe II ordered his brother to return to the armed Messina, where the
victorious fleet was received with extraordinary festivals. Cervantes
went to the hospital to heal their wounds, and was in Messina, while
almost all the troops were distributed throughout the interior of
Sicily.

In the spring of the following year was again sailing to the islands in
the regiment of Figueroa, and attended the battle of Navarino, but
the expedition failed, and the fleet returned to Messina in
November. The winter passed away in preparations: the unexpected defection
of the Venetians dissolved the league, and it was believed that there
was no power strong enough to attack Spanish shipping only to the
Turks, whose cause was projected an expedition against Tunisia. The
object of the King was dethroned only Aluche-supporting Ali and Muley
Mahomet, but D. Juan de Austria, the general expectations for
themselves an independent kingdom in Africa, which had promised him the
favor of Pope. Barely reached the fleet at the Goleta, while
residents of Tunisia and the garrison left the city and the fortress,
and only one regiment of veterans, among whom Cervantes would be likely
to seize them. D. John built a new fort, took Biserta and returned
to Sicily with some of its troops. The company that was moved to
Sardinia Cervantes, remained there in the winter of 1573 á 1574
and then marched to Genoa, where some disturbances had occurred. Came
to contain D. John of Lombardy, and knew then that the Turks were
preparing to retake á Tunisia and Goleta; boarded Spezia to Naples,
some of its troops (among whom was Cervantes), and from here was
to sail to Tunisia .

A hurricane sunk almost threw his hat, and dragged back to the Italian
coast. Meanwhile, after struggling and resistance, and Tunisia lost
Goleta, and thus dashed the hopes of D. Juan. Cervantes remained in
Sicily under the command of the Duke of Sesa, but was soon sent to
Spain, and by their natural desire to return to their homeland, and
discouraged to see the poor deserved their award, with the object in
the requested leave summer of 1575. Concediósele indeed, and highly
honorable.

Juan and the Duke of Sesa gave him letters of recommendation
to the King, in which he begged to address the merits of this distinguished
man, who had won the estimation of equal and higher [4]. Under such
favorable auspices Cervantes embarked in Naples in the galley of _Sol_
with his brother Rodrigo, but return to their homeland was not as easy
as believed. The boat ran on September 26 in 1575 with an
Algerian corsair and was captured after a long resistance and taken
to Algiers. Cervantes, to share the spoils, luck played the renegade-Dali
Mami, who exulted that he had fallen into their hands so distinguished a
gentleman as Cervantes, carrying a letter to King Philip II, and with
the hope of heavy rescue, and tormented with bad treatment, but the
audacious captive, rather than daunt, he formed the plan to regain
their freedom and their peers and encouraged them to escape to
Oran. Had already left for Algiers, where he discovered the Moor,
who promised lead and were forced to return to jail and suffer torments
harder [5]. One of the captives, who was rescued and returned to Spain,
a part father's unhappy fate of his two sons. The good old committed
to continuing its scarce goods, without thinking that in this way be
reduced to abject poverty he and his entire family and sent to
Algiers Point to a non-negligible amount. Then the children were
trying to rescue her, but Mom asked Dali-by Miguel de Cervantes,
he lost hope of escape from captivity and gave his share to Rodrigo,
who got the freedom in August 1577.

Rodrigo promised to bid farewell to colleagues who would do would to
build a frigate in Valencia or the Balearic islands, landing on the
African coast and to free his brother and other captives. With this
object had letters from a Spanish slave of the house of Alba, who was
also in Algiers. Cervantes was a long time that had set the following
schedule: on the coast, and west of Algiers, had a garden, belonging to
Warden Hassan, whose manager, who was a slave of Navarino, á entreaties
of Cervantes, was made available to captives a cave at the end of
that possession, which had concealed many since February 1577. Gradually
increase the number of fugitives, and in November arrived Cervantes,
escaped from the house of her master and eager to meet them.

Cervantes had well calculated the time that was supposed to appear
along the coast the desired frigate, which came in effect on September
28 and remained hidden during the day, came to the garden at night, and
made the captives signal Agreed.

But at the same time raised the cry some Moors, who by chance were near;
left the frigate, and soon after made another landing attempt, the
more wretched than the first, and fell to the Moors. Cervantes and
his companions kept waiting hidden in the cave until they encounter
new opportunity to escape, but a renegade by the name Golden, who was
from the outset in the secret was revealed to King Hassan, who believed
to have rights to all the slaves, and took eager this juncture to
fill its prisons with them.

A detachment of soldiers besieged the governor's garden Hassan, entered
the cave, and seized the fugitives. Cervantes said at the time that she
alone was guilty, and had to seduce others to shy away. Confessed that
he was taken in chains to the presence of the King, after suffering
improperios and the mistreatment of soldiers and the mockery of the
Turkish populace.

The King, and using cunning and flattering words, as huge threats,
attempts to start the discovery of other offenders, to complicate
this matter to P.

Jorge Olivar, for the redemption of slaves by the Crown of Aragon. Cervantes
remained inflexible, and only said that he was the sole culprit.
Meanwhile the fugitives punishment for the governor Hassan, starting
with his own hands to stifle the gardener. The same fate might have
to Cervantes and his friends, if not the greed of the King overcome his
cruelty. Hoping to collect their rescue saved the lives of the captives,
but locked in a horrible prison haunt and without restraint or mercy.
The description that Fr Haedo of this prison and the cruelty of King
Hassan, fill us with horror.

The prison in which Cervantes was the worst of all was that of Algiers.
In this sobering, witnesses daily torment or torture of their peers,
and hoping each time the same fate, the miserable captives were
struggling, almost all Spanish, in forget their misery, remembering without
ceasing your beloved homeland, and dancing and having fun as if they
were there. Animábanse to hear the exploits of their ancestors, they
sang alternately, repeating well-known romances, celebrating the holy
festivals of their religion, and comfort with drama. So general was
the emerging taste for drama, drama that became a dark dungeon of
slaves, had penetrated both the comedies of Lope de Rueda in the heart
of the people, who, separated from his country many years, knew recite
his most beautiful pieces [ 6]. There was also another relationship between
the prisons of Algiers and the Spanish theater.

They conceived the plan of Cervantes two dramas that portrayed the
sufferings of the Christian captives, whose dramas, forged first
by Lope de Vega in his _Cautivos of Argel_, led to a series of similar
compositions. The bad success of his first attempt to achieve freedom
Cervantes had not killed the contrary, the more excited unfortunately
it desire, if it is true that freedom, as he says, is the most precious
gift that heaven gave to men, and it is same as for the honor they
can and must judge the living and the prison, however, is the greatest
evil that can happen to men. Could persuade a Muslim to carry letters to
the governor of Oran Cervantes to try again, if possible, rid himself
from captivity and three other companions. But King Hassan discovered
the project, and impale the messenger Cervantes sentenced to 2,000
lashes as punishment for having written the letter. This last sentence
is not executed, however, thanks to the efforts that were in favor
of the noble captive, and so unusual leniency is highly inexplicable,
according to which at the same time three other Spaniards were killed by
a similar offense, and only be understood by the impression that the
characters are great even in the most barbarous. Another new plan, the
largest previous track in September 1579, was discovered by a Dominican
monk. Hassan, _infraganti_ to get to the captives, pretended to know
nothing but Christians soon suspected that his project was known.
Valenciano a merchant, a resident of Algiers, who promised them their
aid, and then feared for his life and his property, he was soon to decide
Cervantes haste to flee in a boat, fearing that the rigor of the torments
him start the confession of his complicity, but it had already escaped
from prison and was hiding at a friend's house, not only consented
to escape and leave their comrades at risk, has sought to allay the
concerns of the merchant, and vowed that neither death nor torture
will never compel to testify.
Were it otherwise, and this great stream flowed over
the crust of the Earth, so much of its heat would be extracted, that the
climates of France and our own islands would probably resemble that of
Canada.  Our fields would be covered, for two, three, or four months,
with deep snow; our rivers would be frozen nearly to the bottom; our
land traffic would perhaps be carried on by means of sledges and
carioles; our houses would require to be fitted with double
window-frames and heated with iron stoves and our garments would have to
be made of the thickest woollens and the warmest furs.

The presence and the unchanging regularity of these great hot and cold
currents in the ocean is indicated very clearly by the living
inhabitants of the deep.  These, as certainly as the creatures of the
land, are under the influence of climate; so much so, that many of them
never quit their native region in the sea.  All the beautiful and
delicate marine creatures and productions which dwell in the warm waters
of the south are utterly absent from those shores which are laved by the
cold currents that descend from the north; while, owing to the influence
of the Gulf Stream, we find many of those lovely and singular creatures
upon our comparatively northern shores.  Of late years, as every one
knows, we have all over the land been gathering these marine gems, and
studying their peculiar habits with deep interest in that miniature
ocean the aquarium.  In the same parallel on the other side of the
Atlantic none of these little lovers of heat are to be found.

On the other hand, the whale, delighting as it does to lave its huge
warm-blooded body in iced water, is never found to enter the Gulf
Stream.  Thus these fish, to some extent, define its position.  Other
fish there are which seem to resemble man in their ability to change
their climate at will but, like him also, they are apt in so doing to
lose their health, or, at least, to get somewhat out of condition.  Some
kinds of fish, when caught in the waters off Virginia and the Carolinas,
are excellent for the table; but the same species, when taken off the
warm coral banks of the Bahamas, are scarcely worth eating.  In fact, we
see no reason for doubting that when these fish find their health giving
way in the warm regions of the south, they seek to reinvigorate
themselves by change of water; and, quitting for a time the beauteous
coral groves, spend a few of the sunnier months of each year in
gambolling in the cool regions of the north, or, what is much the same
thing, in those cool currents that flow from the north in clearly
defined channels.

Besides its other useful and manifold purposes, the Gulf Stream would
seem to be one of the great purveyors of food to the whales.
Sea-nettles, or medusae, are well known to constitute the principal food
of that species of whale which is termed the right whale.  Navigators
have frequently observed large quantities of these medusae floating
along with the Gulf Stream; and one sea captain in particular fell in
with an extraordinarily large quantity of them, of a very peculiar
species, off the coast of Florida.  As we have said, no whales ever
enter the warm waters of the Gulf Stream; therefore, at that time at
least, the leviathan could not avail himself of this rich provision.
The captain referred to was bound for England.  On his return voyage he
fell in with the same mass of medusae off the Western Islands, and was
three or four days in sailing through them.  Now, the Western Islands is
a great place of resort for the whale, and thither had the Gulf Stream
been commissioned to convey immense quantities of its peculiar food.

We might enlarge endlessly on this great ocean current, but enough, we
think, has been said to show that the sea, instead of being an ocean of
unchanging drops, driven about at random by the power of stormy winds,
is a mighty flood flowing in an appointed course--steady, regular, and
systematic in its motions, varied and wonderful in its actions, benign
and sweet in its influences, as it sweeps mound and round the world,
fulfilling the will of its great Creator.


CHAPTER FIVE.

THE ATMOSPHERIC OCEAN--ORDER IN ITS FLOW--OFFICES OF THE ATMOSPHERE--
DANGERS LESSENED BY SCIENCE--CURRENTS OF ATMOSPHERE--CAUSE OF WIND--TWO
GREAT CURRENTS--DISTURBING INFLUENCES--CALMS--VARIABLE WINDS--CAUSES
THEREOF--LOCAL CAUSES OF DISTURBANCE--GULF STREAM--INFLUENCE--THE WINDS
MAPPED OUT--A SUPPOSED CASE.

Fish are not the only creatures that live in this ocean.  The human
inhabitants of Earth, dwell at the bottom of an ocean of air, which
encircles the globe.  Fish, however, have the advantage of us, inasmuch
as they can float and dart about in their ocean, while we, like the
crabs, can only crawl about at the bottom of ours.

This atmospheric ocean is so closely connected with the sea, and
exercises upon it so constant, universal, and important an influence,
that to omit, in a work of this kind, very special reference to the
winds, would be almost as egregious an oversight as to ignore the waves.

Wind, or atmospheric air in motion, is the cause of storms, of waves, of
water-transport through the sky, and of an incalculable amount of varied
phenomena on land and sea.  Without this great agent no visible motion
would ever take place in the sea.  Its great currents, indeed, might
flow on (though even that is questionable), but its surface would never
present any other aspect than that of an unruffled sheet of clear glass.
The air, then, becomes in this place an appropriate subject of
consideration.  The Voice of Ocean has something very emphatic to say
about the atmosphere.

In regard to its nature, it is sufficient to say that atmospheric air is
composed of two gases--oxygen and nitrogen.  Like the sea, the
atmosphere is an ocean which flows, not in chaotic confusion, but in
regular, appointed courses; acting in obedience to the fixed, unvarying
laws of the Almighty, and having currents, counter-currents, and eddies
also, just like the watery ocean, which exercise a specific and salutary
influence where they exist.

The offices of the atmosphere are thus quaintly enumerated by Maury:--

"The atmosphere is an envelope or covering for the distribution of light
and heat over the Earth; it is a sewer into which, with every breath we
draw, we cast vast quantities of dead animal matter; it is a laboratory
for purification, in which that matter is recompounded, and wrought
again into wholesome and healthful shapes; it is a machine for pumping
up all the rivers from the sea, and for conveying the water from the
ocean to their sources in the mountains.  It is an inexhaustible
magazine, marvellously stored; and upon the proper working of this
machine depends the well-being of every plant and animal that inhabits
the Earth."

An element whose operations are so manifold and so important could not
fail to engage the study of philosophic men in all ages; but so
difficult has been that study that little progress was made until very
recently, when men, acting in unison in all parts of the world, have, by
collating their observations, become acquainted with some of those laws
which govern the atmosphere, and direct its courses and velocities.

In early ages very little indeed was known about the wind beyond the
palpable facts of its existence, its varied condition, and its
tremendous power; and men's observations in regard to it did not extend
much beyond the noting of those peculiar and obvious aspects of the sky
which experience taught them to regard as evidences of approaching
storm.  But, although such aspects of the heavens were, and always will
be, pretty safe and correct indicators of the Weather, they are by no
means infallible; and in some regions and under certain conditions they
are wanting altogether.

When the sea captain observes a lowering aspect of the sky, with, it may
be, a dark line above the distant edge of the sea, he knows--however
calm and unruffled may be the ocean around him--that wind may be
expected; and, calling the crew, he orders sail to be taken in, and
preparation made for the approaching breeze.  But there are times when
no such warning is given, when the atmospheric is perfectly still, the
sea calm as glass, and the vessel floats motionless with her sails
hanging idly from the yards, as if she were:

  A painted ship upon a painted Ocean.

Suddenly, and before preparation can be made to withstand it, the
hurricane bursts in appalling fury over the sea: the sails are blown to
ribbons; the masts, perhaps, broken down; and frequently the vessel
itself overwhelmed and sent to the bottom.  Many a gallant ship, which
has left the harbour ably commanded and well manned, and never more been
heard of, has doubtless gone down in sudden storms such as those we have
referred to.

But the inventions of science have now very much lessened the danger of
these storms.  The barometer, by the sudden fall of its column of
mercury, tells, as plainly and certainly as if it spoke with an audible
voice, that a storm is approaching, even though all nature should appear
to contradict the fact by its calm and serene aspect; so that the crew
thus warned have time to furl the sails, fasten down the hatches, and
otherwise prepare to face the impending danger.

The atmosphere flows in a grand harmonious system of currents and
counter-currents, with their corresponding eddies, just like the ocean;
and the grand final results of its varied action are to equalise in some
degree the temperatures of the world, to carry off and distribute
moisture where it is required, to sweep away noxious vapours, and
generally to ventilate the Earth and gladden the heart of man.

The primary cause of all wind is the combined action of heat and cold.
If the world were heated with perfect equality all round, there would
be, as far at least as heat is concerned, a perfect and permanent
stagnation of the atmosphere; and this would speedily result in the
destruction of every living thing.  But by the varied and beautiful
arrangements which the Almighty has made in nature He has secured a
regular flow of atmospheric currents, which will continue unalterably to
move as long as the present economy of things exists.  The intense and
constant action of the sun's rays in the torrid zone produces great
heat, while the less powerful and frequently interrupted influence of
his rays in the frigid zones induces extreme cold.  Hence we have in one
region heated air, in another cool air.  Now, the effect of heat upon
air is to expand it, make it light, and cause it to rise.  The moment it
does so, the cold air rushes in to supply its place; and this rushing in
of the cold air is what we call wind.

It may surprise many people to be told that there are only two great and
never-ceasing courses of the winds of this world--namely, north and
south.  They flow perpetually from the equator to the poles, and from
the poles to the equator.  All the irregularities and interruptions that
we observe are mere temporary and partial deflections from this grand
course.  The heated air at the equator rises continually and flows in an
upper current towards the pole, getting gradually cooled on its way
north.  That from the pole flows in an under current towards the
equator, getting gradually heated on its way south.  We speak only of
the Northern Hemisphere, for the sake of simplifying explanation,--the
action of the great wind-current in the Southern Hemisphere is precisely
similar.

But our broad simple statement about the upper current from the equator,
and the under current from the pole, requires a slight modification,
which we thought it best not to mingle with the statement itself.  The
heated air from the equator does indeed _commence_ to flow in an upper
current, and the cooled air from the pole in an under current; but, as
the upper currents of air are speedily cooled by exposure to space, and
the under currents are heated by contact with the earth's surface, they
constantly change places--the lower current becoming the upper, and
_vice versa_.  But they do not change _direction_.  The Equatorial
Current ascends, rushes north to a point about latitude 30 degrees,
where, being sufficiently cooled, it swoops down, and continues its
Northward rush along the earth.  At another point the Polar Current
quits the earth, and soaring up, in consequence of its recently acquired
heat, becomes the upper current.  This change in the two currents takes
place twice in their course.

Of course, the effect of these changes is to produce north winds in one
latitude and south winds in another, according to the particular wind
(equatorial or polar) that happens to be in contact with the earth.  At
the points where these two currents cross, in changing places, we
necessarily have calms, or conflicting and variable winds.

Here, then, we have the first of the constant disturbing causes, and of
apparent irregularities, in the winds.  The Earth, as every one knows,
whirls rapidly on its axis from west to east.  At the equator the whirl
is so rapid that the atmosphere does not at once follow the Earth's
motion.  It lags behind, and thus induces an easterly tendency to the
winds, so that a north wind becomes a north-east, and a south wind a
south-east.  Here we have another constant cause of variation from the
northerly and southerly flow.  We thus account for an easterly tendency
to the winds, but whence their westerly flow?  It is simply explained
thus:

The motion of the Earth is greatest at the equator.  It diminishes
gradually towards the poles, where there is no motion at all.  The
atmosphere partakes of the Earth's motion when in contact with it; and
when thrown upwards by heat, as at the equator, it keeps up the motion
for some time, as it meets with no resistance there.  Bearing this in
mind, let us now follow a gush of warm atmosphere from the equator.  It
rushes up, and, turning north and south, seeks the poles.  We follow the
northern division.  When it left the Earth it had acquired a very strong
motion _towards_ the east,--not so great as that of the Earth itself,
but great enough to be equivalent to a furious gale from west to east.
If we suppose this air to redescend whence it rose, it would, on
reaching the equator, find the Earth going too fast for it.  It would
lag a little, and become a gentle easterly breeze.  But now, throw aside
this supposition;--our breeze rushes north; at latitude 30 degrees it
has got cooled, and swoops down upon the Earth; but the Earth at this
latitude is moving much slower than at the equator; the wind, however,
has lost little or none of its easterly velocity.  On reaching the Earth
it rushes east much faster than the Earth itself, and thus becomes a
westerly gale.

There are, however, many other agents at work, which modify and disturb
what we may call the legitimate flow of the wind; and these agents are
diverse in different places, so that the atmosphere is turned out of a
straight course, and is caused to deflect, to halt, and to turn round:
sometimes sweeping low as if in haste; at other times pausing, as if in
uncertainty; and often whirling round, as if in mad confusion.  To the
observer, who sees only the partial effects around his own person, all
this commotion seems but the disorderly action of blind chance; but to
the eye of Him who sees the end from the beginning, we may certainly
conclude that naught is seen but order and perfect harmony.  And to the
eye of Science there now begins to appear, in what was formerly an
atmospheric chaos, an evidence of design and system, which is not,
indeed, absolutely clear, but which is nevertheless abundantly
perceptible to minds that cannot hope in this life to see otherwise than
"through a glass, darkly."

The causes which modify the action of the winds are, as we have said,
various.  Local causes produce local currents.  A clear sky in one
region allows the sun's rays to pour upon, let us say, the ocean,
producing great heat; the result of which is evaporation.  Aqueous
vapour is very light, therefore it rises; and in doing so the aqueous
particles carry the air up with them, and the wind necessarily rushes in
below to supply its place.  The falling of heavy rain, in certain
conditions of the atmosphere, has the effect of raising wind.
Electricity has also, in all probability, something to do with the
creation of motion in the atmosphere.  Now, as these are all local
causes, they produce local--or what, in regard to the whole atmosphere,
may be termed irregular--effects.  And as these causes or agents are in
ceaseless operation at all times, so their disturbing influence is
endless; and hence the apparent irregularity in the winds.

But these causes are themselves, not less than their results, dependent
on other causes or laws, the workings of which are steady and unvarying;
and the little irregularities that appear to us in the form of
fluctuating and changing winds and calms may be compared to the varying
ripples and shifting eddies of a river, whose surface is affected by the
comparatively trifling influences of wind, rain, and drought, but whose
grand onward course is never for a single moment interrupted.

Among these disturbing influences, the Gulf Stream is a very important
one.  It is constantly sending up large volumes of steam, which, rising
into the air, induce a flow of wind from both sides towards its centre.
And many of the storms that arise in other parts of the Atlantic make
for this stream, and follow its course.

So much has been ascertained by scientific investigation of the winds,
that we can now distinctly map out the great belts or currents which
pass right round the world.  We can tell in which parallels winds with
easting, and in which those with westing, in them, will be most
frequently found; and by directing our course to such places, we can to
a certain extent count upon profiting by the winds that will be most
suitable.  Before the facts of atmospheric circulation were known,
mariners sailed by chance.  If they happened to get into the belt of
wind that suited them, their voyages were favourable; if they got into
the wrong region, their voyages were unfavourable,--that was all.  But
they had no idea that there was any possibility of turning the tables,
and, by a careful investigation of the works of the Creator, coming at
last to such knowledge as would enable them to reduce winds and waves,
in a great degree, to a state of slavery, instead of themselves being at
their mercy.

The world may be said to be encircled by a succession of belts of wind,
which blow not always in the same direction, but almost invariably with
the same routine of variations.  A vessel sailing from north to south
encounters these belts in succession.  To mariners of old, these varying
winds seemed to blow in utter confusion.  To men of the present time,
their varied action is counted on with some degree of certainty.  The
reason why men were so long in discovering the nature of atmospheric
circulation was, that they were not sufficiently alive to the immense
value of united effort.  They learned wisdom chiefly from personal
experience--each man for himself; and in the great majority of cases,
stores of knowledge, that would have been of the utmost importance to
mankind, were buried with the individuals who had laid them up.
Moreover, the life of an individual was too short, and his experience
too limited, to enable him to discover any of the grand laws of Nature;
and as there was no gathering together of information from all quarters,
and all sorts of men, and all seasons (as there is now), the knowledge
acquired by individuals was almost always lost to the world.  Thus men
were ever learning, but never arriving at a knowledge of the truth.

May we not here remark, that this evil was owing to another evil--
namely, man's ignorance of, or indifference to, the duty of what we may
term human communication?  As surely as gravitation is an appointed law
of God, so surely is it an appointed duty that men shall communicate
their individual knowledge to each other, in order that the general
knowledge of the species may advance and just in proportion to the
fidelity with which men obey this duty--the care and ability with which
they collate and systematise and investigate their knowledge--will be
the result of their efforts.

In order to make the above remarks more clear as regards atmospheric
phenomena, let us suppose the case of a sailor who makes the same voyage
every year, but not precisely at the same time each year (and it must be
remembered that the rigid punctuality at starting which now holds good
did not exist in former times).  In his first voyage he had to cross,
say, four of the wind-belts.  While crossing belt number one, he
experiences south-west winds chiefly, and, being an observant man, notes
the fact.  In belt number two he encounters westerly winds.  In number
three he is in a region of variable winds and calms.  In this region the
winds blow all round the compass, averaging about three months from each
quarter.  But our sailor does not know that; he does not stay there all
the year to make notes; he passes on, having recorded his experience.
In crossing belt number four, he finds the prevailing winds to be
easterly.

Next year he sets forth again but merchants are not always punctual.
The lading cannot be completed in time, or adverse winds render the
setting sail unadvisable.  At length, after a month or six weeks' delay,
he proceeds on his voyage, and finds belt number one perhaps much the
same as last year.  He congratulates himself on his good fortune, and
notes his observations; but in belt number two, the wind is somewhat
modified, owing to its being later in the season,--it is rather against
him.  In number three it is right in his teeth, whereas last year it was
quite in his favour.  In number four, which we will suppose is the
trade-wind belt (of which more hereafter), he finds the wind still
easterly.  Here, then, is the groundwork of confusion in our sailor's
mind.  He has not the remotest idea that in belt number one the wind
blows chiefly, but not always, in one particular direction; that in
number four it blows invariably in one way; and that in number three it
is regularly irregular.  In fact, he does not know that such belts exist
at all, and his opportunities of observing are not sufficiently frequent
or prolonged to enable him to ascertain anything with certainty.

Now, when we remember that in this imperfect experience of his he is
still further misled by his frequently encountering _local_
vicissitudes--such as storms and calms resulting from local and
temporary causes--we see how confusion becomes worse confounded.  No
doubt he does gather some few crumbs of knowledge; but he is called on,
perhaps, to change his scene of action.  Another ship is given to him,
another route entered on, and he ceases altogether to prosecute his
inquiries in the old region.  Or old age comes on; and even although he
may have been beginning to have a few faint glimmerings as to laws and
systems in his mind, he has not the power to make much of these.  He
dies; his knowledge is, to a very large extent, lost, and his log-books
disappear, as all such books do, nobody knows or cares where.

Now this state of things has been changing during the last few years.
Log-books are collected in thousands.  The experiences of many men, in
reference to the same spots in the same years, months, and even hours,
are gathered, collated, and compared; and the result is, that although
there are conflicting elements and contradictory appearances, order has
been discovered in the midst of apparent confusion, and scientific men
have been enabled to pierce through the chaos of littlenesses by which
the world's vision has been hitherto obscured, and to lay bare many of
those grand progressions of nature which move unvaryingly with stately
step through space and time, as the river, with all its minor eddies and
counter-currents, flows with unvarying regularity to the ocean.


CHAPTER SIX.

TRADE-WINDS--STORMS--THEIR EFFECTS--MONSOONS--THEIR VALUE--LAND AND SEA
BREEZES--EXPERIMENTS--HURRICANES--THOSE OF 1801--ROTATORY STORMS--THEIR
TERRIBLE EFFECTS--CHINA SEAS--HURRICANE IN 1837--WHIRLWINDS--WEIGHT OF
ATMOSPHERE--VALUE OF ATMOSPHERIC CIRCULATION--HEIGHT OF ATMOSPHERE.

Before proceeding to speak of the power and the dreadful effects of
wind, it is necessary to say a word or two about the trade-winds.

It is supposed that the "trades" derived their name from the fact of
their being favourable to navigation, and, therefore, to trade.  They
consist of two belts of wind, one on each side of the equator, which
blow always in the same direction.

In the last chapter it was explained that the heated atmosphere at the
equator rises, and that the cooler atmosphere from the poles rushes in
to supply its place.  That which rushes from the south pole is, of
course, a south wind, that from the north pole a north wind; but, owing
to the Earth's motion on its axis from west to east, the one becomes a
north-east, the other a south-east wind.  These are the north-east and
the South-east "trades."  They blow regularly--sometimes gently,
sometimes fiercely--all the year round.  Between the two is a belt of
calms and changeable breezes, varying from 150 to 500 miles broad--
according to the time of the year--where there are frequent and violent
squalls, of very short duration, accompanied with heavy rains.  This
region is called by seamen the "doldrums," and considerable trouble and
difficulty do ships experience in crossing it.

It has already been explained that about latitude 30 degrees, the upper
current of wind from the south descends.  At the same point the upper
current from the north also descends.  They cut through each other, and
the point where these two cut each other is the northern limit of the
north-east trade-winds.  The same explanation holds in regard to the
southern limit of the south-east trades.

In the accompanying diagram the arrows within the circle point out the
direction of the north-east and the south-east "trades" between the
tropics of cancer and capricorn, and also the counter currents to the
north and south of these, while the arrows around the circle show how
counter currents meet and rise, or descend, and produce the calm belts.

We have hitherto enlarged chiefly on the grand currents of the
atmosphere, and on those modifying causes and effects which are
perpetual.  Let us now turn to the consideration of those winds which
are produced by local causes, and the effects of which are partial.

And here we are induced to revert to the Gulf Stream, which has been
already referred to as a _local_ disturber of the regular flow of the
atmosphere.  This immense body of heated water, passing through cold
regions of the sea, has the effect of causing the most violent storms.
The hurricanes of the West Indies are among the most violent in the
world.  We have read of one so violent that it "forced the Gulf Stream
back to its sources, and piled up the water in the Gulf to the height of
thirty feet.  A vessel named the _Ledbnry Snow_ attempted to ride it
out.  When it abated, she found herself high up on the dry land, having
let go her anchor among the tree-tops of Elliott's quay!  The Florida
quays were inundated many feet; and it is said the scene presented in
the Gulf Stream was never surpassed in awful sublimity on the ocean.
The water thus dammed up rushed out with frightful velocity against the
fury of the gale, producing a sea that beggared description."

The monsoons of the Indian Ocean are among the most striking and regular
of the locally-caused winds.  Before touching on their causes, let us
glance at their effects.  They blow for nearly six months in one
direction, and for the other six in the opposite direction.  At the
period of their changing, terrific gales are frequent--gales such as we,
in our temperate regions, never dream of.

What is termed the rainy season in India is the result of the south-west
monsoon, which for four months in the year deluges the regions within
its influence with rain.

The commencement of the south-west monsoon is described as being sublime
and awful beyond description.  Before it comes, the whole country is
pining under the influence of long-continued drought and heat; the
ground is parched and rent; scarcely a blade of verdure is to be seen
except in the beds of rivers, where the last pools of water seem about
to evaporate, and leave the land under the dominion of perpetual
sterility.  Man and beast pant for fresh air and cool water; but no cool
breeze comes.  A blast, as if from the mouth of a furnace, greets the
burning cheek; no blessed drops descend; the sky is clear as a mirror,
without a single cloud to mitigate the intensity of the sun's withering
rays.  At last, on some happy morning, small clouds are seen on the
horizon.  They may be no bigger than a man's hand, but they are blessed
harbingers of rain.  To those who know not what is coming, there seems
at first no improvement on the previous sultry calms.  There is a sense
of suffocating heat in the atmosphere; a thin haze creeps over the sky,
but it scarcely affects the broad glare of the sun.

At length the sky begins to change.  The horizon becomes black.  Great
masses of dark clouds rise out of the sea.  Fitful gusts of wind begin
to blow, and as suddenly to cease; and these signs of coming tempest
keep dallying with each other, as if to tantalise the expectant
creation.  The lower part of the sky becomes deep red, the gathering
clouds spread over the heavens, and a deep gloom is cast upon the earth
and sea.

And now the storm breaks forth.  The violent gusts swell into a
continuous, furious gale.  Rain falls, not in drops, but in broad
sheets.  The black sea is crested with white foam, which is quickly
swept up and mingled with the waters above; while those below heave up
their billows, and rage and roar in unison with the tempest.  On the
land everything seems about to be uprooted and hurled to destruction.
The tall straight cocoa-nut trees are bent over till they almost lie
along the ground; the sand and dry earth are whirled up in eddying
clouds, and everything movable is torn up and swept away.

To add to the dire uproar, thunder now peals from the skies in loud,
continuous roars, and in sharp angry crashes, while lightning plays
about in broad sheets all over the sky, the one following so close on
the other as to give the impression of perpetual flashes and an
unintermitting roar; the whole scene presenting an aspect so awful, that
sinful man might well suppose the season of the Earth's probation had
passed away, and that the Almighty were about to hurl complete
destruction upon his offending creatures.

But far other intentions are in the breast of Him who rides upon the
storm.  His object is to restore, not to destroy--to gladden, not to
terrify.  This tempestuous weather lasts for some days, but at the end
of that time the change that comes over the face of nature seems little
short of miraculous.  In the words of Mr Elphinstone, who describes
from personal observation--"The whole earth is covered with a sudden but
luxuriant verdure, the rivers are full and tranquil, the air is pure and
delicious, and the sky is varied and embellished with clouds.

"The effect of this change is visible on all the animal creation, and
can only be imagined in Europe by supposing the depth of a dreary winter
to start at once into all the freshness and brilliancy of spring.  From
that time the rain falls at intervals for about a month, when it comes
on again with great violence; and in July the rains are at their height.
During the third month they rather diminish, but are still heavy.  In
September they gradually abate, and are often suspended till near the
end of the month, when they depart amid thunders and tempests, as they
came."

Such are the effects of the monsoons upon land and sea.  Of course the
terrific gales that usher them in and out could not be expected to pass
without doing a good deal of damage, especially to shipping.  But this
is more than compensated by the facilities which they afford to
navigation.

In many parts of the world, especially in the Indian Ocean, merchants
calculate with certainty on these periodical winds.  They despatch their
ships with, say, the north-east monsoon, transact business in distant
lands, and receive them back, laden with foreign produce, by the
south-west monsoon.  If there were no monsoons, the voyage from Canton
to England could not be accomplished in nearly so short a time as it is
at present.

And now as to the cause of monsoons.  They are, for the most part,
_deflected trade-winds_.  And they owe their deflection to the presence
of large continents.  If there were no land near the equator, the
trade-winds would always blow in the same manner right round the world;
but the great continents, with their intensely-heated surfaces, cause
local disturbance of the trade-winds.  When a trade-wind is turned out
of its course, it is regarded as a monsoon.  For instance, the summer
sun, beating on the interior plains of Asia, creates such intense heat
in the atmosphere that it is more than sufficient to neutralise the
forces which cause the trade-winds to blow.  They are, accordingly,
arrested and turned back.  The great general law of the trades is in
this region temporarily suspended, and the monsoons are created.

It is thus that the heated plains of Africa and Central America produce
the monsoons of the Atlantic, the Pacific, and the Gulf of Mexico.

We think it unnecessary to explain minutely the causes that produce
variation in the monsoons.  Every intelligent reader will readily
conceive how the change of seasons and varied configuration as well as
unequal arrangement of land and water, will reverse, alter, and modify
the direction and strength of the monsoons.

Land and sea breezes are the next species of wind to which we would
direct attention.  They occur in tropical countries, and owe their
existence to the fact that the land is much more easily affected by
sudden changes of temperature than the sea.  Thus, the land in warm
regions is much heated by the sun's rays during the day; the atmosphere
over it becomes also heated, in virtue of which it rises: the cool
atmosphere over the sea rushes in to supply its place, and forms the
_sea breeze_: which occurs only during the day.

At night the converse of this takes place.  Land heats and cools
rapidly; water heats and cools slowly.  After the sun sets, the cooling
of the land goes on faster than that of the sea.  In a short time the
atmosphere over the land becomes cooler than that over the sea; it
descends and flows off out to sea; thus forming the _land breeze_.  It
occurs only at night, and when the change from one to the other is
taking place there is always a short period of calm.  Land and sea
breezes are of the greatest use in refreshing those regions which,
without them, would be almost, if not altogether, uninhabitable.

In "The Tempest," an interesting work on the origin and phenomena of
wind, published by the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge, a
curious and simple experiment is described, whereby the existence of
upper and under currents of air and the action of land and sea breezes
may be clearly seen and understood.  We quote the passage:--

"The existence of the upper and under currents of air which mark the
phenomena of the trade-winds, and of land and sea breezes, may be
beautifully illustrated in two adjoining rooms, in one of which a good
fire is burning, while in the other there is none.  ... You revile the
art, answer me, thou unknown. You lie, I tell you, I do not revile the
art! The art is not some loose deceit, enticing for the confirmation
and affirmation of life in the flesh is irritating! Art is the sacred
torch, the Merciful into terrifying tale in all depths, in all the
shameless gramvollen and chasms of life, the art is the divine
fire that the world will be placed so that they flare up and
pass along with all its shame and torment in redeeming pity! ...
Take, Mr. Blüthenzweig, take the work of the famous painter, then your
window ... yes, you would do well there with a hot fire to burn and
his ashes into all the winds to scatter in all four winds !...« His voice
broke as ugly. He had a sharp step backwards done, had one arm
wrapped the black cloak of oblivion, had it with a passionate
movement hinausgereckt far and pointed with a strangely distorted,
desperately up and down trembling hand on the display, a showcase,
where the exciting Madonna had its place.

In this imperious attitude, he froze. His large nose gehöckerte seemed
a befehlshaberischen expression hervorzuspringen, his dark, at the
nasal bridge is strongly Brauen thickeners were pulled up so high that
the wrinkled, from the hood shaded forehead very broad cross was on his
cheek and caves had a hectic heat ignites. Here, Mr. Blüthenzweig but
turned around. Whether it's that unreasonable, this Siebenzig Mark
reproduction to burn him so sincerely outraged, or even that Hieronymus'
speeches at the end of his patience was exhausted: in any case, he
offered a picture-oriented and strong anger. He pointed with the pen
on the Ladentür, blew several times and briefly agitated with the
nose in the mustache, rang with the language and brought it with the
highest emphasis that: "If you now do not currently Patron of the picture,
so I leave you by the packer to facilitate the departure, you
understand me?

"" Oh, you do not be shy and you do not chase me, you get my voice
is not silenced, "said Jerome, by his chest above the hood with his
fist zusammenraffte fearless and shook his head ... "I know that I'm
lonely and powerless, and yet I did not fall silent until you
hear me, Mr. Blüthenzweig! Take the picture from your window and burn
it today! Oh, you do not burn it alone! Do these statues and busts, the
sight of which falls into sin, burn them vases and ornaments, this
shameless rebirth of paganism, this lavishly appointed love verses!

Do everything your store carries, Mr. Blüthenzweig, because it is a
garbage in God's eyes! Burn, burn, burn it, "he cried beside herself,
by a wild, wide ring movement in the round performs ... "This harvest is
ripe for the reaper ... The insolence of this time through all the dams
... But I tell you ... "" Herb Huber, "was Mr. Blüthenzweig, a door in
the background, turned, with effort, his voice heard ... »Come
here immediately," That which is a result of this command on the
scene appeared, was a massive and übergewaltiges Something, a
monstrous and strotzende human schreckeneinflößender appearance of
wealth, whose pulsating, ultimate padded limbs everywhere went into
each other informally ... an inordinately slowly over the ground
and difficult balancing pustende giant figure, nourished with malt,
a son of the people of the hardiness terrible!

Frans a seal-like mustache was up there in his face felt a tremendous,
with paste Tainted apron covered his body and the sleeves of his
yellow shirt were of the legendary arms back. "Do you want this gentleman
the door open, Huber cabbage," said Mr Blüthenzweig, "and if he
does not find him on the street hinausverhelfen." "Ha?" said the man,
when he and his little elephant eye alternately Jerome and his
Lord looked angry bread ...

It was a dull sound laborious zurückgedämmter force . Then he went with
his kicks everything to her shocking to the door and opened it. Hieronymus
had become very pale. »Do ..." he wanted to say, but felt he was recovering
from a terrible power over turned by a body force, against which no
resistance was possible, slowly and inexorably entgegengedrängt the
door. "I'm weak ..." he brought apparent. "My flesh does not tolerate the
violence ... it does not stand up, no ... What does that prove? Burning
for you ... "He stopped. He was outside the art shop. Mr Blüthenzweigs
huge servant had him with a small pile and drive momentum, so that
he, based on a hand sideways on the stone step niedergesunken was.
And behind him was followed by clinking the glass door. It was directed
upwards. He stood upright and gave breathing hard with one fist his hood
above the chest zusammengerafft, however, the other under the guise
hinabhängen left. In Wang's caves stored a gray pallor, the wings
of his great, gehöckerten nose and inflates itself preclude twitching,
his lips were too ugly to the expression of a desperate hatred
distorted, and his eyes, moved by Glut, sweeps IRR and ecstatic
about the beautiful place.

He did not see the curious and laughing at him looks. He looked at
the mosaic area in front of the big loggia the vanities of the
world, the mask costumes of the artists festivals, the ornaments,
vases, jewelry and style objects that are nude statues and busts of
Women, the picturesque of rebirths paganism, the portraits of the famous
beauties of Master Hand, the lavishly appointed love verses and
propaganda art pyramid-like aufgetürmt and the jubilation of the
yelling through his terrible words geknechteten people in crackling
flames ... He saw the yellow cloud wall, the Theatinerstraße heraufgezogen
was and where it quietly thundered, a broad sword to fire, in the light
of sulfur on the merry town hinreckte ... »Gladius Dei super terram
..." whispered his thick lips and, in his hooded cloak itself higher up
being guided by a hidden krampfigen and hinabhängenden shaking his fist,
quivering, he muttered: "Cito et velocit!"

* * * * * HEAVY HOUR He stood by the desk of his small, frail Write
commode, stand as a desperate and walked with hanging head in the opposite
corner of the room to the furnace, which was long and lean like a pillar.
He put his hands on the tiles, but they were almost completely cooled,
because midnight was long gone, and so, he refused, without the small
boon to have received that he was looking to back out, pulled the
coughing Schöße his skirt sleep together from whose breast the
surcharges slurred Spitzenjabot heraushing and schnob laboriously through
the nose to get a little air to give, because he had the cold as
usual. It was a particularly cold and eerie, and he almost never
completely left. His eyelids were inflames and the edges of his nostrils
are very sore like this, and in the head and limbs, this sniffing him
like a heavy, painful drunkenness.

Or was all the looseness and severity of the vexatious detention room
to blame the doctor now again for weeks was imposed on him, God knew
that if he probably did.

The perpetual catarrh and cramps in the chest and abdomen might make it
necessary, and bad weather was on Jena for weeks, for weeks now, it's
really a hateful and miserable weather, we all felt nervous, desolate,
dark and cold and the December wind howled in the stovepipe, neglected
and abandoned by God, that it sounded the night after the storm and
heath and hopelessly Irrsal Gram of the soul. But she was not good,
this close captivity, not good for the thoughts and the rhythm of
the blood from which the idea came ...

The hexagonal room, bare, austere and uncomfortable, with its whitewashed
ceiling, below the smoke floated his diagonally checkered wallpaper, on
the oval-framed silhouettes hung, and his four or five dünnbeinigen
furniture, stood in the light of two candles, to the heads of the
manuscript on the commode Write burned. Red drapes hung over the upper
part of the window, only flags, gathered calico symmetrical, but they
were red, of a warm, sonorous red, and he loved her and she never wanted
to miss, because they have something of opulence and sensuality
into the nonsense - abstemious impoverishment brought his room ... He
stood and looked at the stove with a swift and painful initiated
blinking over to the factory from which he had fled this burden, this
pressure, this Gewissensqual, this sea, the auszutrinken, this terrible
task that his pride and his misery, his heaven and his damnation was. It
dragged itself, it faltered, it was - again, again!

The weather was to blame and his catarrh and his fatigue. Or the work?
The work itself? One unfortunate and despair was doomed pregnancy? He
was up to a little distance on them, because so often resulted in
the spatial distance from the manuscript that we all won, another view
about the substance, and orders could be taken .

Yes, there have been cases where the feeling of relief when you are away
from the site of struggle, inspiring effect. And that was an innocent
enthusiasm, as if you took liqueur or black, strong coffee ...
The small cup was on the table. If he is over the obstacle hülfe?
No, no, no more! Not only the doctor, even a second still, a handsome,
had given him so gently resist guess: the other, there, in Weimar,
with whom he enjoyed a nostalgic enmity. He was wise. The knew to live,
to create did not battered, was full of consideration against itself ..
silence reigned in the house.

Only the wind was audible, the Schloßgasse hinuntersauste, and the
rain when he prickelnd driven against the window promised. All slept,
the landlord and his family, Lotte and the children. And he was awake
on lonely cooled oven blinked and tormented to the factory over to
his ill Ungenügsamkeit let him think ... His long white neck stood out
from the binder, and between the sleep Schößen Rocks saw its inward curved
legs. His red hair was from the high forehead and delicate
zurückgestrichen, was pale veined temples bays on the free and covered
the ears into thin curls. At the root of the large, curved nose,
which suddenly into a whitish tip ended, came the strong brows, dark hair
as the head, close together, giving the look of deep, sore eyes
show something tragic end there.

Forced through the mouth to breathe, he opened the thin lips and his
cheeks, freckled and pale air desk, tired, and fell a ... No, it failed,
and all was in vain! The army! The army would have to be shown! The
army was the basis of everything! Since they are not brought before
the eye could be - was the incredible art imaginable, they impose
the conceit?

And the hero was no hero, he was ignoble and cold! The system was wrong,
and the language was wrong, and it was a dry and swinging free in college
history, broad, and for the sober Schaubühne lost! Well, it was taken
out. A defeat. A failed company. Bankruptcy. He wanted to write grains,
grains of the good, the thought of him, in childish confidence of his
genius anhing. He would scoff, plead, crash - the friend, would it to
the gemahnen Carlos, who is also from doubts and troubles and changes,
and emerged at the end, after all the agony, as a widely excellence,
a glorious deed proved. But that was different was. At that time, he was
still the man, a happier thing to pack up and hand the victory to
shape it. Scruples and struggles? Oh, yes.

And he was sick, sick as well now, a Darbender, Volatile, with the
World Collection, pressed and in human bettelarm. But young, very young
still! Each also how deeply flexed, his mind was supple emporgeschnellt,
and after hours of Harms, the other of faith and inner triumph came. The
were no longer came barely.

A night of blazing mood, because you at once in a great passionate
light saw what could be if you always should enjoy such grace, had
to be paid for with a week of darkness and the paralysis. Tired, he
was, until thirty-seven old and already at the end.

The belief no longer lived, of the future, the star had his misery. And
so it was, this was the desperate truth: The years of hardship and the
invalidity of the suffering he and examination held, they were rich and
fruitful years, and now that a little luck to herniedergelassen because
he Freibeutertum of the Spirit in some legal and civic connection had
occurred, Office and honor him, wife and children had, and now he was
exhausted and ready. failure and despair - that's what remains. He
moaned, his hands pressed against the eye and walked like a rush through
the room. What he just thought was so terrible, that he was not at
the site managed to stay where he had the idea. He sat down on a chair
against the wall, let the folded hands hanging between his knees and
stared at the dim hallway down. ... The conscience how loud his
conscience screamed! He had sinned, versündigt itself against itself
in all the years, against the delicate instrument of his body. The
excesses of his youth cheer, the durchwachten nights, the days in
office tabakrauchiger air, übergeistig and the body uneingedenk the
drugs with which he is to work gestachelt - the revenged, revenged
Now!

And revenged it, so he wanted the gods defy the blame and then sent
punishment imposed. He had lived, as he had to live, he had not had
time, wise, not time to be deliberate. Here, at this point in the chest
when he breathed, coughed, yawned, always at the same point this
pain, this small, vicious, stabbing, probing warning that is not
silent, since five years ago in Erfurt, the Katarrhfieber, those heated
breast disease, attacked him - what would they say? In truth, he knew
only too well what she meant - I would love to make the doctor as he
could and wanted. He had not time to deal with wise conservation
to meet with mild hauszuhalten morality.

What he wanted to do, he had soon, still, fast ...

Morality? But how did it last, that the sin straight, the devotion to the
Malicious and end him moral human eyes than all wisdom and cool
breeding?

Not they, not the art of good contemptuous were the Moral conscience,
but of struggle and hardship, the passion and the pain! The pain
... As the word has expanded his chest!

He reckte up, folded his arms, and his gaze, the red, along the brow,
with a beautiful soulful plea. It was not miserable, very miserable or
not, as long as possible, his misery is a proud and noble designation
to it.

One was not: The good courage, his life, great and wonderful name!
The suffering is not to bar air and constipation due! Healthy enough
to be pathetic - to the Physical ignore, having to feel you! Only this
naive, but in everything else knowing! Faith, to believe the pain can
... But he believed so at the pain so deep, so profound that something
painful happened, this belief that neither useless nor bad it was. His
gaze swung over to the manuscript, and his arms folded is fixed on the
chest ... The talent itself - it was not pain? And when there, the
unfortunate work, made him suffer, it was not in the order and
almost as a good sign?

It had never gesprudelt, and his censure would only really begin when
it did that. Only dilettantes Stümper and bubbled it in the quick-satisfied
and ignorant who are not under the pressure of the breeding and talent
to live.

Because the talent, gentlemen and ladies there, largely in the parterre,
the talent is not easy, nothing Tändelndes, it is not an unqualified
Can. In the root, it is necessary to strike a critical knowledge of the
ideal, a Ungenügsamkeit that their skills are not only without pain
creates and increases.

And the biggest, the Ungenügsamsten their talent is the sharpest
scourge ... Do not complain Do not brag! Modest, patient thinking of
what you wore! And if not one day in the week, not one hour of suffering
has been free - what next? The burdens and benefits, requirements,
complaints, low stress care little to see - that's what great power, he
stood up, took the can and greedily snorted, then threw his hands on his
back so violently, and progressively through the room that the
flames of the candles fluttered in the air wake ... Size! Extraordinary!
World conquest and immortality of the name! What was all the happiness
of the eternal unknowns against this target? Be known - known and loved
by the peoples of the earth! Schwatzet of Ichsucht that you know
nothing of the sweetness of this dream and urge! Extraordinary
Ichsüchtig is everything, if it suffers. Do you like to watch himself,
speaks to her consignment lots, it's on earth did so much easier! And
the ambition Speaks: Is the suffering vain? Large it must make me ...
The wings of his big nose was curious, and threatened his gaze wander.
His rights were strongly and deeply rooted in the impact pushed his
bed skirt, while the left concentrated herniederhing. A flying ruddiness
was in his lean cheeks underfoot, a Lohe, beaten up from the embers
of his selfishness artist, that his passion for me, the indelible
in its depth burned.

He knew him well, the secret of this rush of love. Sometimes he just
took his hand in order for an enthusiastic affection for himself to
be fulfilled, in whose service he everything to him of weapons of talent
and art, was decided to make. He was allowed to it, was nothing ignoble
in it. Indeed, even deeper than this Ichsucht lived consciousness,
yet with all this in the service before anything High, admittedly without
merit, but on a need for unselfishly to eat and aufzuopfern. And
this was his jealousy: nobody will be greater than he, the not
even deeper than he suffered at the High.

No one ... He stood there, hands over his eyes, the upper half looking
sideways, evasive, fleeing. But he already felt the sting of this
inevitable feeling in his heart, the thought of him, the other, the
blonde, Tastseligen, sensual, divine, unconscious, to the there, in
Weimar, with whom he enjoyed a nostalgic enmity ... And again, as always,
in deep trouble, with haste and zeal, he felt the work to begin in the
thought that followed: his own nature and against the artistry of others
to maintain and delineate ... Was he bigger? What and why? Was it a
bleeding Still, if he won?

Would ever stop a tragic drama be? One God, perhaps - a hero, he was
not. But it was easier to be a god than a hero! - Easy ... The other
had it easier! With wise and fortunate hand to recognize and work between
the bright and liked quallos to swell and make fruitful. But was divine
creation, it was recognizing heroism, and was both a god and a hero who
created recognizing! The desire for heavy ... You knew how much breeding
and self-overcoming, a sentence, an idea of strict cost him, because
he was as ignorant and little training, a dull and enthusing dreamer.
It was difficult for a letter of Julius to write, as the best scene
to make - and it was not even a question that almost Higher - From
the first rhythmic art Drange inner substance, matter, the possibility
of effusion - up the idea of the image, the words, the line: what
a struggle!

what agony! Wonders of his works were longing, the longing for form,
shape, limit, physicality, the longing across the world clear of the
other, directly and with the divine mouth sunny things called by name.
Nevertheless, and despite that: Who was an artist, a poet like him,
himself? Who created, as he, out of nothing, out of their own
breasts?

Was not as music, as a pure image of being a poem in his soul was born,
long before it is parable and dresses from the world of appearances
lent?

History, world wisdom, passion means and excuses, no more, for something
little with them to create what in his hometown had orphischen depths.
Words, words: Keyboard only, which suggested his artistry to a
hidden strings to make the game sound ...

You knew that? They praised him a lot of good people, for the power of
the spirit with which he or those proposed key. And his favorite word,
pathos, his last, the big bell, with which he was one of the largest
celebrations of the soul cried, she attracted a lot of guilt ...

Freedom ... More or less, indeed, understood it as such, when they
cheered. Freedom - what was that? A little bit of dignity of citizens
but not before the prince thrones? Do you dream of what a ghost
with the words on my dare? Freedom of what? What finally? Maybe even of
happiness, of human happiness, these silken Fessel, this soft and
Holden commitment from happiness ... ... His lips twitched, it was
when his gaze turned inwards, and slowly let his face in his hands ...
He was a decline in the next room.
"These momentous objects," he says, "absorbed all the
powers of the mind, and produced an intensity of feeling, which, for a
long time, rendered me almost insensible to the storm, or the liquid
columns which threatened our destruction."

It was now that the missionary could look back with deepest gratitude
upon that mercy which had first brought him to a knowledge of the
Saviour.  "Him and Him alone," he adds, "I found to be a refuge, a rock
in the storm of contending feelings, on which my soul could cast the
anchor of its hope for pardon and acceptance before God...  I could not
but think how awful would have been my state, had I in that hour been
ignorant of Christ, or had I neglected or despised the offers of his
mercy.  Our prayers were offered to Him who is a present help in every
time of danger, for ourselves and those who sailed with us; and under
these and similar exercises several hours passed away."

Those prayers were answered, for the waterspouts gradually disappeared,
and the boat got safe to land.

In speaking of another waterspout, seen on a subsequent voyage, Mr
Ellis tells us that it was well defined,--an unbroken column from the
sea to the clouds, which on this occasion were neither dense nor
lowering.  Around the outside of the liquid cylinder was a kind of thick
mist; and within, a substance resembling steam, ascending apparently
with a spiral motion.  The water at its base was considerably agitated
with a whirling motion; while the spray which was thrown off from the
circle formed by the lower part of the column, rose several feet above
the level of the sea.  It passed about a mile astern of the ship.

Occasionally, when passing nearer to a ship than was deemed safe, a
waterspout has been dissipated by a cannon-shot, as represented in our
engraving.

Such are the usual appearances and actions of waterspouts.  They are
not, however, properly named, being simply whirlwinds at sea, instead of
whirlwinds on land.  Professor Oersted suggests the name "storm-pillar,"
as being a more appropriate term.

It does not follow that a large ship would inevitably be destroyed if
brought within the vortex of a waterspout; but it is certain that she
would run the risk of being dismasted, and perhaps thrown on her
beam-ends.  Navigators have not had sufficient experience of the power
of waterspouts to pronounce authoritatively on that point,--and it is to
be hoped they never will.

Captain Beechy, in his narrative of a voyage to the Pacific, describes
one into which his ship actually entered, and from which he received
extremely rough handling before he was set free.  But this might not
have been a very large waterspout; and it is not absolutely certain
whether he was quite within its vortex, or was merely brushed by the
skirts of its outer garment.

Certain it is that waterspouts vary in size and in power; for we read of
them passing from the sea to the land, and there rooting up trees,
unroofing and overturning houses, dismounting cannon, emptying fish
ponds, half emptying harbours, and otherwise exhibiting a degree of
force that would undoubtedly sink the largest vessel that ever was
built, if brought thoroughly to bear upon it.

The rate of motion in waterspouts varies.  Sometimes they revolve
slowly, sometimes with the utmost rapidity.  They often produce violent
noise, as, indeed, might be expected; and they are generally accompanied
by thunder and lightning, though not invariably so, for they are
sometimes observed when the heavens are clear and the sea calm.


CHAPTER EIGHT.

THE ARCTIC SEAS--THEIR CHARACTER, SCENERY, AND ATMOSPHERICAL ILLUSIONS.

There is a tendency on the part of most writers on the subject of Polar
Regions--especially compilers--to dwell disproportionately on the gloomy
side of the picture; insomuch that readers are led, not to over-estimate
the grand and the terrible aspects of the polar oceans, but to
under-estimate the sweet and the beautiful influences that at certain
periods reign there.

We quarrel not with authors for dwelling on the tremendous and the
awful.  Too much cannot be said on these points; but while they do not
by any means paint the dark side of their picture too black, they fail
to touch in the lights with sufficient brilliancy.  We have had some
personal experience of the arctic regions, and have found it extremely
difficult to get many persons--even educated men and women--to
understand that there _is_ a summer there, though a short one; that in
many places it is an uncommonly hot and excessively brilliant summer;
and that the sun, as if to make amends for its prolonged absence in
winter, shines all night as well as all day, blazing on the crystal
icebergs and pure snow (which _never_ disappear from those seas) with a
degree of splendour that renders the far north transcendently beautiful
and pre-eminently attractive.

We admit freely that the prevailing character of arctic seas, during the
greater part of the year, is dark, gloomy, forbidding.  But this is the
very reason why their brief but cheering smiles should be brought
prominently into the foreground, and, if they cannot in justice be dwelt
on long, at least be touched upon with emphasis.

Why, in some of our cyclopaedia accounts of the realms of "thick-ribbed
ice," so much prominence is given to "the horrors and wide desolation of
the scene," and so much graphic power is expended in working up the
reader's imagination to a conception of the dreadful dangers and the
appalling terrors that await the madman who should dare to venture
within the arctic circle, that persons who have not been there might
well be tempted to shrink in affright from the very contemplation of a
region in which there does not appear to be one redeeming quality.

We repeat, that we do not think the one side of the picture has been too
darkly painted,--but the other side has been painted too slightly.

At the same time, we would caution our readers against jumping to the
opposite extreme.  The dark side of the picture is in reality out of all
proportion to the light.  And we do not hesitate to state our confirmed
opinion, that the arctic regions are more interesting to read about than
pleasant to dwell in.

Having, then, defended the lights, let us commence our investigations
with the shadows.

Those oceans lying within the arctic circle exhibit phenomena so grand,
so wonderful, and so varied, that they claim distinct and separate
treatment from the ocean as a whole.  Here the extreme cold acts with
such power, and produces such extraordinary results, that it is
difficult to find words or similes by which to convey a just conception
of nature's aspects to the general reader.

During nearly two-thirds of the year the arctic regions are under the
absolute dominion of winter; and for many weeks of that bitter season
they are shrouded with the mantle of a dark, sunless night.  The entire
ocean is locked in the embrace of a covering of ice many feet thick, so
that its liquid aspect is thoroughly removed; and, owing to ice-masses
scattered over its surface, together with mounds of drifted snow, it
bears a much stronger resemblance to the land than to the sea.  Gales of
wind sometimes sweep over those frozen plains in bitter fury, hurling
the snow into the air in vast eddying masses, and threatening
destruction to any living creature that may chance to be exposed to
them--not so much from their violence, however, as from the intense cold
of the atmosphere which is put in motion.  But in regard to gales,
although there are no lack of them, they are neither so fierce nor so
frequent as are those of the torrid zone.

It might be supposed that in such a climate animal life could scarcely
exist; but such is not the case.  The inhabitants of part of the arctic
regions, named Esquimaux (more correctly Eskimos, with the accent on the
last syllable), are a stout, hardy, healthy race and the polar bears,
foxes, wolves, seals, musk-oxen, walruses, etcetera, that dwell there,
seem to enjoy their existence just as much as do the animals of more
favoured and warmer climes.

During the short but hot summer of the arctic regions, the immense
masses of ice formed in winter are by no means cleared away.  A great
part of the heat of early summer (there is no season there that merits
the name of spring) is spent in breaking up the solid crust of ice on
the sea, a large proportion of which is carried south by the currents
that flow to the equator, and melted long before they reach the
temperate zones.  But a considerable quantity of broken ice-masses get
locked in narrow places or stranded on shallows; and although they
undergo the process of melting the whole summer, they are not much
diminished ere the returning frost stops the process and locks them in
the new ice of a succeeding winter.

Thus there is no period of the year in which large quantities of ice may
not be seen floating about in the arctic seas.

This fact it is that enables us to speak appropriately of the _scenery_
of the Arctic Ocean.  And assuredly this scenery of the ice is
exceedingly and strikingly beautiful.  The imagination cannot conceive
the dazzling effect of a bright summer day in those regions, when the
ocean is clear as glass, and ice-humps and ice-mountains of every shape
and size are glittering in the sun's rays with intense brilliancy, while
the delicate whiteness of these floating islands, and the magical
atmospheric illusions by which they are frequently surrounded, render
the scene pre-eminently fairy-like.

All the navigators who have penetrated into the arctic seas speak with
enthusiasm of the splendour of floating ice-masses.  They take the most
curious and fantastic shapes; sometimes appearing like great cities of
white marble, with domes and towers and spires in profusion; sometimes
looming huge and grand like fortresses, and many of them with their
summits overhanging so much as to suggest the idea that they are about
to fall.  This indeed, they often do, adding to the grandeur of the
scene, and not a little to the danger, should ships chance to be in the
neighbourhood.

The atmospheric illusions, before mentioned, are the result of different
temperatures existing within a few miles of each other, and which are
caused by the presence of large bodies of ice.  The effect of this is to
cause the ice-masses on the horizon to appear as if floating in the air,
and to distort them into all sorts of shapes, even turning them upside
down, and thus affording to an innovative mind a most ample and
attractive field wherein to expatiate.

To ascertain the causes of facts and effects so curious must be
interesting to all who have inquiring minds.  We will, therefore,
attempt to describe and account for arctic phenomena in the following
chapters as simply as may be.


CHAPTER NINE.

FORMATION OF ICE--DANGERS OF DISRUPTING ICE--ANECDOTE--DRIFTING ICE--
DRIFT OF THE "FOX"--"NIPPING" ANECDOTE--LOSS OF THE "BREADALBANE."

It is well known that when fresh water becomes so cold that its
temperature is 32 degrees of Fahrenheit's scale, it loses its liquid
form and becomes ice.  A somewhat lower temperature than this is
necessary to freeze salt water; the reason being, that greater force is
required to expel the salt which the sea holds in solution,--which salt
is always more or less expelled in the process of freezing.

Ice commences to form in the shape of needles, which shoot out at angles
from each other.  In smooth water, under the influence of intense cold,
the process is rapid, and a thin cake soon covers the water, and
increases in thickness hour by hour.  But when the sea is agitated the
process is retarded, and the fine needles are broken up into what arctic
navigators call _sludge_.  This, however, soon begins to cake, and is
broken by the swell into small cakes; which, as they thicken, again
unite, and are again broken up into larger masses.  These masses, by
rubbing against each other, have their edges slightly rounded up, and in
this form receive the name of _pancake_ ice.

When a quantity of ice covers the ocean in a wide level sheet of
considerable extent, it is called an _ice-field_.  Fields of this kind
are often seen by navigators hundreds of miles in extent, and nearly
thirty feet thick.  Ice of such thickness, however, only shows five or
six feet above water.  When fields are broken by heavy ocean-swells, the
edges are violently forced up, and fall in debris on the surface; thus
_hummocks_ or mounds are formed.

When field-ice breaks up under the influence of an ocean-swell, caused
by a storm, the results are terrific.

An exceedingly graphic account of an incident of this kind is given by
Dr Brown, in his "History of the Propagation of Christianity."  He
writes:--

"The missionaries met a sledge with Esquimaux, turning in from the sea,
who threw out some hints that it might be as well for them to return.
After some time, their own Esquimaux hinted that there was a
ground-swell under the ice.  It was then scarcely perceptible, except on
lying down and applying the ear close to the ice, when a hollow,
disagreeable, grating sound was heard ascending from the abyss.  As the
motion of the sea under the ice had grown more perceptible, they became
alarmed, and began to think it prudent to keep close to the shore.  The
ice also had fissures in many places, some of which formed chasms of one
or two feet; but as these are not uncommon in ice even in its best
state, and the dogs easily leap over them, they are frightful only to
strangers.

"As the wind rose to a storm, the swell had now increased so much that
its effects on the ice were extraordinary, and really alarming.  The
sledges, instead of gliding smoothly along as on an even surface,
sometimes ran with violence after the dogs, and sometimes seemed with
difficulty to ascend a rising hill.  Noises, too, like the report of
cannon, were now distinctly heard in many directions, from the bursting
of the ice at a distance.  Alarmed at these frightful phenomena, our
travellers drove with all haste towards the shore; and, as they
approached it, the prospect before them was tremendous.  The ice having
burst loose from the rocks, was tossed to and fro, and broken in a
thousand pieces against the precipices with a dreadful noise; which,
added to the raging of the sea, the roaring of the wind, and the driving
of the snow, so overpowered them as almost completely to deprive them of
the use of their eyes and ears.

"To make the land was now the only resource that remained, but it was
with the utmost difficulty that the frightened dogs could be driven
forward; and as the whole body of the ice frequently sank below the
summits of the rocks, and then rose above them, the only time for
landing was the moment it gained the level of the coast--a circumstance
which rendered the attempt extremely nice and hazardous.

"Both sledges, however, succeeded in gaining the shore, and were drawn
up off the beach, though not without great difficulty.  Scarcely had
they reached it, when that part of the ice from which they had just
escaped burst asunder, and the water, rushing up from beneath, instantly
precipitated it into the ocean.  In a moment, as if by a signal, the
whole mass of ice for several miles along the coast, and extending as
far as the eye could reach, began to break up, and to be overwhelmed by
the waves.  The spectacle was awfully grand.  The immense fields of ice
rising out of the ocean clashing against each other, and then plunging
into the deep with a violence which no language can describe, and with a
noise like the discharge of a thousand cannon, was a sight which must
have filled the most unreflecting mind with feelings of solemnity.

"The Brethren were overwhelmed with amazement at their miraculous
escape, and even the Esquimaux expressed gratitude to God for their
deliverance."

Such is the terrible aspect in which field-ice is seen when broken up
and converted into smaller masses or _floes_.  When these lie closely
together the mass is called _pack-ice_; in which shape it usually drifts
away with the southern currents, and, separating as it travels south, is
met with in loose floating masses, of every fantastic form.  There is
always, as we have said, a large quantity of floe and pack-ice in the
polar seas, which becomes incorporated with the new ice of the
succeeding winter; and not infrequently whale and discovery ships get
frozen into the pack, and remain there as firmly embedded as if they lay
high and dry on land.  When the pack is thus re-frozen, it usually
remains stationary; but there are occasions and circumstances in which
the entire body of a pack drifts slowly southward even during the whole
year; showing clearly that oceanic circulation is by no means arrested
by the icy hand of the hyperborean winter.

A very remarkable drift of this kind is recorded by Captain McClintock
of the _Fox_, which is worthy of being noticed here, as illustrative of
the subject we are now considering and also as showing in a remarkable
manner the awful dangers to which navigators may be exposed by the
disruption of the pack in spring, and the wonderful, almost miraculous,
manner in which they are delivered from imminent destruction.

In attempting to cross Baffin's Bay, by penetrating what is called the
"middle ice," the _Fox_ was beset, and finally frozen in for the winter;
and here, although their voyage may be said to have just commenced, they
were destined to spend many months in helpless inactivity and
comparative peril and privation.  Their little vessel lay in the centre
of a field of ice of immense extent; so large, indeed, that they could
not venture to undertake a journey to ascertain its limits.  Yet this
field slowly and steadily descended Baffin's Bay during the whole
winter, and passed over no fewer than 1385 statute miles in the space of
242 days, during which period the _Fox_ was firmly embedded in it!

It is with difficulty the mind can form any adequate conception of the
position of those voyagers;--unable to move from their icy bed, yet
constantly drifting over miles and miles of ocean; uncertain as to the
where or the when of their deliverance from the pack; exposed to the
terrible dangers of disrupting ice, and surrounded by the depressing
gloom of the long arctic night.

At length deliverance came; but it came surrounded by terrors.  In
February, McClintock writes thus: "Daylight reveals to us evidences of
vast ice-movements having taken place during the dark months, when we
fancied all was still and quiet; and we now see how greatly we have been
favoured, what innumerable chances of destruction we have unconsciously
escaped.  A few days ago, the ice suddenly cracked within ten yards of
the ship, and gave her such a smart shock that every one rushed on deck
with astonishing alacrity.  One of these sudden disruptions occurred
between me and the ship, when I was returning from the iceberg.  The sun
was just setting as I found myself cut off...  At length I reached a
place where the jagged edges of the floes met; so crossed, and got
safely on board."

"And they will be cheering Acclamation, Sire," cried Mr. Ollivier, "and
if Your Majesty twice and three times demand would - at this moment,
France would refuse you nothing." "Well, gentlemen," said Napoleon up,
"I expect the submission of the declaration of war, and the rapid and
timely execution of all the measures just discussed."

So we are now, "he added seriously," the big decision contrary to
what so long as a sultry weather over our heads geschwebt, and it
leaves us only the left Please God protect France! "He spoke these
words deep in the chest, while his eyes as he questioningly emporschlug."
May God protect France! "repeated the three ministers - From Carousselplatz
up at this moment sounded the melody of the Marseillaise, which is a
passing Musikkorps intonirte, and in which the assembled immediately,
according to quantity and force einfiel. The Marshal Lebœuf looked quite
surprised to Mr. Ollivier lifted a hand up and said with lofty tone:
"The Spirit of France, Sire, speaks of these tones to your Majesty, the
Spirit of Freedom and Civilization, in which the Prussian armies
soon will be blown up.

"The Emperor listened in silence for a moment the ever-swelling sounds
mighty." Do you want to, "said He quietly, "the demons of the revolution
also lead to the battlegrounds of national fame, so that their formidable
power to always stronger strengthening of Kaiserthums developing." He
was silent a few moments - his burning glance seemed the veil of the
future to try to penetrate. Then he said with a kind-like. "Well,
gentlemen Minister, I am sending you continue - Each of us must at
his work, and the next time we will bring their many."

He handed the men's hands. The same grave and left in silence
the Cabinet. Immediately afterwards the valet Rouher Lord, former
State Minister and current Senate president. assenting Wink At Napoleon
met this long-standing head of the imperial government is slowly and
almost solemn attitude. The emperor went against him cheerful smile
and handed him a hand which Mr. Rouher respectfully and took a moment
in his thought, while he with a sad expression that was the Emperor.
"Well, my dear Rouher," said Napoleon, "we stand on the big decision,
and I hope that it is now will succeed in the coronation of the
building to complete, whose foundations you with so much zeal and
perseverance have listed.

"The full face of the Lord with the fine Rouher eloquent lips and clear,
sharp-sighted eyes showed a movement which this sharp calculated master
the dialectic and the parliamentary debate, otherwise was not peculiar.
"Sire," he said, "Your Majesty know how hard I worked years to have
the imperial coronation of the building in a different way and without
a warlike Catastrophe insurance.

Your Majesty, the leadership of your government hands to entrust others
to be good, and I can only hope left that the success of the expectations
of your Majesty and the wishes may read, what I wear the same in the
heart. "The emperor looked over his longtime Rathgeber thoughtful for
a moment to. "You may not agree, my dear Rouher," he said then with a
certain bias in the uncertain voice, "with the progress of events, but
you must admit that it is now impossible to get things on another way to
steer. "" Your Majesty, "replied Mr. Rouher," I would never approve
of that the procedure can be established by enterprises secure and quiet
a large fortune to found and maintain the capacity and is, instead of
these companies with Consequenz to pursue, on a Hazard game discover
him in an instant millionaire to make - but your majesty will
forgive - even the loss of many goods purchased guilt can lead to.
Likewise - "" Likewise, "the emperor was a" you will find that the war
in the policy is a Hazard game is that you do not need and the company
has already achieved much in question.

But my God, "he continued vigorous," if the whole nation wants the war,
- I am the chosen of the nation, - I have the national will to take into
account more than any else Regent, you must admit that quite France
is pressing for war, that Ollivier, this man of peace, and the
whole behind it liberal party of the necessity of the war are imbued
with enthusiasm and the same record.

"Mr. Rouher slowly shook his head. "Ollivier, Sire," he said, then shrugged,
"Everything is what it giebt opportunity, one of those pathetic speeches,
in which he likes so much. Ollivier If your Majesty, incidentally,"
he continued, "from the liberal party talks, which stands behind
him, so I would like a dissenting opinion to pronounce allow -
Nobody stands behind Ollivier. Your Majesty does not have with
him his former ideological comrades won, Your Majesty isolirt have him,
and only a single man on your site brought . Den Werth this profit, "he
said with a faint echo of irony," will tell. Your Majesty have also, "he
said then," by the public opinion of France spoke, what the war required,
Your Majesty shall have the right that public opinion demands the war.
But you have not then they brought him to ask - and then, Sire, the
public opinion is a wonderful thing.

If this war, what God wanted to prevent, unhappily for France fails,
so each individual from this crowd, whose reputation now sounding
together the public mind, his authorship of the war, denying to
Your Majesty and your government will be solely the fault of that
throw. "" But do you think it possible, " asked the emperor, "yet
the war be avoided?"

"No, Your Majesty," replied Mr. Rouher, "now no more. A few days ago maybe
that would still have been possible. It was the withdrawal of the
Hohenzollern Candidature Chen as a great triumph of Intercession French
show, and if so by all organs of government and its available to the
press would have happened then the whole of France at this moment just
as satisfying and equally proud of the restored prestige of the empire
look, as it is now, after the decision by the weapons calls. If this
unfortunate issue of the guarantee for the future, but so what Practical
little importance had not asked if one of the chamber and the
entire French nation's rejection of further discussion by the King
of Prussia, not as an insult to the representative of France would
have, then, Sire, it would still have been possible, this dangerous
game with the iron dice of war to avoid - now, Sire, it is not
possible anymore!

Under the circumstances, which are now created , we can only refer
to God and our courage to the triumph of the French Degens expected.
And my task will be, Sire, with all the means that are available to me,
through the influence of the corporation, headed by Your Majesty I have
, all of France with the courage and enthusiasm to perform, which we
need in this disaster.

I beg Your Majesty to the permits, tomorrow with a Deputation of the
Senate before you appear to be to the feelings out, which at this moment
the whole of France staff with them. I ask God that the fears, which I
do not entirely suppress can see what I have hidden in the depths
of my heart be closed to hold sacred duty, will never really like.
"The emperor had serious and sinnend the sound deeper conviction
spoken words of the Lord Rouher listened. With a movement full
warm friendliness, he handed him the hand and said.

"The dice rolls, it will have no other choice than to expect Muthig,
on which side he will fall. The accident is not to fear, is the best
way we lucky to serve. "Mr. Rouher bowed in silence and went out.
Napoleon looked at him long after sinnend." Perhaps he is right, "he
said, dreamy front view," perhaps I should try to halt the Verhängniß,
-- now, "he said tiefaufathmend," maybe this is still the favorable
moment, perhaps it is this cold rejection of all my accept only
emerged from the condition that I am the last and decisive step to
thun would not dare.

If my army to the quick-witted boundaries are when one sees that I am
fully committed serious, then perhaps once more find the time to
address the issue of compensation back, and I will be in the favorable
position that I am not, of make proposals and requests shall.
"He went a few moments in silence and deep thinking up and down, then
he rang and ordered his car to return to St. Cloud. Slowly, he drove
from the yard of the Tuileries, and on the Place la Concorde according
to the Champs Elysées. Everywhere undulates dense crowds, and until after
the Bois de Boulogne to the emperor was enthusiastic with high call
welcomed. "Down with Prussia!" cried to him from all groups. "To Berlin!"
At the Arc de Triomphe, met the Emperor voltigeurs a battalion of
the Guard, which is of a field exercise and returned was destined
in the next few days to go to Metz. The Emperor drove slowly step at
the passing soldiers, which in his view their Käppis on the top
of the bayonets stuck and loudly chanted: "Ça ira, ça ira, ça ira
- Bismarc à la Lanterne, Ça ira, ça ira, ça ira - Bismarc on le
pendra.

"Napoleon smiled and laid a hand on the hat and long sounded his car
this old melody from the horrors of the Revolution after which the
soldiers joke with this new text had. The Arc de Triomphe shone in
the light of the sun, quietly looked the stone face of the great emperors
of the proud building down. The cheering crowd accompanied the soldiers,
in their singing incident, while the emperor in the fresh, delicate
park imports, in which the elegant world of Paris made their evening
promenade, and at what horizon, the huge outline of Mont Valerien
towers.

Everything was joy, jubilation and victory proud confidence, and no eye
penetrated the veil of the future, behind which the terrible image
immediately stood up, the victorious German troops showed how they are
closed by this series Arch of Fame moved in French, while from the
depths of Paris heraufstiegen those dark powers to the monuments
of the centuries in rubble and ash to transform. * * * * * To the
same time, while in Paris jubilant excitement was in was in a
modest restaurant in the Passage Jeouffroi Officier of the Legion
gathered earlier hannöverschen. finster They sat around the table,
on which the waiter with the big white apron, just to be served
their dinner began.

On all these strong young faces was no trace of the hilarity of their
age, to discover and worry and grief, looked up from all eyes. The
Lieutenant of Tschirschnitz stressed the full blond mustache to the side
and said, dark teeth biting together by relying on the seated beside
him Kriegscommissair Ebers, the only older man by the company claimed.
"How long can our cash rich yet?" "Fourteen days perhaps," said the
Commissaire Ebers shrug, "if we restrict ourselves to the utmost limit,
and if we all our necessarily sell clothes, so maybe we can still
win a fortnight, but then it is in any event. "" Who would have told
us, "cried the Lieutenant of Götz Ohlenhusen by a deep train from
a standing before him Seidel Dreher Chen that beer, "as we Hanover
Forth and everything settled down to give us the service of the
king to get -" "That would have made us any event a great service
done," said Mr. von Tschirschnitz, "I now have my Company in Saxony
an honorable position, and a nice Carriere before me, while we are
here now in a situation in which truth is, even our previously
indestructible sense of humor to give the final blow.

Here in a foreign country without resources, without restraint, without
any indication - in Germany as Hochverräther verurtheilt! - We will soon
be in a position that no foot wide earth, air Athemzug no longer in this
world for us left. "" What we have left, "said Mr. von Götz dark," somewhere
as we recruit for you. You think that yes, a French Foreign Legion
to form. "" A lucky for us would have been if we Langensalza when a
bullet would have hit, "cried the Lieutenant of Dinklage, by a large
glass of wine Roth fall the empty glass and then violently pushed to
the table, "but then we would be in honor of the world has come in which
we have no room for a decent life." through the ranks of many gathered
here guests joined quickly by the major Düring at the table of the
officers approached. He followed the Regierungsrath Meding travel suit.
The officers stood up.

"My God, here," said Mr. von Tschirschnitz by the Regierungsrath Meding
hands enough, "what brings you here from Switzerland? Will we call
the king? Will he at some things - in this moment?

"" No, sirs, "said the Regierungsrath by the other officers and warmly
welcomed by Mr von Düring whose table was square. "I come not from kings,
I have no connection with Hietzing and will only coincidentally and
detours, which then act. I only come here because our fate ourselves
for so long with each other, and because I badly wanted, at this
moment the most serious crisis the world has experienced since long,
as your old friend and comrade of your exile, you and warn you on
the most urgent to ask, is God's will in no dangerous and unsafe
and severely limited activities and requirements of all temptation
to resist, they may come where they want. "" We have just talked
about what we should be "said Mr. von Tschirschnitz," our salaries
are Hietzing of us, as you know, long since removed.

We have all our Baarschaft together and shot so that her time under the
constraints expressed lived - the moment is very close to what we
have whole of nothing more to be - "" and in which nothing more is
left, "said Mr. von Götz, "as us, if need be, as common soldiers
to recruit."

"For God's sake, gentlemen," cried the Regierungsrath Meding, -
"remember what you thun.

Remember that it is at this moment is not a re-recording of the
struggle of 1866 applies. Remember that in this war the whole Germany
is united against France.

Remember that every German who at this moment in any way on the side of
the enemies of our homeland would be total, eternal shame would
expire; that the contempt of the French people themselves would
take him, and that even in the case of a French victory, the German
Earth will never again have room for him would be.

Therefore, I come here to keep you on the most pressing and before any
hasty decisions desperation full warning. I beg and implore you, leave
France, go to Switzerland and then wait for the events. I have heard
that here by the Count Breda attempts made, the rubble of
demolished apart Legion re-unite. "Lord of Tschirschnitz laughed loudly
and mockingly on." Breda That Count, "cried he," is a Frenchman,
an agent the darkest Ultramontanismus - that he was a representative of
the King of Hanover gerirt and a hannöversche Legion formiren
wants, that is, however, the crown of everything to happen now. ""
But, "was Mr. von Düring, by it to the Regierungsrath Meding turned,
"You know our situation and I can only repeat what I said when I
hierherbrachte you from the station, which leaves us as something
else but to us somewhere on the most decent way todtschießen it.

We have no other life in our situation. "The Regierungsrath Meding sinnend
looked down before." Each fate is better, "he said," than in the
ranks of the enemies of the united Germany to fall, and still is not
any possibility of Rescue excluded. Let me act. I can promise you
nothing - but it giebt perhaps even a way to take you all with honors
from the edge of the abyss and back to you in a friendly future may open
up - let me go my way, I have a feeling that tells me, he will
become a good end result.

But if we throw a large stone on the surface of the snow and
mark the spot, and return again after many days, we shall find that the
stone has descended the valley a short distance.  We shall also observe
that the snow has now a variety of markings on its surface; which might
lead us to fancy, had we not known better, that it had once been a
river, which, while raging down to the sea with all its curling rapids
and whirling eddies, had been arrested in all instant by the ice-king
and frozen solid,--in fact, it has all the graceful lines and forms of
fluidity, with all the steady, motionless aspect of solidity.  It really
moves, this vast body of snow; but, like the hour hand of a watch, its
motion cannot be recognised, though we should observe it with prolonged,
unflagging attention.  We have called it a vast body of snow, but this
is only comparatively speaking.  It will be vaster yet before we have
done with it.  At present it is but a thick semi-fluid covering, lying
at the bottom of this ancient arctic vale.

The brief summer ends.  Much of the winter snow has been melted and
returned to the sea; but much, very much more, is still lying deep upon
the ground.  The world's second winter comes.  The first frost
effectually puts a stop to all the melting and moving that we have been
describing.  The snow-river no longer moves--it is arrested.  The water
no longer percolates through the snow--it is frozen.  The mass is no
longer semi-fluid--it is solid ice; and the first step in the process of
a glacier's formation is begun.

Thereafter this process is continued from year to year, each winter
adding _largely_ to its bulk, each summer deducting _slightly_
therefrom.  The growing mass of ice ascends the mountain-sides, swallows
the rocks and shrubs and trees in its progress, until its body becomes a
thousand feet thick: the extreme summits of the mountain-peaks alone
tower above the snowy waste, and the mass at the bottom is now, by the
pressure of superincumbent masses, pure ice, hard and clear as crystal.

When the great glacier grows old it still maintains its stealthy
downward motion during every summer.  It has reached the shore, and has
been pushed, like a huge white tongue, out into the sea.

"But what has all this to do with icebergs?" it may be inquired.  Much,
very much.  It is common enough, in commenting on a child, to speak of
the parent.  The glacier is the _mother_ of the iceberg.

When, in the world's early morning, the embryo glacier reached the sea,
its thin edges were easily broken off by the waves; but as it increased
and still further encroached, these edges became thicker and thicker,
until at last a wall of pure ice, several hundred feet high, presented
its glittering front to the ocean.  It was hard and massive; the sun of
summer had little effect on its frigid face, and it seemed to bid
defiance to the sea itself.  But things often are not what they seem.
Each billow sapped its foundation; it soon began to overhang its base.
At length the cohesion of the mass was not sufficient to sustain its
weight.  A rending, accompanied by sounds like heaven's artillery, took
place; the crystal mountain bowed its brow and fell with thunderous
crash upon the water; then, rocking slowly under the impulse of its
dread plunge, the first iceberg floated off to sea!

It is right to remark here that this explanation is, to some extent,
disputed--at least there is a difference of opinion as to the _manner_
in which the iceberg leaves its parent glacier.  There is no dispute as
to its origin.  This difference will be explained shortly in a quotation
from Dr Kane's work; meanwhile, in support of the present theory, let
us listen to the words of one who saw with his own eyes something
similar to what has been described.  Dr Scoresby, than whom a better
man never explored the arctic seas, says:--

"In July 1818, I was particularly fortunate in witnessing one of the
grandest effects which these polar glaciers ever present.  A strong
north-westerly swell, having for some hours been beating on the shore,
had loosened a number of fragments attached to the iceberg, and various
heaps of broken ice denoted recent shoots of the seaward edge.  As we
advanced towards it, with a view of proceeding close to its base, I
observed a few little pieces fall from the top; and while my eye was
fixed upon the place, an immense column, probably fifty feet square, and
one hundred and fifty feet high, began to leave the parent ice at the
top, and, leaning majestically forward, with an accelerated velocity
fell, with an awful crash, into the sea.

"The water into which it plunged was converted into an appearance of
vapour or smoke, like that from a furious cannonading.  The noise was
equal to that of thunder, which it nearly resembled.  The column which
fell was nearly square, and in magnitude resembled a church.  It broke
into thousands of pieces.  This circumstance was a happy caution, for we
might inadvertently have gone to the very base of the icy cliff from
whence masses of considerable magnitude were continually breaking!"

Now, this incident suggests the probability, that, had the face of the
glacier projected into deep water, the mass which broke off might have
fallen into the sea without being broken to pieces, and might have
floated away as a berg.  We confess, however, to be partial to the view
expressed by some writers, that the great glaciers continue year by year
to thrust their thick tongues out to sea, until the projecting masses
reach water sufficiently deep to float them, when they are quietly
cracked off from their parent and carried away without any fall or
plunge.  The following remarks by Dr Kane will make this more clear.
Writing of the iceberg, he says:

"So far from falling into the sea, broken by its weight from the parent
glacier, it rises from the sea.  The process is at once gradual and
comparatively quiet.  The idea of icebergs being discharged, so
universal among systematic writers, and so recently admitted by myself,
seems to me at variance with the regulated and progressive action of
nature.  Developed by such a process, the thousands of bergs which
throng these seas should keep the air and water in perpetual commotion--
one fearful succession of explosive detonations and propagated waves.
But it is only the lesser masses falling into deep waters which could
justify the popular opinion.  The enormous masses of the Great Glacier
[of Greenland] are propelled step by step, and year by year, until,
reaching water capable of supporting them, they are floated off, to be
lost in the temperatures of other regions...

"The height of the ice-wall at the nearest point was about three hundred
feet, measured from the water's edge; and the unbroken right line of its
diminishing perspective showed that this might be regarded as its
constant measurement.  It seemed, in fact, a great icy table-land,
abutting with a clean precipice against the sea.  This is, indeed,
characteristic of all those arctic glaciers which issue from central
reservoirs, or _mers de glace_, upon the fords or bays, and is
strikingly in contrast with the dependent or hanging glacier of the
ravines."

Elsewhere the same writer speaks of this glacier as a line of cliff,
rising in a solid glassy wall to a height of three hundred feet above
the water-level, and with an _unfathomable_ depth below it; and its
curved face, sixty miles in length, from Cape Agassiz to Cape Forbes,
vanished into unknown space at not more than a single day's rail-road
travel from the pole.  The interior with which it communicated, and from
which it issued, was an unsurveyed _mer de glace_, or sea of ice, of
apparently boundless dimensions; and from one part of this great cliff
he _saw_ long lines of huge bergs floating slowly away.

Here, we think, is ice enough and of sufficient dimensions to account
for the largest bergs that were ever beheld.

It will be at once seen, then, that icebergs, though found floating in
the sea, are not necessarily of the sea.  They are composed entirely of
fresh water, and arctic ships can at any time procure a plentiful supply
of good soft drinkable water from the pools that are formed in the
hollows of the bergs.

The risk of approaching icebergs in the arctic regions is not so great
as when they are found floating further south; because when in their
native regions they are comparatively tough, whereas on their southern
journeys they become more or less disintegrated--in fact, the blow of an
axe is sometimes sufficient to cause a rent, which in its turn will
induce other rents and failings asunder, so that the whole mass runs the
risk of being entirely broken up.  Hence the danger of ships, in certain
circumstances, venturing to anchor to them.  Nevertheless this is a
common practice--sometimes a necessity--among discovery ships and
whalers.  It is a convenient practice too; for many a vessel has been
saved from absolute destruction by getting under the lee of a good sound
iceberg, where she has lain as safely, for the time being, as if in a
harbour.

When Captain McClure was endeavouring to make the north-west passage in
1851, he was saved, from what appeared to be at least very probable
destruction, by a small iceberg.  On the 17th of September he writes:

"There were several heavy floes in the vicinity.  One, full six miles in
length, passed at the rate of two knots, crushing everything that
impeded its progress, and grazed our starboard-bow.  Fortunately there
was but young ice upon the opposite side, which yielded to the pressure;
had it otherwise occurred, the vessel must inevitably have been cut
asunder.  In the afternoon we secured to a moderately-sized iceberg,
drawing eight fathoms, which appeared to offer a fair refuge, and from
which we never afterwards parted."

To this lump of ice the ship clung with the tenacity of a bosom friend,
and followed it, literally, through thick and thin!  There is something
almost ludicrous, as well as striking, in McClure's account of their
connection with this bit of ice.  It conveyed them to their furthest
north-east position, and back round the Princess Royal Islands--passed
the largest within five hundred yards--returned along the coast of
Prince Albert's Land--and finally froze in at latitude 70 degrees 50
minutes north, longitude 117 degrees 55 minutes west, on the 30th
September; during which circumnavigation they received many severe
"nips," and were frequently driven close to the shore, from which their
dear friend the iceberg, small though he was, kept them off.

Icebergs assume almost every conceivable form, and are seen of every
size--sometimes, also, in great numbers.  Scoresby mentions one occasion
on which he was surrounded by bergs to the number of several hundreds.

Now, all this ice that we have been speaking of, besides being, in a
secondary way, a passive agent in the affairs of man (chiefly in barring
his progress northward), is one of the most potent agents in the economy
of nature.  It is the means by which the world is kept cool enough for
man and beast to dwell in.  The polar regions--north and south--are, as
it were, the world's refrigerators; tempering the heated air of the
south, and, in connection with the torrid zone, spreading throughout the
Earth those beneficial influences which gladden the sphere of man's
temporal existence.


CHAPTER ELEVEN.

ICE AN AGENT IN TRANSPORTING BOULDERS--HOW THIS COMES ABOUT--DR. KANE'S
OBSERVATIONS--LONG NIGHT IN WINTER AND LONG DAY IN SUMMER--EXTREME
DARKNESS--INFLUENCE ON DOGS--INTENSE COLD--EFFECT ON THE SEA.

There are many things in this world which, up to within a few years
back, have been to men a source of surprise and mystery.

Some of these problems have been solved by recent travellers, and not a
few of them are referable to polar oceans and ice.

In many parts of our coasts we find very striking and enormously large
boulder-stones lying on the beach, perfectly isolated, and their edges
rounded away like pebbles, as if they had been rolled on some
antediluvian beach strewn with Titanic stones.  These boulders are
frequently found upon the loose sands of the sea-shore, far removed from
any rocks or mountains from which they might be supposed to have been
broken; and, more than that, totally different in their nature from the
geological formations of the districts in which they are found.  "Whence
came these?" has been the question of the inquisitive of all ages, "and
how came they there?"

There may, for aught we know to the contrary, be more than one answer to
these questions; but there is at least one which is quite satisfactory
as to how and whence at least some of them have come.  Ice was the means
of conveying these boulders to their present positions.

It has been said that once upon a time a large part of this country was
under the dominion of ice, even as the polar regions and some of the
mountains and valleys of Norway are at the present day; that the
boulders we see in elevated places were conveyed thither by glacier
action; and that when the glacial period passed away, they were left
there on the hill-sides--sometimes almost on the mountain-tops.  But
this is not the question we are considering just now.  We are now
inquiring into the origin of those huge boulders that are found upon our
coasts and on the coasts of other lands--boulders which could not have
rolled down from the hills, for there are no hills at all near many of
them; and those hills that are near some of them are of different
geological formation.

This question will be answered at once, and one of the phenomena of
arctic ice and oceanic agency will be exhibited, by reference to the
recent discoveries of the celebrated arctic voyager, Dr Kane of the
American Navy.

While wintering far beyond the head of Baffin's Bay, and beyond the most
northerly point, in that direction, that had at that time been reached
by any previous traveller, Dr Kane made many interesting observations
and discoveries.  He seems to have penetrated deep into the heart of
Nature's northern secrets.  Among other things, he ascertained the
manner in which boulders are transported from their northern home.

The slow, creeping movement of glaciers, to which we have already
referred, is one means whereby large boulders are formed.  At the lower
edge of one of the glaciers of Norway we saw boulders, thirty or forty
feet in diameter, which had been rolled and forced, probably for ages,
down the valley by the glacier, and thrust out on the sea-beach, where
they lay with their angles and corners rubbed off and their surfaces
rounded and smoothed as completely as those of the pebbles by which they
were surrounded.

Had these boulders been formed in the arctic regions, they might have
been thrust out upon the thick solid crust of the frozen sea, which in
time would have been broken off and floated away; thus rafting the
boulders to other shores.  The formation of boulders, and their
positions, are facts that we have seen.  Their being carried out to sea
by ice-rafts is a fact that Dr Kane has seen and recorded.  On the wild
rocky shores where his ship was set fast, there was a belt of ice lining
the margin of the sea, which he termed the "ice-belt," or the
"ice-foot."  This belt never melted completely, and was usually fast to
the shore.  In fact it was that portion of the sea-ice which was left
behind each spring when the general body of ice was broken up and swept
away.  Referring to this, he writes:

"The spot at which we landed I have called Cape James Kent.  It was a
lofty headland, and the land-ice which hugged its base was covered with
rocks from the cliffs above.  As I looked over this ice-belt, losing
itself in the far distance, and covered with its millions of tons of
rubbish, greenstones, limestones, chlorite, slates, rounded and angular,
massive and ground to powder, its importance as a geological agent, in
the transportation of drift, struck me with great force.

"Its whole substance was studded with these varied contributions from
the shore; and further to the south, upon the now frozen waters of
Marshall Bay, I could recognise raft after raft from the last year's
ice-belt which had been caught by the winter, each one laden with its
heavy freight of foreign material.

"The water torrents and thaws of summer unite with the tides in
disengaging the ice-belt from the coast; but it is not uncommon for
large bergs to drive against it and carry away the growths of many
years.  I have found masses that had been detached in this way, floating
many miles out at sea--long, symmetrical tables, two hundred feet long
by eighty broad, covered with large angular rocks and boulders, and
seemingly impregnated throughout with detrited matter.  These rafts in
Marshall Bay were so numerous, that could they have melted as I saw
them, the bottom of the sea would have presented a more curious study
for the geologist than the boulder-covered lines of our middle
latitudes.  One boulder in particular had had its origin in a valley
where rounded fragments of water-washed greenstone had been poured out
by the torrents and frozen into the coast-ice of the belt.  The
attrition of subsequent matter had truncated the great egg-shaped rock,
and worn its sides into a striated face, whose scratches still indicated
the line of water-flow."

So, then, when we next meet with a huge isolated boulder on any of our
flat beaches, we may gaze at it with additional interest, when we
reflect that, perchance, it was carried thither by the ocean, countless
ages ago, from the arctic regions, on a gigantic raft of ice; after
having been, at a still more remote period, torn from its cliffs by some
mighty glacier and slowly rolled and rounded, for hundreds of years
perhaps down the scarred slopes of its native valley.

The primary cause of the intense and prolonged cold of the arctic
regions is the shortness of the time during which they are under the
influence of the sun's rays.  For a few months in summer the sun shines
brightly, but, owing to the position of the globe, obliquely on the
poles.  During part of that period it shines at mid-night as well as at
mid-day.  Put during the greater part of the year its beams throw but a
feeble light there, and for several months in winter there is absolutely
no day at all--nothing but one long dismal night of darkness, that seems
as if the bright orb of day had vanished from the heavens for ever.

The length of this prolonged day in summer, and this dreary night in
winter, depends, of course, upon latitude.  The length of both increases
as we approach the poles.  The long daylight in summer is exceedingly
delightful.  We once saw the sun describe an almost unbroken circle in
the sky for many days and nights, and had we been a few degrees further
north we should have seen it describe an entire circle.  As it was, it
only disappeared for twenty minutes.  It set about midnight, and in
twenty minutes it rose again so that there was no night, not even
twilight, but a bright, beautiful blazing day, for several weeks
together.

Dr Kane describes the midnight sun thus: "On our road we were favoured
with a gorgeous spectacle, which hardly any excitement of peril could
have made us overlook.  The midnight sun came out over the northern
crest of the great berg, our late `fast friend,' kindling
variously-coloured fires on every part of its surface, and making the
ice around us one great resplendency of gem-work--blazing carbuncles and
rubies, and molten gold."

Very different indeed is the aspect of the winter night.  Let the same
authority speak, for he had great experience thereof.

On December 15th he writes: "We have lost the last vestige of our
mid-day twilight.  We cannot see print, and hardly paper.  The fingers
cannot be counted a foot front the eyes.  Noonday and midnight are
alike; and, except a vague glimmer on the sky, that seems to define the
hill-outlines to the south, we have nothing to tell us that this arctic
world of ours has a sun.  In one week more we shall reach the midnight
of the year...

"The influence of this long intense darkness was most depressing.  Even
our dogs, although the greater number of them were natives of the arctic
circle, were unable to withstand it.  Most of them died from an
anomalous form of disease, to which I am satisfied, the absence of light
contributed as much as extreme cold."  Quoting from his journal he says:
"I am so afflicted with the insomnia of this eternal night, that I rise
at any time between midnight and noon.  I went on deck this morning at
five o'clock.  It was absolutely dark; the cold not permitting a
swinging lamp, there was not a glimmer came to me through the
ice-crusted window-panes of the cabin.  While I was feeling my way, half
puzzled as to the best method of steering clear of whatever might be
before me, two of my Newfoundland dogs put their cold noses against my
hand, and instantly commenced the most exuberant antics of satisfaction.
It then occurred to me how very dreary and forlorn must these poor
animals be, at atmospheres 10 degrees above zero in-doors and 50 degrees
below zero without--living in darkness, howling at an accidental light,
as if it reminded them of the moon--and with nothing, either of instinct
or sensation, to tell them of the passing hours, or to explain the long
lost daylight.  They shall see the lantern more frequently."

Yet this state of midnight darkness is not altogether unmitigated.
There are a few ameliorating influences at work, the nature of some of
which we will treat of in the next chapter.  Among others, the moon
frequently shines there with great brilliancy in winter.  Dr Kane says
that in October the moon had reached her greatest northern declination:
"She is a glorious object.  Sweeping around the heavens, at the lowest
part of her curve she is still 14 degrees above the horizon.  For eight
days she has been making her circuit with nearly unvarying brightness.
It is one of those sparkling nights that bring back the memory of
sleigh-bells and songs and glad communings of hearts in lands that are
far away."

But despite all the varied and transient beauties of the northern skies
in winter, the long arctic night is undoubtedly depressing in the
extreme.  In these regions men speak of being able to read the
thermometer on the 7th of November at noonday "without a light," as
being matter for gratulation.  The darkness still before them at that
time would be of about three months' duration, and even then they would
only get back to a species of twilight.

The cold experienced by these navigators of the northern seas is
terribly intense.  Their thermometers have frequently indicated a
temperature as low as 75 degrees below zero, or 107 degrees of frost, on
Fahrenheit's scale.  The thermometers of arctic explorers are always
filled with spirits of wine, as quicksilver freezes at about 40 degrees
below zero, and is therefore unsuitable.  It would be frozen, indeed,
the greater part of the winter.

Dr Kane says: "At such temperatures chloric ether became solid, and
carefully prepared chloroform exhibited a granular pellicle on its
surface.  Spirits of naphtha froze at 54 degrees below zero, and oil of
sassafras at 49 degrees.  The oil of winter-green was in a flocculent
state at 56 degrees, and solid at 63 degrees.

"The exhalations from the surface of the body invested the exposed or
partially clad parts with a wreath of vapour.  The air had a perceptible
pungency upon inspiration, but I could not perceive the painful
sensation which has been spoken of by some Siberian travellers.  When
breathed for any length of time, it imparted a sensation of dryness to
the air-passages.  I noticed that, as it were involuntarily, we all
breathed guardedly, with compressed lips."

Now, strange to say, this extremely low temperature does not affect the
ocean to any great depth.  Just below the ice, in cold such as the
above, the sea was found to be 29 degrees _above_ zero.  No doubt,
deeper down, the temperature was still warmer.  We have heard it said,
that when men chance to fall into the water in cold regions, in the
depth of winter, it feels at first rather warm and agreeable!  On
scrambling out again, however, their condition is not enviable; for in a
few minutes the keen frost causes their garments to become as hard as
boards.

Much light has been thrown on the fact of the existence of under and
upper currents in the sea, by the phenomena of the arctic regions, and
some of the questions to which these currents give rise are so
interesting that we shall treat of them in a new chapter.


CHAPTER TWELVE.

QUESTION OF AN OPEN SEA ROUND THE POLES--UPPER AND UNDER CURRENTS OF THE
OCEAN--CAUSE THEREOF--HABITS OF THE WHALE AS BEARING ON THE QUESTION--
DR. KANE'S DISCOVERY OF AN OPEN SEA IN THE FAR NORTH--NOTES ON THE
EXPEDITION--A BEAR-HUNT.

It was long and very naturally supposed that the impenetrable ice of the
arctic regions extended to, and, as it were, sealed up the pole.  But
from time to time philosophic observers of Nature's laws began to hint
their opinion that there is an open ocean around the pole; and of late
years this opinion has all but been converted into a firm belief.

Maury remarks, that like air--like the body--the ocean _must_ have a
system of circulation for its waters.  And an attentive study of the
currents of the sea, and a close examination of the laws which govern
the movements of the waters in their channels of circulation through the
ocean, will lead us irresistibly to the conclusion that always, in
summer and winter, there must be, somewhere within the arctic circle, a
large body of open water.

There is an under-current setting from the Atlantic, northward through
Davis' Straits, into the Arctic Ocean, and a surface-current setting
out.

The fact is proved beyond a doubt by the observations of arctic
explorers, who have seen immense icebergs drifting rapidly northward
against a strong current.  This apparent anomaly could only be accounted
for by the fact that a powerful undercurrent carried them northward; and
as at least seven times more of these bergs must have been under than
above water, we can easily understand how the under-current, acting on
the larger mass of each berg, had power to carry it against the
surface-current.

This under-current is _warm_, while the upper-current is _cold_.  Now we
know that according to Nature's laws, heated water, like heated air,
rises to the surface, and cold water sinks to the bottom.  How, then,
comes this warm current to be underneath the cold, as soundings have
proved it to be?  It is owing to the fact that the under-current is much
salter, and therefore heavier (despite its warmth), than the
surface-current; which latter, being mingled with the drainage and
ice-masses of the arctic regions, is comparatively fresh, and therefore
light as well as cold.

The hot and salt waters of the tropics are carried north by the Gulf
Stream.  There are here two counteracting agents at work.  Heat inclines
the Gulf Stream to rise; saltness inclines it to sink.  During the first
part of its journey, as we know, its great heat prevails over the other
influence, and it flows as a surface-current.  But, at a certain point
in its northward route, it meets with the cold, brackish, ice-bearing
currents that flow out of the arctic basin.  Having lost much of its
heat (though still possessing a great deal more than the arctic
currents), the saltness of the Gulf Stream prevails; it dips below the
polar waters, and thenceforth continues its course as an under-current,
salt, and comparatively warm.

To state the matter briefly: The hot water, which _ought_ to keep on the
surface because of its heat, is sunk by its superabundant salt; and the
cold water, which _ought_ to sink because of its cold, is buoyed on the
surface because of its want of salt.

Now arises the question--what becomes of the great quantity of salt that
is thus being carried perpetually into the polar basin?  Manifestly it
must be carried out again by the surface-current, otherwise the polar
basin would of necessity become a basin of salt.  The under-current
_must_, therefore, rise to the surface somewhere near the pole, with its
temperature necessarily only a little, if at all, below the
freezing-point--which, be it observed, is a _warm_ temperature for such
regions.  Here, then, where the warm waters from the south rise to the
surface, it is supposed this open Arctic Ocean must exist.

So much for theory.  Now for facts that have been observed, and that
tend, more or less, to corroborate this proposition of an open polar
sea.  The habits of the whale have gone far to prove it.  The log-books
of whalers have for many years been carefully examined and compared by
scientific men.  These investigations have led to the discovery "that
the tropical regions of the ocean are to the `right' whale as a sea of
fire, through which he cannot pass, and into which he never enters."  It
has also been ascertained that the same kind of whale which is found off
the shores of Greenland, in Baffin's Bay, etcetera, is found in the
North Pacific, and about Behring's Straits; and that the `right' whale
of the southern hemisphere is a different animal from that of the
northern.  How, then, came the Greenland whales to pass from the
Greenland seas to the Pacific?  Not by the Capes Horn or Good Hope; the
"sea of fire" precluded that.  Clearly there was ground here for
concluding that they did so through the (supposed) open sea lying
beyond, or rather within, the frozen ocean.

It is true the objection might be made, that the same kind of whale
which exists in the North Pacific exists also in the North Atlantic,
although they never cross over to see each other.  But another discovery
has met this objection.

It is the custom among whalers to have their harpoons marked with date
and name of ship, and Dr Scoresby, in his work on arctic voyages
mentions several instances of whales having been taken near Behring's
Straits, with harpoons in them bearing the stamp of ships that were
known to cruise in the Greenland seas; and the dates on the harpoons
were so recent as to preclude the supposition that the said whales had,
after being struck, made a voyage round the capes above mentioned,--even
were such a voyage possible to them.  Kutschieren travelers of all
nations in the small, slow cabs around by the right and left in
indiscriminate curiosity on the walls of houses hinaufschauen, and climb
the stairs of the free museums hinan ... Many windows are opened, and
many sounds music to the streets addition, exercises on the piano,
the violin or the violoncelle, fair and well-dilettante efforts.

In the 'Odeon' but, as one hears, in several wings seriously studied.
Young people who Nothung motif whistle and in the evening the background
of modern Schauspielhauses fill, hiking, literary magazines in the side
pockets of their jackets in the University and the State Library and
a. Before the Academy of Fine Arts, their white arms between the Turks
and the road Siegestor spread, holds a Hofkarosse. And at the height of
the ramp stand, sit and store color categories in the models, picturesque
old people, children and women in the costume of the Albanian
mountains.

Hastloses nonchalance and strolling in all the long streets of the
North ... It is not just a rush Erwerbsgier and eaten there, but lives
pleasant purposes. Young artists, round Hütchen on the rear head, with
loose ties and without a stick, Gesellen safely to their rent with
color sketches pay go walking around this morning in their light
blue mood to work and look after the little girl, this pretty, Typus
sat under the brunettes Haarbandeaux, the slightly too large feet and
safe habits. ... Every fifth house lets the studio windows flashing
in the sun.

Sometimes occurs Kunstbau from among the bourgeois show the work of
an imaginative young architects, wide and flachbogig with bizarre
ornamentation, full of wit and style. And suddenly the door is
somewhere in a very dull facade of a bold improvisation framed by
flowing lines and sunny colors, Bacchanten, mermaids, rosy nudity
... It is always a fresh delight, at the expenses of art Joinery and
bazaars for modern luxury items to use. How imaginative comfort, how
much humor in the linear form of all things!

Everywhere, the small sculpture, frame and antique shops scattered,
from whose windows you the busts of Florentine Quattro Cento women
full of noble look forward piquancy. And the owner of the smallest and
cheapest of these shops you speak of Donatello and Mino da Fiesole,
he had the right of reproduction of them personally ... But up there
at Odeonsplatz, given the enormous loggia, before the large
mosaic spread area, and diagonally opposite the palace of the rulers
insist the people around the large windows and showcases of the
major art magazine, beauty of the vast store of M.

Blüthenzweig. What joyful splendor on display! Reproductions of
masterpieces from all the galleries in the soil, bordered in precious,
refined and tinted ornamental frame in a precious taste of simplicity,
images of modern paintings, sinnenfroher Phantasieen in which the
antiquity on a humorous and realistic way, born again appears to be the
plastic of the Renaissance in perfect casts, naked bronze bodies and
fragile Ziergläser; steep earthen vases of styles, from the baths of
metal vapors in a shimmering coat colors have emerged; magnificent
volumes, new triumphs of the art equipment, works of fashionable
poet, dressed in a decorative and elegant splendor, between the
portraits of artists, musicians, philosophers, actors, poets, public
curiosity displayed after the personal ...

In the first window, as the adjacent bookstore first, stands on an easel
a large picture, before the crowd to dams: a valuable, executed in
brown Tone Photography in large, old gold frame, a sensational piece,
a replica of the great international Clous Exhibition of the Year, whose
visit to the posters, leaflets between concert and artistically
furnished recommendations Hygienic resources, and effective archaisierende
Invite posters. look around you, in the windows of the bookstores.

Your eyes meet titles like 'The apartment art since the Renaissance',
'The education of the color sense', 'The Renaissance in the modern arts
and crafts',' The book as a work of art ',' The decorative arts', 'The
hunger for Kunst' - and thou must know that this a thousand times
Weckschriften bought and read, and that on the evening before the
full articles ebendieselben halls talking ... Do you have luck, then you
encounter one of the most famous women in person, the one through the
medium of art is used to look, one of those rich and beautiful ladies
of artificially produced Titian Blond and diamonds in jewelry, whose
beguiling trains at the hands of a brilliant portraitist Eternity
has become a given, and their love lives of the city speaks - queens
of the carnival celebrations in the artist, a little geschminkt, a little
painting, full of noble piquancy, gefallsüchtig and worthy of worship.
And look, there goes a great painter with his mistress in a car
the Ludwigstraße up.

It shows the vehicle, it stops and looks after the two. Many people
greet. And it is not missing much, that the protection to make people
front. The art is flourishing, the art is addressed to the rule,
which stretches their artistic rosenumwundenes scepter over the city,
and smiles. A versatile respectful sympathy to their prosperity, a
versatile, hardworking and dedicated training and propaganda in
their services, a cult of the honesty line of jewelery, form,
meaning, beauty obwaltet ...

Munich shone. 2 It intervened Schellingstraße hinan the lad, he gradually,
umklingelt of the cyclists in the middle of the wooden pavement of
the broad facade of the church against Ludwig. Saw him, it was as if a
shadow over the sun was on the mind or a reminder of serious hours. He
loved the sun is not the beautiful city in hard gloss surfaced?
Why is he in and swept away the eyes directed to the ground, however,
he changed? He wore no hat, what with the freedom of costume
leichtgemuten city no soul takes exception, but instead had the hood
of his long black coat pulled over his head that his low, projecting
forehead shaded square, covered his ears and his lean cheeks framed.
Which Gewissensgram the scruples and the maltreatment of his own
cheeks as they had managed of its substance?

Is not it certainly shows that such sunny days in the grief of a man
caves Wang live to see? His dark brows strongly thickened at the root
of his thin nose, large and gehöckert from the hervorsprang history,
and his lips were thick and strong.

If he's pretty close TOGETHER brown eyes rose, formed cross on his
forehead wrinkled. He looked with an expression of knowledge, limitations
and suffering. Seen in profile, closely resembled the face of an old
portrait of monks hand, kept to Florence in a tight and hard monastery
cell, which once made a terrible and devastating protest against the
life, and his triumph was the progressive ... Jerome Schellingstraße
hinan, slowly progressive and notes, however, his long coat from the
inside with both hands together.

Two little girls, two of these pretty, put under the care Haarbandeaux,
to the large feet and safe manners, the arm in arm and adventurous
vorüberschlenderten to him, came in and laughed, put itself forward
and ran into laughter running through its hood and his face. But he's not
careful. Reduced head and without right or left to look, he exceeded
the Ludwigstraße and climbed the stairs of the church hinan. The large
wings of Mitteltür stood wide open. In the consecrated twilight,
cool, hushed, and with victims of smoke geschwängert was somewhere far
away a faint, reddish glow noticeable.

An old woman with bloody eyes rose from a Betbank and dragged himself
on crutches between the pillars round. Otherwise the church was empty.
Jerome is wetted forehead and chest on the basins, bent the knee before
the altar and then remained in the central vessels are available. Was
it not as though its shape grown here?

Erect and motionless, with head raised freely, he stood there, his big
nose seemed gehöckerte with an imperious expression on the lips
hervorzuspringen strong, and his eyes were no longer addressed to
the ground, but looked straight into the bold and wide, to the crucifix
on over the high altar. So he remained motionless for a while, then
he leaned back kicking up a new knee and left the church. He gradually
the Ludwigstraße up, slowly and firmly, head lowered, in the midst
of the wide, unpaved Fahrdammes, contrary to the loggia, with its
huge statues.

But on the Odeonsplatz arrived, he looked at, so that cross on his forehead
wrinkled formed, and inhibited his steps: attention by the people
gathering in front of the huge costs incurred by the art dealer, the
expansive beauty of M. Blüthenzweig business. The people went from window
to window, showed the treasures issued and exchanged their opinions,
however, over the other shoulder looked at.

Jerome mixed in among them and also started its all these things, to look
at everything to take piece by piece. He saw the reproductions of
masterpieces from all the Galleries of the earth, the precious
part in its simple Bizarrerie, Renaissance sculpture, the bronze
Leiber Ziergläser and the iridescent vases, jewelry and the book
of portraits of artists, musicians, philosophers, actors, poets,
saw everything, and turned to each subject for a moment.

By his coat from the inside with both hands together, he turned the hood
of his head covered in small, short phrases of one thing to another,
and under his dark, at the nasal bridge is heavily compressed brows,
which he emporzog, looked at his eyes with a baffled, dull and cool
astonished expression on every thing for a while. So he reached the
first window, the one under which the picture itself was startling,
looked for a time before he is pressing people over the shoulders and
finally came to the front, close to the delivery up. The large, reddish
brown photography was, in the strongest taste in old gold framed,
on an easel in the middle of the window space. It was a Madonna,
a thoroughly modern perception of free labor each convention.

The shape of the sacred Gebärerin was charming femininity, naked and
beautiful. Their large, dark sultry eyes were umrändert, and their
delicate and strangely smiling lips were half open. Its narrow,
a little nervous and spasmodic grouped finger included the hips of
the child, a naked boy of distinguished and almost primitive
slenderness of playing with her breasts and his eyes with an
intelligent look at the viewer was addressed.

Two other youths stood beside Jerome and talked about the image, two
young men with books under his arm, which they took from the State Library
had brought in or brought humanist-educated people, shod in art and
science. "Little has been good, hol 'me the devil , "said one." And
apparently he has the intention to make jealous, "returned the
other ... "A dubious woman!" "A woman to Rasendwerden! It is a little
confused by the dogma of the Immaculate Conception ... "" Yes, yes, she
makes an impression quite touched ... Have you seen the original? "" Of
course. I was really attacked. It acts in the same color as far aphrodisiac
... especially the eyes. "" The resemblance is actually pronounced it.
"" Why? "" Are you not the model? He did his little Putzmacherin
to use. It is almost portrait, only strong in the area of corrupt
hinaufstilisiert ...

The Small is harmless. "" I hope so. Life would be too stressful if there
are many like these Amata mater ... "" The Art Gallery has purchased. ""
Truly? Look here! Incidentally, you probably knew what they did. The
treatment of the meat and the Linienfluß of the robe is truly eminent.
"" Yes, an incredibly talented guy. "" Do you know him? "" A little. He
is a career that is secure. He was twice the regents to table ...
"The last they spoke, while they began to leave each other."

If you look at yourself in the theater tonight? "Asked one. "The drama
club is Machiavelli's' Mandragola 'at best." "Oh, bravo. From this one
can promise fun. I had before, and in vaudeville artist to go, but it
is likely that I finally brave Nicolò prefer. Auf Wiedersehen ... "They
separated, resigned and went to the right and left apart. New people
moved in her place and saw the successful image. But Jerome stood
motionless in his place, he stood with advanced head and you saw
his hands, with which it is based on the chest from inside his coat
together, are desperately ballten.

His brows were not cool with that and a little astonished expression
spitefully pulled up, they had lowered and darkened, his cheeks, the
black hood covering half seemed deeply eroded than previously, and his
thick lips were very pale.

Slowly bowed his head deeper and deeper, so that he finally take his
eyes from the bottom up quite rigidly on the artwork was addressed.
The wings of his big nose quivered.

In this position he remained probably a quarter of an hour. The people
around him broke away from, but he was not the place. Finally he turned
slowly, slowly on football around and slunk away. 3 But the image
of the Virgin Mary went with him. Ever, he now wants in his narrow and
hard Kämmerlein or dwell in the cool churches knees, stood there before
his indignant soul, with sultry, umränderten eyes, with enigmatic smiling
lips, bare and beautiful. And no prayer could be your competitors.
In the third night, but it happened that a command and reputation
from the amount given to Jerome, to intervene and to raise his voice
against leichtherzige Dishonorable and beauty cheeky conceit.

In vain he turned, like Mosen, its stupid tongue before, God's will
remained unshaken and demanded loudly proclaim his victims timidness this
course under the smiling enemies. Because he is in the morning and went,
because God wanted it, the way to the art dealer, to the great beauty
of M. Blüthenzweig business. He wore the hood over his head and held his
coat from the inside with both hands together, however, he changed.
4 It has been muggy and the sky was pale, and a thunderstorm
threatened.

Again, a lot of people besieged the windows of the art dealer, but
especially the one in which the Madonna was. Jerome just threw a quick
look there, then he pressed the latch of posters and art magazines
overcast door. "God wills it!"

He said and stepped into the store. A young girl, somewhere on a desk
in a large beech had written a pretty, brunette being with Haarbandeaux
and big feet, came up to him and asked kindly, what is it to services.
"I thank you," Jerome said quietly and looked at her cross into his
wrinkled forehead, serious in the eyes. "Not you, I want to speak,
but the owner of the shop, Mr Blüthenzweig." A little reluctantly she
moved away from him and took back their jobs again. He stood in the
middle of the store. Anything outdoors in individual samples was
asked to review, it was here twenty times to Freq getürmt abundant
and spread out a plethora of color, line and form, of style, wit,
taste and beauty.

Jerome looked slowly to the two sides, and then he drew the folds of his
black coat to be composed of fixed. There were several people present
in the store. At one of the large tables, which are across the room,
pulled, sat a gentleman in a yellow suit with a black goatee and looked
at a section of French drawings, on which he sometimes meckerndes
laughter was heard. A young man with an aspect of plant based nutrition
and low-serving him, by giving new folders to view herbeischleppte.

The diagonally opposite Mr meckernden examined a noble old lady art
embroidery, large flowers in fable pale tones, based on long, stiff
stems vertically stood side by side. Also they tried to order an employee
of the business. On a second table sat the trip cap on his head and
a wooden pipe in mouth, careless an Englishman. Durable dressed,
smooth shaven, cold and indeterminate age, he chose bronzes under which
Mr Blüthenzweig him personally herzutrug. The decorated figure of a
naked little girl, who, immature and fragile structure, in their hands
coquettishly chastity crossed on the chest, he held on his head covered
and mustered them thoroughly, he slowly turned itself around.

Blüthenzweig Lord, a man with short brown full beard and bright
eyes of ebenderselben color, rubbing hands moved around him, by the
little girl with all the vocabulary praised whose habhaft he could be.
"Hundred Fifty Mark, Sir," he said in English, "Munich art, Sir . Very
sweet, in fact. Full of charm, you know. It is the grace of course, Sir.
Really very pretty, cute, and admirably.

"Then he remembered something and he said," attractive and enticing
maximum. "Then he started again from scratch. His nose was a little
flat on the upper lip so that it consistently in a fauchend slight noise
in his mustache sniffs. Sometimes it approached the buyer is in
gebückter attitude, as he beröche him. When Jerome entered, looked at
him fleetingly Blüthenzweig Mr. precisely in this way, but soon
devoted himself to the Englishman. The noble lady had her choice and
left the store. A new Lord entered. Mr. Blüthenzweig beroch him briefly
as he wanted to purchase the level of its ability to explore, and left
it to the young accountant, to serve him. The Lord came only a faience
bust Piero's, the son of the magnificent Medici, and removed again.

Also, the Englishman began to leave.

He had the little girl on its own and went under the bow Mr
Blüthenzweigs. Then turned to the art dealer Jerome and stood before
him. "You wish ..." he asked without much humility.

Jerome gave his coat from the inside with both hands together and looked
at Mr. Blüthenzweig almost without a hair on their faces. He separated
his thick lips slowly and said: "I come to you because of the image
in that window there, the large photograph of the Madonna." - His
voice was occupied and modulationslos.

"Yes, quite right," said Mr Blüthenzweig lively and began to rub the
hands, "Mark Siebenzig under, sir.

It is immutable ... a first-class reproduction. Maximum attractive and
appealing. "Hieronymus silent. He bowed his head in the hood and fell
a little in itself, while the art dealer said, then set it back
on and said, "I notice you in advance that I am not in a position,
nor am ever willing, there's something to buy.

I am sorry to disappoint your expectations of them. I feel sorry for
you if your pain is.

But firstly, I am poor, and secondly I love the things that you sale. No,
I can buy nothing. "" Not ... So not, "said Mr. Blüthenzweig sniffs and
strong." Well, may I ask ... "" As you know, I think, "drove Jerome
continued," so despise me is that I am unable to give you something
abzukaufen ... "" Hm ...

"said Mr. Blüthenzweig. "Not yet! Only ... "" But I ask you to listen
to me and my words weight attached. "" Weight attached. Well Can I
ask ... "" You may ask, "said Jerome," and I will answer you. I've come
to ask you in that picture, the great photography, the Madonna, immediately
remove from your window and they never return to the show. "Mr.
Blüthenzweig looked a little muted in Hieronymus' face, with an
expression, as he called him, about his adventures in words embarrassment
to come. Since this happened but not so violently he sniffs and brought
out: "Do you have the kindness to tell me if you can find in any
official capacity, which you have the power to make rules for me,
or what you actually herführt ... "" Oh no, "replied Jerome," I
have neither office nor dignity of the state because.

The power is not on my side, Sir. Herführt As for me, is my own conscience.
"Mr. Blüthenzweig searching for words moved her head back and forth,
blew violently with the nose in his mustache and rang with the
language.

Finally he said: "My conscience ... Well, like you kindly ... Take
note of it ... that your conscience for us ... an entirely inconsequential
body, "- So he turned around, went quickly to his desk in the background
of the shop and began to write. The two loading servant laughed
from the heart. The pretty lady giggled about their Beech account.
What the Lord yellow with a black goatee was so, it became apparent that
he was a stranger, apparently because he understood nothing of the
conversation, but went on to deal with the French drawings to employ,
where he from time to time meckerndes Laughter was heard .-- "Do you
want the Lord to handle," said Mr Blüthenzweig on the shoulder across
to his assistant. Then he wrote more. The young man with the aspect of
low-and plant based nutrition occurs to Jerome by the laughter he sought
to contain, and also approached other vendors. "Can we serve any
other way?" Asked the low-gently. Jerome was unrelated his suffering,
blunt and piercing gaze still on him.

"No," said he, "otherwise you can not. I ask you, the Madonna immediately
out of the window to remove, for ever. "" Oh ... Why? "" It is the Holy
Mother of God ... "said Jerome muffled." However ... Yes but you hear
that Mr. Blüthenzweig is not tilted, your wish come true. "" One must
remember that it is the Holy Mother of God, "said Jerome, and shook
his head." That's right .-- And next? Can not Madonnas exhibit? Can
not you paint? "" Not so! Not so, "said Jerome almost whispering, it
is highly emporrichtete violently and repeatedly shook his head.

His forehead wrinkled under the hood was quite long and deep cross
durchfurcht. "They know very well that it is the truck itself is that
a man has painted there ... the denuded lust! from two simple and
unconscious people who saw this picture Madonnas, I heard with my
ears that there them to the dogma of the Immaculate Conception
muddle ... "" Oh, let not a question is, " said the young vendor
smiled superior.

Mock suns, or _parhelia_, are common appearances in northern skies.
Sometimes two of these mock suns are seen, one on each side of their
great original, glowing so brightly that either of them, if we could
suppose it to have shone in the sky alone, would have made a very
respectable sun indeed!  Even four of these "sun-dogs"--as they are some
times called--have been seen surrounding the sun; one on each side of
it, one directly above, and one immediately below, with a ring of light
connecting them together, a streak of light passing horizontally and
another passing perpendicularly between them, thus forming a luminous
cross, in the centre of which was the sun itself.  This magnificent
spectacle is sometimes enhanced by a second circle of light enclosing
the whole, and the edges of several outer circles springing in faint
light therefrom until gradually lost, leaving the imagination to call up
the idea of an endless series of glories extending over the whole sky.

Refraction frequently causes grotesque as well as wonderful and
beautiful appearances.  Ships are sometimes seen with their hulls
flattened and their masts and sails drawn out to monstrous dimensions;
or the hulls are heightened so as to appear like heavy castle walls,
while the masts and sails are rendered ludicrously squat and
disproportioned; and not only so, but ships are often seen with their
images inverted over their own masts, so that to the observer it appears
as if one ship were balancing another upside down--mast-head to
mast-head.  Land and icebergs assume the same curious appearances--peaks
touching peaks, one set pointing upwards, the other set pointing down,
while the broad bases are elevated in the air.  At other times the whole
mass of land and ice on the horizon is more or less broken up and
scattered about as if in confusion, yet with a certain amount of
regularity in the midst of it all, arising from the fact of every object
being presented in duplicate, sometimes triplicate, and occasionally,
though seldom, four-fold.

When sharp sudden frosts occur in those regions, the splendour of the
scenery is still further enhanced by the formation of innumerable minute
crystals which sparkle literally with as much lustrous beauty as the
diamond.  On one occasion Scoresby's ship was decorated with uncommon
magnificence, and in a peculiarly interesting manner.

"In the course of the night," he writes, "the rigging of the ship was
most splendidly decorated with a fringe of delicate crystals.  The
general form of these was that of a feather having half of the vane
removed.  Near the surface of the ropes was first a small direct line of
very white particles, constituting the stem or shaft of the feather; and
from each of these fibres, in another plane, proceeded a short delicate
range of spiculae or rays, discoverable only by the help of a
microscope, with which the elegant texture and systematic construction
of the feather were completed.  Many of these crystals, possessing a
perfect arrangement of the different parts corresponding with the shaft,
vane, and rachis of a feather, were upwards of an inch in length, and
three-fourths of an inch in breadth.  Some consisted of a single flake
or feather, but many of them gave rise to other feathers, which sprang
from the surface of the vane at the usual angle.  There seemed to be no
limit to the magnitude of these feathers, so long as the producing cause
continued to operate, until their weight because so great, or the action
of the wind so forcible, that they were broken off and fell in flakes to
the deck of the ship."

It is impossible for the mind to conceive the effect of such a galaxy of
curious, and bright, and eminently beautiful combinations as are
sometimes displayed in the arctic regions.  None of the fabulous
conceptions of man, even though profoundly elaborated and brightly
gilded with the coruscations of the most sparkling genius and fancy,
ever produced so gorgeous a spectacle as may be witnessed there every
summer day.  Four or five suns in the blue sky, with lines and circles
of light shooting from or circling round them!  Ice in all its quaint,
majestic, and shining forms, rendered still more quaint and grand by the
influence of refraction; and, by the same power, ships sailing in the
sky, sometimes, as if Nature's laws were abrogated, with their keels
upwards, and their masts pointing to the sea!  Walls of pure ice
hundreds of feet high, many miles in extent, clear as crystal, and
sending back the rays of heaven's luminaries in broad blazing beams;
while the icebergs' pinnacles reflect them in sparkling points!  - Why
not I said? So are the days shy gentlemen courtiers who did not
dare to declare themselves - do not blame him. Jaime sin certainly
not shy. He explains everything in a satisfactory way. Said that a
direct statement on your part required much more time could not be as
sharp and sudden. Espiar needed an opportunity, prepare your mind
free itself of precipitates severity rejected your courtship, and in
three days, however that he advantage, there were not so many formalities
and preparations. For this I have searched me. Last night, when leaving
your house, accompanied me to mine, and took me a long lecture. Well I
had I predicted. Love you gave. It's crazy for loving you, and asks
me to intercede for him. - What is it delusion? - Exclaimed
Doña Luz -. Have you thought Jaime? Did you know that with a heart
like mine is not playing? Have you thought well I can not be a fleeting
fad, but a passion that decides the future of all life - If D.
Jaime did not know, had not come to me.

If it had not made a purpose for life, a purpose whose realization depends
only on you, I would not be coming to talk on their behalf. - Do you
know D. Jaime I'm pobrísima - Know the exact property you own. -
It is unique - said Doña Luz -.

We confess: I had myself and a lot of men worse opinion.

I did not feel able to inspire a love so disinterested ambition who
seduces and smiles, flattered fortune and want to pamper and in
Madrid, as they say, the most proud and beautiful women.

Not that I did not think so, suddenly, he could love a man with such
selflessness. - Well, do not hesitate to don Jaime loves you that way.
You tell me if it. - I do not know what to answer. My gratitude is
immense. Before gratitude, before they had reason to have it, why
ocultártelo?

Don Jaime's elegance, his discretion, his reputation as a courageous
soldier, the noble gallantry of his person, all I am inclined to want
to much either, but the fear of not being loved revolted my pride
and my pride has done everything possible This inclination to stifle
nascent. - And now you know so well paid and that is your inclination,
what you feel, what you think of D. Jaime - I think and feel ... I
must not give away one of them might not make much appreciate it if you
so easily obtained. Furthermore, not being loved enough. We must think
in terms of love. - My daughter! What other term can have but that will
cure the case - it is true, and that just makes me ponder a lot.
I am very rare in nature. I do not want anyone I love convenience,
and disgusts me that someone should imagine that the influence my love.
If I marry D. Jaime, poor as I am, could not imagine that someone excited
me the link to the desire to leave and go to Madrid Villafría, the
position of the groom, big hopes, and even the same material benefits
they already enjoy? He, moreover, is not rich for our class, and expect
hardship, economic hardship, the awful prose of the home without adequate
resources. I arredra. And I do not arredra for me, if only serves
to material welfare, but because I blush to think that I may be the cause
of a man who lives full of choking.

If he stays here with me, I would sacrifice his ambition, his career,
his future. If he carried with him to Madrid, live very badly,
would I do it very sad figure in the companies he frequents, and
who knows if this will move to stop loving me? Who knows if I end up tired
of receivables hate - I see you Alamba too pleased atormentarte and
create barriers to what most want. - And who says that what you want?
I myself do not know what, I have my doubts: I do not see clear
to the bottom of my soul.

Is it vanity satisfied, will be happy to see me childish person so dear
to enforce, which leads me to think that I love? What is love? Is
this love that I feel in my soul and brings me to that man? Look,
Manuela, why not tell all? All this is scary and confusing. Another man
from whose lips when I am waiting, whose talent amazes me, whose
intellectual superiority subjugates me, fill me with virtues of
wonder and enthusiasm, depth of kindness which clearly perceive high
above the depths of his heart, and you know my anger, my disgust to
think that not a single moment can be confused with something close
to love the feelings that this man inspires me and I will certainly
inspired. With D.

Jaime opposite is true; you just know I do not know if it is good or bad,
their understanding seems to me less carats, and yet I'm sucked into it.
¿I love it love it and it shows that I lisonjea? What disgusts me in the
other, which kills only love is respect for the laws which forbid -
you do not understand - stopped Ms Manolita -. No longer are such a
creature you do not know what love is, rightly or discover on your chest.
Is not spirited, beautiful, brave, clean and discreet D. Jaime? Is
not it free? Do not you love? Do not you love shows, decided, as it is
and as I said, to marry you? Is not it a well-born gentleman and honest?
So what do all these subtle quintessence and tangles with the brain you
unwind? Say yes, Amal; marry him and see how blessed you are. At least
gives hope that you love if you do not want to give it a full round
since the beginning.

With these hopes, he promises, will not leave to remain in Madrid
Villafría. Look for a plausible excuse for not leaving. He will say
that is to buy fifteen Aranza olive groves, adjacent to theirs,
and for the purchase of which is already in treatment. - What I
suggest is vulgar; forgive my crudeness of expression: it is ugly.

I hope I do not give a thing that I would not be safe. And if I'm already
sure it is ridiculous ruse to conceal it and give hope, and to discover
little by little my heart. If you do not love Jaime, I must not
deceive with uncertain hopes. Preténdame him and try to conquer my will
and surrender, but I encourage you with hope. And if I love him, I
must be frank and say then, because he loves me. Although a low estimate
it as easy and as soon I have to give them that. - I'm all in
your mind.

Give them this: that you hear from your mouth and be the happiest of
mortals. - When? And what luck? No: do not tell him anything. I am
ashamed. Shut up, shut up out of pity. To be quiet and leave me in
my retirement. - C'mon, woman, do not be unreasonable. How did you
go unanswered, after the step that has - And I replied, if I do not
know what to answer? Do not you think that you will not regret
it either say yes? Do you think that you really love me, be with all of
his life as I need to be loved, as I would love if you love me? - Go if
you think so.

His words instill the belief in understanding more inclined to doubt.
Oyelaran, and be convinced. I dare to tell you. By God, Light, do not
be mad. I have not managed to resist their entreaties. I've brought
in my company. Is waiting at the high block. I'll call you flying.
Before they consented Doña Luz, her friend, as a slight Corza, had gone
in search of the deputy brigadier. Doña Luz did not know what was
wrong.

Was agitadísima. It was the first time you went to see alone with a young
lover, in that pudica retreat, where he had lived more years flower
of their youth. All the vague dreams of love, all the sweet words, all
the gifts of the soul is suddenly offered his imagination, and not
be encrypted in an ideal and air, creating imaginary, but applied and
dedicated to the love of a real person and full Life, whose excellent
garments was pleased to recognize and whose affection for her
flattered her pride.

The shade of melancholy P. Henry crossed his mind, sad. He looked
the image of Christ dead and on a whim that resembled the P. Enrique.
Was clear day. The sun came through the window, and yet felt a tremor
while watching the Christ.

He hastily went to him and covered with another box. As for removing all
of them are grim picture then looked in the mirror. It was beautiful,
gallant, any freshness, elegance and youth, and found natural, almost
forced, D. Jaime love her. Then he thought again Fr Enrique, but in
another way. The same love of it to D. Jaime clarify what is their
inclination towards the Father could have been caused by a questionable
interpretation. This encourages people to think and feel in love with D.
Jaime. Jaime loving your eyes away everything that could have taken
his unusual friendship with the missionary. How ridiculous that such
relations had come to believe and sometimes disappear, and everything
was explained. This series of thoughts happened in an instant for the
soul of Doña Luz.

A moment was no more what it took D. James to appear at the door of the
lounge that doña Manolita had left open. He had no D. Jaime speak the
word to get permission to enter the lounge.

She looked, she saw him coming and he received no compliance or
ceremony. Manolita Doña stayed outside and D. James went solo. Doña
Luz where He hastily stood; drive ashore both knees, and touched with
an accent said: - I know V. V. that depends on me or my unhappiness.
Look here my sentence. Any more lengthy speech was absurd at the time,
all art in vain, all precautionary shocking. The door of the
lounge had been wide and D. Jaime was kneeling at the feet of Doña
Luz. It seems that just surrender discretion, particularly for his part
was said, and she just talking and playing conditions. The pride of Doña
Luz keenly felt flattered.

That _dandy_, one brave man of the future and career, was there
prostrate before her beauty, without resort to much more performance
than the sudden and passionate love she had been able to inspire you.
Doña Luz speechless: failed to say a word; but in his face, where there
was no dissimulation and that reflected all his feelings, painted the
joy, excitement and warm pleasant surprise. As snow may stop
and arrest with the same verve lend more to the virtue of germinal
spring, which appears suddenly and why it is covering the trees and
vegetable fields of flowers, and the longing to love and be passionate
about the whole virgin heart of our heroine suddenly awakened, then
suppressed by prudence , and sleeping until the twenty-eight years. Doña
Luz felt his spirit born in the spring of life, heard the birds
singing, saw as magic mirror, paradise, vacuum the heady scent of roses
hadadas and thought they were extended by the internal heat and
soft light ideal of a golden sun, illuminating and vivifying world a
beautiful, newly created and hidden in his soul. then feared that
creation is so rich wane, that dissipates as you would dream, and
finally exclaimed with unusual candor: - Do not V. deceiving me?

Is it true? ¿V. love me? - With all my heart - answered D. Jaime taking
the beautiful hand of Doña Luz and stamping on it a kiss. - Lest
V. crazy. V. Wake up - Doña Luz said, gently removing his hand from the
Don Jaime. - I do not raise up - he replied - until you know me. -
D. Jaime, by God, what does V. I tell you? I do not know if you love V.:
but if I am happy to believe the love and fear of losing this belief are
symptoms of love, I think I love him. Doña Luz blushed as never
to utter such words, and D. Jaime got up in his face showing the gratitude
and joy that the confession was caused Doña Luz.

Then he said: - Dispose V. fear, and keep the belief that love always, and
my love for V. can be compared only with the respect and deep admiration
V. deserves. Llegadas explanations that point, and going by the way so
plain, everything was tacitly made in that interview, which lasted little.
Doña Luz was troubled and confused, but the severe majesty of his
face and gestures had contained the boldest amador . Don Jaime felt
loved, and even with another kiss on the hand of Doña Luz dared to
say that he loved her once, and I was grateful.

In sum, given the way it Doña Luz, and after said love from both
sides, there was no formality, no tender colloquy alone, or delay worth
it.

The wedding had to come to escape. Doña Luz was vehement enough to talk
calmly and coolly to any other matter, and alone, with the man who
almost had to say: I love you and was so chaste and so pure, that froze
and all I want to kill all hope of obtaining from him the most innocent
caress advance or anticipate it without risking your anger. Hence
the big pregnancy who were Doña Luz and her lover just said they wanted.
Doña Luz, especially, did not know what to do. She felt ashamed of
what he had said, wanted to escape the gaze of that man, and not be
resolved to flee, fearing that his escape seemed ridiculous childishness
artifice or unbecoming a woman of twenty-eight years. Fortunately, by
Ms Manolita presintió instinct that situation, it quickly and free their
friend, appearing again in the lounge. Ya Later, at lunch, in the
midst of the guests, in view of D.

Acisclo and P. Enrique, and after calmly and replacement of the first
excitement, he spoke to Ms Luz D. Jaime with rest, she found willing
to do anything, and she had no father or mother whom I consulted, neither
he nor they were both determined to marry without noise or appliance,
and as soon as possible. In order not to give away part without anyone
curious extension of his stay at that location, D. Jaime said that she
stayed an extra week to see if he had bought the olive in treatment.
XV-First-trace is a difficult marriage romance have anything hidden
in a small town. All we know right away, even if that amount is not
known. The planned wedding of Jaime and Doña Luz, who knew that nothing
mattered, no wonder, then, that gets to the point at all in Villafría
news.
No doubt fear as well as joy may create vigorous action, and produce the
same result; but as we know that, as a general rule, there is much more
of joy than of fear dwelling at all times in the hearts of God's
creatures, we can well believe that the amount of luminosity produced in
the sea by the latter passion is immeasurably smaller than that produced
by the former.  We are thus, therefore, set free to indulge in the
pleasing reflection that when we behold that magnificent gleaming of the
sea, which almost resembles liquid silver reflecting the stars of
heaven, we are witnessing the frolicsome and joyous gambols of those
myriads of little beings to whom the beneficent Creator has assigned the
ocean as their dwelling-place.

The theory which we have ventured to propound in regard to vigorous
impulse (whether of joy or fear) being the cause of eliciting
luminosity, is supported in some degree by the remark in our last
quotation, that when the bucket was sharply struck, there appeared at
once a number of luminous bodies, which shone for a few seconds, and
then disappeared.  Undoubtedly the poor little things got a fright when
their residence was sharply assailed in such an unusual manner; their
energies were roused, and their light emitted.  Then, as they gradually
calmed down, their light disappeared.

We are further told that when a drop of sulphuric acid was put into a
tumbler of water, "several bright flashes were seen."  This, we venture
to think, was somewhat similar to the putting of a few drops of brandy
and water into the human stomach; the usual result of which is, as we
all know, to produce several bright flashes of wit, if not of light, or
of something at least meant to be remarkably luminous!

But this luminosity is not entirely confined to the minute creatures of
the sea.  Some fish have the power of emitting light.  Some species of
the shark emit a greenish light; and the sun-fish is said, when seen
down in the sea on a dark night, to glow like a white-hot cannon-ball.
Fish when dead and putrid frequently glow in the dark with a truly
magnificent light, as can be proved by every one who will take the
trouble to procure several kinds of fish, and keep them, for the purpose
of proving the fact, in a dark closet.

Of all the minute inhabitants of the deep, that which is to our mind the
most curious, both as to its nature and its stupendous works, is the
coral insect.  This creature is much too important to be dragged in at
the tail of a chapter.  We will, therefore, commence its history in a
new one.


CHAPTER FIFTEEN.

CORAL INSECTS AND CORAL ISLANDS--POLYNESIA--OPERATIONS OF THE CORAL
INSECT--GROWTH OF CORAL REEFS.

Many of the large and beautiful islands that stud the Pacific Ocean,
like emeralds in a field of blue, are _artificial_; that is to say, they
were made by artists--they were actually _built_ by _artisans_!

These artisans are the coral insects; and as they not only affect the
face of the sea by raising large islands above it, but also, in
consequence of their labours, assist in causing the circulation of the
ocean, we think they are justly entitled to very special attention.

The great archipelago called Polynesia covers an area of the Pacific
nearly 5000 miles in length, and not far short of 2000 in breadth.  Some
of the islands of this group are of volcanic origin, and some are
crystal; but by far the greater number are of coral formation--the work
of those curious little insects, which are so small that they inhabit a
dwelling sometimes little larger than a pin-point.

The manner in which these islands are made is, to some extent, a matter
of uncertainty.  The most generally received opinion is, that the
insects fasten round the summit of a submarine mountain, and build
upwards until they reach the surface of the sea, where they die, and
their labours cease.  As, however, the sea is sometimes unfathomable
close to those islands, it has been supposed that the submarine islands
on which the corallines began to build have gradually subsided, and
that, as they did so, the insects always built a little more, so as to
keep the top of their structures on a level with the sea.  Above the sea
they cannot build.  To be washed by the waves is essential to their
existence.

We do not think this a very satisfactory theory, because it supposes a
prolonged subsiding of these islands, and then an unaccountably sudden
stoppage.  For although the corallines might continue to build during
the whole time of subsidence, it were utterly impossible that the coral
_island_, with its luxuriant herbage, could be formed until that
subsidence should have ceased.  The manner in which the islands are
formed makes this obvious.

When the coral reef, as it is called, reaches the surface, it advances
no further.  Soon the action of the waves breaks off the branches of the
upper portions of coral, which are tossed upon the reef, and pulverised
into fine sand.  This goes on increasing until the island rises a little
above the waves.

When this happens, birds alight there; sea-drift is carried thither;
seeds are blown to it by the wind; and gradually a few green blades
arise.  From this little beginning it is easy to conceive the process by
which at last a flourishing island springs up.  At the same time, it is
not easy to see how such islands could ever be formed on the supposition
that the submarine rocks on which they were founded were perpetually
subsiding.

But be that as it may, we have no difficulty in understanding the fact
that the coral insect does build those islands.  It possesses the power
of secreting the lime held in solution by sea water, and depositing the
same on the rocks below the waves.  The coral rock is the edifice of the
coralline.  The insect itself is a soft and very minute worm, which,
when washed by the waves, thrusts its head out of its tiny little door,
and spreading abroad its numerous feelers, so that it resembles a
beautiful little star, moves these about as if enjoying itself--though,
doubtless, it is actually engaged in the process of manufacturing its
little atom of coral rock.

It is extremely interesting to think of the immense power of _union_
thus exhibited.  Singly, those little creatures could not produce a
sufficient result to attract the attention of any creature save such as
chanced to come in direct and close contact with its little cell.
United, they have formed vast islands, which have become the abode of
man, and which, in the aggregate, form no inconsiderable portion of the
globe.

The consideration of this leads us to perceive that God has ordained
that units cannot, separately, accomplish much; and that united effort,
in order to be successful, requires the harmonious action of units.  "A
house divided against itself cannot stand."  The innumerable and
eminently beautiful isles of the Pacific had never stood where they now
stand if the curious, and separately insignificant, little architects
that reared them had not wrought unitedly upon a fixed and systematic
plan--each insect working its utmost from the hour of its birth until
that of its death.

There are various kinds of coral insects, which form varied species of
coral rock.  Some kinds of coral assume the form of rounded masses; some
are like a branching shrub; others are in layers, or thin plates; and
some are shaped like the human brain, from which they derive their
name--brainstones.  These different kinds differ also in colour, and
thus present a beautiful appearance when seen at the bottom of clear and
shallow water.

In regard to the rate at which the corallines build their cells there is
some diversity of opinion--some asserting that the process is
imperceptible, while others state as positively that it is rapid.  There
can be no doubt that some localities and positions are more favourable
to the growth of coral than others.  Dr Allan, while at Madagascar,
made several experiments to test this.  He selected several masses of
coral, each weighing about ten pounds, and of different species.  These
he placed three feet below the surface of the sea, and staked them in to
prevent removal.  In a little more than six months they were found to
have risen nearly to the surface, and to have attached themselves to the
solid rock.

There is also a case mentioned of a ship in the Persian Gulf which, in
the course of twenty months, had her copper encased with living coral to
the thickness of two feet.

On the other hand, it is asserted, and we doubt not with equal truth,
that many reefs do not seem to increase in size in the course of many
years.

When a coral reef has reached the surface, the formation of an island
instantly begins; but it necessarily takes a long time ere this island
becomes habitable by man.  Among the first plants that raise their heads
to the sea-breeze is the graceful cocoa-nut palm.  This tree is
exceedingly hardy, and is found growing on reefs which are so low that
at a distance the trees seem to be standing on the surface of the water.
Indeed many of them spring out of the pure white sand, and their roots
are washed perpetually by the salt spray.  Nevertheless, the fruit of
such trees is sweet and good.

Coral islands of the kind we have just described seldom rise more than a
few feet above the level of the sea; but most of them are clothed with
luxuriant vegetation.

We might easily fill a volume on the subject of the ocean's inhabitants,
small and great; but we think the few to which we have made reference is
sufficient for the purpose of showing that one set of creatures accounts
for that strange luminosity of the ocean which is seen at times in all
marine parts of the globe, while another set accounts not only for the
sudden appearance of coral islands in the sea where no such islands
existed in days of old, but also, partly, for that circulation of the
waters of the ocean which is absolutely necessary to the wellbeing of
all the creatures on this earth.

There are other animals in the sea, besides medusae, which assist in
giving luminosity to its waters; and there are other insects, besides
corallines, which extract its lime, destroy its equilibrium, and assist
in causing its perpetual motion; but the two species which we have
described are the best types of the respective classes to which they
belong.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

VOLCANIC ISLANDS--OPINIONS OF THE ANCIENTS--"ATLANTIS"--INSTANCE OF THE
FORMATION OF A VOLCANIC ISLAND--CONCLUSION.

In the last chapter we described the manner in which a certain class of
islands in the South Seas are formed; in the present we will make a few
observations on another class, which have sprung up from the bottom of
the sea, as if by magic, under the irresistible influence of fire.

There are volcanoes in the sea, as well as on the land; and these
volcanoes have in former times up-heaved huge masses of land so as to
form large islands, while in other cases they have caused islands
formerly in existence to subside and disappear.

In the writings of the ancients we find reference made to an island
which, if it ever did exist, now exists no longer.  It was situated
opposite the Straits of Gibraltar, was nearly two hundred miles in
length, and was called "Atlantis"--hence the name of the Atlantic Ocean.
Many believe, and with some reason, we think, that this island was not
altogether a myth, although much that is said of it is undoubtedly
fabulous.

Plato tells us that it was a large island in the Western Ocean, situated
before or opposite to the Straits of Gades; and that out of this island
there was an easy passage into some others which lay near a large
continent, exceeding in bigness all Europe and Asia.  So far Plato may
have told the truth, and from this passage it is conjectured that the
existence of the continent of America was known to the ancients.  But he
goes on, immediately after, to draw upon his imagination, and to tell us
that Neptune settled on this island, and that his posterity dwelt there
for a period of nine thousand years in the midst of fertility and
abundance.  But, not content with their ample possessions and prolific
soil, they went over to Africa and Europe, and even penetrated into
Asia, bent on conquest.

Passing from this mixture of probable truth and undoubted fable, Plato
then asserts that the island of Atlantis finally sank and disappeared.
This may or may not be true, but there is more reason for our crediting
the statement than many people would suppose.  Certain it is that no
such island exists at the present time, but it is believed by some that
the Azores, which are volcanic in their formation, are the summits of
the mountain ranges of the Atlantis of the ancients.

But the best evidence we have of the possible existence of such an
island is the fact that in modern times an island has been _seen_ to
rise out of the sea, and, after a time, to disappear, under the
influence of volcanic action.

This remarkable event is related by Captain Tillard, an officer of the
British Navy, who saw it on the 12th of June 1811, when approaching the
island of St. Michael.  On this occasion smoke was seen to rise from the
surface of the sea, and, soon after, showers of cinders to burst forth.
We cannot do better than give the captain's own words, as follows:

"Imagine an immense body of smoke rising from the sea, the surface of
which was marked by the silvery rippling of the waves.  In a quiescent
state it had the appearance of a circular cloud revolving on the water,
like a horizontal wheel, in various and irregular involutions, expanding
itself gradually on the lee side; when, suddenly, a column of the
blackest cinders, ashes, and stones, would shoot up in the form of a
spire, at an angle of from ten to twenty degrees from a perpendicular
line, the angle of inclination being universally to windward.  This was
rapidly succeeded by a second, third, and fourth shower, each acquiring
greater velocity, and overtopping the other, till they had attained an
altitude as much above the level of our eye as the sea was below it.

"As the impetus with which the several columns were severally propelled
diminished, and their ascending motion had nearly ceased, they broke
into various branches resembling a group of pines.  These again formed
themselves into festoons of white feathery smoke, in the most fanciful
manner imaginable, intermixed with the finest particles of falling
ashes; which at one time assumed the appearance of innumerable plumes of
black and white ostrich feathers surmounting each other; at another,
that of the light wavy branches of a weeping willow.

"During these bursts the most vivid flashes of lightning continually
issued from the densest part of the volcano; and the cloud of smoke now
ascending to an altitude much above the highest point to which the ashes
were projected, rolled off in large masses of fleecy clouds, gradually
expanding themselves before the wind, in a direction nearly horizontal,
and drawing up to them a quantity of water-spouts, which formed a most
beautiful and striking addition to the general appearance of the scene."

Such is the description given of this submarine volcano in action; and
the crater which was thrown up at the time was about twenty feet above
the level of the sea.  As Captain Tillard could not, however, delay his
voyage to make further observations at that time, the action that
subsequently took place is not known; but its results were seen shortly
afterwards.

In about three weeks after the date of his passing the spot, Captain
Tillard returned to it and found an island of about a mile in
circumference, with a height of between two and three hundred feet at
its highest point.  There was no violent eruption going on, although the
craters still emitted smoke.  He therefore landed, and, on reaching the
largest crater, found it to be full of boiling water, which overflowed
and found its way to the ocean in a river of about six yards in width.
This island, however, was not a permanent addition to the world's
archipelago.  It sank into the ocean again, and disappeared in October
of the same year in which it rose.

In commencing this little book we set out with the intention of rambling
hither and thither, among things that relate to the sea, without regard
to order.  We have carried out our intention; and now, at the close of
our task, find that the more we listen to the Ocean's Voice, the more we
find its tale to be interminable, though the reverse of uninteresting.

In these rambles we have sought to treat chiefly of those scientific
facts relating to the sea and the atmospheric ocean, which are not so
frequently made the subject of books for the young, as are the wild and
daring deeds of man upon the surface of the mighty deep.

It is not sufficient that man should become acquainted with the doings
of his fellows on the sea.  This is but one branch of general knowledge,
and a very secondary one compared with that infinitely higher branch
which treats of the workings of the Almighty in the ocean; workings
which render it what it is--not merely a means of commercial enterprise
for man and a home for fish, but also a great purifier and revivifier of
the earth and sweetener of the atmosphere.  God is the great first cause
of all that is and that operates in the universe.  It were an act of
presumption to inquire into what we may term the first acts of the
Almighty's power.  Coriolanus. What a bad player now Forgot my roll and
I'm confused, By the mockery itself - the blood of my heart! Forgive my
tyranny, but the drum does not say: "Forgive the Romans." - O! a kiss,
as my long spell and sweet as my revenge. Well, at the Juno jealousy,
I picked the kiss, lovers, with, and my lip Has it been faithfully
preserved virgin. My god! how? I gossip? And noblest of all mothers in
the world Did unbegrüßt? - My knees sink into the soil, press down your
duty to the ground as any other son. (He kneels down.) Volumnia.

Arise blessed! That, on a non - weicherm cushion than the stone,
I kneel before you and you kind of new Huldgung Weihe, hitherto
entirely wrong was distributed between child and parents.
Much of the substance of what we have
written has been culled from the pages of that fascinating volume.  But
we have merely plucked one or two leaves, as it were, and presented them
to our readers in the hope that they may be tempted by their fragrance
to pluck the flower.  The mysteries of the atmospheric and aqueous
oceans are here treated of fully, yet so agreeably, that one is
frequently apt to fancy one is perusing the pages of romance.

In our own little book we have been compelled to skim lightly, and, in
many places, to pass over subjects of great interest.

As for other subjects connected with the sea, of which we may not treat,
they are innumerable.  _Isque Canhi megé_: DEXA, or remove, and I look
at this is: Dexame, I look at myself too. _Attese Me ihusen uti
iutamen Menen, IUTA ette_ men? Who do you want more, or your grandmother,
or your Grandfather? _Teretis Men aia_: Did you cut your hair too.
Ca _Imatcun nisu, monsemetcun camis_. If I knew what you advised. And
like all other examples Quanta has conjunctions in English, which link
the words do not say that dissent and are in the nature of trials and
rationality of man.
.