The team was soon put away, and shortly after supper Bob, too sleepy
to keep his eyes open, went to bed.


II

A DAY'S WORK


"Bob! Bob! Time to get up and do your chores."

The sleepy boy rolled over, rubbed his eyes and sat up, trying to
remember where he was and who was calling him; then he recognized the
voice of his uncle, and jumped quickly out of bed.

"All right, Uncle Joe, I'm coming," he answered, as he felt around in
the dark for his clothes, for he had neglected to provide himself with
matches to light the oil lamp that stood near by on the dresser.

His clothes were simple, and getting up before dawn was no new
experience for him. A few moments later he hurried down to the
kitchen, where his uncle, who had just finished stirring the kitchen
fire, was filling the tea-kettle.

"Well!--are you up for all day, Bob?" he inquired cheerily.

"I will be as soon as I get awake," he answered, as he started for the
rain barrel for water to wash.

As the water in the well was hard, rain water was used for washing,
except in winter, when the barrels were frozen solidly. The early
spring rains had filled the barrels again, but as the night had been
cold, ice had frozen over the top. His uncle had been to the barrel
ahead of him and broken the ice, so he dipped up the basin full of
water, and placing it on a bench on the porch, washed his face and
hands.

Above the wash bench, summer and winter, hung the roller towel, and
near by the mirror and family horn comb. In the dark the mirror was of
doubtful use, but with a few well-directed strokes of the comb he
managed to get a semblance, at least, of neatness to his hair. He
shivered a little as he finished--just as his uncle appeared, milk
pails and lantern in hand.

"I want you to do the milking from now on, Bob, for it's not the kind
of work a woman should do," said his uncle, and handing him the pails,
they started for the barn.

"You're right, Uncle Joe," replied Bob. "I always milked our cow at
home so mother wouldn't have to do it; besides, it doesn't take so
very long."

Bob had been taught to take good care of the family cow--a well-bred
Guernsey, whose stable had a good cement floor and was neatly
whitewashed. Once or twice a week he would curry-comb and brush her
from nose to tail. Nothing gave him greater pride than to have his
father bring some one unexpectedly into the stable to look at his
charge and comment on the clean manner in which both stable and cow
were kept. His mother sold the milk they did not need for their own
use, and had no trouble in getting two cents a quart more than the
regular price--partly on account of the cow being so well bred and
giving rich milk, but principally on account of the reputation the
clean stable had made in the village.

The cow barn that Bob now entered was built under a portion of the
main barn, adjacent to the thrashing floor, and was dark, even in the
daylight. The earthen floor was foul with neglect. The cows, instead
of being secured in separate stalls with stanchions, were chained up
in a row to a long, old-fashioned manger.

Upon entering, Bob's uncle hung up the lantern; then, seeing Bob look
around and hesitate, asked:

"What are you looking for, Bob?"

"I was looking for a fork to clean the stable. I always clean the
stable and brush off the cow at home before milking," he replied.

"Well, I guess you're a little late to start that here," laughed his
uncle. "Never mind the floor; we'll back the wagon in here after
breakfast and give it a good cleaning."

"All right, Uncle Joe; but where's the brush?" asked Bob.

"Brush! What brush?" asked his uncle.

"Why, don't you brush off the cows each morning before you milk them?"
asked Bob. "Father always insisted that I brush Gurney each morning."

"Well, your father's not a farmer and you've only one cow, while we
have eight, and, besides, I've lots of other work to do without curry-
combing cows," replied his uncle in a sarcastic tone, angered at Bob's
reference to his father's greater knowledge of farm work.

"Better hurry up with your milking, Bob, while I feed the horses," he
added, as he left him staring at the cows.

He could not remember ever having seen such dirty cows or so dirty a
stable before. Then he suddenly thought that he had always visited the
farm in the summer time, when the cattle were kept in the fields and
milked in the open barn yard.

He finished the milking as best he could, and was not surprised to
find that instead of getting forty quarts from the eight cows, he
received only fifteen quarts--about three times as much as he got from
Gurney alone. He now remembered the answer he once heard his father
give a visitor at Gurney's stable.

"But, Mr. Williams," the visitor had said, "a purebred cow must be
considerably more expensive in upkeep than an ordinary one."

"That's where you're mistaken," his father had replied, "for a well-
bred cow eats no more than a common one--in fact, Gurney eats less,
and the difference in the amount and quality of the milk soon pays for
the difference in the first cost. Then, there's the pleasure that Bob
gets out of the care he gives to an animal that is worth while, and
assuredly that's something not to be lightly lost sight of."

Dawn was breaking when Bob finished. On the way to the house he met
his uncle coming out of the yard, a huge pail of swill for the pigs in
each hand.

"Thought I'd feed the pigs for you this morning," he said, as Bob set
down his milk pails and held the gate open for his uncle to pass
through. "It will take you a day or two to get your hand in," he
added.

Bob made no reply, but he noticed the swill was full of broken ice,
like the rain barrel from which he had taken the water to wash that
morning, and he was wondering how much good a cold breakfast like that
would do even for a pig.

He carried the milk pails into the kitchen, where he found his
grandmother busy preparing breakfast. "Shall I take the milk to the
cellar?" he asked, as he set the pails on the floor to rest his arms.

"No, thank you, Bob; I usually strain it here in the kitchen before
taking it down," she replied; "but you may feed the calves--that's
their warm milk there by the stove. You'll find four of them in the
orchard, back of the smokehouse. Divide the milk among them, and hurry
back to breakfast."

Bob disappeared with the milk, but was back in a few minutes. The tin
wash basin was put into service again--this time hot water from the
boiling tea kettle took the chill off, and in a few minutes, he joined
his uncle who, having already washed, had that moment seated himself
at the breakfast table.

"Will you feed the chickens for me, Bob?" asked his grandmother, as he
rose from the table after breakfast. "You'll find some shell corn in a
feed box on the thrashing floor. Give them two measures."

"Come around to the wagon shed when you get through with feeding the
chickens, Bob," called his uncle, as he started for the barn. "I'll
get the team and we'll clean out the cow stable to-day."

Bob filled the small wooden box he found in the feed bin, then
stepping out into the barnyard, he called the chickens around him. He
could not help observing what a nondescript lot of chickens they were
--not a purebred among them; besides, he noticed many were old, and
some had frozen feet and combs. No wonder, he thought, as he glanced
at the poorly built hen house that faced the east instead of south--a
lean-to built against the side of the barn, with only one small
window, and that one on the north end, while the cracks between the
upright boards, of which the coop was constructed, were not even
covered by strips.

With these fowls he contrasted his own prize-winning white leghorns,
with their well-built and ventilated pen, with its two large windows
to the south. He wondered how long they would have averaged four eggs
a day for the eight hens through the entire winter, if he had fed them
with only cold grain instead of carefully prepared feed, and had kept
them in such a cheerless home. No wonder his grandmother, who got the
money from the sale of the eggs, said chickens didn't pay, and that
the few eggs the hens did lay in the winter were usually frozen before
they could be collected.

He now joined his uncle and they began the annual cleaning of the cow
stable and barnyard. The stable was not hard work, although the long
corn stalks that were tramped deep into the floor were troublesome and
required much labor to pry loose. They finished the cleaning of the
cow stable by noon, but when they started on the barnyard in the
afternoon they found it was frozen almost solid, so they made slow
headway and Bob's arms and back ached from the unaccustomed heavy
work.

"When shall I quit to do the milking?" he inquired, as he noticed the
sun getting low.

"Oh, we'll be knocking off pretty soon," was his uncle's indefinite
answer.

It was nearly six o'clock and getting dark when his uncle finally
decided they had done enough work for one day.

"Guess you'd better hustle, Bob," he said. "I didn't notice it was so
late. Your grandmother will wait supper for you."

Bob jumped down stiffly from the seat of the wagon and, after cleaning
his shoes, went to the house, as his uncle had directed, and washed
up.

"Are you tired?" asked his grandmother, as he came into the kitchen
where she was busy cooking by lamp light. "Your Uncle Joe's starting
right in to have you do all the work on the farm in a day; he should
have let you stop an hour ago to do the milking."

Bob made no reply. He took his pails and lantern and started for the
barn. His hands were stiff and blistered from using the fork all day,
and it was with difficulty that he finished his task in the ill-
smelling and badly ventilated barn. His back ached, too, as he carried
the pails to the house.

"Why were you so long?" asked his uncle impatiently, as Bob entered.
"Your grandmother wouldn't let us eat till you came in, so I fed the
calves and pigs for you while we were waiting."

"At home, Uncle Joe," replied Bob, as they seated themselves at the
table, "we always milk at five o'clock and don't let anything else
interfere with it. Father says a cow should be milked early and
regularly."

"Well, Bob, your father's not a farmer, and if he wants you to quit in
the middle of the afternoon to milk your cow, you can do so, but we'll
milk ours after the day's work's done," was the stern answer.

"Probably that's the reason Gurney gives nearly as much milk as any
three of yours," replied Bob quietly, to which remark his uncle made
no reply.


III

A RAINY DAY


"Bob," said his uncle one rainy Saturday morning, a week later, "it's
such a bad day we can't do anything outdoors, so we'd better sharpen
up the tools; there's a lot of them that need grinding."

"All right," said Bob, and he got a can of water for the grindstone--
an ancient model, turned by hand.

His uncle gathered up the tools and piled them beside the stone. There
were two double-bitted axes and one pole axe, two brush hooks, three
mowing scythes, a hatchet, a meat cleaver, half a dozen knives, both
long and short--to say nothing of a drawing knife, some chisels and
planes, which were added to the pile as an afterthought.

Bob looked dubiously at the tools as his uncle deposited them near at
hand.

"Are we going to sharpen them all, Uncle Joe?" he inquired, as he took
hold of the handle and set the stone turning.

"Oh, this is only a short job," laughed his uncle, as he picked up a
dull axe and pressed the bit so heavily against the stone that it
stopped.

"Why, what's the matter, Bob--not tired before you get started, are
you?" he laughed.

Bob made no reply. He needed all his strength to turn the stone. After
a few minutes' work against his uncle's weight, he was compelled to
quit.

"Can't we oil or grease it up or do something to make it turn easier,
Uncle Joe?" he asked as he straightened up.

"Bah, who ever heard of oiling a grindstone?" answered his uncle,
throwing some water on the bearings, which caused a lot of rust to
work out at the ends.

"I guess you'd like to go fishing to-day, instead of working?" he
observed.

"No, Uncle Joe, I'm willing to work," replied Bob, "but you don't know
how hard this old stone turns."

"Oh, I don't, don't I?" said his uncle. "Well, I turned this stone,
Bob, before you were born, and your father turned it before me."

"And you never put any oil or grease on it all that time?" inquired
Bob.

"Of course not," said his uncle, "only elbow grease. We boys always
had enough of that to keep the stone running in those days," he
continued with a sarcastic smile.

"Well, there might have been an excuse in those days, Uncle Joe, for
using a hand-power grindstone, but there certainly is none in these
days, with water power, electricity and gasoline," he added, between
breaths, as he began tugging away again at the handle.

"If you wouldn't waste your energy talking nonsense and turn faster,
we would get done sooner," said his uncle bearing down harder than
ever.

Bob stopped turning and stood up as straight as his aching back would
allow him, and looking his uncle square in the eyes, said:

"Suppose you turn a while, Uncle Joe, and I'll hold the axe."

"No, you just keep on turning--you don't know how to grind an axe,"
replied his uncle; "besides, that's the boy's job."

"Perhaps you could teach me how it's done, while you're turning," said
Bob, not offering to continue.

"That's only fair, Joe," said his grandfather, coming up suddenly
behind them and overhearing what was said. "The old stone does seem to
turn harder than ever these days."

"Well, I'll show you how easy it turns," said his uncle, starting the
stone spinning, but looked up quickly a moment later as it suddenly
slowed down to a dead stop, for his father, instead of Bob, was
holding the axe against it.

"Go on, Joe; don't stop; it's only a boy's job," he laughed, as he
bore down so hard on the axe that the stone could not be started.

"Where are you going, Bob?" asked his uncle, as Bob started in the
direction of the barn.

"I'm going to the wagon shed, Uncle Joe, to get some axle grease and
see if we can't make the stone turn easier."

The metal plates covering the bearings were removed, and the caked
rust pried out from between the rollers, for the stone had been
mounted on small cast-iron wheels or rollers, but the wheels had been
allowed to become rusted and finally had ceased to revolve.

When the rust had all been cleaned out and the wheels removed and
cleaned, they were well greased and replaced.

"Now try it, Bob," said his grandfather, smiling; "it's a poor rain
that doesn't bring some good."

The stone now spun around easily in the hands of the willing boy, and
by noon all the tools had been ground, including some additional ones
that his grandfather, seeing the work going so fast, had added to the
pile. When all were finished, Bob wiped them off with a greasy rag,
while his grandfather stood watching him keenly.

"You'll make a good farmer some day, Bob," he said a little later,
"for I see you use your head as well as your muscle. All my life I've
been grinding farm tools, but I never once greased them to keep them
from getting rusty, and they were mostly rusty, too, when I wanted to
use them," he added with a dry smile.

"How'd you like to have the afternoon off, Bob, to fish?" asked his
uncle after dinner, looking at the rain.

"Fine, Uncle Joe! Perhaps I could catch a mess for supper," the boy
replied, and without waiting for any further suggestions started for
the woodshed to get his rod and line.

He was soon sitting on the end of the log carriage under the shelter
of the saw-mill roof, his line dangling into the water of the forebay,
waiting for a bite. He had been seated only a few moments when his
attention was attracted by a small automobile bouncing over the deep-
rutted road, a few yards to the south of the mill. When it got nearly
opposite, one of the rear tires, with a loud report, blew out, and it
came to a sudden stop. Two men got out of the car, but after looking
up at the sky decided to wait until the shower was over before making
the repairs. So, turning up their coat collars, they ran over to the
shelter of the mill.

They did not seem to notice Bob as they came up a plank at the
opposite end, but sat down on a log with their back to him. As they
seated themselves, one of the men took out his cigar case and passed
it to the other.

"We'd better be careful about smoking in a saw mill, John, don't you
think?" remarked the other, as he hesitated to take the proffered
cigar.

"Oh, that's all right, Al," said his friend. "Just be careful where
you throw the match."

"This must be a pretty old mill, John," said the one called "Al," a
few moments later, as, his cigar lighted, he gazed around at the
structure.

"Well, it's been here for some time, that's sure," his friend replied.

"Don't they ever use it any more? Don't look as though they have cut
any lumber here in years," remarked Al.

"No, the timber's pretty well cut down around here, Al, and one
doesn't haul it very far in these days of portable steam mills. In the
old days, you know, they hauled the tree to the mill; nowadays, they
take the mill to the tree. It's the modern idea."

"But I should think they would use the power for other things," his
friend persisted. "For one thing, the water would be able to run a
small generator and supply the farm with electric lights."

"Electric light! Ha! Ha! Joe Williams using electric lights on his
farm--that's a good one, Al."

"Well, why not?" demanded his friend. "Electricity is not a new thing,
even in the country, and there certainly are enough uses for power on
a farm that would pay for a plant in a very short time."

"Yes, but you don't know Joe Williams, Al," persisted his friend.

"Well, who is he, then, that he never heard of electricity?" demanded
Al.

"Oh, he's heard of electricity all right; but you see he's not
progressive--he has no 'git up and git,' as they say around here. Of
course, he expects to find electric lights and concrete sidewalks in
town, but electric lights on his farm and good roads from here to town
would never enter his head," was the reply.

"Has he always lived here? Doesn't he ever get far enough away from
home to know what the rest of the world is doing, or is he just plain
lazy?" asked his friend.

"Neither, Al. In fact, he spent two years on the big farms in the
West, and I had hoped he would wake up our farmers with new ideas when
he came back and bought the old homestead. But I've been disappointed.
He's one of those powerful men, who thinks that farming is a matter of
physical strength rather than thoughtful planning. He doesn't seem to
see the advantage of headwork. True, it's going to take a lot of hard
work to redeem this old place with its dilapidated buildings and
broken-down fences, but headwork will help a lot. Why, do you know,
Al, the acreage wasted by rail fences on this farm alone would raise
enough corn each year to send a boy to college."

