It was not I who cut his words short, though I was on the point of
breaking in. Perhaps I should have flung at him the truth about Jim
Beckett if something had not happened to snatch my thoughts from
O'Farrell and his impudence. We had just passed the quarter of the town
saved by Soeur Julie, when out from the gaping doorway of a ruined
house stepped Paul Herter.

He came straight to me, ignoring my companion.

"I was waiting for you," he said. "Will you walk on a little way with
me? There are things I should like to speak about."

All the hurt anger I had felt was gone like the shadow of a flitting
cloud. "Oh, yes!" I exclaimed. "I shall be very, very glad."

Whether O'Farrell had the grace to drop behind, or whether I pushed
ahead I don't know, but next moment Doctor Herter and I were pacing
along, side by side, keeping well ahead of the others, in spite of his
limp.

"I thought I never wanted to see you again, Mary O'Malley," he said;
"but that glimpse I had, in the hospice, showed me my mistake. I
couldn't stand it to be so near and let you go out of my life without a
word--not after seeing your face."

"It makes me happy to hear that," I answered. "I was disappointed when
you avoided me the other night, and--hurt to-day when you slammed the
door."

"How did you know I avoided you? The girl promised to hold her tongue."

"She kept her promise. She was pleased to keep it, because she dislikes
me. But I heard your name next day and understood. I--I heard other
things, too. If you wouldn't be angry, I should like to tell you how
I----"

"Don't tell me."

"I won't then. But I feel very strongly. And you will let me tell you
how grieved I should have been, if--if that slammed door had been the
end between us."

"The end between us was long ago."

"Not in my thoughts, for I never meant to hurt you. I never stopped
being your friend, in spite of all the unkind, unjust things you said to
me. I'm proud now that I had your friendship once, even if I haven't it
now."

"You had everything there was in me--_except_ friendship. Now, of that
everything, only ashes are left. The fires have burnt out. You've heard
what I suppose they call my story, so you know why. If those fires
weren't dead, I shouldn't have dared trust myself to risk this talk with
you. As it is--I let your eyes call me back. Not that they called
consciously. It was the past that called----"

"They _would_ have called consciously if you'd given them time!" I
ventured to smile at him, with a look that asked for kindness. He did
not smile back, but he did not frown. His deep-set eyes, in their hollow
sockets, gazed at me as if they were memorizing each feature.

"You're lovelier than ever, Mary," he said. "There's something different
about your face. You've suffered."

"My brother is blind."

"Ah! There's more than that."

"Yes."

"You loved the son of these rich people the girl told me about? She says
you didn't love him, but she's wrong--isn't she?"

"She's wrong. She knows about things I've done, but nothing about what I
think or feel. I did love Jim Beckett, Doctor Paul. You don't mind being
called by the old name? I've learned how it hurts to love."

"That will do you no harm, Mary. I can speak with you about such things
now, for the spirit of a dead woman stands between us. I didn't love her
when she was alive. But if I hadn't married her and brought her to
France she'd be living now. She died through me--and for me. I think of
her with immense tenderness and--a kind of loyalty; a fierce loyalty. I
don't know if you understand."

"Indeed I do! I almost envy her that brave death."

"We won't talk of her any more now," Herter said with a sigh. Chevalier,
THE TAX SOMETIMES TAKES THE FORM OF A LEVY ON POLLS. Well, in what
case is it just that the tax should take the form of a levy on polls?
Is it always, or never? What is the principle of the tax? What is its
object? Speak, answer.
In the first shock of meeting your eyes, I didn't realize that
I'd forgiven. It wasn't till I'd slammed the door that I knew."

I didn't repeat that I had not purposely done anything which needed
forgiveness. I only looked at him with all the kindness and pity in my
heart, and waited until he should go on.

"The second thing I wanted to say is, that just the one look told me you
weren't happy and gay as you used to be. When I'd shut the door, I could
still see you clearly, as if I had the power to look through the wood. I
said to myself, that girl's eyes have got the sadness of the whole world
in them. They seem as if they were begging for help, and didn't know
where on earth it was coming from. Was that a true impression? I waited
to ask you this, even more than to see you again."

"It is true," I confessed. "There's only this difference between my
feelings and your impression of them. I _know_ there's no help on earth
for me. Such help as there is, I get from another place. Do you remember
how I used to talk about the dear Padre who was our guardian--my
brother's and mine--and how I told him nearly everything good and bad
that I thought or did? Well, he went to the front as a chaplain and he
has been killed. But I go on writing him letters, exactly as if he could
give me advice and comfort, or scold me in the old way."

"What about your brother? The girl--Miss O'Farrell she called herself, I
think--said he was with you on this journey. And to-day I recognized him
at Soeur Julie's, from his likeness to you. I shouldn't have guessed
he was blind. He has a beautiful face. Do you get no comfort from him?"

"Much comfort from his presence and love," I said. "But I try to keep
him happy. I don't bother him with my troubles. I won't even let him
talk of them. They're taboo."

"I wish _I_ could help you!" Herter exclaimed.

"Your wish is a help."

"Ah, but I'd like to give more than that! I'm going away--that's the
third thing I wanted to tell you. A little while ago I was glad to be
going (so far as it's in me, nowadays, to be glad of anything) because
I--I've been given a sort of--mission. Since we've had this talk, I'd
put off going if I could. But I can't. Is your brother's case past
cure?"

"It's not absolutely hopeless. Doctor Paul, this is a confidence! It's
to try and cure him that I'm with the Becketts. He doesn't know--and I
can't explain more to you. But a specialist in Paris ordered Brian a
life in the open air, and as much pleasure and interest as possible. You
see, it's the optic nerve that was paralyzed in a strange way by shell
shock. Some day Brian's sight may--just _possibly_ may--come back all of
a sudden."

"Ah, that's interesting. I'm not an oculist, but I know one or two of
the best men, who have made great reputations since this war. Who was
your specialist in Paris?"

I told him.

"A good man," he pronounced, "but I have a friend who is better. I'll
write you a letter to him. You can send it if you choose. That's one
service I can do for you, Mary. It may prove a big one. But I wish there
were something else--something for _you_, yourself. Maybe there will be
one day. Who can tell? If that day comes, I shan't be found wanting or
forgetful."

"It's worth a lot to have met you and had this talk," I said. "It's been
like a warm fire to cold hands. I do hope, dear Doctor Paul, that you're
not going on a dangerous mission?"

He laughed--the quaint laugh I remembered, like a crackling of dry
brushwood. "No more danger for me in it than there is for a bit of
toasted cheese in a rat-trap."

"What a queer comparison!" I said. "It sounds as if you were going to be
a bait to deceive a rat."

"Multiply the singular into the plural, and your quick wit has
deciphered my parable."

"I'm afraid my wit doesn't deserve the compliment. I can't imagine what
your mission really is. Unless----"

"Unless--what? No! Don't let us go any further. Because I mustn't tell
you more, even if you should happen to guess. I've told you almost too
much already. But confidence for confidence. You gave me one. Consider
that I've confided something to you in return. There's just a millionth
chance that my mission--whatever it is--may make me of use to you. Give
me an address that will find you always, and then--I must be going. I
have to return to the hospice and see some patients. No need to write
the directions. Better not, in fact. I shall have no difficulty in
remembering anything that concerns you, even the most complicated
address."

"It's not complicated," I laughed; and gave him the name of the Paris
bankers in whose care the Becketts allow Brian and me to have letters
sent--Morgan Harjes.

He repeated the address after me, and then stopped, holding out his
hand. "That's all," he said abruptly. "I shall be glad, whatever
happens, that I waited, and had this talk with you. Good-bye."

"Good-bye--and good luck in the mission," I echoed.

He pressed my hand so hard that it hurt, and with one last look turned
away. He did not go far, however, but stopped on his way back to ask
Dierdre O'Farrell about her arm. She and Brian (Puck had joined the
Becketts) were only a few paces behind me, and pausing involuntarily I
heard what was said. It was easy to see that Dierdre wished me to hear
her part.

"My arm is going on very well," she informed her benefactor. "I thank
you again for your kindness in attending to it. But I don't think it was
kind to order me to keep a secret, and then give it away yourself. You
made me seem an--ungracious pig and a fool. I shouldn't mind that, if it
did you good, in return for the good you've done me. But since it was
for nothing----"

"I apologize," Herter broke in. "I meant what I said then. But a power
outside myself was too strong for me. Maybe it will be the same for you
some day. Meanwhile, don't make the mistake I made: don't do other
people an injustice."

Leaving Dierdre at bay between anger and amazement, he stared with
professional eagerness into Brian's sightless eyes, and stalked off
toward the hospice.


CHAPTER XVI


Since I wrote you last, Padre, I have been in the trenches--real, live
trenches, not the faded, half-filled-up ghosts of trenches where men
fought long ago. I had to give my word not to tell or write any one just
where these trenches are, so I won't put details in black and white,
even in pages which are only for you and me. I keep this book that you
gave me in my hand-bag, and no eyes but mine see it--unless, dear Padre,
you come and look over my shoulder while I scribble, as I often feel you
do! Still--something might happen: an automobile accident; or the bag
might be lost or stolen, though it's not a gorgeously attractive one,
like that in which Mother Beckett carries Jim's letters.

It was the day after Lunéville and Gerbéviller. We started out once
again from Nancy, no matter in which direction, but along a wonderful
road. Not that the scenery was beautiful. We didn't so much as think of
scenery. The thrill was in the passing show, and later in the
"camouflage." We were going to be given a glimpse of the Front which the
communiqués (when they mention it at all nowadays) speak of as calm. Its
alleged "calmness" gave us non-combatants our chance to pay it a visit;
but many wires had been pulled to get us there, and we had dwindled to a
trio, consisting of Father Beckett, Brian, and me. Mother Beckett is not
made for trenches, even the calmest, and there was no permission for
the occupants of the Red Cross taxi, who are not officially of our
party. They have their own police pass for the war-zone, but all special
plums are for the Becketts, shared by the O'Malleys; and this visit to
the trenches was an extra-special superplum.

All along the way, coming and going, tearing to meet us, or leaving us
behind, splashed with gray mud after a night of rain, motor-lorries
sped. They carried munitions or food to the front, or brought back tired
soldiers bound for a place of rest, and their roofs were marvellously
"camouflaged" in a blend of blue and green paint splotched with red. For
aeroplanes they must have looked, in their processions, like drifting
mist over meadowland. Shooting in and out among them, like slim gray
swordfish in a school of porpoise, were military cars crowded with smart
officers who saluted the lieutenant escorting us, and stared in surprise
at sight of a woman. A sprinkling of these officers were Americans, and
they would have astonished us more than we astonished them had we not
known that we should see Americans. They were to be, indeed, the
"feature" of the great show; and though Mr. Beckett was calm in manner
to match the Front, I knew from his face that he was deeply moved by the
thought of seeing "boys from home" fighting for France as his dead son
had fought.

At each small village we saw soldiers who had been sent to the "back of
the Front" for a few days' change from the trenches. They lounged on
long wooden benches before humble houses where they had _logement_; they
sat at tables borrowed from kitchens, earnestly engaged at dominoes or
_manille_, or they played _boules_ in narrow grass alleys beside the
muddy road. For them we had packed all vacant space in the auto with a
cargo of cigarettes; and white teeth flashed and blue arms waved in
gratitude as we went by. I think Father Beckett was happier than he had
been since we left Paris.

At last we came to a part of the road that was "camouflaged" with a
screen of branches fixed into wire. There was no great need of it in
these days, our lieutenant explained, but Heaven knew when it might be
urgently wanted again: perhaps to-morrow! And this was where we said
"_au revoir_" to our car. She was wheeled out of the way on to a strip
of damp grass, under a convenient group of trees where no prowling enemy
plane might "spot" her; and we set out to walk for a short distance to
what had once been a farmhouse. Now, what was left of it had another
use. A board walk (well above the mud), which led to the new, unpainted
door, was guarded by sentinels, and explanations were given and papers
shown before a rather elderly French captain appeared to greet us.
Arrangements had been made for our reception, but we had to be
identified; and when all was done we were given a good welcome. Also we
were given helmets, and I was vain enough to fancy I had never worn a
more becoming hat.

Besides our own escort--the lieutenant who had brought us from Nancy--we
had a captain and a lieutenant to guide us into the "calmness" of the
trenches (the captain and a lieutenant for Mr. Beckett and Brian, the
other lieutenant for me) and one would have thought that they had never
before seen a woman in or out of a helmet! Down in a deep cellar-like
hole, which they called "_l'anti-chambre_," all three officers coached
Father Beckett and me in trench manners. As for Brian, it was clear to
them that he was no stranger to trench life, and their treatment of him
was perfect. They made no fuss, as tactless folk do over blind men; but,
while feigning to regard him as one of themselves, they slily watched
and protected his movements as a proud mother might the first steps of a
child.

On we went from the _antichambre_ into a long mouldy passage dug deep
into the earth. It was the link between trenches; and now and then a
sentinel popped out from behind a queer barrier built up as a protection
against "_les éclats d'obus_." "This is the way the wounded come back,"
said one of the lieutenants, "when there _are_ any wounded. Just now (or
you would not be here, Mademoiselle) there is"--he finished in
English--"nothing doing."

I laughed. "Who taught you that?"

"You will see," he replied, making a nice little mystery. "You will see
who taught it to me--and _then_ some!"

That was a beautiful ending for the sentence, and his American accent
was perfect, even if the meaning of the poor man's quotation was a
little uncertain!

We turned several times, and I had begun to think of the Minotaur's
labyrinth, when the passage knotted itself into a low-roofed room, open
at both ends, save for bomb screens, with a trench leading dismally off
from an opposite doorway. "When is a door not a door?" was a conundrum
of my childhood, and I think the answer was: "When it's ajar." But
nowadays there is a better _réplique_: A door is not a door when it's a
dug-out. It is then a hole, kept from falling in upon itself by a log
of wood or anything handy. This time, the "anything handy" seemed to be
part of an old wheelbarrow, and on top were some sandbags. In the room,
which was four times as long as it was broad, and twelve times longer
than high, a few vague soldier-forms crouched over a meal on the floor,
their tablecloth being a Paris newspaper. They scrambled to their feet,
but could not stand upright, and to see their stooping salute to
stooping officers in the smoky twilight, was like a vision in a dark,
convex mirror.

As we wound our way past the screen at the far end of the cellar
dining-room, my lieutenant explained the method in placing each
_pare-éclat_, as he called the screen. "You see, Mademoiselle, if a bomb
happened to break through and kill us, the screen would save the men
beyond," he said; then, remembering with a start that he was talking to
a woman, he hurried to add: "Oh, but we shall not be killed. Have no
fear. There's nothing of that sort on our programme to-day--at least,
not where we shall take _you_."

"Do I look as if I were afraid?" I asked.

"No, you look very brave, Mademoiselle," he flattered me. "I'm sure it
is more than the helmet which gives you that look. I believe, if you
were allowed you would go on past the safety zone."

"Where does the safety zone end?" I curiously questioned.

"It is different on different days. If you had come yesterday, you could
have had a good long promenade. Indeed that was what we hoped, when we
arranged to entertain your party. But unfortunately the gentlemen in
the opposing trenches discovered that _Les Sammies_ had arrived on our
_secteur_. They wanted to give them a reception, and so--your walk has
to be shortened, Mademoiselle."

Suddenly I felt sick. I had the sensation Soeur Julie described
herself as feeling when she met the giant German officers. But it was
not fear. "Do you mean--while we're here, safe--like tourists on a
pleasure jaunt," I stammered, "that American soldiers are being
_killed_--in the trenches close by? It's horrible! I can't----"

"_Il ne faut pas se faire de la bile_, as our _poilus_ say, when they
mean 'Don't worry,' Mademoiselle," the lieutenant soothed me. "If there
were any killing along this _secteur_ you would hear the guns boom,
_n'est-ce-pas_? You had not stopped to think of that. There was a little
affair at dawn, I don't conceal it from you. A surprise--a _coup de
main_ against the Americans the Boches intended. They thought, as all
has been quiet on our Front for so long, we should expect nothing. But
the surprise didn't work. They got as good as they sent, and no one on
our side was killed. That I swear to you, Mademoiselle! There were a few
wounded, yes, but no fatalities. The trouble is that now things have
begun to move, they may not sit still for long, and we cannot take risks
with our visitors. The mountain must come to Mahomet. That is, _les
Sammies_ must call upon you, instead of you upon them. The reception
room is _chez nous Français_. It is ready, and you will see it in a
moment."

Almost as he spoke we came to a dug-out of far more imposing
architecture than the hole between trenches which we had seen. We had to
stoop to go in, but once in we could stand upright, even Brian, who
towered several inches above the other men. The place was lighted with
many guttering candles, and tears sprang to my eyes at the pathos of the
decorations. Needless to explain that the French and American flags
which draped the dark walls were there in our honour! Also there were a
Colonel, a table, benches, chairs, some glasses, and one precious bottle
of champagne, enough for a large company to sip, if not to drink, each
other's health. Hardly had we been introduced to the decorations,
including the Colonel, when the Americans began to arrive, three young
officers and two who had hardened into warlike middle age. It was
heart-warming to see them meet Mr. Beckett, and their chivalric niceness
to Brian and me was somehow different from any other niceness I
remember--except Jim's.

Not that one of the men looked like Jim, or had a voice like his: yet,
when they spoke, and smiled, and shook hands, I seemed to see Jim
standing behind them, smiling as he had smiled at me on our one day
together. I seemed to hear his voice in an undertone, as if it mingled
with theirs, and I wondered if Jim's father had the same almost
supernatural impression that his son had come into the dug-out room with
that little band of his countrymen.

It is strange how a woman can be homesick for a man she has known only
one day; but she can--she _can_--for a Jim Beckett! He was so vital, so
central in life, known even for a day, that after his going the world is
a background from which his figure has been cut out, leaving a blank
place. These jolly, brave American soldier-men made me want so
desperately to see Jim that I wished a bomb would drop in--just a
_small_ bomb, touching only me, and whisking me away to the place where
he is. In body he could not forgive me, of course, for what I've done;
but in spirit he might forgive my spirit if it travelled a long way to
see his!

I am almost sure that the Americans did bring Jim back to Father
Beckett, as to me, for though he was cheerful, and even made jokes to
show that he mustn't be treated as a mourner, there was one piteous sign
of emotion which no self-control could hide. I saw his throat work--the
throat of an old man--his "Adam's apple" going convulsively up and down
like a tossed ball in a fountain jet. Then, lest I should sob while his
eyes were dry, I looked away.

We all had champagne out of the marvellous bottle which had been hoarded
during long months in case of "a great occasion," and we economized sips
but not healths. We drank to each one of the Allies in turn, and to a
victorious peace. Then the officers--French and American--began telling
us trench tales--no grim stories, only those at which we could laugh.
One was what an American captain called a "peach"; but it was a
Frenchman who told it: the American contingent have had no such
adventures yet.

The thing happened some time ago, before the "liveliness" died down
along this _secteur_. One spring day, in a rainy fog like a gray
curtain, a strange pair of legs appeared, prowling alongside a French
trench. They were not French legs; but instantly two pairs of French
arms darted out under the stage-drop of fog to jerk them in. Down came a
_feldwebel_ on top of them, squealing desolately "Kamerad!" He squealed
many more guttural utterances, but not one of the soldiers in blue
helmets, who soon swarmed round him, could understand a word he said.
"Why the crowd?" wondered the Captain of the company, appearing from a
near-by dug-out. The queer quarry was dragged to the officer's feet, and
fortunately the Captain, an Alsatian, had enough German for a catechism.

"What were you doing close to our lines?" he demanded.

"Oh, Herr Captain, I did not know they were your lines. I thought they
were ours. In our trench we are hungry, very hungry. I thought in the
mist I could safely go a little way and seek for some potatoes. Where we
are they say there was once a fine potato field. Not long ago, one of
our men came back with half a dozen beauties. Ah, they were good! I was
empty enough to risk anything, Herr Captain. But I had no luck. And,
worse still, the fog led me astray. Spare my life, sir!"

"We will spare you what is worth more than a little thing like your
life," said the Captain. "We'll spare you some of our good food, to show
you that we French do not have to gnaw our finger-nails, like you
miserable Boches. Men, take this animal away and feed it!"

The men obeyed, enjoying the joke. The dazed Kamerad was stuffed with
sardines, meat, bread, and butter (of which he had forgotten the
existence), delicious cheese, and chocolates. At last the magic meal was
topped off with smoking hot black coffee, a thimbleful of brandy, and--a
_cigar_! Tobacco and cognac may have been cheap, but they made the
_feldwebel_ feel as if he had died and gone to heaven.

When he had eaten till his belt was tight for the first time in many
moons, back he was hustled to the Captain.

"Well--you have had something better than potatoes? _Bon!_ Now, out of
this, quicker than you came! Your mother may admire your face, but we
others, we have seen enough of it."

"But, Herr Captain," pleaded the poor wretch, loth to be banished from
Paradise, "I am your prisoner."

"Not at all," coolly replied the officer. "We can't be bothered with a
single prisoner. What is one flea on a blanket? Another time, if we come
across you again with enough of your comrades to make the game worth
while, why then, perhaps we may give ourselves the pain of keeping you.
You've seen that we have enough food to feed your whole trench, and
never miss it."

Away flew the German over the top, head over heels, not unassisted: and
after they had laughed awhile, his hosts and foes forgot him. But not so
could he forget them. That night, after dark, he came trotting back with
fifteen friends, all crying "Kamerad!" eager to deliver themselves up to
captivity for the flesh-pots of Egypt.

"But--we're not to go without a glimpse of the Sammies, are we?" I
asked, when stories and champagne were finished.

The "Sammies'" officers laughed. "The boys don't love that name, you
know! But it sticks like a burr. It's harder to get rid of than the
Boches. As for seeing them--(the boys, not the Boches!) _well_----" And
a consultation followed.

The trenches beyond our dug-out drawing room could not be guaranteed
"safe as the Bank of England" for non-combatants that day, and no one
wanted to be responsible for our venturing farther. Still, if we
couldn't go to the boys, a "bunch" of the boys could come to us. A
lieutenant dashed away, and presently returned with six of the tallest,
brownest, best-looking young men I ever saw. Their khaki and their
beautiful new helmets were so like British khaki and helmets that I
shouldn't have been expert enough to recognize them as American. But
somehow the merest amateur would never have mistaken those boys for
their British brothers. I can't tell where the difference lay. All I can
say is that it was there. Were their jaws squarer? No, it couldn't have
been that, for British jaws are firm enough, and have need to be, Heaven
knows! Were their chins more prominent? But millions of British chins
are prominent. My brain collapsed in the strain after comparisons,
abandoned the effort and drank in a draught of rich, ripe American slang
as a glorious pick-me-up. No wonder the French officers in _liaison_
have caught the new "code." The coming of those brown boys with their
bright and glittering teeth and witty words made up to us for miles of
trenches we hadn't seen. Gee, but they were bully! Oh, _boy_! Get hep to
that!


CHAPTER XVII


Father Beckett must have suffered dark hours of reaction after seeing
those soldier-sons of American fathers, if there had been time to think.
But we flashed back to Nancy in haste, for a late dinner and adieux to
our friends. Brian and I snatched the story of our day's adventure from
his mouth for Mother Beckett; and luckily he was too tired to give her a
new version. I heard in the morning that he had slept through an air
raid!

I, too, was tired, and for the same reason: but I could not sleep.
Waking dreams marched through my mind--dreams of Jim as he must have
looked in khaki, dreams which made an air raid more or less seem
unimportant. As the clocks of Nancy told the hours, I was in a mood for
the first time since Gerbéviller to puzzle out the meaning of Paul
Herter's parable.

What had he meant by saying that his mission would be no more dangerous
than a rat-trap for a bit of toasted cheese?

I had exclaimed, "That sounds as if you were to bait the trap!" but he
had not encouraged me to guess. And there had been so much else to think
of, just then! His offer of introductions to specialists for Brian had
appealed to me more than a vague suggestion of service to myself "some
day."

But now, through the darkness of night, a ray like a searchlight struck
clear upon his cryptic hint.

Somehow, Herter hoped to get across the frontier into Germany! His
question, whether I had loved Jim Beckett, was not an idle one. He had
not asked it through mere curiosity, or because he was jealous of the
dead. His idea was that, if I had deeply cared for Jim, I should be glad
to know how he had died, and where his body lay. Germany was the one
place where the mystery could be solved. I realized suddenly that Doctor
Paul expected "some day" to be in a position to solve it.

"He's going into Germany as a spy," I said to myself. "He's a man of
German Lorraine. German is his native language. Legally he's a German
subject. He'll only have to pretend that he was caught by accident in
France when the war broke out--and that at last he has escaped. All that
may be easy if there are no spies to give him away--to tell what he's
been doing in France since 1914. The trouble will be when he wants to
come back."

I wished that I could have seen the man again, to have bidden him a
better farewell, to have told him I'd pray for his success. But now it
was too late. Already he must have set off on his "mission," and we were
to start in the morning for Verdun.

The thought of Verdun alone was enough to keep me awake for the rest of
the night, to say nothing of air raids and speculations about Doctor
Paul. It seemed almost too strange to be true that we were to see
Verdun--Verdun, where month after month beat the heart of the world.

The O'Farrells had not got permission for Verdun, nor for Rheims, where
we of the great gray car were going next. Still more than our glimpse
of the trenches were these two places "extra special." The brother and
sister were to start with us from Nancy, but we (the Becketts, Brian,
and I) were to part from them at Bar-le-Duc, where we would be met by an
officer from Verdun. Two days later, we were to meet again at Paris, and
continue--as Puck impudently put it--"_our_ rôle of ministering angels,"
along the Noyon front and beyond.

This programme was settled when--through influence at Nancy--Father
Beckett's passes for four had been extended to Verdun and Rheims. I
breathed a sigh of relief at the prospect of two more days without the
O'Farrells; and all that's Irish in me trusted to luck that "something
might happen" to part us forever. Why not? The Red Cross taxi might
break down (it looked ready to shake to pieces any minute!). Dierdre
might be taken ill (no marble statue could be paler!). Or the pair might
be arrested by the military police as dangerous spies. (Really, I
wouldn't "put it past" them!). But my secret hopes were rudely jangled
with my first sight of Brian on the Verdun morning.

"Molly, I hope you won't mind," he said, "but I've promised O'Farrell to
go with them and meet you in Paris to-morrow night. I've already spoken
to Mr. Beckett and he approves."

"This comes of my being ten minutes late!" I almost--not quite--cried
aloud. I'd hardly closed my eyes all night, but had fallen into a doze
at dawn and overslept myself. Meanwhile the O'Farrell faction had got in
its deadly work!

I was angry and disgusted, yet--as usual where that devil of a Puck was
concerned--I had the impulse to laugh. It was as if he'd put his finger
to his nose and chuckled in impish glee: "You hope to get rid of us, do
you, you minx? Well, I'll _show_ you!" But I should be playing his game
if I lost my temper.

"Why do the O'Farrells want you to go with them?" I "camouflaged" my
rage.

"It's Julian who wants me," explained the dear boy. (Oh, it had come to
Christian names!) "It seems Miss O'Farrell has taken it into her head
that none of us likes her, and that we've arranged this way to get rid
of them both--letting them down easily and making some excuse not to
start again together from Paris. O'Farrell thought if I'd offer to go
with them and sit in the back of the car while he drove I could persuade
her----"

"Well, I don't envy any one the task of persuading that girl to believe
a thing she doesn't wish to believe," I exploded. "My private opinion
is, though, that her brother's sister needs no persuading. The two of
them want to show me that they have power----"

Brian broke in with a laugh. "My child, you see things through a
magnifying glass! Is your blind brother a prize worth squabbling over? I
can be of use to the Becketts, it's true, when we travel without a
military escort, or with one young officer who knows more about
seventy-fives than about the romance of history. The same thing happened
after all similar attempts. What was the reason of this disappointment?

Because, say the economists, the quantity of gold and silver in
reality being neither diminished nor increased by the false coinage,
the proportion of these metals to other merchandise was not changed,
and consequently it was not in the power of the sovereign to make
that which was worth but two worth four.

For the same reason, if, instead of debasing the coin, it had been
in the king's power to double its mass, the exchangeable value of
gold and silver would have decreased one-half immediately, always
on account of this proportionality and equilibrium.

The adulteration of the coin was, then, on the part of the king, a forced
loan, or rather, a bankruptcy, a swindle.

Marvelous! the economists explain very clearly, when they choose, the
theory of the measure of value; that they may do so, it is necessary
only to start them on the subject of money.

Why, then, do they not see that money is the written law of commerce,
the type of exchange, the first link in that long chain of creations
all of which, as merchandise, must receive the sanction of society,
and become, if not in fact, at least in right, acceptable as money in
settlement of all kinds of transactions?

"Money," M.

Augier very truly says, "can serve, either as a means of authenticating
contracts already made, or as a good medium of exchange, only so far
as its value approaches the ideal of permanence; for in all cases it
exchanges or buys only the value which it possesses
As a matter of fact, that is what happened; or at all
events when our big, reliable motor purred with us into Bar-le-Duc, the
O'Farrells were nowhere to be seen.

Our officer--another lieutenant--had arrived in a little Ford; and as we
were invited to lunch in the citadel of Verdun we could not wait. I felt
sure the demon Puck had managed to be late on purpose, so that my
Verdun day might be spoiled by anxiety for Brian. Thus he would kill two
birds with one stone: show how little I gained by the enemy's absence,
and punish me for not letting him make love!

The road to Verdun was a wonderful prelude. After three years' Titanic
battling, how could there be a road at all? I had had vague visions of
an earthly turmoil, a wilderness of shell-holes where once had gleamed
rich meadows and vineyards, with little villages set jewel-like among
them, and the visions were true. But through the war-worn desert always
the road unrolled--the brave white road. Heaven alone could tell the
deeds of valour which had achieved the impossible, making and remaking
that road! It should have some great poem all to itself, I thought; a
poem called "The Road to Verdun." And the poem should be set to music. I
could almost hear the lilt of the verses as our car slipped through the
tangle of motor _camions_ and gun-carriages on the way thither. As for
the music, I could really hear that without flight of fancy: a deep,
rolling undertone of heavy wheels, of jolting guns, of pulsing engines,
like a million beating hearts; and out of its muffled bass rising the
lighter music of men's voices: soldiers singing; soldiers going to the
front, who shouted gaily to soldiers going to repose; soldiers laughing;
soldier-music that no hardship or suffering could subdue.

We had seen such processions before, but none so endless as this, going
both ways, as far as the eye could reach. We had seen no such tremendous
parks of artillery and aviation by the roadside, no such store of shells
for big guns and little guns, no such pyramids of grenades for trenches
and aeroplanes. We were engulfed in war, swallowed up in war. It was
thrilling beyond words.

But all the road flashed bright with thrills. There was a thrill at "le
Bois de Regrets," forest of dark regret for the Prussians of 1792, where
the French turned them back--the forest which Goethe saw: a thrill more
keen for the pointing sign, "Metz, 47 kilomètres," which reminded us
that less than thirty miles separated us from the great German
stronghold, yet--"_on ne passera pas_!" And the deepest thrill of all at
the words of our guide: "_Voilà la porte de Verdun! Nous y sommes_."

Turning off the road, we stopped our car and the little Ford to look up
and worship. There it rose before us, ancient pile of gray stones, altar
of history and triumph, Verodunum of Rome, city of warlike, almost royal
bishops and rich burghers: town of treaties, sacked by Barbarians; owned
and given up by Germans; seized by Prussians when the French had spiked
their guns in 1870; and now forever a monument to the immortal manhood
of France!

Perhaps it was the mist in my eyes, but at first sight Verdun did not
look ruined, as I saw it towering up to its citadel in massive strength
and stern dignity. The old houses on the slope stood shoulder to
shoulder and back to back, like massed men fighting their last stand. It
was only when we had started on again, and passing through the gate had
slipped into the sorrowful intimacy of the streets, that Verdun let us
see her glorious rags and scars.

