Produced by Judith Boss


THE COUNTRY OF THE POINTED FIRS

By Sarah Orne Jewett


Note:

SARAH ORNE JEWETT (1849-1909) was born and died in South Berwick, Maine.
From the bookcase! Quick! Pack yourself! (From the second maid.) Light
to the servant. It is the Lord Gerichtsrat, I hope nothing bad on the
trip are encountered? The Serves more now! We are in the sunken overturned.
Adam plague! Geschundner My foot! I get the boots - light egg, you are
my heaven! Overturned, says you? But no further damage -? The Serves
Nothing of importance. The Lord sprained his hand a little. The pole
broke. Adam That he broke his neck! Light Hand sprained! Oh, Lord
God! Did the blacksmith already? The Serves Yes, for the tow bar.
What light? Adam says you, Doctor. What light? The Serves For the drawbar?
Adam Ah, what! For the hand. The Serves Adies their Lord.The Country of the Pointed Firs (1896) is considered Jewett's finest
work, described by Henry James as her "beautiful little quantum of
achievement." Despite James's diminutives, the novel remains a classic.
Because it is loosely structured, many critics view the book not as
a novel, but a series of sketches; however, its structure is unified
through both setting and theme. Jewett herself felt that her strengths
as a writer lay not in plot development or dramatic tension, but in
character development. Indeed, she determined early in her career to
preserve a disappearing way of life, and her novel can be read as a
study of the effects of isolation and hardship on the inhabitants who
lived in the decaying fishing villages along the Maine coast.

Jewett died in 1909, eight years after an accident that effectively
ended her writing career. Her reputation had grown during her lifetime,
extending far beyond the bounds of the New England she loved.


Contents

              I  The Return
             II  Mrs. Todd
            III  The Schoolhouse
             IV  At the Schoolhouse Window
              V  Captain Littlepage
             VI  The Waiting Place
            VII  The Outer Island
           VIII  Green Island
             IX  William
              X  Where Pennyroyal Grew
             XI  The Old Singers
            XII  A Strange Sail
           XIII  Poor Joanna
            XIV  The Hermitage
             XV  On Shell-heap Island
            XVI  The Great Expedition
           XVII  A Country Road
          XVIII  The Bowden Reunion
            XIX  The Feast's End
             XX  Along Shore
            XXI  The Backward View


I. The Return

THERE WAS SOMETHING about the coast town of Dunnet which made it seem
more attractive than other maritime villages of eastern Maine. Perhaps
it was the simple fact of acquaintance with that neighborhood which
made it so attaching, and gave such interest to the rocky shore and
dark woods, and the few houses which seemed to be securely wedged and
tree-nailed in among the ledges by the Landing. These houses made
the most of their seaward view, and there was a gayety and determined
floweriness in their bits of garden ground; the small-paned high windows
in the peaks of their steep gables were like knowing eyes that watched
the harbor and the far sea-line beyond, or looked northward all along
the shore and its background of spruces and balsam firs. When one really
knows a village like this and its surroundings, it is like becoming
acquainted with a single person. The process of falling in love at first
sight is as final as it is swift in such a case, but the growth of true
friendship may be a lifelong affair.

After a first brief visit made two or three summers before in the course
of a yachting cruise, a lover of Dunnet Landing returned to find the
unchanged shores of the pointed firs, the same quaintness of the village
with its elaborate conventionalities; all that mixture of remoteness,
and childish certainty of being the centre of civilization of which her
affectionate dreams had told. One evening in June, a single passenger
landed upon the steamboat wharf. The tide was high, there was a fine
crowd of spectators, and the younger portion of the company followed
her with subdued excitement up the narrow street of the salt-aired,
white-clapboarded little town.


II. Mrs. Todd

LATER, THERE WAS only one fault to find with this choice of a summer
lodging-place, and that was its complete lack of seclusion. At first the
tiny house of Mrs. Almira Todd, which stood with its end to the street,
appeared to be retired and sheltered enough from the busy world, behind
its bushy bit of a green garden, in which all the blooming things, two
or three gay hollyhocks and some London-pride, were pushed back against
the gray-shingled wall. It was a queer little garden and puzzling to
a stranger, the few flowers being put at a disadvantage by so much
greenery; but the discovery was soon made that Mrs. Todd was an ardent
lover of herbs, both wild and tame, and the sea-breezes blew into
the low end-window of the house laden with not only sweet-brier
and sweet-mary, but balm and sage and borage and mint, wormwood and
southernwood. If Mrs. Todd had occasion to step into the far corner
of her herb plot, she trod heavily upon thyme, and made its fragrant
presence known with all the rest. Being a very large person, her full
skirts brushed and bent almost every slender stalk that her feet missed.
You could always tell when she was stepping about there, even when you
were half awake in the morning, and learned to know, in the course of a
few weeks' experience, in exactly which corner of the garden she might
be.

At one side of this herb plot were other growths of a rustic
pharmacopoeia, great treasures and rarities among the commoner herbs.
There were some strange and pungent odors that roused a dim sense and
remembrance of something in the forgotten past. Some of these might
once have belonged to sacred and mystic rites, and have had some occult
knowledge handed with them down the centuries; but now they pertained
only to humble compounds brewed at intervals with molasses or vinegar
or spirits in a small caldron on Mrs. Todd's kitchen stove. They were
dispensed to suffering neighbors, who usually came at night as if by
stealth, bringing their own ancient-looking vials to be filled. One
nostrum was called the Indian remedy, and its price was but fifteen
cents; the whispered directions could be heard as customers passed
the windows. With most remedies the purchaser was allowed to depart
unadmonished from the kitchen, Mrs. Todd being a wise saver of steps;
but with certain vials she gave cautions, standing in the doorway, and
there were other doses which had to be accompanied on their healing way
as far as the gate, while she muttered long chapters of directions, and
kept up an air of secrecy and importance to the last. It may not have
been only the common aids of humanity with which she tried to cope; it
seemed sometimes as if love and hate and jealousy and adverse winds at
sea might also find their proper remedies among the curious wild-looking
plants in Mrs. Todd's garden.

The village doctor and this learned herbalist were upon the best of
terms. The good man may have counted upon the unfavorable effect of
certain potions which he should find his opportunity in counteracting;
at any rate, he now and then stopped and exchanged greetings with Mrs.
Todd over the picket fence. The conversation became at once professional
after the briefest preliminaries, and he would stand twirling a
sweet-scented sprig in his fingers, and make suggestive jokes, perhaps
about her faith in a too persistent course of thoroughwort elixir, in
which my landlady professed such firm belief as sometimes to endanger
the life and usefulness of worthy neighbors.

To arrive at this quietest of seaside villages late in June, when the
busy herb-gathering season was just beginning, was also to arrive in
the early prime of Mrs. Todd's activity in the brewing of old-fashioned
spruce beer. This cooling and refreshing drink had been brought to
wonderful perfection through a long series of experiments; it had won
immense local fame, and the supplies for its manufacture were always
giving out and having to be replenished. For various reasons, the
seclusion and uninterrupted days which had been looked forward to proved
to be very rare in this otherwise delightful corner of the world. My
hostess and I had made our shrewd business agreement on the basis of a
simple cold luncheon at noon, and liberal restitution in the matter of
hot suppers, to provide for which the lodger might sometimes be seen
hurrying down the road, late in the day, with cunner line in hand.
It was soon found that this arrangement made large allowance for Mrs.
Todd's slow herb-gathering progresses through woods and pastures. The
spruce-beer customers were pretty steady in hot weather, and there were
many demands for different soothing syrups and elixirs with which the
unwise curiosity of my early residence had made me acquainted. Knowing
Mrs. Todd to be a widow, who had little beside this slender business and
the income from one hungry lodger to maintain her, one's energies and
even interest were quickly bestowed, until it became a matter of course
that she should go afield every pleasant day, and that the lodger should
answer all peremptory knocks at the side door.

In taking an occasional wisdom-giving stroll in Mrs. Todd's company, and
in acting as business partner during her frequent absences, I found the
July days fly fast, and it was not until I felt myself confronted with
too great pride and pleasure in the display, one night, of two dollars
and twenty-seven cents which I had taken in during the day, that I
remembered a long piece of writing, sadly belated now, which I was bound
to do. To have been patted kindly on the shoulder and called "darlin',"
to have been offered a surprise of early mushrooms for supper, to have
had all the glory of making two dollars and twenty-seven cents in a
single day, and then to renounce it all and withdraw from these pleasant
successes, needed much resolution. Light halblaut. But let the odd
Frag - Mrs Marthe all I was looking at your Sunday in the window so, if
you go onto Vorwerk! Walter Do you know the woman? Adam She lives around
the corner here, Ew. Grace, If the footpath goes through the hedges,
widow 'of a warden, a midwife now, otherwise an honest woman of
good calls. Walter, if you're so informed, Mr. Richter, similar
questions are superfluous. If their name in the log And writes: the
office well known. Also das Adam You're not responsible for the
paperwork. Tut as Sister Grace anbefohlen. Interrogates Walter on the
subject of the action now. Adam Now should I -?

Walter Yes, identify the object ! Adam This is also a pitcher, forgive.
Walter How? Likewise! A pitcher Adam. A mere pitcher. Sets a pitcher,
and writes: the office well known. Hingeworfene light on my presumed
Will you, Mr Judge -? Adam Mein Seel, ichs if you say, So writes ihrs
out. Ists not a pitcher, Mrs Marthe?

Mrs Marthe Yes, here the pitcher - Since Adam did ihrs. The wife Marthe
zerbrochne - Adam pedantic concern. Light, I ask you - Adam And who broke
the jug? Certainly the rascal -? Wife Marthe Yes, he, the rascal there
- Adam for himself. I do not need more. Ruprecht That is not true, Mr.
Richter. Adam for themselves. On, the resurrected, you old Adam! Ruprecht
The liar in the neck into it - Adam Schweig, Maulaffe! You stuck your
neck still early enough to iron. - Sets a pitcher, Mr. Schreiber, as
I said, Zusamt the name of the crush him. Now the same thing to be
determined . Mr. Walter Richter! Ei! What a violent procedure. Why
Adam? Your Light Will not formally Adam No! I say, love your grace no
formalities. Walter, if you are the instruction, Mr.

Richter Adam, not of the process know, Is this the place now do not
you teach it. If your right otherwise not be so, you can give, Sun
stand from: Perhaps your recorder. Adam Allowed! I gabs how it's here in
Huisum usual; Ew. Grace did so I ordered. Hätt Walter I -? Adam On my
honor! Walter I commanded you, right here under the laws to grant Huisum
And here I believe the law as elsewhere in the united states. As Adam
submiß I must ask forgiveness, we have here, with your permission,
statute, peculiar in Huisum, Not recorded, I must gestehn, but by
tradition we Proven survived. From this form, I dare to hope, I am
still not an iota derogated . But even in your other form, I am, how
they practice in the kingdom might be at home.

If your evidence? Well, command, I can be right now, so give jetzo.
Walter poor give me your opinions, Mr. Richter. It was. You start from
scratch the case back to Adam .-- On Ehr! Give eight, you will be satisfied.
- Mrs Marthe Rull! Bring your complaint to.

Mrs Marthe I complain, you know, here because of this pitcher,
however, granted that I, before I sign, what happened this pitcher,
also describing what he was before me.

The speeches Adam is up to you. Ms Marthe You see the pitcher, its
appreciated gentlemen? You see the pitcher? Adam O yes, we see him. Mrs
Marthe Nothing you see, with all due respect, the pieces you see, is
the finest pitchers in two beaten. grade here on the hole, where
jetzo nothing, Are all the Dutch provinces span'schen been handed over
to Philip. regalia stood here in the Emperor Charles the Fifth:
From which you see only the legs stand. Here Phillip knelt and received
the crown, is in the pot until on the rear part, and also has
received a bump. They mopped up his two Muhmen to Franzen and The
Queens of Hungary, Stirred from his eyes, when a hand with the cloth
still looks upwards lift, Sun ists, as weinete them about it. Here,
in the wake based Philibert, for the shock of the Emperor caught, yet
on the sword, but he must jetzo fall, As good as Maximilian, the rascal!
The swords are now below weggeschlagen. Here in the middle with
the Holy cap, saw the Archbishop of Arras stehn; to the devil entirely
fetched, only His shadow still falls over the long patches. There were
rings, in fact, bodyguard satellites, with halberds, crowded, and
spears, houses here, you see, from the large market at Brussels, this
one looks out the window Neugier'ger: But what he sees jetzo, I do
not know. Mrs. Adam Marth!

Erlaßt us zerscherbte Paktum If it does not belong to the cause. We're
the hole - nothing the provinces to the point have been delivered. Mrs
Marthe Allowed! How beautiful the pitcher, is part of the thing! The Krug
captured Child Erich, The Tinker, as with the Orange Briel Wassergeusen
surprise. He had a Spaniard, filled with wine, just at the mouth, when
the Spaniards Child Erich niederwarf from behind, took the jug, it empties'
and continued. Würd'ger Adam A Wassergeuse. Mrs Marthe This inherited
Fürchtegott The Inn on the gravedigger; The only drank about three
times, the Sober, And always be mixed with water from the jug. The
first time when he was in the sixtieth A young woman took, three years
out, as they are still happy father made him, And as they are now Recently
children have testified, he for the third draft of times when she
died. Adam Good. That is not bad. Mrs Marthe was the top pitcher on the
Zacchaeus, Schneider Tirlemont, The sel'gen my husband what I want now
reports, with the mouth are told.

The accused, when the French plundered, the pitcher, together with all
household items, from the window, jumped himself, and broke his neck,
the clumsy, and this irdne pitcher, the pitcher of clay, he came Asc leg
to stand, and remained quite. Adam to the matter, if popular, Ms.
Marthe Rull ! Zur Sache! Wife Marthe in conflagration top of Sixty-six,
had him as my husband, God rest his soul hab - Adam Go to hell! Woman!
So you are not yet ready? Wife Marthe - If I do not talk to Mr. Richter
Adam, I am useless here, I will go, And I seek a court that hears
me. Walter ye shall speak: but by things do not, the plea of your alien.
If you tell us that you value the pitcher, so we know As much as we
use here for straightening. Mrs Marthe How much do you may understand,
here to judge, I do not know, and investigation is not, But I know
that I to complain, must before you can say about what.

Walter Well because. Finally now. What happened to the pitcher? What?
- What happened to the pitcher in the fire Of Anno sixty-six? If mans
hear what the pitcher is geschehn? Wife Marthe What happened to him?
Nothing is the pitcher, I ask you very, you gentlemen, Anno sixty-six
Nothing happened to him. All remained the pitcher, in the middle
of the flames, And out of the house Ash, I emphasize it, glazed,
the next morning, shiny, as if he just out of the kiln. Walter
Well. Now that we know the pitcher. Now we all know what the pitcher
geschehn, what is not. What's next now? Wife Marthe Well, this pitcher
now, you see - the jug, smashed a jug still worth the pitcher for
one damsels mouth, the lip itself is not the Ms.

Erbstatthalterin too bad, the pitcher, its high lords both judges,
the pitcher has broken me of that rascal.

Adam Who? wife Marthe He, Ruprecht there. Ruprecht That is a lie, Mr.
Richter. Adam Schweig it until you will ask Him . Even today it still
will turn. - Have ihrs noticed in the log? light Oh, yes. Adam tells
the when, where, decent wife Marthe. Mrs Marthe clock elfe it was
yesterday - When Adam says you? Mrs Marthe clock eleven. Adam in the
morning? wife Marthe No, forgive, in the evening - And already the Lamp
in bed I want to delete, as loud male voices, a tumult, in my daughter
remote chamber, as if the enemy einbräche me scared. Geschwind the
Trepp art, I go, I think the chamber eingesprengt violently, swear
words ring infuriated me, And as I look at the gig now illuminated,
What I find now, Mr. Judge, what I find? The pitcher I find zerscherbt
in the room are in every corner lies a fragile piece, the girl's hands
wringing, and he, the flaps there, defying the how cool you in the
middle of the room. Adam egg, Weather, Madam Marthe What? Adam Sieh
da, wife Marthe, Madam Marthe Yes! - Top ists, as if, just as in anger,
I still ten arms growing any I Feel like a vulture equipped.'s Him I
go to the speech, here in what he later night to find me the pitchers
of House raging suit had, And he to answer me, now advise - The outrageous!
The scoundrel who! Asc wheel I want to see him, or me, No longer patient
lay on his back, He speaks, it did another pitcher from the Sims ago -
and another, I ask you, in front of him from the chamber only escaped -
and overwhelmed me with epithets as the girl. O Adam! Lazy Fish - This?
wife Marthe At this sight I use the word girls questioningly; is the
same as a corpse, I say: Eve!

It is another .-- ists been? Ask me. And "Joseph and Marie," she
calls, "What think you, mother, too?" - To Speak! Who's it? "Who
else," she says, - and who also could it be otherwise? And swears
to me that first one. Eve What I swore you? What I've sworn you? Nothing
I swore, nothing you - Mrs Marthe Eve! Eve No!

This is your liar - Ruprecht Since hears ihrs. Adam dog, now cursed,
silent, target the fist to the throat you do not cram! Then is time
for you, not now. Mrs Marthe you had not -? Eve No, mother ! This
distorts your. Look, sorry tuts in fact me deeply to the soul, That I
must declare it publicly: I swore But nothing, nothing, nothing, I swear.
Adam Seid but sensible kids. The light is so strange. Mrs Marthe You
had me o Eve, not insured Not called Joseph and Mary? Eve When vow
not! Not swearing! Look, this is now, I swear, And Joseph and Mary to
call me. Adam egg, Leutchen!

Oh, Mrs. Martha! What also makes you? What intimidates you a good
child, if the maid will have calm, quiet Reminiscent of what happened -
I say what has happened, and what they do not speak as they should,
geschehn nor can give eight, so she made us today, as yesterday, whether
it's can conjure, if not. Let Joseph and Mary from the games. Walter Not
yet, Mr. Judge, do not! Who wanted the parties to give lessons
zweideut'ge.

Wife Marthe in the face if they can tell me, shamelessly, the dissolute
prostitute who, else it is a fact that as the Ruprecht was like for
me So they - I do not say what . But I, I versichr it you, Mr. Judge, And
I can not, that she's vowed to argue that it's said yesterday that I
implore, And Joseph and Mary to call me. Now, Adam wants to continue the
Virgin - Mr. Walter Richter! Adam Ew. Graces? What he says? - Not
heart-jane. Mrs Marthe out with it! Hast du's not told me? Hast du's
not me yesterday, I do not say? Eve Anyone who denies you that ichs said
- Since Adam did ihrs. Ruprecht The wench who! Adam Writes on.

Veit Fie, shame on you. From Walter your performance, Mr. Richter Adam, I
do not know what I think. If your crush even the pitcher would have,
could you from your starting to suspect Hinwälzen not keen on the
young man, than it is now. You will no longer be included in the minutes,
Mr. Schreiber, as only the first admission, I hope. From yesterday's
confession, not of factors. - ists to Virgin now, before it? Adam
Mein Seel, even if their number is not in such things the wrong man,
Ew. Graces. Hätt Whom should I ask now? Defendant? On Ehr! I take
good teaching. Like Walter ease! - Yes, ask the defendant. Interrogates
makes a stop, ask, I ask you very much: This is the last thing that
your leads. The last Adam! What! Egg indeed! The defendant! Wherever
old judge, did you think? Cursed the guinea pips'ge me That it would
Krepiert to the plague in India! Always is lump of noodles in my mind.
What is Walter? What a dumpling is you -? The Nudelkloß Adam, sorry, I
should give the Huhne. Aas swallows me not the pill down, my soul, so I
do not know how it will be.

Walter Tut your guilt, I say , for the executioner!

Adam defendant step forward.

Ruprecht Here Herrndorf judges. Ruprecht, Veits, the Kossäten, son,
from Huisum. Adam he heard there, which just before the court against
him wife Marthe is appropriate? Ruprecht Yes Herrndorf judges, the I.
Adam dared himself to raise something on the other hand, what he
professes, or unterfängt He is here as a man to deny gottvergeßner?
Ruprecht What did I do raise, Mr. Judge? Ei! With your permission, that
they have no true word spoken. Adam So? And he thinks to prove? Ruprecht
Oh, yes. The Adam Marthe decent woman, who - Calm yourself. It will be
found. Walter What does the wife Marthe Him, Lord judge? Adam What I
-? By God! Should I as a Christian -? Walter Report 'He what He has
for himself should be mentioned .-- Mr.

Schreiber, you know the process to lead? Adam Ah, what! Light Whether I
- ei, when inhabitants. Grace - Adam glotzt What he there? What did he
raise? Does not the donkey as an ox there? What did he raise? Ruprecht
What I raise? Walter Er, yes, he should tell the history of now. Ruprecht
my soul, if one word I could come.

Walter ' s is, in fact, Mr. Judge, not to tolerate.

Ruprecht Glock ten clock liked about his night, And just this warm
night of January As of May, - when I say to the Father: Father, I
want a bissel yet to Eve go. heures Because I want it, which you
must know, a lusty girl ists, I habs when harvests seen how all of
her fist went, And ye hay man flew as how gemaust.

This tells me: "Would you ? And she said: "Oh, what you are gakelst."
And then says' it: "Yes." Adam He Stay at his case. Gakeln! What I said:
"Would you?

And they said: Yes. Ruprecht Yes, I trust, Mr. Richter. Walter Continue!
Next! Ruprecht Now - As I say: Father, hear it? He let me. We still
talk at the window together. "Well," he says, "run, you also stay
outside?" he says. Yes, my soul, I say, that is sworn. "Well," he says,
"run to elfe you're here."

Well Adam, you say so, and gakle, and no end. Well, he soon be
claimed? Ruprecht Well, I say, this is a word and put the cap on, and go,
and I want to climb übern, and must pass through the village zurückgehn
because the swollen creek. Oh, all weather, I think, Ruprecht, shock!
Now is the garden in to Martha: For up to ten girl she can only open to
ten If I'm not there, I did not come. The Adam dissolute economy,. Walter
Floor next? Ruprecht top - as I gear myself übern Lindenallee sewing 're,
If Marth, where the rows of tightly curved and dark, like the Cathedral
of Utrecht, are hearing my garden fernher creak. Sieh da! Since Eve is
still there!
"In that handful of houses they fancy that
they comprehend the universe."

I smiled, and waited for him to go on.

"I am an old man, as you can see," he continued, "and I have been a
shipmaster the greater part of my life,--forty-three years in all. You
may not think it, but I am above eighty years of age."

He did not look so old, and I hastened to say so.

"You must have left the sea a good many years ago, then, Captain
Littlepage?" I said.

"I should have been serviceable at least five or six years more," he
answered. "My acquaintance with certain--my experience upon a certain
occasion, I might say, gave rise to prejudice. I do not mind telling you
that I chanced to learn of one of the greatest discoveries that man has
ever made."

Now we were approaching dangerous ground, but a sudden sense of his
sufferings at the hands of the ignorant came to my help, and I asked to
hear more with all the deference I really felt. A swallow flew into
the schoolhouse at this moment as if a kingbird were after it, and beat
itself against the walls for a minute, and escaped again to the open
air; but Captain Littlepage took no notice whatever of the flurry.

"I had a valuable cargo of general merchandise from the London docks to
Fort Churchill, a station of the old company on Hudson's Bay," said the
captain earnestly. "We were delayed in lading, and baffled by head winds
and a heavy tumbling sea all the way north-about and across. Then the
fog kept us off the coast; and when I made port at last, it was too late
to delay in those northern waters with such a vessel and such a crew as
I had. They cared for nothing, and idled me into a fit of sickness;
but my first mate was a good, excellent man, with no more idea of being
frozen in there until spring than I had, so we made what speed we could
to get clear of Hudson's Bay and off the coast. I owned an eighth of
the vessel, and he owned a sixteenth of her. She was a full-rigged ship,
called the Minerva, but she was getting old and leaky. I meant it should
be my last v'y'ge in her, and so it proved. She had been an excellent
vessel in her day. Of the cowards aboard her I can't say so much."

"Then you were wrecked?" I asked, as he made a long pause.

"I wa'n't caught astern o' the lighter by any fault of mine," said the
captain gloomily. "We left Fort Churchill and run out into the Bay with
a light pair o' heels; but I had been vexed to death with their red-tape
rigging at the company's office, and chilled with stayin' on deck an'
tryin' to hurry up things, and when we were well out o' sight o' land,
headin' for Hudson's Straits, I had a bad turn o' some sort o' fever,
and had to stay below. The days were getting short, and we made good
runs, all well on board but me, and the crew done their work by dint of
hard driving."

I began to find this unexpected narrative a little dull. Captain
Littlepage spoke with a kind of slow correctness that lacked the
longshore high flavor to which I had grown used; but I listened
respectfully while he explained the winds having become contrary, and
talked on in a dreary sort of way about his voyage, the bad weather,
and the disadvantages he was under in the lightness of his ship, which
bounced about like a chip in a bucket, and would not answer the rudder
or properly respond to the most careful setting of sails.

"So there we were blowin' along anyways," he complained; but looking at
me at this moment, and seeing that my thoughts were unkindly wandering,
he ceased to speak.

"It was a hard life at sea in those days, I am sure," said I, with
redoubled interest.

"It was a dog's life," said the poor old gentleman, quite reassured,
"but it made men of those who followed it. I see a change for the worse
even in our own town here; full of loafers now, small and poor as 'tis,
who once would have followed the sea, every lazy soul of 'em. There is
no occupation so fit for just that class o' men who never get beyond
the fo'cas'le. I view it, in addition, that a community narrows down and
grows dreadful ignorant when it is shut up to its own affairs, and gets
no knowledge of the outside world except from a cheap, unprincipled
newspaper. In the old days, a good part o' the best men here knew a
hundred ports and something of the way folks lived in them. They saw
the world for themselves, and like's not their wives and children saw it
with them. They may not have had the best of knowledge to carry with 'em
sight-seein', but they were some acquainted with foreign lands an' their
laws, an' could see outside the battle for town clerk here in Dunnet;
they got some sense o' proportion. Yes, they lived more dignified, and
their houses were better within an' without. Shipping's a terrible loss
to this part o' New England from a social point o' view, ma'am."

"I have thought of that myself," I returned, with my interest quite
awakened. "It accounts for the change in a great many things,--the sad
disappearance of sea-captains,--doesn't it?"

"A shipmaster was apt to get the habit of reading," said my companion,
brightening still more, and taking on a most touching air of unreserve.
"A captain is not expected to be familiar with his crew, and for
company's sake in dull days and nights he turns to his book. Most of us
old shipmasters came to know 'most everything about something; one would
take to readin' on farming topics, and some were great on medicine,--but
Lord help their poor crews!--or some were all for history, and now and
then there'd be one like me that gave his time to the poets. I was well
acquainted with a shipmaster that was all for bees an' beekeepin'; and
if you met him in port and went aboard, he'd sit and talk a terrible
while about their havin' so much information, and the money that could
be made out of keepin' 'em. He was one of the smartest captains that
ever sailed the seas, but they used to call the Newcastle, a great
bark he commanded for many years, Tuttle's beehive. There was old Cap'n
Jameson: he had notions of Solomon's Temple, and made a very handsome
little model of the same, right from the Scripture measurements, same's
other sailors make little ships and design new tricks of rigging and all
that. No, there's nothing to take the place of shipping in a place like
ours. These bicycles offend me dreadfully; they don't afford no real
opportunities of experience such as a man gained on a voyage. No: when
folks left home in the old days they left it to some purpose, and when
they got home they stayed there and had some pride in it. There's no
large-minded way of thinking now: the worst have got to be best and rule
everything; we're all turned upside down and going back year by year."

"Oh no, Captain Littlepage, I hope not," said I, trying to soothe his
feelings.

There was a silence in the schoolhouse, but we could hear the noise of
the water on a beach below. It sounded like the strange warning wave
that gives notice of the turn of the tide. A late golden robin, with the
most joyful and eager of voices, was singing close by in a thicket of
wild roses.


VI. The Waiting Place

"HOW DID YOU manage with the rest of that rough voyage on the Minerva?"
I asked.

"I shall be glad to explain to you," said Captain Littlepage, forgetting
his grievances for the moment. "If I had a map at hand I could explain
better. We were driven to and fro 'way up toward what we used to call
Parry's Discoveries, and lost our bearings. It was thick and foggy,
and at last I lost my ship; she drove on a rock, and we managed to get
ashore on what I took to be a barren island, the few of us that were
left alive. When she first struck, the sea was somewhat calmer than it
had been, and most of the crew, against orders, manned the long-boat and
put off in a hurry, and were never heard of more. Our own boat upset,
but the carpenter kept himself and me above water, and we drifted in.
I had no strength to call upon after my recent fever, and laid down to
die; but he found the tracks of a man and dog the second day, and
got along the shore to one of those far missionary stations that the
Moravians support. They were very poor themselves, and in distress;
'twas a useless place. There were but few Esquimaux left in that region.
There we remained for some time, and I became acquainted with strange
events."

The captain lifted his head and gave me a questioning glance. I could
not help noticing that the dulled look in his eyes had gone, and there
was instead a clear intentness that made them seem dark and piercing.

"There was a supply ship expected, and the pastor, an excellent
Christian man, made no doubt that we should get passage in her. He was
hoping that orders would come to break up the station; but everything
was uncertain, and we got on the best we could for a while. We fished,
and helped the people in other ways; there was no other way of paying
our debts. I was taken to the pastor's house until I got better; but
they were crowded, and I felt myself in the way, and made excuse to join
with an old seaman, a Scotchman, who had built him a warm cabin, and had
room in it for another. He was looked upon with regard, and had stood by
the pastor in some troubles with the people. He had been on one of those
English exploring parties that found one end of the road to the north
pole, but never could find the other. We lived like dogs in a kennel, or
so you'd thought if you had seen the hut from the outside; but the main
thing was to keep warm; there were piles of bird-skins to lie on, and
he'd made him a good bunk, and there was another for me. 'Twas dreadful
dreary waitin' there; we begun to think the supply steamer was lost, and
my poor ship broke up and strewed herself all along the shore. We got to
watching on the headlands; my men and me knew the people were short of
supplies and had to pinch themselves. It ought to read in the Bible,
'Man cannot live by fish alone,' if they'd told the truth of things;
'taint bread that wears the worst on you! First part of the time, old
Gaffett, that I lived with, seemed speechless, and I didn't know what to
make of him, nor he of me, I dare say; but as we got acquainted, I
found he'd been through more disasters than I had, and had troubles that
wa'n't going to let him live a great while. It used to ease his mind to
talk to an understanding person, so we used to sit and talk together
all day, if it rained or blew so that we couldn't get out. I'd got a bad
blow on the back of my head at the time we came ashore, and it pained
me at times, and my strength was broken, anyway; I've never been so able
since."

Captain Littlepage fell into a reverie.

"Then I had the good of my reading," he explained presently. "I had
no books; the pastor spoke but little English, and all his books were
foreign; but I used to say over all I could remember. The old poets
little knew what comfort they could be to a man. I was well acquainted
with the works of Milton, but up there it did seem to me as if
Shakespeare was the king; he has his sea terms very accurate, and some
beautiful passages were calming to the mind. I could say them over until
I shed tears; there was nothing beautiful to me in that place but the
stars above and those passages of verse.

"Gaffett was always brooding and brooding, and talking to himself; he
was afraid he should never get away, and it preyed upon his mind. He
thought when I got home I could interest the scientific men in his
discovery: but they're all taken up with their own notions; some didn't
even take pains to answer the letters I wrote. You observe that I said
this crippled man Gaffett had been shipped on a voyage of discovery. I
now tell you that the ship was lost on its return, and only Gaffett and
two officers were saved off the Greenland coast, and he had knowledge
later that those men never got back to England; the brig they shipped on
was run down in the night. So no other living soul had the facts, and
he gave them to me. There is a strange sort of a country 'way up north
beyond the ice, and strange folks living in it. Gaffett believed it was
the next world to this."

"What do you mean, Captain Littlepage?" I exclaimed. The old man was
bending forward and whispering; he looked over his shoulder before he
spoke the last sentence.

"To hear old Gaffett tell about it was something awful," he said, going
on with his story quite steadily after the moment of excitement had
passed. "'Twas first a tale of dogs and sledges, and cold and wind and
snow. Then they begun to find the ice grow rotten; they had been frozen
in, and got into a current flowing north, far up beyond Fox Channel,
and they took to their boats when the ship got crushed, and this warm
current took them out of sight of the ice, and into a great open sea;
and they still followed it due north, just the very way they had planned
to go. Then they struck a coast that wasn't laid down or charted, but
the cliffs were such that no boat could land until they found a bay and
struck across under sail to the other side where the shore looked lower;
they were scant of provisions and out of water, but they got sight of
something that looked like a great town. 'For God's sake, Gaffett!' said
I, the first time he told me. 'You don't mean a town two degrees farther
north than ships had ever been?' for he'd got their course marked on an
old chart that he'd pieced out at the top; but he insisted upon it, and
told it over and over again, to be sure I had it straight to carry to
those who would be interested. There was no snow and ice, he said, after
they had sailed some days with that warm current, which seemed to come
right from under the ice that they'd been pinched up in and had been
crossing on foot for weeks."

"But what about the town?" I asked. "Did they get to the town?"

"They did," said the captain, "and found inhabitants; 'twas an awful
condition of things. It appeared, as near as Gaffett could express it,
like a place where there was neither living nor dead. They could see the
place when they were approaching it by sea pretty near like any town,
and thick with habitations; but all at once they lost sight of it
altogether, and when they got close inshore they could see the shapes
of folks, but they never could get near them,--all blowing gray figures
that would pass along alone, or sometimes gathered in companies as if
they were watching. The men were frightened at first, but the shapes
never came near them,--it was as if they blew back; and at last they all
got bold and went ashore, and found birds' eggs and sea fowl, like any
wild northern spot where creatures were tame and folks had never been,
and there was good water. Gaffett said that he and another man came near
one o' the fog-shaped men that was going along slow with the look of a
pack on his back, among the rocks, an' they chased him; but, Lord! he
flittered away out o' sight like a leaf the wind takes with it, or a
piece of cobweb. They would make as if they talked together, but there
was no sound of voices, and 'they acted as if they didn't see us, but
only felt us coming towards them,' says Gaffett one day, trying to tell
the particulars. They couldn't see the town when they were ashore. One
day the captain and the doctor were gone till night up across the high
land where the town had seemed to be, and they came back at night
beat out and white as ashes, and wrote and wrote all next day in their
notebooks, and whispered together full of excitement, and they were
sharp-spoken with the men when they offered to ask any questions.

"Then there came a day," said Captain Littlepage, leaning toward me with
a strange look in his eyes, and whispering quickly. "The men all swore
they wouldn't stay any longer; the man on watch early in the morning
gave the alarm, and they all put off in the boat and got a little way
out to sea. Those folks, or whatever they were, come about 'em like
bats; all at once they raised incessant armies, and come as if to drive
'em back to sea. They stood thick at the edge o' the water like the
ridges o' grim war; no thought o' flight, none of retreat. Sometimes
a standing fight, then soaring on main wing tormented all the air.
And when they'd got the boat out o' reach o' danger, Gaffett said they
looked back, and there was the town again, standing up just as they'd
seen it first, comin' on the coast. Say what you might, they all
believed 'twas a kind of waiting-place between this world an' the next."

The captain had sprung to his feet in his excitement, and made excited
gestures, but he still whispered huskily.

"Sit down, sir," I said as quietly as I could, and he sank into his
chair quite spent.

"Gaffett thought the officers were hurrying home to report and to fit
out a new expedition when they were all lost. At the time, the men
got orders not to talk over what they had seen," the old man explained
presently in a more natural tone.

"Weren't they all starving, and wasn't it a mirage or something of that
sort?" I ventured to ask. But he looked at me blankly.

"Gaffett had got so that his mind ran on nothing else," he went on. "The
ship's surgeon let fall an opinion to the captain, one day, that 'twas
some condition o' the light and the magnetic currents that let them see
those folks. 'Twa'n't a right-feeling part of the world, anyway; they
had to battle with the compass to make it serve, an' everything seemed
to go wrong. Gaffett had worked it out in his own mind that they was
all common ghosts, but the conditions were unusual favorable for seeing
them. He was always talking about the Ge'graphical Society, but he never
took proper steps, as I viewed it now, and stayed right there at the
mission. He was a good deal crippled, and thought they'd confine him in
some jail of a hospital. He said he was waiting to find the right men to
tell, somebody bound north. Once in a while they stopped there to leave
a mail or something. He was set in his notions, and let two or three
proper explorin' expeditions go by him because he didn't like their
looks; but when I was there he had got restless, fearin' he might be
taken away or something. He had all his directions written out straight
as a string to give the right ones. I wanted him to trust 'em to me,
so I might have something to show, but he wouldn't. I suppose he's dead
now. I wrote to him an' I done all I could. 'Twill be a great exploit
some o' these days."

I assented absent-mindedly, thinking more just then of my companion's
alert, determined look and the seafaring, ready aspect that had come to
his face; but at this moment there fell a sudden change, and the
old, pathetic, scholarly look returned. Behind me hung a map of North
America, and I saw, as I turned a little, that his eyes were fixed upon
the northernmost regions and their careful recent outlines with a look
of bewilderment.


VII. The Outer Island


GAFFETT WITH HIS good bunk and the bird-skins, the story of the wreck
of the Minerva, the human-shaped creatures of fog and cobweb, the great
words of Milton with which he described their onslaught upon the crew,
all this moving tale had such an air of truth that I could not argue
with Captain Littlepage. The old man looked away from the map as if it
had vaguely troubled him, and regarded me appealingly.

"We were just speaking of"--and he stopped. I saw that he had suddenly
forgotten his subject.

"There were a great many persons at the funeral," I hastened to say.

"Oh yes," the captain answered, with satisfaction. "All showed respect
who could. The sad circumstances had for a moment slipped my mind. Yes,
Mrs. Begg will be very much missed. She was a capital manager for her
husband when he was at sea. Oh yes, shipping is a very great loss." And
he sighed heavily. "There was hardly a man of any standing who didn't
interest himself in some way in navigation. It always gave credit to a
town. I call it low-water mark now here in Dunnet."

He rose with dignity to take leave, and asked me to stop at his house
some day, when he would show me some outlandish things that he had
brought home from sea. I was familiar with the subject of the decadence
of shipping interests in all its affecting branches, having been already
some time in Dunnet, and I felt sure that Captain Littlepage's mind had
now returned to a safe level.

As we came down the hill toward the village our ways divided, and when
I had seen the old captain well started on a smooth piece of sidewalk
which would lead him to his own door, we parted, the best of friends.
"Step in some afternoon," he said, as affectionately as if I were a
fellow-shipmaster wrecked on the lee shore of age like himself. I
turned toward home, and presently met Mrs. Todd coming toward me with an
anxious expression.

"I see you sleevin' the old gentleman down the hill," she suggested.

"Yes. I've had a very interesting afternoon with him," I answered, and
her face brightened.

"Oh, then he's all right. I was afraid 'twas one o' his flighty spells,
an' Mari' Harris wouldn't"--

"Yes," I returned, smiling, "he has been telling me some old stories,
but we talked about Mrs. Begg and the funeral beside, and Paradise
Lost."

"I expect he got tellin' of you some o' his great narratives," she
answered, looking at me shrewdly. "Funerals always sets him goin'. Some
o' them tales hangs together toler'ble well," she added, with a sharper
look than before. "An' he's been a great reader all his seafarin' days.
Some thinks he overdid, and affected his head, but for a man o' his
years he's amazin' now when he's at his best. Oh, he used to be a
beautiful man!"


We were standing where there was a fine view of the harbor and its long
stretches of shore all covered by the great army of the pointed firs,
darkly cloaked and standing as if they waited to embark. As we looked
far seaward among the outer islands, the trees seemed to march seaward
still, going steadily over the heights and down to the water's edge.

It had been growing gray and cloudy, like the first evening of autumn,
and a shadow had fallen on the darkening shore. Suddenly, as we looked,
a gleam of golden sunshine struck the outer islands, and one of them
shone out clear in the light, and revealed itself in a compelling way to
our eyes. Mrs. Todd was looking off across the bay with a face full of
affection and interest. The sunburst upon that outermost island made
it seem like a sudden revelation of the world beyond this which some
believe to be so near.

"That's where mother lives," said Mrs. Todd. "Can't we see it plain? I
was brought up out there on Green Island. I know every rock an' bush on
it."

"Your mother!" I exclaimed, with great interest.

"Yes, dear, cert'in; I've got her yet, old's I be. She's one of them
spry, light-footed little women; always was, an' light-hearted, too,"
answered Mrs. Todd, with satisfaction. "She's seen all the trouble folks
can see, without it's her last sickness; an' she's got a word of courage
for everybody. Life ain't spoilt her a mite. She's eighty-six an' I'm
sixty-seven, and I've seen the time I've felt a good sight the oldest.
'Land sakes alive!' says she, last time I was out to see her. 'How you
do lurch about steppin' into a bo't?' I laughed so I liked to have gone
right over into the water; an' we pushed off, an' left her laughin'
there on the shore."

The light had faded as we watched. Mrs. Todd had mounted a gray rock,
and stood there grand and architectural, like a caryatide. Presently she
stepped down, and we continued our way homeward.

"You an' me, we'll take a bo't an' go out some day and see mother,"
she promised me. "'Twould please her very much, an' there's one or two
sca'ce herbs grows better on the island than anywhere else. I ain't seen
their like nowheres here on the main."

"Now I'm goin' right down to get us each a mug o' my beer," she
announced as we entered the house, "an' I believe I'll sneak in a little
mite o' camomile. Goin' to the funeral an' all, I feel to have had a
very wearin' afternoon."

I heard her going down into the cool little cellar, and then there was
considerable delay. When she returned, mug in hand, I noticed the taste
of camomile, in spite of my protest; but its flavor was disguised by
some other herb that I did not know, and she stood over me until I drank
it all and said that I liked it.

"I don't give that to everybody," said Mrs. Todd kindly; and I felt for
a moment as if it were part of a spell and incantation, and as if my
enchantress would now begin to look like the cobweb shapes of the arctic
town. Nothing happened but a quiet evening and some delightful plans
that we made about going to Green Island, and on the morrow there was
the clear sunshine and blue sky of another day.


VIII. Green Island

ONE MORNING, very early, I heard Mrs. Todd in the garden outside my
window. By the unusual loudness of her remarks to a passer-by, and the
notes of a familiar hymn which she sang as she worked among the herbs,
and which came as if directed purposely to the sleepy ears of my
consciousness, I knew that she wished I would wake up and come and speak
to her.

In a few minutes she responded to a morning voice from behind the
blinds. "I expect you're goin' up to your schoolhouse to pass all this
pleasant day; yes, I expect you're goin' to be dreadful busy," she said
despairingly.

"Perhaps not," said I. "Why, what's going to be the matter with you,
Mrs. Todd?" For I supposed that she was tempted by the fine weather to
take one of her favorite expeditions along the shore pastures to gather
herbs and simples, and would like to have me keep the house.

"No, I don't want to go nowhere by land," she answered gayly,--"no, not
by land; but I don't know's we shall have a better day all the rest of
the summer to go out to Green Island an' see mother. I waked up early
thinkin' of her. The wind's light northeast,--'twill take us right
straight out, an' this time o' year it's liable to change round
southwest an' fetch us home pretty, 'long late in the afternoon. Yes,
it's goin' to be a good day."

"Speak to the captain and the Bowden boy, if you see anybody going by
toward the landing," said I. "We'll take the big boat."

"Oh, my sakes! Adam 's is now Holztag, strict master. The women
are mostly in the spruce trees, shrubs collected. It might be easy -
Ruprecht The Muhme is at home. Walter to the house. Let be. The Ruprecht
will immediately appear. Walter The same will appear. Does the wine. Adam
for themselves. Cursed! Walter continued power. But nothing to snack, I
ask, as a piece of dry bread only, and salt. Adam for themselves. Two
moments alone with the Dirn - (Laut.) Oh, dry bread! What! Salt! Geht
doch. Walter Certainly. Adam egg, a piece of cheese 'from Limburg cheese
.-- power at least until the clever tongue, wine, to taste. Walter
Good.

A piece of cheese because, but nothing more. Geh. And So Adam knows of
damasks revealed. Everything is bad, but right. (The maid from.)
This is the advantage of us verrufnen bachelor people that we, as
others, scarce and sorrowful, with wife and children every day need
to split with a friend, to gelegnen hour, fully enjoy. Walter What I
wanted to say - but how you came to your wound, Mr. Judge? This
is a bad hole, indeed, in head, the! Adam - I fell. fielt your
Walter. Hm! When Sunday? Yesterday evening? Adam Heut, Glock half six,
forgive, in the morning, early, I just climbed out of bed. Walter What?
About Adam - gnäd'ger Mr. Gerichtsrat, The truth you say about me. I
beat you chieftain of the furnace down until this hour, I do not
know why?

Walter from behind? Adam How? From the rear - Walter Or forward? Zwo you
have wounds, front and rear. Adam from the front and rear .-- Margaret!
(The two maids with wine, etc.

They cover up and go again.) Walter How? Adam Only so so. Only at the
Ofenkante, The front forehead einstieß me, and then from the furnace
back on the floor again, where I still broke the back of the head. (He
gives district.) Ists you go? Walter takes the glass. Would you have
a wife, I would feel wonderful things, Mr. Richter. Why Adam? Walter
Yes, my faith, So I see zerkritzt rings you and scratched.

Adam laughs. No, thank God! Fraun-nails are not. Walter belief. Also an
advantage nor the old bachelor. Adam continued laughing. Shrub factory
for silk worms, which is drying to the Mir Ofenwinkel up .-- On Your
Wohlergehn! (They drink.)

Grad Walter And still the odd wig einzubüßen! The hätt Euch Eure wounds
still overcast. Adam Yes, yes. Any scourge is a twin. Here - from the
bold now - can I -? Walter A little. Limburg Off? Adam Rect 'from Limburg,
gnäd'ger Sir. Walter What the devil, however, tells me, went to ?

Adam What? Walter the wig that your status. Adam Yes, you see. I am
sitting and reading a document yesterday evening piece, and because I
get the glasses If, duck, I am so deeply in the dispute, that when the
candle flame brightly me the wig is concerned. I, I think Feurer falls
from the sky on my sinful head, And pick her, and she wants me out, but
anyway I have solved the neck strap, it burns like Sodom and Gomorrah
already. Hardly the three that I have my hair save . Walter
accursed! And your andr is in the city? Adam The wig maker .-- But to
the point. Walter Not too quickly, I ask, Mr. Richter Adam. Adam Ah, what!
The hour rolls. A glass. Here. (He gives district.) Walter The Lebrecht
- if true then the codger talked He also has done an evil case.

Adam on my Ehr. (He drinks.) Walter If the thing I most fear is unentworren
, How will you be in your place, the offender may still from his wounds
discover. (He drinks.) Nierstein? Adam What? Walter Oppenheimer Or good?
Adam Nierstein. Look here! In honor! You understand. Nierstein Off,
gnäd'ger Lord, as if I had brought him. Walter I consider him to three
years ago, at the wine. (Adam donates again.) - How high is your
window? - There! Ms. Marthe! My wife Marthe window? Walter The window
of that Chamber, yeah, What the maiden sleeps? Wife Marthe in the
chamber is only from the first floor, a basement anything, more than
nine feet from the window is not soil, but the whole, considered
an opportunity to jump very awkwardly. Indeed, on two feet from the
wall is a vine, The knot'gen its branches out rankend An espalier is
driving along the entire wall: The window itself is still umstrickt
them. It would be a boar, a gewaffneter, Müh with the catchers have
scored. Adam It was also not there. (He gives us a lot.) Walter Do you?
Adam Ah, go! (He drinks.) Walter Ruprecht. How he met because the sinner?
On his head, Adam here. Let Walter. Gebt Adam ago. Walter 's is still
half full. Adam Wills fill. Walter you hear. Adam Ah, the good numbers
for Walter, I ask you. Oh Adam, what! After Pythagoräeer rule. (He
gives him.) Walter again Ruprecht. How many times he met the sinner because
his head? Adam One is the Lord; Two is the finstre Chaos; Three is the
world. Three glasses lob ich mir.

In the third drink with the sun drops, And Mente company with the
other. Walter How often on the head he took the sinner? He, Ruprecht,
I ask Him there! Adam Will mans hear how often you meet the scapegoat?
Na, out! Gotts flash, you see, the guy probably knows even if he -
you forgot about? Ruprecht With Jack? Adam Yes, what I know. Walter from
windows, as he cut off after him down? Ruprecht Twice, your Lord . Adam
scoundrel! That kept it! (He drinks.) Walter Twice! He was with him two
such blows were slain, he knows -? Ruprecht Had I killed him, I would
have him. It would grade me fairly. Läge it here before me, dead, so
I can say, The wars, your Lord, I have not lied to you.

Adam Yes, dead! That I think. But that - (He gives district.) Walter
him because he could not see in the dark?

Ruprecht Not a trick, Mr. strict. How should I? Adam Why do not you
lock your eyes on - at Stoßt! Ruprecht The eyes on! I had it aufgesperrt.
Satan threw me full of sand. Adam in the beard. Full of sand, yes! Why
lock your eyes on high? - Here. What we love, gnäd'ger Lord! Stoßt
now! Walter - what right and good and true is, Judge Adam! (They drink.)
Adam Well, finally now, if anyone is. (He gives district.) Walter
You're sometimes to Mrs Marthe well, Mr. Judge Adam.

Tell me, Who, except Ruprecht, then goes in and out? Adam Not too
often, strict Lord, forgive. Who goes in and out, I can not tell
you.

Walter How? If you do not sometimes the widow of your friend sel'gen
visit? Adam No, in fact, very rarely. Walter Mrs Marthe! Have ihrs with
Judge Adam spoiled here? He says he no longer talks to you a? Mrs Marthe
Hm! Gnäd'ger Lord, spoiled? That just does not. I think he called
my good friend still.

But that I am often in my house saw him, the cousin of the Lord I just
can not boast. Nine weeks that first entered last, And just as in the
pass. Like Walter says you? wife Marthe What? Walter nine weeks would
be -? wife Marthe Nine, yes - Thursday sinds ten. He asked for me to
seed, and cloves from Aurikeln from. And Walter - Sunday - if he goes to
the Vorwerk -? Wife Marthe Yes, because - as he looks into the window
well to me, And say hello to me and my daughter, but then again
he goes his way.

Walter for themselves. Hm! I should probably also the man - (He drinks.)
I thought, Because your the Virgin Muhme in there sometimes your
business needs, so would you To thank the mother and when you visit. Why
Adam, strict master?

Walter Why? You said, The Virgin helfe your chickens on the
farm you in ill health. Did she not still in this kind you advice?
Wife Marthe Yes, however, strict Lord, do it. Yesterday sends' it a sick
guinea Ins house that already had death in his body.

Vorm years they saved him a the Pips, And this also is it with the
pasta cure: But thanks for he is not yet published.

Walter confused. - Give a Mr. Richter Adam, are so good. Give me an
equal. We want to have a drink. Adam to your service. You make
me happy. Here. He gives one. Walter On Your Wohlergehn! - The judge
Adam, It is early or late already come. Marthe Does your wife? I
doubt. Can I Nierstein, such as your drink, And like my husband sel'ger,
the warden, most likely, from time to time, in the basement had
Vorsetzen the Lord Vetter, what's it differently: But as I have
nothing I poor widow, in my home, which attracts him.

Walter around so much better. Eleventh appearance of light, with a wife
Brigitte wig in hand, the maids occur. The former. Light Here, Ms. Brigitt,
herein. Walter Is this the wife, Mr. Schreiber light? The light is
the wife Brigitte, Ew. Graces. Walter Well, so let the facts we now
decide. Nehmt from their maids. Here. The maids with glasses, etc..
Adam while. Well, jane, hear you turning me your pill properly, as one,
so I am speaking tonight at a court crucians for you. The bitch must by
now quite the throat, is it too big, mags off the death devour.

Walter sees the wig. What does Mrs. Brigitte there for a wig? light
Gnäd'ger sir? Walter What the woman for us there is a wig? light Hm!
Walter What? light Forgive - Walter Werd ichs learn? light If Ew.
The graces gracious woman, by Mr. Richter, want to ask, How is the wig
who belongs, and the Weitre, I doubt not, revealed.

Walter - I do not know whom it belongs. How did the woman to ?
Where were they? Light The woman found the wig in honor When
Ms. Margrete Rull. They hung gespießt, Like a nest, in the cross-mesh
of the vine, under the window seal, where the maid sleeps. Mrs Marthe
What? For me? In espalier? Walter secretly. Mr. Richter Adam, Do you
have something to vertraun me, please let me know in order to honor the
court, you are so good, and says to me. You Adam I -? Walter Not?
Have you not -?

Adam On my honor - he will take the wig. Walter Here is the wig is not
Yours? Adam Here is the wig, you gentlemen, is my!

That is, flash-element, the same person, the I the lad was eight days ago,
after they Utrecht flour to master. Walter Who? What? The light
Ruprecht? Ruprecht Me? Adam Yeah, I Him, Schlingel, when he came to
Utrecht to eight days was not the wig here entrusted them to the
hairdresser that he renovated it, added wear? Ruprecht Whether he -?
Well, yes. He gave me - Adam why he has not the wig, scoundrel, which,
why has not he, as I ordered, when masters in the workshop delivered?
Ruprecht Why I -? Sky-god thunder-shock, I did it in the workshop made.
The Master of flour, she - Adam you have? And now they hang in the wine
of honor at Marthe? O wait, Canaille! So you do not escape. Behind
me Verkappung what mutiny And what do I know? - Will you allow me that
the woman only once inquiries? Walter you would have the wig -?
Gnäd'ger Mr.

Adam, as the lad there previous ones Tuesday after Utrecht went with his
father's oxen, he came into office, and said: "Mr.

Richter Adam, Do you have something to Städtlein in order?" My son,
tell me if you want to be so good, So let my wig here auftoupieren
- Not so says I to him: go and keep you up to you to make yourself verkappe
it, And leave them in honor of Martha hanging. My wife Brigitte Lord,
Ruprecht, my 'I hold to grace, The wars will not. Since last night
I also Vorwerk go up to my Muhme, The difficult child in bed, I hear
the muffled Virgin, in the garden behind, someone scold: anger and fear
seems to steal her voice. "Fie, shame he is He despicableness, What
does he? Fort! I'll call the mother ", as if the Spaniards were
in the country. Floor: Eve! through the fence out: Eve! call me. What
did you do? What also gibts? - And still it is: Well? Will you answer?
- "What do you want, Muhme?" What did you do? .-- I ask "What will I
have?" Is it the Ruprecht? - "Ah so yes, the Ruprecht. Is it only your
way." - So you boiling tea. The love I think of how andre squabble. Mrs
Marthe Hence -? Thus Ruprecht -? Walter Quiet! Let the woman finish.
Brigitte Since I now zurückekehre by Vorwerk, At about midnight,
and just, In Lindenplatz Gang, Marthe in the garden bin, flits you
a guy in my past, baldness, with a cloven hoof, and behind him as
Erstinkts steam and hair of pitch and sulfur.

I speak a Gottseibeiuns, and Entsetzensvoll turn me around, and seh, my
soul, the bald, your men, even in the disappearance, as phosphorescent
wood, the Linde Gang penetrate. Ruprecht What! Sky - thousand Mrs Marthe
If you toll, Ms. Briggy? Ruprecht The devil says you wärs -?
Still light! Still, Madam Brigitte Mein Seel, I know what I saw and
smelt. Walter impatient. Woman obs was the devil, I do not want to
investigate him, however, is not denounced him. Can you another report
good: But the sinner because you spared us. Light Want Ew.
Graces they can complete. Walter nonsensical folk who, Madam Brigitte
Well, as you command. But the Lord is my light scribe a witness. Walter
How? Your witness? Light some extent, yes. Walter Indeed, I do not know
- very light Please submiß, The Woman in the reports can not be ignored.
That it was the devil, I do not claim, however, with a cloven hoof,
and bald and bare back Steam, if I am not very mistaken, Has its
accuracy völl'ge!

- ride away! Brigitte Because now I was surprised today to
hear, what with Mrs. Marthe Rull geschehn, and I, The Krugzertrümmerer
spy, The night I met 'on espalier, The Square, where he jumped under
search, Find me in the snow, your Lord, you a trace - what I find
you for a track in the snow?

right finely and sharply edged and always nice, A Full Menschenfuß, And
left unshapely grobhin eingetölpelt A huge drawback klotz'ger. Walter
annoying. gossip, crazy, Veit verdammenswürd'ges It is not possible,
Madam, Madam Brigitte Upon my faith!

Only on espalier, where the crack happened, Behold, a wide , schneezerwühlten
circle, as if a sow is gewälzt; And Menschenfuß and drawback from here,
And Menschenfuß and cloven hoof, cloven hoof and Menschenfuß and,
across the garden, till all the world. Adam Cursed! - Does the picaresque
perhaps allow covert nature of the devil -? Ruprecht What! I! Light Quiet!
Quiet!

Brigitte If a badger investigated and discovered the Leaves, The Hunter,
not as triumphant as I am. Mr. Schreiber light, I say, just as I see,
you sent from the Würd'gen occur to me, Mr.

Schreiber light saves your session, The Krugzertrümmrer judiziert Do
not you sit, the worse you do not, as in hell: Here is the track that
he is gone.

Walter So you have yourself convinced you? light Ew. Graces, With this
track hats völl'ge accuracy.

Walter One drawback? Light of a human foot, please, but like a Praetere
Propter hooves. Adam Mein Seel, your Lord, the matter seems to me
seriously.

It has a lot of biting drafted writings, The that God does not
want to admit, however, the devil has, as far as I know, no atheist
or flush wegbewiesen. The case, which is present, it seems worthy
of special consideration. I wear depends on Konklusum Before we
summarize, in the Hague at the Synod Type of whether the court
was entitled to assume that Belzebub has broken the jug. Walter A
request, as I expected it of you. How well do you, Mr. Schreiber?
light Ew. Graces the Synod will not need to urteiln. Completed - with
permission - the report, you, Mrs Brigitte, then so is the case of the
connection, I hope, clearly constituted.

Brigitte Then: Mr. Schreiber light , I say, let us trace a little but
pursue sehn, Where the devil probably entwischt may be. "Well," he says,
"Ms. Brigitt a good idea, maybe we do not go to far, if we are to
the Lord village judge Adam go.

"Now, Walter? And now found himself -? Brigitte First, we now find the
other side of the garden, in which Linde way, the place where fumes
of sulfur is leaving, the devil in me angeprellt: a circle, how about
a dog shy to deviate, if the cat prustend sets before him.

Walter Floor next? Brigitte Not far now stands a monument to his, on
a tree that I previously frightening. Walter A monument? How? Brigitte
How? yes, as you will - for Adam. Cursed, my abdomen. light over, please,
over here, I ask, Mrs. Brigitte.

Wohin Walter led the track you want to know, Madam Brigitte Where? My
faith, the path next to you, just as Mr. Schreiber said Licht.
Walter to us? Here? By Mrs. Brigitte Lindenplatz way, yes, Asc Schulz
field, the carp pond along the jetty, then across übern God, Here, I
say, since the Lord village judge Adam. To Mr. Walter village judge
Adam? Adam here with me? Brigitte Too you, yes. Ruprecht but the devil
is not in the Court live? My wife Brigitte fairly, I do not know whether
he lives in this house, but here I'm not honest, he dismounted, the
track goes back to one to the threshold. Adam he should perhaps here
durchpassiert -? Brigitte Yes, or durchpassiert. Maybe. The track
also das vornaus - Walter was a track vornaus? Light Vornaus, verzeihn
Ew.

Graces, no trace. Brigitte Yes, vornaus was the path trod. Adam trod.
Durchpassiert. I am a scoundrel. The guy who fits in, here is what the
laws appended. I do not want to be honest, if it does not smell in
the registry. If my calculations, I do not doubt Confused found to
be on my honesty, I stand for nothing. Walter I do not. (For itself.)
Hm!
I shall have
to have a few extra potatoes, but there's a field full out there,
an' the hoe's leanin' against the well-house, in 'mongst the
climbin'-beans." She smiled and gave her daughter a commanding nod.

"Land sakes alive! Le's blow the horn for William," insisted Mrs. Todd,
with some excitement. "He needn't break his spirit so far's to come in.
He'll know you need him for something particular, an' then we can call
to him as he comes up the path. I won't put him to no pain."

Mrs. Blackett's old face, for the first time, wore a look of trouble,
and I found it necessary to counteract the teasing spirit of Almira.
It was too pleasant to stay indoors altogether, even in such rewarding
companionship; besides, I might meet William; and, straying out
presently, I found the hoe by the well-house and an old splint basket at
the woodshed door, and also found my way down to the field where there
was a great square patch of rough, weedy potato-tops and tall ragweed.
One corner was already dug, and I chose a fat-looking hill where the
tops were well withered. There is all the pleasure that one can have in
gold-digging in finding one's hopes satisfied in the riches of a good
hill of potatoes. I longed to go on; but it did not seem frugal to dig
any longer after my basket was full, and at last I took my hoe by the
middle and lifted the basket to go back up the hill. I was sure that
Mrs. Blackett must be waiting impatiently to slice the potatoes into the
chowder, layer after layer, with the fish.

"You let me take holt o' that basket, ma'am," said the pleasant, anxious
voice behind me.

I turned, startled in the silence of the wide field, and saw an elderly
man, bent in the shoulders as fishermen often are, gray-headed and
clean-shaven, and with a timid air. It was William. He looked just like
his mother, and I had been imagining that he was large and stout like
his sister, Almira Todd; and, strange to say, my fancy had led me to
picture him not far from thirty and a little loutish. It was necessary
instead to pay William the respect due to age.

I accustomed myself to plain facts on the instant, and we said
good-morning like old friends. The basket was really heavy, and I put
the hoe through its handle and offered him one end; then we moved easily
toward the house together, speaking of the fine weather and of mackerel
which were reported to be striking in all about the bay. William had
been out since three o'clock, and had taken an extra fare of fish.
I could feel that Mrs. Todd's eyes were upon us as we approached the
house, and although I fell behind in the narrow path, and let William
take the basket alone and precede me at some little distance the rest of
the way, I could plainly hear her greet him.

"Got round to comin' in, didn't you?" she inquired, with amusement.
"Well, now, that's clever. Didn't know's I should see you to-day,
William, an' I wanted to settle an account."

I felt somewhat disturbed and responsible, but when I joined them they
were on most simple and friendly terms. It became evident that, with
William, it was the first step that cost, and that, having once joined
in social interests, he was able to pursue them with more or less
pleasure. He was about sixty, and not young-looking for his years, yet
so undying is the spirit of youth, and bashfulness has such a power
of survival, that I felt all the time as if one must try to make the
occasion easy for some one who was young and new to the affairs of
social life. He asked politely if I would like to go up to the great
ledge while dinner was getting ready; so, not without a deep sense of
pleasure, and a delighted look of surprise from the two hostesses,
we started, William and I, as if both of us felt much younger than we
looked. Such was the innocence and simplicity of the moment that when
I heard Mrs. Todd laughing behind us in the kitchen I laughed too, but
William did not even blush. I think he was a little deaf, and he stepped
along before me most businesslike and intent upon his errand.

We went from the upper edge of the field above the house into a smooth,
brown path among the dark spruces. The hot sun brought out the fragrance
of the pitchy bark, and the shade was pleasant as we climbed the hill.
William stopped once or twice to show me a great wasps'-nest close by,
or some fishhawks'-nests below in a bit of swamp. He picked a few sprigs
of late-blooming linnaea as we came out upon an open bit of pasture at
the top of the island, and gave them to me without speaking, but he
knew as well as I that one could not say half he wished about linnaea.
Through this piece of rough pasture ran a huge shape of stone like the
great backbone of an enormous creature. At the end, near the woods, we
could climb up on it and walk along to the highest point; there above
the circle of pointed firs we could look down over all the island, and
could see the ocean that circled this and a hundred other bits of island
ground, the mainland shore and all the far horizons. It gave a sudden
sense of space, for nothing stopped the eye or hedged one in,--that
sense of liberty in space and time which great prospects always give.

"There ain't no such view in the world, I expect," said William
proudly, and I hastened to speak my heartfelt tribute of praise; it was
impossible not to feel as if an untraveled boy had spoken, and yet one
loved to have him value his native heath.


X. Where Pennyroyal Grew

WE WERE a little late to dinner, but Mrs. Blackett and Mrs. Todd were
lenient, and we all took our places after William had paused to wash his
hands, like a pious Brahmin, at the well, and put on a neat blue coat
which he took from a peg behind the kitchen door. Then he resolutely
asked a blessing in words that I could not hear, and we ate the chowder
and were thankful. The kitten went round and round the table, quite
erect, and, holding on by her fierce young claws, she stopped to mew
with pathos at each elbow, or darted off to the open door when a song
sparrow forgot himself and lit in the grass too near. William did not
talk much, but his sister Todd occupied the time and told all the news
there was to tell of Dunnet Landing and its coasts, while the old mother
listened with delight. Her hospitality was something exquisite; she had
the gift which so many women lack, of being able to make themselves
and their houses belong entirely to a guest's pleasure,--that charming
surrender for the moment of themselves and whatever belongs to them,
so that they make a part of one's own life that can never be forgotten.
Tact is after all a kind of mindreading, and my hostess held the golden
gift. Sympathy is of the mind as well as the heart, and Mrs. Blackett's
world and mine were one from the moment we met. Besides, she had that
final, that highest gift of heaven, a perfect self-forgetfulness.
Sometimes, as I watched her eager, sweet old face, I wondered why she
had been set to shine on this lonely island of the northern coast.
It must have been to keep the balance true, and make up to all her
scattered and depending neighbors for other things which they may have
lacked.

When we had finished clearing away the old blue plates, and the kitten
had taken care of her share of the fresh haddock, just as we were
putting back the kitchen chairs in their places, Mrs. Todd said briskly
that she must go up into the pasture now to gather the desired herbs.

"You can stop here an' rest, or you can accompany me," she announced.
"Mother ought to have her nap, and when we come back she an' William'll
sing for you. She admires music," said Mrs. Todd, turning to speak to
her mother.

But Mrs. Blackett tried to say that she couldn't sing as she used, and
perhaps William wouldn't feel like it. She looked tired, the good old
soul, or I should have liked to sit in the peaceful little house while
she slept; I had had much pleasant experience of pastures already in her
daughter's company. But it seemed best to go with Mrs. Todd, and off we
went.

Mrs. Todd carried the gingham bag which she had brought from home, and a
small heavy burden in the bottom made it hang straight and slender from
her hand. The way was steep, and she soon grew breathless, so that we
sat down to rest awhile on a convenient large stone among the bayberry.

"There, I wanted you to see this,--'tis mother's picture," said Mrs.
Todd; "'twas taken once when she was up to Portland soon after she
was married. That's me," she added, opening another worn case, and
displaying the full face of the cheerful child she looked like still in
spite of being past sixty. "And here's William an' father together. I
take after father, large and heavy, an' William is like mother's folks,
short an' thin. He ought to have made something o' himself, bein' a man
an' so like mother; but though he's been very steady to work, an' kept
up the farm, an' done his fishin' too right along, he never had mother's
snap an' power o' seein' things just as they be. He's got excellent
judgment, too," meditated William's sister, but she could not arrive at
any satisfactory decision upon what she evidently thought his failure in
life. "I think it is well to see any one so happy an' makin' the most
of life just as it falls to hand," she said as she began to put the
daguerreotypes away again; but I reached out my hand to see her mother's
once more, a most flowerlike face of a lovely young woman in quaint
dress. There was in the eyes a look of anticipation and joy, a far-off
look that sought the horizon; one often sees it in seafaring families,
inherited by girls and boys alike from men who spend their lives at sea,
and are always watching for distant sails or the first loom of the
land. At sea there is nothing to be seen close by, and this has its
counterpart in a sailor's character, in the large and brave and patient
traits that are developed, the hopeful pleasantness that one loves so in
a seafarer.

When the family pictures were wrapped again in a big handkerchief, we
set forward in a narrow footpath and made our way to a lonely place that
faced northward, where there was more pasturage and fewer bushes, and we
went down to the edge of short grass above some rocky cliffs where the
deep sea broke with a great noise, though the wind was down and the
water looked quiet a little way from shore. Among the grass grew such
pennyroyal as the rest of the world could not provide. There was a fine
fragrance in the air as we gathered it sprig by sprig and stepped along
carefully, and Mrs. Todd pressed her aromatic nosegay between her hands
and offered it to me again and again.

"There's nothin' like it," she said; "oh no, there's no such pennyr'yal
as this in the state of Maine. It's the right pattern of the plant, and
all the rest I ever see is but an imitation. Don't it do you good?" And
I answered with enthusiasm.

"There, dear, I never showed nobody else but mother where to find this
place; 'tis kind of sainted to me. Nathan, my husband, an' I used to
love this place when we was courtin', and"--she hesitated, and then
spoke softly--"when he was lost, 'twas just off shore tryin' to get in
by the short channel out there between Squaw Islands, right in sight o'
this headland where we'd set an' made our plans all summer long."

I had never heard her speak of her husband before, but I felt that we
were friends now since she had brought me to this place.

"'Twas but a dream with us," Mrs. Todd said. "I knew it when he was
gone. I knew it"--and she whispered as if she were at confession--"I
knew it afore he started to go to sea. My heart was gone out o' my
keepin' before I ever saw Nathan; but he loved me well, and he made me
real happy, and he died before he ever knew what he'd had to know if
we'd lived long together. 'Tis very strange about love. No, Nathan never
found out, but my heart was troubled when I knew him first. There's more
women likes to be loved than there is of those that loves. I spent some
happy hours right here. I always liked Nathan, and he never knew. But
this pennyr'yal always reminded me, as I'd sit and gather it and hear
him talkin'--it always would remind me of--the other one."

She looked away from me, and presently rose and went on by herself.
There was something lonely and solitary about her great determined
shape. She might have been Antigone alone on the Theban plain. It is not
often given in a noisy world to come to the places of great grief and
silence. An absolute, archaic grief possessed this countrywoman; she
seemed like a renewal of some historic soul, with her sorrows and the
remoteness of a daily life busied with rustic simplicities and the
scents of primeval herbs.


I was not incompetent at herb-gathering, and after a while, when I had
sat long enough waking myself to new thoughts, and reading a page of
remembrance with new pleasure, I gathered some bunches, as I was bound
to do, and at last we met again higher up the shore, in the plain
every-day world we had left behind when we went down to the penny-royal
plot. As we walked together along the high edge of the field we saw a
hundred sails about the bay and farther seaward; it was mid-afternoon or
after, and the day was coming to an end.

"Yes, they're all makin' towards the shore,--the small craft an' the
lobster smacks an' all," said my companion. "We must spend a little time
with mother now, just to have our tea, an' then put for home."

"No matter if we lose the wind at sundown; I can row in with Johnny,"
said I; and Mrs. Todd nodded reassuringly and kept to her steady plod,
not quickening her gait even when we saw William come round the corner
of the house as if to look for us, and wave his hand and disappear.

"Why, William's right on deck; I didn't know's we should see any more of
him!" exclaimed Mrs. Todd. "Now mother'll put the kettle right on; she's
got a good fire goin'." I too could see the blue smoke thicken, and then
we both walked a little faster, while Mrs. Todd groped in her full bag
of herbs to find the daguerreotypes and be ready to put them in their
places.


XI. The Old Singers

WILLIAM WAS sitting on the side door step, and the old mother was busy
making her tea; she gave into my hand an old flowered-glass tea-caddy.

"William thought you'd like to see this, when he was settin' the table.
My father brought it to my mother from the island of Tobago; an' here's
a pair of beautiful mugs that came with it." She opened the glass door
of a little cupboard beside the chimney. "These I call my best things,
dear," she said. "You'd laugh to see how we enjoy 'em Sunday nights in
winter: we have a real company tea 'stead o' livin' right along just
the same, an' I make somethin' good for a s'prise an' put on some o' my
preserves, an' we get a'talkin' together an' have real pleasant times."

Mrs. Todd laughed indulgently, and looked to see what I thought of such
childishness.

"I wish I could be here some Sunday evening," said I.

"William an' me'll be talkin' about you an' thinkin' o' this nice day,"
said Mrs. Blackett affectionately, and she glanced at William, and he
looked up bravely and nodded. I began to discover that he and his sister
could not speak their deeper feelings before each other.

"Now I want you an' mother to sing," said Mrs. Todd abruptly, with
an air of command, and I gave William much sympathy in his evident
distress.

"After I've had my cup o' tea, dear," answered the old hostess
cheerfully; and so we sat down and took our cups and made merry while
they lasted. It was impossible not to wish to stay on forever at Green
Island, and I could not help saying so.

"I'm very happy here, both winter an' summer," said old Mrs. Blackett.
"William an' I never wish for any other home, do we, William? I'm glad
you find it pleasant; I wish you'd come an' stay, dear, whenever you
feel inclined. But here's Almiry; I always think Providence was kind
to plot an' have her husband leave her a good house where she really
belonged. She'd been very restless if she'd had to continue here on
Green Island. You wanted more scope, didn't you, Almiry, an' to live in
a large place where more things grew? Sometimes folks wonders that
we don't live together; perhaps we shall some time," and a shadow of
sadness and apprehension flitted across her face. "The time o' sickness
an' failin' has got to come to all. But Almiry's got an herb that's good
for everything." She smiled as she spoke, and looked bright again.

"There's some herb that's good for everybody, except for them that
thinks they're sick when they ain't," announced Mrs. Todd, with a truly
professional air of finality. "Come, William, let's have Sweet Home, an'
then mother'll sing Cupid an' the Bee for us."

Then followed a most charming surprise. William mastered his timidity
and began to sing. His voice was a little faint and frail, like the
family daguerreotypes, but it was a tenor voice, and perfectly true
and sweet. I have never heard Home, Sweet Home sung as touchingly and
seriously as he sang it; he seemed to make it quite new; and when he
paused for a moment at the end of the first line and began the next,
the old mother joined him and they sang together, she missing only the
higher notes, where he seemed to lend his voice to hers for the moment
and carry on her very note and air. It was the silent man's real and
only means of expression, and one could have listened forever, and have
asked for more and more songs of old Scotch and English inheritance and
the best that have lived from the ballad music of the war. Mrs. Todd
kept time visibly, and sometimes audibly, with her ample foot. I saw the
tears in her eyes sometimes, when I could see beyond the tears in mine.
But at last the songs ended and the time came to say good-by; it was the
end of a great pleasure.

Mrs. Blackett, the dear old lady, opened the door of her bedroom while
Mrs. Todd was tying up the herb bag, and William had gone down to get
the boat ready and to blow the horn for Johnny Bowden, who had joined a
roving boat party who were off the shore lobstering.

I went to the door of the bedroom, and thought how pleasant it looked,
with its pink-and-white patchwork quilt and the brown unpainted paneling
of its woodwork.

"Come right in, dear," she said. "I want you to set down in my old
quilted rockin'-chair there by the window; you'll say it's the prettiest
view in the house. I set there a good deal to rest me and when I want to
read."

There was a worn red Bible on the lightstand, and Mrs. Blackett's heavy
silver-bowed glasses; her thimble was on the narrow window-ledge, and
folded carefully on the table was a thick striped-cotton shirt that
she was making for her son. Those dear old fingers and their loving
stitches, that heart which had made the most of everything that needed
love! Here was the real home, the heart of the old house on Green
Island! I sat in the rocking-chair, and felt that it was a place of
peace, the little brown bedroom, and the quiet outlook upon field and
sea and sky.

I looked up, and we understood each other without speaking. "I shall
like to think o' your settin' here to-day," said Mrs. Blackett. "I want
you to come again. It has been so pleasant for William."

The wind served us all the way home, and did not fall or let the sail
slacken until we were close to the shore. We had a generous freight of
lobsters in the boat, and new potatoes which William had put aboard, and
what Mrs. Todd proudly called a full "kag" of prime number one salted
mackerel; and when we landed we had to make business arrangements to
have these conveyed to her house in a wheelbarrow.

I never shall forget the day at Green Island. The town of Dunnet Landing
seemed large and noisy and oppressive as we came ashore. Such is the
power of contrast; for the village was so still that I could hear the
shy whippoorwills singing that night as I lay awake in my downstairs
bedroom, and the scent of Mrs. Todd's herb garden under the window blew
in again and again with every gentle rising of the seabreeze.


XII. A Strange Sail

EXCEPT FOR a few stray guests, islanders or from the inland country, to
whom Mrs. Todd offered the hospitalities of a single meal, we were quite
by ourselves all summer; and when there were signs of invasion, late in
July, and a certain Mrs. Fosdick appeared like a strange sail on the
far horizon, I suffered much from apprehension. I had been living in the
quaint little house with as much comfort and unconsciousness as if it
were a larger body, or a double shell, in whose simple convolutions Mrs.
Todd and I had secreted ourselves, until some wandering hermit crab of a
visitor marked the little spare room for her own. Perhaps now and then a
castaway on a lonely desert island dreads the thought of being rescued.
I heard of Mrs. Fosdick for the first time with a selfish sense
of objection; but after all, I was still vacation-tenant of the
schoolhouse, where I could always be alone, and it was impossible not to
sympathize with Mrs. Todd, who, in spite of some preliminary grumbling,
was really delighted with the prospect of entertaining an old friend.

For nearly a month we received occasional news of Mrs. Fosdick, who
seemed to be making a royal progress from house to house in the inland
neighborhood, after the fashion of Queen Elizabeth. One Sunday after
another came and went, disappointing Mrs. Todd in the hope of seeing
her guest at church and fixing the day for the great visit to begin; but
Mrs. Fosdick was not ready to commit herself to a date. An assurance of
"some time this week" was not sufficiently definite from a free-footed
housekeeper's point of view, and Mrs. Todd put aside all herb-gathering
plans, and went through the various stages of expectation, provocation,
and despair. At last she was ready to believe that Mrs. Fosdick must
have forgotten her promise and returned to her home, which was vaguely
said to be over Thomaston way. But one evening, just as the supper-table
was cleared and "readied up," and Mrs. Todd had put her large apron
over her head and stepped forth for an evening stroll in the garden, the
unexpected happened. She heard the sound of wheels, and gave an excited
cry to me, as I sat by the window, that Mrs. Fosdick was coming right up
the street.

"She may not be considerate, but she's dreadful good company," said Mrs.
Todd hastily, coming back a few steps from the neighborhood of the gate.
"No, she ain't a mite considerate, but there's a small lobster left over
from your tea; yes, it's a real mercy there's a lobster. Susan Fosdick
might just as well have passed the compliment o' comin' an hour ago."

"Perhaps she has had her supper," I ventured to suggest, sharing the
housekeeper's anxiety, and meekly conscious of an inconsiderate appetite
for my own supper after a long expedition up the bay. There were so
few emergencies of any sort at Dunnet Landing that this one appeared
overwhelming.

"No, she's rode 'way over from Nahum Brayton's place. I expect they were
busy on the farm, and couldn't spare the horse in proper season. You
just sly out an' set the teakittle on again, dear, an' drop in a good
han'ful o' chips; the fire's all alive. I'll take her right up to lay
off her things, as she'll be occupied with explanations an' gettin' her
bunnit off, so you'll have plenty o' time. She's one I shouldn't like to
have find me unprepared."

Mrs. Fosdick was already at the gate, and Mrs. Todd now turned with an
air of complete surprise and delight to welcome her.

"Why, Susan Fosdick," I heard her exclaim in a fine unhindered voice, as
if she were calling across a field, "I come near giving of you up! I was
afraid you'd gone an' 'portioned out my visit to somebody else. I s'pose
you've been to supper?"

"Lor', no, I ain't, Almiry Todd," said Mrs. Fosdick cheerfully, as she
turned, laden with bags and bundles, from making her adieux to the boy
driver. "I ain't had a mite o' supper, dear. I've been lottin' all the
way on a cup o' that best tea o' yourn,--some o' that Oolong you keep in
the little chist. I don't want none o' your useful herbs."

"I keep that tea for ministers' folks," gayly responded Mrs. Todd.
"Come right along in, Susan Fosdick. I declare if you ain't the same old
sixpence!"

As they came up the walk together, laughing like girls, I fled, full
of cares, to the kitchen, to brighten the fire and be sure that the
lobster, sole dependence of a late supper, was well out of reach of the
cat. There proved to be fine reserves of wild raspberries and bread and
butter, so that I regained my composure, and waited impatiently for my
own share of this illustrious visit to begin. There was an instant sense
of high festivity in the evening air from the moment when our guest had
so frankly demanded the Oolong tea.

The great moment arrived. I was formally presented at the stair-foot,
and the two friends passed on to the kitchen, where I soon heard a
hospitable clink of crockery and the brisk stirring of a tea-cup. I sat
in my high-backed rocking-chair by the window in the front room with an
unreasonable feeling of being left out, like the child who stood at
the gate in Hans Andersen's story. Mrs. Fosdick did not look, at first
sight, like a person of great social gifts. She was a serious-looking
little bit of an old woman, with a birdlike nod of the head. I had often
been told that she was the "best hand in the world to make a visit,"--as
if to visit were the highest of vocations; that everybody wished
for her, while few could get her; and I saw that Mrs. Todd felt a
comfortable sense of distinction in being favored with the company of
this eminent person who "knew just how." It was certainly true that Mrs.
Fosdick gave both her hostess and me a warm feeling of enjoyment
and expectation, as if she had the power of social suggestion to all
neighboring minds.

The two friends did not reappear for at least an hour. I could hear
their busy voices, loud and low by turns, as they ranged from public
to confidential topics. At last Mrs. Todd kindly remembered me and
returned, giving my door a ceremonious knock before she stepped in,
with the small visitor in her wake. She reached behind her and took Mrs.
Fosdick's hand as if she were young and bashful, and gave her a gentle
pull forward.

"There, I don't know whether you're goin' to take to each other or
not; no, nobody can't tell whether you'll suit each other, but I
expect you'll get along some way, both having seen the world," said
our affectionate hostess. "You can inform Mis' Fosdick how we found
the folks out to Green Island the other day. She's always been well
acquainted with mother. I'll slip out now an' put away the supper things
an' set my bread to rise, if you'll both excuse me. You can come an'
keep me company when you get ready, either or both." And Mrs. Todd,
large and amiable, disappeared and left us.

Being furnished not only with a subject of conversation, but with a safe
refuge in the kitchen in case of incompatibility, Mrs. Fosdick and I sat
down, prepared to make the best of each other. I soon discovered that
she, like many of the elder women of the coast, had spent a part of
her life at sea, and was full of a good traveler's curiosity and
enlightenment. By the time we thought it discreet to join our hostess we
were already sincere friends.

You may speak of a visit's setting in as well as a tide's, and it was
impossible, as Mrs. Todd whispered to me, not to be pleased at the way
this visit was setting in; a new impulse and refreshing of the social
currents and seldom visited bays of memory appeared to have begun.
Mrs. Fosdick had been the mother of a large family of sons and
daughters,--sailors and sailors' wives,--and most of them had died
before her. I soon grew more or less acquainted with the histories of
all their fortunes and misfortunes, and subjects of an intimate nature
were no more withheld from my ears than if I had been a shell on
the mantelpiece. Mrs. Fosdick was not without a touch of dignity and
elegance; she was fashionable in her dress, but it was a curiously
well-preserved provincial fashion of some years back. In a wider sphere
one might have called her a woman of the world, with her unexpected bits
of modern knowledge, but Mrs. Todd's wisdom was an intimation of truth
itself. She might belong to any age, like an idyl of Theocritus; but
while she always understood Mrs. Fosdick, that entertaining pilgrim
could not always understand Mrs. Todd.

That very first evening my friends plunged into a borderless sea of
reminiscences and personal news. Mrs. Fosdick had been staying with a
family who owned the farm where she was born, and she had visited every
sunny knoll and shady field corner; but when she said that it might be
for the last time, I detected in her tone something expectant of the
contradiction which Mrs. Todd promptly offered.

"Almiry," said Mrs. Fosdick, with sadness, "you may say what you like,
but I am one of nine brothers and sisters brought up on the old place,
and we're all dead but me."

"Your sister Dailey ain't gone, is she? Why, no, Louisa ain't gone!"
exclaimed Mrs. Todd, with surprise. "Why, I never heard of that
occurrence!"

"Yes'm; she passed away last October, in Lynn. She had made her distant
home in Vermont State, but she was making a visit to her youngest
daughter. Louisa was the only one of my family whose funeral I wasn't
able to attend, but 'twas a mere accident. All the rest of us were
settled right about home. I thought it was very slack of 'em in Lynn
not to fetch her to the old place; but when I came to hear about it,
I learned that they'd recently put up a very elegant monument, and my
sister Dailey was always great for show. She'd just been out to see the
monument the week before she was taken down, and admired it so much that
they felt sure of her wishes."

"So she's really gone, and the funeral was up to Lynn!" repeated Mrs.
Todd, as if to impress the sad fact upon her mind. "She was some years
younger than we be, too. I recollect the first day she ever came to
school; 'twas that first year mother sent me inshore to stay with aunt
Topham's folks and get my schooling. You fetched little Louisa to school
one Monday mornin' in a pink dress an' her long curls, and she set
between you an' me, and got cryin' after a while, so the teacher sent us
home with her at recess."

"She was scared of seeing so many children about her; there was only her
and me and brother John at home then; the older boys were to sea with
father, an' the rest of us wa'n't born," explained Mrs. Fosdick. "That
next fall we all went to sea together. Mother was uncertain till the
last minute, as one may say. The ship was waiting orders, but the baby
that then was, was born just in time, and there was a long spell of
extra bad weather, so mother got about again before they had to sail,
an' we all went. I remember my clothes were all left ashore in the east
chamber in a basket where mother'd took them out o' my chist o' drawers
an' left 'em ready to carry aboard. She didn't have nothing aboard, of
her own, that she wanted to cut up for me, so when my dress wore out she
just put me into a spare suit o' John's, jacket and trousers. I wasn't
but eight years old an' he was most seven and large of his age. Quick
as we made a port she went right ashore an' fitted me out pretty, but
we was bound for the East Indies and didn't put in anywhere for a good
while. So I had quite a spell o' freedom. Mother made my new skirt
long because I was growing, and I poked about the deck after that, real
discouraged, feeling the hem at my heels every minute, and as if youth
was past and gone. I liked the trousers best; I used to climb the
riggin' with 'em and frighten mother till she said an' vowed she'd never
take me to sea again."

I thought by the polite absent-minded smile on Mrs. Todd's face this was
no new story.

"Little Louisa was a beautiful child; yes, I always thought Louisa was
very pretty," Mrs. Todd said. "She was a dear little girl in those
days. She favored your mother; the rest of you took after your father's
folks."

"We did certain," agreed Mrs. Fosdick, rocking steadily. "There, it does
seem so pleasant to talk with an old acquaintance that knows what you
know. I see so many of these new folks nowadays, that seem to have
neither past nor future. Conversation's got to have some root in the
past, or else you've got to explain every remark you make, an' it wears
a person out."

Mrs. Todd gave a funny little laugh. "Yes'm, old friends is always best,
'less you can catch a new one that's fit to make an old one out of,"
she said, and we gave an affectionate glance at each other which Mrs.
Fosdick could not have understood, being the latest comer to the house.


XIII. Poor Joanna

ONE EVENING my ears caught a mysterious allusion which Mrs. Todd made to
Shell-heap Island. It was a chilly night of cold northeasterly rain, and
I made a fire for the first time in the Franklin stove in my room, and
begged my two housemates to come in and keep me company. An Ruprecht
Viertelstündchen lasted so I think: What will it be, but today is not
wedding? And anyway, I invented the idea, Husch! they are both into the
house already, before the pastor. Geht Eve, mother, it may be, as it wants
- Adam Schweig me there, I did that Donnerwetter If you have a
unberufne Schwätzerin! Wait until I applied to Red will call you.
Walter Very strange, when God! Ruprecht now raises, Mr. Richter Adam,
now stands out as a blood overthrow me. Air! Since my jump button on
Brustlatz: air now! And tear me on the bib: air now, I say! And go,
and oppressive, and kicking and thunder, the prostitute, since I find
the door locked, Gestemmt with power, on a kick, an. Adam Blitz
boy, you!

Ruprecht Just because they now rasselt, Crashes where the pitcher from
the ledge into the room out, And Husch! a jump from the window you: I
see the still from the Rocke Schöße Wehner. Was it the Adam Leberecht?
Ruprecht Who else, Mr. Judge? The girl stands, which I throw übern pile,
To the window, I come quickly out and find the guy yet in the piles
depend on espalier, Where the vine to the roof aufrankt.

And since the jack in your hand to me was, when I eindonnerte the door,
so now I tear with a pound of steel übern difficult Detzer him: the
just, Lord Judge, I could still achieve. Adam Wars a jack? Ruprecht What?
Adam Obs - Ruprecht Yes, the doorknob.

Adam So. Lighting Your probably believed it was a sword? Adam
A sword?

I - why? Ruprecht A sword! The light now! You can probably interrogations.
A jack has much similarity with a sword. I think Adam -! In light of my
faith! The shaft, Mr. Judge? Adam The stalk! Ruprecht The shaft! The
wars now do not.

Klinke The inverted end wars. Adam That's the opposite end of jack! So
light! So! Ruprecht But the attacks was a lump of lead, like a sword
handle, I must say. Adam Yes, like a handle. Good Light. Like a sword
handle. Tück'sche But any weapon it must have been. This I knew well.
Walter Substance always, your men, but! Zur Sache! Adam Nothing but
Allotrien, Mr. Schreiber - He further! Ruprecht Now the guy is crashing,
and I already want to contact me, as in the dark on ichs rappeln to see.
I think you still alive? and increasing the window And the guy that
wants to go lay down: as now, your Lord, because I just jump aushol, Mir
grobgekörnten a handful of sand - and fellow night and world, and
window sill, I stand by what I think not, criminal me God, This
all falls into a sack together - How to hail, stiebend, in the eyes
of flies.

Adam Cursed! Look here! Who did this? Ruprecht Who? The Lebrecht. Adam
scoundrel! Ruprecht my faith! If the first had. Adam Who else! Ruprecht
as crashed me a castle of rain From a mountain slope ten fathoms high,
So I am now beating you from the window into the room: I think, I slam
the soil. Now I am breaking the neck but not The cross also not me,
hips, or otherwise, now the guy I could not be more habhaft, And sit on,
and wipe my eyes. The will, and: "Oh, Lord God!" calls them, and:
"Ruprecht!

What is you too?" My soul, I lifted the foot, good wars, that I did not
see where I was. Adam Kam from sands still? Ruprecht From throwing
sand, yes. Damn Adam! The met!

Ruprecht Since I now Resurrection - What should I also fists dishonor
me here? - So I swear it, and say: dissolute wench, And think that's
good enough for them.

But tears, see choke me the language. For since Mrs Marthe now enters
into the room, The lamp highlights, and I am the girl there now
schlotternd, for mercy, before I see you, so heartily that otherwise
probably saw, So I say to myself: blind is also not bad. I have dedicated
my eyes, beads Knipp, who wants to play. Eve He is not worth the bad
guy - Adam you should be silent! Ruprecht The Weitre you know. As
Adam, the additional costs?

Ruprecht Well Mrs Marthe came, and geiferte And Ralf, the neighbor, came,
and Hinz, the neighbor, Muhme And Sus' and Muhme Liese came.

And servant 'and maids' and dogs' and cats came,' s was a spectacle, and
Mrs Marthe The Virgin then asked who her smash the jug, And those who
said, You know that ichs been. My soul, it has not so wrong, your men.
The pitcher, which she wore to the water, I broke And the cobbler has
a hole in the head. Adam Mrs Marthe! What your replies to the
question? To Say, Madam Marthe What I opposed the Red?

That they, Mr. Richter, as the raccoon collapses, And truth, like a chicken
gakelnd strangles. What right loves to use the clubs, the order of
this monster night will be repaid. Because Adam is the proof you need
us. Mrs Marthe Oh, yes, very happy. Here is my witness .-- Speech! Adam
The daughter? No, Mrs. Martha. Walter No? Why not?

Adam As a witness, Gracious Lord? Code is non titulo, quarto ists
- or quinto! If jugs or otherwise, what do I know? From young Bengeln
are been broken, Sun persuade their daughters not mothers?

Walter is in your head of science and kneaded mistake, dearly, as a dough,
together with any cuts you give me both. The first evidence yet, they now
declare, whether, and for whom they want to testify and, if only from
the statement revealed. Adam Yes, declare. Well. Titulo SEXTO. But
what she says, believe it not. Walter Occurs before, my young child.
Hey Adam! Lies'! - Allows! The tongue is very dry to me - Margrete!
Eighth appearance A maid occurs.

The former. Adam A glass of water - the same girl! (Ab) Adam I Can you
also -? Walter, I thank you. Adam Franz? or Mos'ler? What you want.
Walter bows down and the maid brings water and away.

Ninth appearance Walter. Adam. Ms. Marthe etc. without the maid.

Adam - If I may speak frankly, your graces, The thing is good for
comparison. Walter Getting to compare? It is not clear to Mr. Richter.
Vernünft'ge people can compare, but as you already want to compare the
effect of As, are quite clearly not the case entworren, The hätt of you
I think I want to hear. Ihrs What is the matter, tell me to? Do you have
an opinion already taken? Adam My Seel! If I, as the law allows me in
the lurch, philosophy to take the help, So wars - the Leberecht -
Walter Who? Or Adam Ruprecht - Walter Who? Adam Or Lebrecht, who broke
the jug. Walter So Who's it? The Lebrecht or Ruprecht? Your picks, I
see, with your opinion that like a hand into a sack of peas.

Adam Allowed! Walter Quiet, silent, I beg you.

Adam How you want. In my honesty, I would absolutely right If they both
would have been. Walter Interrogates there, you will learn ihrs. Adam
Very happy. But if ihrs herausbekommt, I'm a scoundrel. - Have you the
log because in readiness? Light Completely. Adam Good. And Light
intrude my own hand, eager to be what it is. Adam An own hand? Also
good. Walter Say there, my child! Adam Say, jane, you listen, speak
now, Virgin jane! Give Gotte, you hear, heart, give my soul, Him and
the world, give him what the truth. Denk that you have read here before
stools are indicative of God, And that thou judge thy no denial, And
babble, what does not belong to the cause, must grieve. Oh, what! You're
reasonable. A judge always, you know, is a judge, and one need him
tonight, and tomorrow. Are you saying that the Lebrecht was now good,
And you say that Ruprecht was also good! Say so, say so, I'm not an
honest guy who is everything, as you want, please. Do you want me here
from another trätschen, and third about, silly name: Look, baby, take
you into eight, I'll tell nothing more. In Huisum, hauls the executioner,
believes dirs none, And none, jane, the Netherlands, you know, the white
walls do not testify, the defense also will know that: And your Ruprecht
seek the Schwerenot! Walter If your but wanted to make your speeches.
posturing, not hewn, not razor. Adam understanding Ew.

Graces not? Walter continued power! Here you have adequately spoken
to the chair.

Ehr Adam On! I have not studied, Ew. Graces. Am I your Lord from Utrecht
does not understand this, perhaps people will behave differently: The
maiden white, I bet what I want. Mrs Marthe What is this? Dreist out
now with the language! Eve O dearest mother, Madam Marthe Du -! I
advise you! Ruprecht My Seel, 's is difficult, Ms. Marthe, bold to
speak, when the conscience of us sitting Kehl. Adam Schweig He now Nasweis,
He does not muck. Mrs Marthe Who's it? Eve O Jesus. Woman Marthe Maulaffe
that! The vile! O Jesus! As if it would be a whore. Wars of the Lord
Jesus? Adam Mrs Marthe! Irrationality, what for -! Let the maiden to
grant it! The child einschrecken - whore - facial sheep! So we are
nothing. You will already reflect. Ruprecht Oh, yes, reflect. Adam
Flaps there, He silent now. Ruprecht The cobbler will you ever invade.
Adam Satan! Retrieves the beadle! Hey! Hanfried! Ruprecht Well, now! I
schweig, Mr. Judge, let only. They will have you come on my behalf. Hör
du wife Marthe, do not show me, tell me. Listen, I'm forty-nine old In
honor of: fifty, I would like to see. Den February is my third birthday,
and today is the first. Make it short. Who's it? Adam Good, meinethalben!
Well, Ms. Marthe Rull! Ms. Marthe's father said when he died: 'Listen,
Martha, the girl created me a Wackermann; And will a dissolute wench,
Sun give the gravedigger a penny, And let me lay on his back, my soul,
I credible, I return to me in the grave. Adam Well, it's also not
bad.

Mrs Marthe Will you father and mother now, my mushrooms, according
to the fourth commandment high honor, well, say: in my chamber I
Did Schuster, or third, you hear?

The Bräut'gam but it was not. Ruprecht you wailed me. but let the jug,
I ask you, I want 'n contribute to Utrecht.

Such a jug - I wish I had him only broken beat. Unedelmüt'ger Eve, thou!
Fie, shame you, That you do not say: well, I broke the jug! Pfui,
Ruprecht, shame, oh shame thee, that thou me not in my deed can trust.
Was I Hand thee not, and said: yes, as you asked me: "Eve, do you want
me?" Do you think that you have read the cobbler is not worth it? And
thou wouldst have me through the keyhole with the Lebrecht from drinking
Kruge see You should have think: Ev is good, it will use all to the
glory solve And ists in life, it is the other side, And if we auferstehn,
is also a day. Ruprecht my soul, it takes me too long, jane. What I pick
up with your hands, I think like. Eve law, it would have been Leberecht
of, Why - of death I will die forever, would you ichs not only
familiar, but why against neighbor, servant and maids - Act I would Gründ
it to hide, why, o Ruprecht, ie, why should I not on your Vertraun
to say that's were you? Why should not ichs Why should not ichs? Ruprecht
egg, so the executioner, sags, it's me right, if you fiddle you can
save. O thou Eve disgusting! You ungrateful! value that I get the spare
fiddle! value, that I do with a word to honor me, And you bring in
eternal perdition. Walter Well -? And this word einz'ge -? not stop us.
The Ruprecht so it was not? Eve No, gnäd'ger Lord, because it first because
even want him around, I only failed it: The irdnen pitcher broke
the Ruprecht not When you first deny yourself, you can believe ihrs.

Mrs Marthe Eve! The Ruprecht not? Eve No, mother, no! And if ichs said
yesterday's lies. Mrs Marthe Listen, I smash you all bone, you set
the pitcher down . Eve Do what you want. Walter threateningly. Mrs Marthe!
Adam Hey! The lackey - it throws out there who cursed Vettel! Why
Ruprecht just been? If you kept it light, what? The maiden, I think,
it will need to know: I'm a rogue, if not the Lebrecht was. Mrs Marthe
Was it the Lebrecht about? Wars The Lebrecht? Adam Say, jane, wars of
Lebrecht not, my heart? Eve insolent He, He! He Niederträcht'ger!
How can he say that it Lebrecht - Walter maiden, what is under
you? Is it me the respect that you are the judge is guilty? Eve Oh,
what! The judge there! value, even before the court, a poor sinner,
dazustehn - - He, probably better know who it was! To return to the
village judge. He has the Lebrecht in the city yesterday after Skilfully
Utrecht, before the Commission, with the certificate, the Recruits
aushebt? How can he say that it was Lebrecht, When He probably knows
that in Utrecht? Adam Well, who else? Wenns not Lebrecht, the
executioner - Not Ruprecht, not Lebrecht is - What do you? Ruprecht
My Seel, Mr. Richter Adam, let you know, like where the Virgin
but just do not lie. The Lebrecht am myself met yesterday, when he went
to Utrecht, Glock's early eight, And if it is on a wagon is not invited,
Did the guy who krummbeinig as it is, Glock ten o 'clock at night is
not yet zurückgehaspelt. It can be probably a third one. Oh what
Adam! Krummbeinig! sheep face! The guy goes his boots, which,
despite one.

I want to ungespaltnem his body, if not a shepherd mäß'ger size of his
toes must go with him fortzukommen. Narrative Walter examine the history
of us. Verzeihn Adam Ew. graces! Then you will hardly serve the Virgin.
Walter Not serve?

not serve me? And why not? Adam A twatsches child. you see. Well,
but twatsch. young blood, gefirmelt hardly ashamed of the worse where
a beard looks from afar.

Sun 'n People, In the darkness she's suffering, and when it is day,
To deny it's in front of their judges. Walter You're very nachsichtsvoll,
Mr. Richter Adam, Very mild, in all that the Virgin is concerned. Adam
Truth to tell you, Mr. Gerichtsrat, your father was a good friend of
mine. Want Ew . Huldreich his grace today, So we do not here more
than our duty, And let his daughter go. Walter, I feel great pleasure
in me, Mr. Judge, the matter entirely on the reason to come .-- Be
bold, my child, tell me who the pitcher shattered.

Before no one are you in the moment, one misstep could not forgive
. My dear Eve, decent and gnäd'ger Lord, Erlaßt me, you the when,
where to tell. Weigrung from this uneven thinks not. It's wonderful
providence of Heaven, The his mouth to me in this matter closed. The fact
that those Krug Ruprecht not met I want with an oath when ihrs
required to confirm holy altar.

But yesterday's event, with every other course, is my own, And not
the whole Garnstück may be the mother, In order to einz'gen thread's
sake, call The their belonging, runs through the fabric.

I can, who the jug broke, do not report secrets that are not my property,
I would feel the most alienated Kruge, touch. Early or late ichs wants
their trust, but here the court is not the place where she has the right
to ask me afterwards. Adam No, not right. On my honor, no. The maiden
knows where our Bridles hang. If they take an oath before the court here
will swear, Sun is the mother plea away: On the other hand is nothing
to that.

What Walter says to you the statement, Ms. Marthe? Woman Marthe If
I like what not mobilize considerable strict Lord, so believe, I ask
you very much that I just now hit the tongue paralyzed. gibts
examples that a verlorner man, before the world in order to honor
to bring before the perjury Indicative dares the chair, but that
is a false oath may swear on Holy shrine, in order to pillory added
that today the world is for the first time.

I knocked
him right over into the bottom o' the bo't, getting by to catch hold of
the sheet an' untie it. He wasn't but a little man; I helped him right
up after the squall passed, and made a handsome apology to him, but he
did act kind o' offended."

"I do think they ought not to settle them landlocked folks in parishes
where they're liable to be on the water," insisted Mrs. Fosdick. "Think
of the families in our parish that was scattered all about the bay, and
what a sight o' sails you used to see, in Mr. Dimmick's day, standing
across to the mainland on a pleasant Sunday morning, filled with
church-going folks, all sure to want him some time or other! You
couldn't find no doctor that would stand up in the boat and screech if a
flaw struck her."

"Old Dr. Bennett had a beautiful sailboat, didn't he?" responded Mrs.
Todd. "And how well he used to brave the weather! Mother always said
that in time o' trouble that tall white sail used to look like an
angel's wing comin' over the sea to them that was in pain. Well, there's
a difference in gifts. Mr. Dimmick was not without light."

"'Twas light o' the moon, then," snapped Mrs. Fosdick; "he was pompous
enough, but I never could remember a single word he said. There, go on,
Mis' Todd; I forget a great deal about that day you went to see poor
Joanna."

"I felt she saw us coming, and knew us a great way off; yes, I seemed to
feel it within me," said our friend, laying down her knitting. "I kept
my seat, and took the bo't inshore without saying a word; there was a
short channel that I was sure Mr. Dimmick wasn't acquainted with, and
the tide was very low. She never came out to warn us off nor anything,
and I thought, as I hauled the bo't up on a wave and let the Reverend
Mr. Dimmick step out, that it was somethin' gained to be safe ashore.
There was a little smoke out o' the chimney o' Joanna's house, and it
did look sort of homelike and pleasant with wild mornin'-glory vines
trained up; an' there was a plot o' flowers under the front window,
portulacas and things. I believe she'd made a garden once, when she was
stopping there with her father, and some things must have seeded in. It
looked as if she might have gone over to the other side of the island.
'Twas neat and pretty all about the house, and a lovely day in July.
We walked up from the beach together very sedate, and I felt for poor
Nathan's little pin to see if 'twas safe in my dress pocket. All of a
sudden Joanna come right to the fore door and stood there, not sayin' a
word."


XIV. The Hermitage

MY COMPANION and I had been so intent upon the subject of the
conversation that we had not heard any one open the gate, but at this
moment, above the noise of the rain, we heard a loud knocking. We were
all startled as we sat by the fire, and Mrs. Todd rose hastily and went
to answer the call, leaving her rocking-chair in violent motion. Mrs.
Fosdick and I heard an anxious voice at the door speaking of a sick
child, and Mrs. Todd's kind, motherly voice inviting the messenger in:
then we waited in silence. There was a sound of heavy dropping of
rain from the eaves, and the distant roar and undertone of the sea.
My thoughts flew back to the lonely woman on her outer island; what
separation from humankind she must have felt, what terror and sadness,
even in a summer storm like this!

"You send right after the doctor if she ain't better in half an hour,"
said Mrs. Todd to her worried customer as they parted; and I felt a
warm sense of comfort in the evident resources of even so small a
neighborhood, but for the poor hermit Joanna there was no neighbor on a
winter night.


"How did she look?" demanded Mrs. Fosdick, without preface, as our large
hostess returned to the little room with a mist about her from standing
long in the wet doorway, and the sudden draught of her coming beat out
the smoke and flame from the Franklin stove. "How did poor Joanna look?"

"She was the same as ever, except I thought she looked smaller,"
answered Mrs. Todd after thinking a moment; perhaps it was only a last
considering thought about her patient. "Yes, she was just the same, and
looked very nice, Joanna did. I had been married since she left home,
an' she treated me like her own folks. I expected she'd look strange,
with her hair turned gray in a night or somethin', but she wore a pretty
gingham dress I'd often seen her wear before she went away; she must
have kept it nice for best in the afternoons. She always had beautiful,
quiet manners. I remember she waited till we were close to her, and then
kissed me real affectionate, and inquired for Nathan before she shook
hands with the minister, and then she invited us both in. 'Twas the same
little house her father had built him when he was a bachelor, with one
livin'-room, and a little mite of a bedroom out of it where she slept,
but 'twas neat as a ship's cabin. There was some old chairs, an' a seat
made of a long box that might have held boat tackle an' things to lock
up in his fishin' days, and a good enough stove so anybody could cook
and keep warm in cold weather. I went over once from home and stayed
'most a week with Joanna when we was girls, and those young happy days
rose up before me. Her father was busy all day fishin' or clammin'; he
was one o' the pleasantest men in the world, but Joanna's mother had the
grim streak, and never knew what 'twas to be happy. The first minute my
eyes fell upon Joanna's face that day I saw how she had grown to look
like Mis' Todd. 'Twas the mother right over again."

"Oh dear me!" said Mrs. Fosdick.

"Joanna had done one thing very pretty. There was a little piece o'
swamp on the island where good rushes grew plenty, and she'd gathered
'em, and braided some beautiful mats for the floor and a thick cushion
for the long bunk. She'd showed a good deal of invention; you see
there was a nice chance to pick up pieces o' wood and boards that drove
ashore, and she'd made good use o' what she found. There wasn't no
clock, but she had a few dishes on a shelf, and flowers set about in
shells fixed to the walls, so it did look sort of homelike, though so
lonely and poor. I couldn't keep the tears out o' my eyes, I felt so
sad. I said to myself, I must get mother to come over an' see Joanna;
the love in mother's heart would warm her, an' she might be able to
advise."

"Oh no, Joanna was dreadful stern," said Mrs. Fosdick.

"We were all settin' down very proper, but Joanna would keep stealin'
glances at me as if she was glad I come. She had but little to say; she
was real polite an' gentle, and yet forbiddin'. The minister found it
hard," confessed Mrs. Todd; "he got embarrassed, an' when he put on his
authority and asked her if she felt to enjoy religion in her present
situation, an' she replied that she must be excused from answerin', I
thought I should fly. She might have made it easier for him; after all,
he was the minister and had taken some trouble to come out, though 'twas
kind of cold an' unfeelin' the way he inquired. I thought he might have
seen the little old Bible a-layin' on the shelf close by him, an' I
wished he knew enough to just lay his hand on it an' read somethin'
kind an' fatherly 'stead of accusin' her, an' then given poor Joanna his
blessin' with the hope she might be led to comfort. He did offer prayer,
but 'twas all about hearin' the voice o' God out o' the whirlwind; and I
thought while he was goin' on that anybody that had spent the long cold
winter all alone out on Shell-heap Island knew a good deal more about
those things than he did. I got so provoked I opened my eyes and stared
right at him.

"She didn't take no notice, she kep' a nice respectful manner towards
him, and when there come a pause she asked if he had any interest
about the old Indian remains, and took down some queer stone gouges and
hammers off of one of her shelves and showed them to him same's if
he was a boy. He remarked that he'd like to walk over an' see the
shell-heap; so she went right to the door and pointed him the way. I
see then that she'd made her some kind o' sandal-shoes out o' the fine
rushes to wear on her feet; she stepped light an' nice in 'em as shoes."

Mrs. Fosdick leaned back in her rocking-chair and gave a heavy sigh.

"I didn't move at first, but I'd held out just as long as I could," said
Mrs. Todd, whose voice trembled a little. "When Joanna returned from the
door, an' I could see that man's stupid back departin' among the wild
rose bushes, I just ran to her an' caught her in my arms. I wasn't so
big as I be now, and she was older than me, but I hugged her tight, just
as if she was a child. 'Oh, Joanna dear,' I says, 'won't you come ashore
an' live 'long o' me at the Landin', or go over to Green Island to
mother's when winter comes? Nobody shall trouble you an' mother finds it
hard bein' alone. I can't bear to leave you here'--and I burst right out
crying. I'd had my own trials, young as I was, an' she knew it. Oh, I
did entreat her; yes, I entreated Joanna."

"What did she say then?" asked Mrs. Fosdick, much moved.

"She looked the same way, sad an' remote through it all," said Mrs. Todd
mournfully. "She took hold of my hand, and we sat down close together;
'twas as if she turned round an' made a child of me. 'I haven't got
no right to live with folks no more,' she said. 'You must never ask me
again, Almiry: I've done the only thing I could do, and I've made my
choice. I feel a great comfort in your kindness, but I don't deserve it.
I have committed the unpardonable sin; you don't understand,' says she
humbly. 'I was in great wrath and trouble, and my thoughts was so wicked
towards God that I can't expect ever to be forgiven. I have come to
know what it is to have patience, but I have lost my hope. You must tell
those that ask how 'tis with me,' she said, 'an' tell them I want to
be alone.' I couldn't speak; no, there wa'n't anything I could say, she
seemed so above everything common. I was a good deal younger then than I
be now, and I got Nathan's little coral pin out o' my pocket and put it
into her hand; and when she saw it and I told her where it come from,
her face did really light up for a minute, sort of bright an' pleasant.
'Nathan an' I was always good friends; I'm glad he don't think hard of
me,' says she. 'I want you to have it, Almiry, an' wear it for love
o' both o' us,' and she handed it back to me. 'You give my love to
Nathan,--he's a dear good man,' she said; 'an' tell your mother, if I
should be sick she mustn't wish I could get well, but I want her to be
the one to come.' Then she seemed to have said all she wanted to, as
if she was done with the world, and we sat there a few minutes longer
together. It was real sweet and quiet except for a good many birds and
the sea rollin' up on the beach; but at last she rose, an' I did too,
and she kissed me and held my hand in hers a minute, as if to say
good-by; then she turned and went right away out o' the door and
disappeared.

"The minister come back pretty soon, and I told him I was all ready,
and we started down to the bo't. He had picked up some round stones and
things and was carrying them in his pocket-handkerchief; an' he sat down
amidships without making any question, and let me take the rudder an'
work the bo't, an' made no remarks for some time, until we sort of eased
it off speaking of the weather, an' subjects that arose as we skirted
Black Island, where two or three families lived belongin' to the parish.
He preached next Sabbath as usual, somethin' high soundin' about the
creation, and I couldn't help thinkin' he might never get no further; he
seemed to know no remedies, but he had a great use of words."

Mrs. Fosdick sighed again. "Hearin' you tell about Joanna brings the
time right back as if 'twas yesterday," she said. "Yes, she was one o'
them poor things that talked about the great sin; we don't seem to
hear nothing about the unpardonable sin now, but you may say 'twas not
uncommon then."

"I expect that if it had been in these days, such a person would be
plagued to death with idle folks," continued Mrs. Todd, after a long
pause. "As it was, nobody trespassed on her; all the folks about the
bay respected her an' her feelings; but as time wore on, after you
left here, one after another ventured to make occasion to put somethin'
ashore for her if they went that way. I know mother used to go to see
her sometimes, and send William over now and then with something fresh
an' nice from the farm. There is a point on the sheltered side where you
can lay a boat close to shore an' land anything safe on the turf out o'
reach o' the water. There were one or two others, old folks, that
she would see, and now an' then she'd hail a passin' boat an' ask for
somethin'; and mother got her to promise that she would make some sign
to the Black Island folks if she wanted help. I never saw her myself to
speak to after that day."

"I expect nowadays, if such a thing happened, she'd have gone out West
to her uncle's folks or up to Massachusetts and had a change, an' come
home good as new. The world's bigger an' freer than it used to be,"
urged Mrs. Fosdick.

"No," said her friend. "'Tis like bad eyesight, the mind of such a
person: if your eyes don't see right there may be a remedy, but there's
no kind of glasses to remedy the mind. No, Joanna was Joanna, and there
she lays on her island where she lived and did her poor penance. She
told mother the day she was dyin' that she always used to want to be
fetched inshore when it come to the last; but she'd thought it over, and
desired to be laid on the island, if 'twas thought right. So the funeral
was out there, a Saturday afternoon in September. 'Twas a pretty day,
and there wa'n't hardly a boat on the coast within twenty miles that
didn't head for Shell-heap cram-full o' folks an' all real respectful,
same's if she'd always stayed ashore and held her friends. Some went out
o' mere curiosity, I don't doubt,--there's always such to every funeral;
but most had real feelin', and went purpose to show it. She'd got most
o' the wild sparrows as tame as could be, livin' out there so long among
'em, and one flew right in and lit on the coffin an' begun to sing
while Mr. Dimmick was speakin'. He was put out by it, an' acted as if he
didn't know whether to stop or go on. I may have been prejudiced, but
I wa'n't the only one thought the poor little bird done the best of the
two."

"What became o' the man that treated her so, did you ever hear?" asked
Mrs. Fosdick. "I know he lived up to Massachusetts for a while. Somebody
who came from the same place told me that he was in trade there an'
doin' very well, but that was years ago."

"I never heard anything more than that; he went to the war in one o' the
early regiments. No, I never heard any more of him," answered Mrs. Adam
now? Light Likewise -? Adam Whether I -? I believe -! Hingefallen Here
I am, I'll tell you. Rigors hingeschlagen light? Adam Yes, rigors.
It may be a bad one. Light When the incident happened because too?
Adam Now, in the moment, because I bed emerge. I had the morning song
in the mouth because I stolpr in the morning already, and anyway I have
the run of the day begin, Renkt Lord my ankle already. And probably
the light left obenein? Adam the left? Light Here, the set? Of Adam!
light Allgerechter! The already difficult the path of sin, converts?

Adam's foot! What? Heavy!

Why? The light clubfoot? Adam clubfoot! A foot, as the other, a lump.
Allows light! As your your right is doing wrong. The right is this - force
not boast, And dare be honest to the raunchy. Oh Adam, what, where one
of hinwagt, follows the other. And what light has the face you so
dislocated? Adam Mir's face? How light? You know nothing like this?
Adam, I must be a liar - because from what? Light How's it looked like
Adam Yes, Gevatterchen. Light Horrible! Adam Explains you clearer.
Maltreated ists Light, A Greul to sehn. A missing piece of the cheek,
How big? Not without scales ichs can appreciate. Adam the devil too!
Light brings up a mirror. Here! Convince yourself!

A sheep that, eingehetzt of dogs, is pushing through thorns, can
no longer sit wool as you - God knows where?

- Meat, you can sit. Adam Hm! Yes! 's is true. Unlieblich it looks.
The Nas has also suffered. And light the eye. The eye is not Adam,
gossip.

Light egg, here is a blow Querfeld, bloodthirsty, criminal me God, as if
a great servant led him angry. This is the Adam eye bone .-- Yes, now
you see, all I had not even felt. light Yes, yes!

How it works in the fire of battle. Battlegroups Adam! What? -
With the cursed goat Am I challenged oven, if you like. Now white
ichs. Since I lost the balance, and almost drowned in the air to attack
me, Fass' my trousers, which I soaked last night at the base of the
furnace hung. Recapitulative Now 'I understand you, believe me, I gate,
then stick to them, and now tears The Confederation; federal
government now and Hos and me, we fall, And with the chief forehead
leaf schmettr I Preheat the oven out just where a goat The nose on
the corner advance. light laughs.

Good , good. Damn Adam! Lighting The first case of Adam, you made the bed
also done.

Adam My Seel! - But what I wanted to say what's new? light Yes,
what's new! The executioner hauls would ichs but soon forgotten. Adam
Now? Light Get ready for an unexpected visit from Utrecht. Adam So?
Light The Lord Gerichtsrat ways; the point. Adam Who ways; the point?
Light The Lord Gerichtsrat Walter ways; the point, from Utrecht. He is
in revision -Travel to the offices, and today he still meets with
us. Adam today! Are you in comfort? Light As I live. He was in Holla at
the border village yesterday, the Justice Has there been revised. A
farmer had to drive to the header already Huisum horse before the cart
Schirren. Adam today, he the Gerichtsrat, since from Utrecht!

Revision of wackre man, himself schiert His sheep, like grimaces hates.
Huisum come after us and kujonieren! light he came up Holla, he also
comes up Huisum. Take you in eight. Adam Oh, go! light I tell you.
Adam Goes to me with your tales, I'll tell you. Light The farmer has
even seen him, for the executioner. Adam Who knows who the villain
triefäugige seen. The guys distinguish a face from a back not if he is
bald. Sets a triangular hat on my tube, Hang him by the coat, two boots
anything, So keep so'n Schubjak him, for whom you want. Wohlan light,
so doubt continue into the devil's name, Till he enters the door here.
He Adam, arise! - Ohn us put a word before it. The light foolishness!
As the previous obs auditor nor the Council juniper, would, it is now
Walter Council, the revised. If the same Council Adam Walter!

Go, leave me satisfied. The man has sworn his oath of office yes, and
exercised, as we, in accordance with the existing edicts and the commander.
Licht Well, I versichr you, the Gerichtsrat Walter Hollaender
unexpectedly appeared in yesterday Vis'tierte and cash registers,
And then suspended judges and recorders, Why?

I do not know ab officio. Adam the devil too? Did the farmer
said?

This light and even more - Adam So? If light ihrs want to know.
"You needn't make no haste," he called to me; "I'll keep
within call. Joanna lays right up there in the far corner o' the field.
There used to be a path led to the place. I always knew her well. I was
out here to the funeral."

I found the path; it was touching to discover that this lonely spot was
not without its pilgrims. Later generations will know less and less of
Joanna herself, but there are paths trodden to the shrines of solitude
the world over,--the world cannot forget them, try as it may; the feet
of the young find them out because of curiosity and dim foreboding;
while the old bring hearts full of remembrance. This plain anchorite had
been one of those whom sorrow made too lonely to brave the sight of men,
too timid to front the simple world she knew, yet valiant enough to live
alone with her poor insistent human nature and the calms and passions of
the sea and sky.

The birds were flying all about the field; they fluttered up out of the
grass at my feet as I walked along, so tame that I liked to think they
kept some happy tradition from summer to summer of the safety of nests
and good fellowship of mankind. Poor Joanna's house was gone except
the stones of its foundations, and there was little trace of her flower
garden except a single faded sprig of much-enduring French pinks, which
a great bee and a yellow butterfly were befriending together. I drank at
the spring, and thought that now and then some one would follow me from
the busy, hard-worked, and simple-thoughted countryside of the mainland,
which lay dim and dreamlike in the August haze, as Joanna must have
watched it many a day. There was the world, and here was she with
eternity well begun. In the life of each of us, I said to myself, there
is a place remote and islanded, and given to endless regret or secret
happiness; we are each the uncompanioned hermit and recluse of an hour
or a day; we understand our fellows of the cell to whatever age of
history they may belong.

But as I stood alone on the island, in the sea-breeze, suddenly
there came a sound of distant voices; gay voices and laughter from a
pleasure-boat that was going seaward full of boys and girls. I knew, as
if she had told me, that poor Joanna must have heard the like on many
and many a summer afternoon, and must have welcomed the good cheer
in spite of hopelessness and winter weather, and all the sorrow and
disappointment in the world.


XVI. The Great Expedition

MRS. TODD never by any chance gave warning over night of her great
projects and adventures by sea and land. She first came to an
understanding with the primal forces of nature, and never trusted to any
preliminary promise of good weather, but examined the day for herself in
its infancy. Then, if the stars were propitious, and the wind blew
from a quarter of good inheritance whence no surprises of sea-turns or
southwest sultriness might be feared, long before I was fairly awake I
used to hear a rustle and knocking like a great mouse in the walls, and
an impatient tread on the steep garret stairs that led to Mrs. Todd's
chief place of storage. She went and came as if she had already started
on her expedition with utmost haste and kept returning for something
that was forgotten. When I appeared in quest of my breakfast, she would
be absent-minded and sparing of speech, as if I had displeased her,
and she was now, by main force of principle, holding herself back from
altercation and strife of tongues.

These signs of a change became familiar to me in the course of time,
and Mrs. Todd hardly noticed some plain proofs of divination one August
morning when I said, without preface, that I had just seen the Beggs'
best chaise go by, and that we should have to take the grocery. Mrs.
Todd was alert in a moment.

"There! I might have known!" she exclaimed. "It's the 15th of August,
when he goes and gets his money. He heired an annuity from an uncle o'
his on his mother's side. I understood the uncle said none o' Sam Begg's
wife's folks should make free with it, so after Sam's gone it'll all be
past an' spent, like last summer. That's what Sam prospers on now, if
you can call it prosperin'. Yes, I might have known. 'Tis the 15th o'
August with him, an' he gener'ly stops to dinner with a cousin's widow
on the way home. Feb'uary n' August is the times. Takes him 'bout all
day to go an' come."

I heard this explanation with interest. The tone of Mrs. Todd's voice
was complaining at the last.

"I like the grocery just as well as the chaise," I hastened to say,
referring to a long-bodied high wagon with a canopy-top, like an
attenuated four-posted bedstead on wheels, in which we sometimes
journeyed. "We can put things in behind--roots and flowers and
raspberries, or anything you are going after--much better than if we had
the chaise."

Mrs. Todd looked stony and unwilling. "I counted upon the chaise," she
said, turning her back to me, and roughly pushing back all the quiet
tumblers on the cupboard shelf as if they had been impertinent. "Yes, I
desired the chaise for once. I ain't goin' berryin' nor to fetch home no
more wilted vegetation this year. Season's about past, except for a poor
few o' late things," she added in a milder tone. "I'm goin' up country.
No, I ain't intendin' to go berryin'. I've been plottin' for it the past
fortnight and hopin' for a good day."

"Would you like to have me go too?" I asked frankly, but not without a
humble fear that I might have mistaken the purpose of this latest plan.

Adam The Devil hauls. If the dream is not a joke, Let's, as it wanted,
it works against me in! Läpp'sche Light The fear! Give your only properly,
if the Gerichtsrat currently is, the right parties on the judges chairs,
thus the dream of ausgehunzten judges on other species is not in compliance.
The Fourth appearance Gerichtsrat Walter occurs. The former. Grüß God
you Walter, Judge Adam. Adam Ah, welcome! Welcome gnäd'ger Lord, in our
Huisum! Who could you have a fair God, who could So happy to visit
gewärt'gen. No dream, this morning Glock eighth yet to be understood
that such fortunes could own.

Walter I come a little quickly, I know, and must be on this rice ',
states in our service, satisfaction, when my hosts farewell me
with well-fired. now I understand what my greeting concerned, I
think the heart of good, even if I come.

The Upper Tribunal in Utrecht to the administration of justice in the
land records improve the poor side of some seems, And strict
instructions from the abuse has to be expected.

But my business on that rice is A rigorous yet not sehn should I just do
not punish them, And I will not find everything as it should, I am glad
if it is bearable. Adam Verily so noble way of thinking must be commended.
Ew. Grace will be here and there, I doubt not, the ancient custom in
the legal rebuke to know, And when he is in the Netherlands since
the same Emperor Charles the Fifth already exists: What is in your
mind does not invent?

The world, our proverb says, is always wiser, And all the reads, I
know the Puffendorf; But Huisum is a small part of the world, on no
more, no less, than can only be part of the general wisdom come. clarifies
the kind of justice in Huisum on, And convinced you, gnäd'ger Lord,
You have still your spine as soon not be swept, as it is totally
you befried'gen; fändet But you do today in the office already, as
you wish, my soul, it would be a miracle , dark Because they only
remember what you want.

Walter, lacking provisions, quite right. Rather, it is too much, you
will need to sift through. Adam Yes, through a large sieve. Much
chaff! Much chaff! Walter This is where the Lord Schreiber? The
Light Scribe light, to grace your services. Pentecost nine years that I
am Justice. Adam brings a chair. If you. Let his Walter. Adam you are
coming from Holla already.

Two small Walter miles - Where you will know? Adam Where? Ew. Servant
of Grace - Light A farmer says' it just now from the Holla arrived.

Walter A farmer? Adam Aufzuwarten. Walter - Yes! It happened where an
unpleasant incident, my heitre The mood disturbed, the shops will accompany
us .-- You will be informed? Adam were true, Mr. strict? The judge
Pfaul Because arrest he received in his house, the gates of despair hätt
surprised he hung on? And Walter made worse evils. What seemed only
chaos, confusion, Now Is the appearance of embezzlement, The Law, you
know no longer spared .-- How much cash did you? Adam Five, to serve.
Like Walter, five? I stood in the madness - Filled boxes? I stood in
the delusion that you are only four - Adam sorry! With the
Rhine-collections-Inundations Checkout? By Walter Inundations-collections-Checkout!
Jetzo But the Rhine is not inundiert, And the collections do not go
thus.
Hardly a flower in it except your bush
o' balm!" she said. "But you do keep your garden neat, Almiry. Are you
both well, an' goin' up country with me?" She came a step or two closer
to meet us, with quaint politeness and quite as delightful as if she
were at home. She dropped a quick little curtsey before Mrs. Todd.

"There, mother, what a girl you be! I am so pleased! I was just
bewailin' you," said the daughter, with unwonted feeling. "I was just
bewailin' you, I was so disappointed, an' I kep' myself awake a good
piece o' the night scoldin' poor William. I watched for the boat till
I was ready to shed tears yisterday, and when 'twas comin' dark I kep'
making errands out to the gate an' down the road to see if you wa'n't in
the doldrums somewhere down the bay."

"There was a head-wind, as you know," said Mrs. Blackett, giving me
the cap-basket, and holding my hand affectionately as we walked up the
clean-swept path to the door. "I was partly ready to come, but dear
William said I should be all tired out and might get cold, havin'
to beat all the way in. So we give it up, and set down and spent the
evenin' together. It was a little rough and windy outside, and I guess
'twas better judgment; we went to bed very early and made a good start
just at daylight. It's been a lovely mornin' on the water. William
thought he'd better fetch across beyond Bird Rocks, rowin' the greater
part o' the way; then we sailed from there right over to the landin',
makin' only one tack. William'll be in again for me to-morrow, so I can
come back here an' rest me over night, an' go to meetin' to-morrow, and
have a nice, good visit."

"She was just havin' her breakfast," said Mrs. Todd, who had listened
eagerly to the long explanation without a word of disapproval, while her
face shone more and more with joy. "You just sit right down an' have
a cup of tea and rest you while we make our preparations. Oh, I am so
gratified to think you've come! Yes, she was just havin' her breakfast,
and we were speakin' of you. Where's William?"

"He went right back; said he expected some schooners in about noon after
bait, but he'll come an' have his dinner with us tomorrow, unless it
rains; then next day. I laid his best things out all ready," explained
Mrs. Blackett, a little anxiously. "This wind will serve him nice all
the way home. Yes, I will take a cup of tea, dear,--a cup of tea is
always good; and then I'll rest a minute and be all ready to start."

"I do feel condemned for havin' such hard thoughts o' William," openly
confessed Mrs. Todd. She stood before us so large and serious that we
both laughed and could not find it in our hearts to convict so rueful a
culprit. "He shall have a good dinner to-morrow, if it can be got, and
I shall be real glad to see William," the confession ended handsomely,
while Mrs. Blackett smiled approval and made haste to praise the tea.
Then I hurried away to make sure of the grocery wagon. Whatever might be
the good of the reunion, I was going to have the pleasure and delight of
a day in Mrs. Blackett's company, not to speak of Mrs. Todd's.

The early morning breeze was still blowing, and the warm, sunshiny air
was of some ethereal northern sort, with a cool freshness as it
came over new-fallen snow. The world was filled with a fragrance of
fir-balsam and the faintest flavor of seaweed from the ledges, bare and
brown at low tide in the little harbor. It was so still and so early
that the village was but half awake. I could hear no voices but those of
the birds, small and great,--the constant song sparrows, the clink of
a yellow-hammer over in the woods, and the far conversation of some
deliberate crows. I saw William Blackett's escaping sail already far
from land, and Captain Littlepage was sitting behind his closed window
as I passed by, watching for some one who never came. And another thing!
In the absence of the hump. Walter He ungezogner man! - Creates order me
here! - To Him, if He does not immediately calm, He is the award of
iron is still true. Veit Be quiet, you rascal thorny!

The Twelfth appearance without previous Adam .-- They all go to the
front of the stage.

Ruprecht egg, mushrooms, as I now shamefully insulted you! Oh, god
lightning, all weather, and, like yesterday! Oh, thou my golden girl,
heart - bride! Will you forgive me your life can be? Eve throws himself
at the feet of the Gerichtsrat. Lord! If you do not help, we are
lost! Walter Lost? Why? Ruprecht Lord God! Whats? Eve Ruprecht saved by
the conscriptions! That conscriptions - Does Adam judges me as a secret
entrusted - Geht after East Indies, and from there, you know, Returns
One of three men just back! Walter What! Under East India! Are you
in your senses? Eve After Bantam, Mr. gnäd'ger; not denied Here is the
letter, the silent secret instruction, concerning the land militia, the
government recently adopted so: You see, I am informed of everything.
Walter takes the letter and reads it.

O-outrageous fraudulent fraud! - The letter is wrong! Eve False? Walter
false, so I live, Mr Schreiber Licht says himself, this is the Ordre,
The man from Utrecht recently issued to you? The Ordre light! What! The
sinners, the! A sweep, with the suitable hands up! - The troops that you
anwarb, is intended to serve the country, no man Remember, after
East India to send!

Eve No, never, your Lord? "Walter For my honor! And on the evidence of
my word: the Ruprecht, would be so as thou sayest to me: I buy him
free! Eve is on. O God! How Böswicht lied to me, because with just concern
the terrible tortures' he is my heart, and came during the night, me
a certificate for Ruprecht aufzudrängen; demonstrated how a disease
erlognes testimony from all military service could relieve him,
and declared, and assured slipped, auszufert'gen To me, in my room:
How shameful, your lords, demanding of me, That it does not dare
to pronounce girls mouth!

Brigitte egg that is not worthy, shameful scam! Ruprecht Let, let
the hooves, my sweet child ! Look, hätt a horse when you smashed the
jug, I would be so jealous, just as now! (They are kissing.) Veit The
sag ich auch! Kissed and reconciled and loves you; Pentecost And, if you
will, like his wedding! Light at the window.

You see how the judge Adam, I ask you, on a mountain, mountain, when
he flöhe wheel and the gallows, The Winter aufgepflügte field
durchstampft !

Walter What? If the judge Adam? Light, however! Several Now he comes
to the street. Behold! see, as the wig flogs his back! Walter Geschwind,
Mr. Schreiber, gone! Get him back! That he does not do worse evils saving.
From his office while he is suspended, And You ordered me to have more
here in place to manage it, however, are the funds properly, as I hope
to desertion him I will not oblige. Fort! Do me a favor, pick him
again! (Light). Letzter Auftritt The former without light. Mrs Marthe
Says however, strict Lord, where I also find the seat of government
in Utrecht? Why Walter, Mrs Marthe? Mrs Marthe sensitive. Hm! Why? I
do not know - Is this the right not to be Kruge geschehn?

This was a highway quite new to me; in fact, most of my
journeys with Mrs. Todd had been made afoot and between the roads, in
open pasturelands. My friends stopped several times for brief dooryard
visits, and made so many promises of stopping again on the way home
that I began to wonder how long the expedition would last. I had often
noticed how warmly Mrs. Todd was greeted by her friends, but it was
hardly to be compared with the feeling now shown toward Mrs. Blackett.
A look of delight came to the faces of those who recognized the plain,
dear old figure beside me; one revelation after another was made of the
constant interest and intercourse that had linked the far island and
these scattered farms into a golden chain of love and dependence.

"Now, we mustn't stop again if we can help it," insisted Mrs. Todd at
last. "You'll get tired, mother, and you'll think the less o' reunions.
We can visit along here any day. There, if they ain't frying doughnuts
in this next house, too! These are new folks, you know, from over St.
George way; they took this old Talcot farm last year. 'Tis the best
water on the road, and the check-rein's come undone--yes, we'd best
delay a little and water the horse."

We stopped, and seeing a party of pleasure-seekers in holiday attire,
the thin, anxious mistress of the farmhouse came out with wistful
sympathy to hear what news we might have to give. Mrs. Blackett
first spied her at the half-closed door, and asked with such cheerful
directness if we were trespassing that, after a few words, she went back
to her kitchen and reappeared with a plateful of doughnuts.

"Entertainment for man and beast," announced Mrs. Todd with
satisfaction. "Why, we've perceived there was new doughnuts all along
the road, but you're the first that has treated us."

Our new acquaintance flushed with pleasure, but said nothing.

"They're very nice; you've had good luck with 'em," pronounced Mrs.
Todd. "Yes, we've observed there was doughnuts all the way along; if one
house is frying all the rest is; 'tis so with a great many things."

"I don't suppose likely you're goin' up to the Bowden reunion?" asked
the hostess as the white horse lifted his head and we were saying
good-by.

"Why, yes," said Mrs. Blackett and Mrs. Todd and I, all together.

"I am connected with the family. Yes, I expect to be there this
afternoon. I've been lookin' forward to it," she told us eagerly.

"We shall see you there. Come and sit with us if it's convenient," said
dear Mrs. Blackett, and we drove away.

"I wonder who she was before she was married?" said Mrs. Todd, who was
usually unerring in matters of genealogy. "She must have been one of
that remote branch that lived down beyond Thomaston. We can find out
this afternoon. I expect that the families'll march together, or be
sorted out some way. I'm willing to own a relation that has such proper
ideas of doughnuts."

"I seem to see the family looks," said Mrs. Blackett. "I wish we'd asked
her name. She's a stranger, and I want to help make it pleasant for all
such."

"She resembles Cousin Pa'lina Bowden about the forehead," said Mrs. Todd
with decision.

We had just passed a piece of woodland that shaded the road, and come
out to some open fields beyond, when Mrs. Todd suddenly reined in the
horse as if somebody had stood on the roadside and stopped her. She even
gave that quick reassuring nod of her head which was usually made to
answer for a bow, but I discovered that she was looking eagerly at a
tall ash-tree that grew just inside the field fence.

"I thought 'twas goin' to do well," she said complacently as we went on
again. "Last time I was up this way that tree was kind of drooping and
discouraged. Grown trees act that way sometimes, same's folks; then
they'll put right to it and strike their roots off into new ground and
start all over again with real good courage. Ash-trees is very likely to
have poor spells; they ain't got the resolution of other trees."

I listened hopefully for more; it was this peculiar wisdom that made one
value Mrs. Todd's pleasant company.

"There's sometimes a good hearty tree growin' right out of the bare
rock, out o' some crack that just holds the roots;" she went on to say,
"right on the pitch o' one o' them bare stony hills where you can't seem
to see a wheel-barrowful o' good earth in a place, but that tree'll keep
a green top in the driest summer. You lay your ear down to the ground
an' you'll hear a little stream runnin'. Every such tree has got its own
livin' spring; there's folk made to match 'em."

I could not help turning to look at Mrs. Blackett, close beside me. Her
hands were clasped placidly in their thin black woolen gloves, and
she was looking at the flowery wayside as we went slowly along, with a
pleased, expectant smile. I do not think she had heard a word about the
trees.

"I just saw a nice plant o' elecampane growin' back there," she said
presently to her daughter.

"I haven't got my mind on herbs to-day," responded Mrs. Todd, in the
most matter-of-fact way. "I'm bent on seeing folks," and she shook the
reins again.

I for one had no wish to hurry, it was so pleasant in the shady roads.
The woods stood close to the road on the right; on the left were narrow
fields and pastures where there were as many acres of spruces and pines
as there were acres of bay and juniper and huckleberry, with a little
turf between. When I thought we were in the heart of the inland country,
we reached the top of a hill, and suddenly there lay spread out before
us a wonderful great view of well-cleared fields that swept down to
the wide water of a bay. Beyond this were distant shores like another
country in the midday haze which half hid the hills beyond, and the
faraway pale blue mountains on the northern horizon. There was a
schooner with all sails set coming down the bay from a white village
that was sprinkled on the shore, and there were many sailboats flitting
about it. It was a noble landscape, and my eyes, which had grown used to
the narrow inspection of a shaded roadside, could hardly take it in.

"Why, it's the upper bay," said Mrs. Todd. "You can see 'way over into
the town of Fessenden. Those farms 'way over there are all in Fessenden.
Mother used to have a sister that lived up that shore. If we started as
early's we could on a summer mornin', we couldn't get to her place from
Green Island till late afternoon, even with a fair, steady breeze, and
you had to strike the time just right so as to fetch up 'long o' the
tide and land near the flood. 'Twas ticklish business, an' we didn't
visit back an' forth as much as mother desired. You have to go 'way down
the co'st to Cold Spring Light an' round that long point,--up here's
what they call the Back Shore."

"No, we were 'most always separated, my dear sister and me, after the
first year she was married," said Mrs. Blackett. "We had our little
families an' plenty o' cares. We were always lookin' forward to the time
we could see each other more. Now and then she'd get out to the island
for a few days while her husband'd go fishin'; and once he stopped with
her an' two children, and made him some flakes right there and cured all
his fish for winter. We did have a beautiful time together, sister an'
me; she used to look back to it long's she lived.

"I do love to look over there where she used to live," Mrs. Blackett
went on as we began to go down the hill. "It seems as if she must still
be there, though she's long been gone. She loved their farm,--she didn't
see how I got so used to our island; but somehow I was always happy from
the first."

"Yes, it's very dull to me up among those slow farms," declared Mrs.
Todd. "The snow troubles 'em in winter. They're all besieged by winter,
as you may say; 'tis far better by the shore than up among such places.
I never thought I should like to live up country."

"Why, just see the carriages ahead of us on the next rise!" exclaimed
Mrs. Blackett. "There's going to be a great gathering, don't you believe
there is, Almiry? It hasn't seemed up to now as if anybody was going but
us. An' 'tis such a beautiful day, with yesterday cool and pleasant to
work an' get ready, I shouldn't wonder if everybody was there, even the
slow ones like Phebe Ann Brock."

Mrs. Blackett's eyes were bright with excitement, and even Mrs. Todd
showed remarkable enthusiasm. She hurried the horse and caught up with
the holiday-makers ahead. "There's all the Dep'fords goin', six in the
wagon," she told us joyfully; "an' Mis' Alva Tilley's folks are now
risin' the hill in their new carry-all."

Mrs. Blackett pulled at the neat bow of her black bonnet-strings, and
tied them again with careful precision. "I believe your bonnet's on
a little bit sideways, dear," she advised Mrs. Todd as if she were a
child; but Mrs. Todd was too much occupied to pay proper heed. We began
to feel a new sense of gayety and of taking part in the great occasion
as we joined the little train.


XVIII. The Bowden Reunion

IT IS VERY RARE in country life, where high days and holidays are few,
that any occasion of general interest proves to be less than great. Such
is the hidden fire of enthusiasm in the New England nature that, once
given an outlet, it shines forth with almost volcanic light and heat. In
quiet neighborhoods such inward force does not waste itself upon those
petty excitements of every day that belong to cities, but when, at
long intervals, the altars to patriotism, to friendship, to the ties
of kindred, are reared in our familiar fields, then the fires glow, the
flames come up as if from the inexhaustible burning heart of the earth;
the primal fires break through the granite dust in which our souls are
set. Each heart is warm and every face shines with the ancient light.
Such a day as this has transfiguring powers, and easily makes friends of
those who have been cold-hearted, and gives to those who are dumb their
chance to speak, and lends some beauty to the plainest face.

"Oh, I expect I shall meet friends today that I haven't seen in a long
while," said Mrs. Blackett with deep satisfaction. "'Twill bring out a
good many of the old folks, 'tis such a lovely day. I'm always glad not
to have them disappointed."

"I guess likely the best of 'em'll be there," answered Mrs. Todd with
gentle humor, stealing a glance at me. "There's one thing certain:
there's nothing takes in this whole neighborhood like anything related
to the Bowdens. Yes, I do feel that when you call upon the Bowdens you
may expect most families to rise up between the Landing and the far end
of the Back Cove. Those that aren't kin by blood are kin by marriage."

"There used to be an old story goin' about when I was a girl," said Mrs.
Blackett, with much amusement. "There was a great many more Bowdens then
than there are now, and the folks was all setting in meeting a dreadful
hot Sunday afternoon, and a scatter-witted little bound girl came
running to the meetin'-house door all out o' breath from somewheres in
the neighborhood. 'Mis' Bowden, Mis' Bowden!' says she. 'Your baby's in
a fit!' They used to tell that the whole congregation was up on its
feet in a minute and right out into the aisles. All the Mis' Bowdens
was setting right out for home; the minister stood there in the pulpit
tryin' to keep sober, an' all at once he burst right out laughin'. He
was a very nice man, they said, and he said he'd better give 'em the
benediction, and they could hear the sermon next Sunday, so he kept it
over. My mother was there, and she thought certain 'twas me."

"None of our family was ever subject to fits," interrupted Mrs. Todd
severely. "No, we never had fits, none of us; and 'twas lucky we didn't
'way out there to Green Island. Now these folks right in front; dear
sakes knows the bunches o' soothing catnip an' yarrow I've had to favor
old Mis' Evins with dryin'! You can see it right in their expressions,
all them Evins folks. There, just you look up to the crossroads,
mother," she suddenly exclaimed. "See all the teams ahead of us. And,
oh, look down on the bay; yes, look down on the bay! See what a sight o'
boats, all headin' for the Bowden place cove!"

"Oh, ain't it beautiful!" said Mrs. Blackett, with all the delight of a
girl. She stood up in the high wagon to see everything, and when she sat
down again she took fast hold of my hand.

"Hadn't you better urge the horse a little, Almiry?" she asked. "He's
had it easy as we came along, and he can rest when we get there. The
others are some little ways ahead, and I don't want to lose a minute."

We watched the boats drop their sails one by one in the cove as we
drove along the high land. The old Bowden house stood, low-storied and
broad-roofed, in its green fields as if it were a motherly brown hen
waiting for the flock that came straying toward it from every direction.
The first Bowden settler had made his home there, and it was still the
Bowden farm; five generations of sailors and farmers and soldiers
had been its children. And presently Mrs. Blackett showed me the
stone-walled burying-ground that stood like a little fort on a knoll
overlooking the bay, but, as she said, there were plenty of scattered
Bowdens who were not laid there,--some lost at sea, and some out West,
and some who died in the war; most of the home graves were those of
women.

We could see now that there were different footpaths from along shore
and across country. In all these there were straggling processions
walking in single file, like old illustrations of the Pilgrim's
Progress. There was a crowd about the house as if huge bees were
swarming in the lilac bushes. Beyond the fields and cove a higher point
of land ran out into the bay, covered with woods which must have kept
away much of the northwest wind in winter. Now there was a pleasant look
of shade and shelter there for the great family meeting.

We hurried on our way, beginning to feel as if we were very late, and it
was a great satisfaction at last to turn out of the stony highroad into
a green lane shaded with old apple-trees. Mrs. Todd encouraged the horse
until he fairly pranced with gayety as we drove round to the front of
the house on the soft turf. There was an instant cry of rejoicing, and
two or three persons ran toward us from the busy group.

"Why, dear Mis' Blackett!--here's Mis' Blackett!" I heard them say, as
if it were pleasure enough for one day to have a sight of her. Mrs. Todd
turned to me with a lovely look of triumph and self-forgetfulness. An
elderly man who wore the look of a prosperous sea-captain put up both
arms and lifted Mrs. Blackett down from the high wagon like a child, and
kissed her with hearty affection. "I was master afraid she wouldn't be
here," he said, looking at Mrs. Todd with a face like a happy sunburnt
schoolboy, while everybody crowded round to give their welcome.

"Mother's always the queen," said Mrs. Todd. "Yes, they'll all make
everything of mother; she'll have a lovely time to-day. I wouldn't have
had her miss it, and there won't be a thing she'll ever regret, except
to mourn because William wa'n't here."

Mrs. Blackett having been properly escorted to the house, Mrs. Todd
received her own full share of honor, and some of the men, with a simple
kindness that was the soul of chivalry, waited upon us and our baskets
and led away the white horse. I already knew some of Mrs. Todd's friends
and kindred, and felt like an adopted Bowden in this happy moment. It
seemed to be enough for anyone to have arrived by the same conveyance as
Mrs. Blackett, who presently had her court inside the house, while Mrs.
Todd, large, hospitable, and preeminent, was the centre of a rapidly
increasing crowd about the lilac bushes. Small companies were
continually coming up the long green slope from the water, and nearly
all the boats had come to shore. I counted three or four that were
baffled by the light breeze, but before long all the Bowdens, small and
great, seemed to have assembled, and we started to go up to the grove
across the field.

Out of the chattering crowd of noisy children, and large-waisted women
whose best black dresses fell straight to the ground in generous folds,
and sunburnt men who looked as serious as if it were town-meeting day,
there suddenly came silence and order. I saw the straight, soldierly
little figure of a man who bore a fine resemblance to Mrs. Blackett, and
who appeared to marshal us with perfect ease. He was imperative enough,
but with a grand military sort of courtesy, and bore himself with solemn
dignity of importance. We were sorted out according to some clear design
of his own, and stood as speechless as a troop to await his orders. Even
the children were ready to march together, a pretty flock, and at
the last moment Mrs. Blackett and a few distinguished companions, the
ministers and those who were very old, came out of the house together
and took their places. We ranked by fours, and even then we made a long
procession.

There was a wide path mowed for us across the field, and, as we moved
along, the birds flew up out of the thick second crop of clover, and
the bees hummed as if it still were June. There was a flashing of
white gulls over the water where the fleet of boats rode the low waves
together in the cove, swaying their small masts as if they kept time to
our steps. The plash of the water could be heard faintly, yet still be
heard; we might have been a company of ancient Greeks going to celebrate
a victory, or to worship the god of harvests, in the grove above. It was
strangely moving to see this and to make part of it. The sky, the sea,
have watched poor humanity at its rites so long; we were no more a New
England family celebrating its own existence and simple progress; we
carried the tokens and inheritance of all such households from which
this had descended, and were only the latest of our line. We possessed
the instincts of a far, forgotten childhood; I found myself thinking
that we ought to be carrying green branches and singing as we went.
So we came to the thick shaded grove still silent, and were set in
our places by the straight trees that swayed together and let sunshine
through here and there like a single golden leaf that flickered down,
vanishing in the cool shade.

The grove was so large that the great family looked far smaller than it
had in the open field; there was a thick growth of dark pines and firs
with an occasional maple or oak that gave a gleam of color like a bright
window in the great roof. On three sides we could see the water, shining
behind the tree-trunks, and feel the cool salt breeze that began to come
up with the tide just as the day reached its highest point of heat. We
could see the green sunlit field we had just crossed as if we looked
out at it from a dark room, and the old house and its lilacs standing
placidly in the sun, and the great barn with a stockade of carriages
from which two or three care-taking men who had lingered were coming
across the field together. Mrs. Todd had taken off her warm gloves and
looked the picture of content.

"There!" she exclaimed. "I've always meant to have you see this place,
but I never looked for such a beautiful opportunity--weather an'
occasion both made to match. Yes, it suits me: I don't ask no more. I
want to know if you saw mother walkin' at the head! It choked me right
up to see mother at the head, walkin' with the ministers," and Mrs. Todd
turned away to hide the feelings she could not instantly control.

"Who was the marshal?" I hastened to ask. "Was he an old soldier?"

"Don't he do well?" answered Mrs. Todd with satisfaction.

"He don't often have such a chance to show off his gifts," said Mrs.
Caplin, a friend from the Landing who had joined us. "That's Sant
Bowden; he always takes the lead, such days. Good for nothing else most
o' his time; trouble is, he"--

I turned with interest to hear the worst. Mrs. Caplin's tone was both
zealous and impressive.

"Stim'lates," she explained scornfully.

"No, Santin never was in the war," said Mrs. Todd with lofty
indifference. "It was a cause of real distress to him. He kep'
enlistin', and traveled far an' wide about here, an' even took the bo't
and went to Boston to volunteer; but he ain't a sound man, an' they
wouldn't have him. They say he knows all their tactics, an' can tell all
about the battle o' Waterloo well's he can Bunker Hill. I told him once
the country'd lost a great general, an' I meant it, too."

"I expect you're near right," said Mrs. Caplin, a little crestfallen and
apologetic.

"I be right," insisted Mrs. Todd with much amiability. "'Twas most too
bad to cramp him down to his peaceful trade, but he's a most excellent
shoemaker at his best, an' he always says it's a trade that gives him
time to think an' plan his maneuvers. Over to the Port they always
invite him to march Decoration Day, same as the rest, an' he does look
noble; he comes of soldier stock."

I had been noticing with great interest the curiously French type of
face which prevailed in this rustic company. I had said to myself before
that Mrs. Blackett was plainly of French descent, in both her appearance
and her charming gifts, but this is not surprising when one has learned
how large a proportion of the early settlers on this northern coast
of New England were of Huguenot blood, and that it is the Norman
Englishman, not the Saxon, who goes adventuring to a new world.

"They used to say in old times," said Mrs. Todd modestly, "that our
family came of very high folks in France, and one of 'em was a great
general in some o' the old wars. I sometimes think that Santin's ability
has come 'way down from then. 'Tain't nothin' he's ever acquired; 'twas
born in him. I don't know's he ever saw a fine parade, or met with those
that studied up such things. He's figured it all out an' got his papers
so he knows how to aim a cannon right for William's fish-house five
miles out on Green Island, or up there on Burnt Island where the
signal is. He had it all over to me one day, an' I tried hard to appear
interested. His life's all in it, but he will have those poor gloomy
spells come over him now an' then, an' then he has to drink."

Mrs. Caplin gave a heavy sigh.

"There's a great many such strayaway folks, just as there is plants,"
continued Mrs. Todd, who was nothing if not botanical. "I know of just
one sprig of laurel that grows over back here in a wild spot, an' I
never could hear of no other on this coast. I had a large bunch brought
me once from Massachusetts way, so I know it. This piece grows in
an open spot where you'd think 'twould do well, but it's sort o'
poor-lookin'. I've visited it time an' again, just to notice its poor
blooms. 'Tis a real Sant Bowden, out of its own place."

Mrs. Caplin looked bewildered and blank. "Well, all I know is, last year
he worked out some kind of plan so's to parade the county conference in
platoons, and got 'em all flustered up tryin' to sense his ideas of a
holler square," she burst forth. "They was holler enough anyway after
ridin' 'way down from up country into the salt air, and they'd been
treated to a sermon on faith an' works from old Fayther Harlow that
never knows when to cease. 'Twa'n't no time for tactics then,--they
wa'n't a'thinkin' of the church military. Sant, he couldn't do nothin'
with 'em. All he thinks of, when he sees a crowd, is how to march 'em.
'Tis all very well when he don't 'tempt too much. He never did act like
other folks."

"Ain't I just been maintainin' that he ain't like 'em?" urged Mrs. Todd
decidedly. "Strange folks has got to have strange ways, for what I see."

"Somebody observed once that you could pick out the likeness of 'most
every sort of a foreigner when you looked about you in our parish," said
Sister Caplin, her face brightening with sudden illumination. "I didn't
see the bearin' of it then quite so plain. I always did think Mari'
Harris resembled a Chinee."

"Mari' Harris was pretty as a child, I remember," said the pleasant
voice of Mrs. Blackett, who, after receiving the affectionate greetings
of nearly the whole company, came to join us,--to see, as she insisted,
that we were out of mischief.

"Yes, Mari' was one o' them pretty little lambs that make dreadful
homely old sheep," replied Mrs. Todd with energy. "Cap'n Littlepage
never'd look so disconsolate if she was any sort of a proper person
to direct things. She might divert him; yes, she might divert the old
gentleman, an' let him think he had his own way, 'stead o' arguing
everything down to the bare bone. 'Twouldn't hurt her to sit down an'
hear his great stories once in a while."

"The stories are very interesting," I ventured to say.

"Yes, you always catch yourself a-thinkin' what if they all was true,
and he had the right of it," answered Mrs. Todd. "He's a good sight
better company, though dreamy, than such sordid creatur's as Mari'
Harris."

"Live and let live," said dear old Mrs. Blackett gently. "I haven't seen
the captain for a good while, now that I ain't so constant to meetin',"
she added wistfully. "We always have known each other."

"Why, if it is a good pleasant day tomorrow, I'll get William to call
an' invite the capt'in to dinner. William'll be in early so's to pass up
the street without meetin' anybody."

"There, they're callin' out it's time to set the tables," said Mrs.
Caplin, with great excitement.

"Here's Cousin Sarah Jane Blackett! Well, I am pleased, certain!"
exclaimed Mrs. Todd, with unaffected delight; and these kindred spirits
met and parted with the promise of a good talk later on. After this
there was no more time for conversation until we were seated in order at
the long tables.

"I'm one that always dreads seeing some o' the folks that I don't like,
at such a time as this," announced Mrs. Todd privately to me after a
season of reflection. We were just waiting for the feast to begin. "You
wouldn't think such a great creatur' 's I be could feel all over pins
an' needles. I remember, the day I promised to Nathan, how it come over
me, just's I was feelin' happy's I could, that I'd got to have an own
cousin o' his for my near relation all the rest o' my life, an' it
seemed as if die I should. Poor Nathan saw somethin' had crossed me,--he
had very nice feelings,--and when he asked what 'twas, I told him. 'I
never could like her myself,' said he. 'You sha'n't be bothered, dear,'
he says; an' 'twas one o' the things that made me set a good deal by
Nathan, he did not make a habit of always opposin', like some men.
But we know already that it is not the death of each cell group in the
state cells makes it to the corpse. _Bestimmte Zellgruppen_ rather
have died when the large cells to a state funeral to be. Yes, even more:
even if some cells in the state cells are no longer quite on their items
are not dead, even then you're ready state of the cells perish.
This must still be explained. We understand it well that the life of a
multicellular animal, no target is set, if the animal eg Arms and
legs, has. But we imagine that we have responded to a laboratory
animal, eg a frog, the heart cut out.

Within a shorter or longer period, our animal die. The cells of his
brain, his muscles, his liver, etc., are, after removal of the heart no
longer receive oxygen and they will suffocate.

Your metabolism is extinguished, the cells will be corpses. And finally,
a time when all cells of the cell state, the frog is dead will be. We
say that the animal is now dead, now it is a corpse. Or we have
responded to a laboratory animal, eg a rabbit, both kidneys cut out.
The slag, the waste products of metabolism are not from the body
herausgeschafft may be, they are in the blood and in the cells of
the animal pile: and the cells will die - some sooner, others later,
until finally all the cells State of the cells are dead. Or in
diseases where specific cells and organs in their activities erlahmen,
eg in diseases of the heart. The heart does its work no longer, as usual,
because the heart muscle cells are weakened and ill. The cells of the
entire state cells are affected, they are getting too few nutrients,
especially to low oxygen and metabolic products from the cells are not
thorough enough herausgewaschen. Finally, listen to the regular work
of the heart completely, and it begins a rapid death of all cells of the
cell state. Or the kidneys are diseased, they do their work no longer
quite so without the active gland cells of the kidney throughout their
work would have set, without that they would be dead. And all the
cells of the body are under the bad work of the kidney cells
to suffer, and it is the hour, where the cells of the heart or the
brain cells are failing.

You will die - and it begins the great death of the cells in the
cell state. Just as it is in the plant. The plant loses its roots, it
will be shorter or longer time, all living cells of the plant cells die
state. The plant is dead. Or we cut using a sharp instrument from the
root of a plant above the dense root the only very small piece of
wood out part: now is the supply of nutrients to the cells of the
plant to a halt - just like when we give a experimental heart have
cut out.

The cells of the plant will begin abzusterben, until finally all the
cells of the large state of the plant cells will be dead. Now the
plant will be a corpse. _All In all of the multicellular organism dies
when certain cells in the state cells in their usual activities, and
thus fail the normal course of metabolism in all other cells in the
state cells stören._ However, not all cells in the state cells to die
at the same time. As the death on the part of a dying cell seedless
»hinkriecht" to deal with Verworn to speak, so he crawls through the
individual cells in the state cells gradually out. Regardless of
what the death of the multicellular organism is directly related:
_stets which cells die sooner, others later, until eventually the
entire state a corpse cells ist_ ... And if we want to know _warum_
we die? Why we grow old and eventually have a corpse? What a way we must
go if we want to answer? _Wir Must above all study the changes in
the cells of the multicellular organism in the course of life, in the
course of life which is death entwickelt._ 6th It retires the cells in
cell state. We have the savages who do not want to understand that
every man must die.

The natural man sees death as an accident in which necessarily an
evil spirit in the game was: the evil spirit had not proved all the
style, which is the hostile spirits already owe, if you remain
unscathed and not all sorts of embarrassing coincidences suspend
wants.

When someone dies, it has always been a hostile spirit of his craft
shameful enough. Looking at the modern statistics that tell us about
the death of people, one might almost natural human right to give it a
"natural" death, a death from old age does not exist, and that it is the
dying of the people always "wrong things", in games where ghosts
are approaching. In Germany, die each year over a million people,
and of those dying of old age just over a hundred thousand, not more
than eg alone die from tuberculosis. And then adds that, of the hundreds
of thousands of people who are over sixty years old and reportedly died
of old age are, in reality only a few underlying weakness in old age
are gone. The fact that a really old age and not a disease died, his
aged, withstood countless body has attacked, yes it can with certainty
say something only if the organs of the deceased, a very detailed microscopic
examination subject has. This happens only in the rarest cases, when the
old man in a public hospital died, and even then not always. In the
microscopic examination of the organs of deceased elderly will become
clear whether the apparent weakness of age deceased but not morbid
changes in its organs and cells. Where this expert examination of the
corpse has not been made, it can never be ruled out that it is a death
from disease has acted. This suspicion is all the more justified, just
as in old age people very often easier to succumb to diseases,
which a younger easily could have survived without even the impression
of a severely sick to his surroundings to have made.

It should be taken into consideration that quite a third of all deceased
have no death before medical treatment. And the doctor, in such cases to
verify the cause of death, is at a sixty-year-old man of course, nothing
other than cause of death indicate can, as old age - which is also so
far is correct, than the weakness of any age if it is the death
of the old people was to blame.

But a scientifically accurate statement that the old man really come from
old age and not from a disease died, the pairing is not the doctor. As
already mentioned, only the incoming morgue with the help of knife
and microscope allows us a statement as to whether someone in old age
and not disease died.

So we will understand that the famous doctor _Nothnagel_ come to the
conclusion, "that nearly all people by external violence or illness
take the ... and that of all the people die of natural causes, perhaps
a little under a hundred thousand. "And now the" other. "Examining
the bodies of old people, whether from old age or to any disease died,
so you can find in them always completely changes characteristic Art
Of these changes, we will still tell. It is clear that changes that
are in old people _allen_ encounters than age changes need to be
understood. And the doctor can usually say that if a man does not
participate in old age has died, but all the old common age changes
have made the ground for development and for the grim expression
of the disease, which a younger probably would have been overcome.

_Daß Today so few people die from old age, is not that there is a death
from old age does not exist, but only because the aged organism easily
succumbs to various diseases, which for younger people are not fatal.
The old man, who dies of any illness, dies at the same time also
from Altersschwäche._ * * * * * Now we want to tell them how the
aging of cells in cell state change. Gebücktes A mother is the image of
our age. A rugose, dental loose woman. The fat, the skin once bulging,
is faded and folds down on the skin. The fibrous bands, the bones of the
spine had firmly bound together, have their elasticity taking important
like a rubber band used a lot. And the spine is the pressure of the
upper body after the upper body falls forward. (Fig. 13). In the part
of the dwindling pine, which once sat the teeth and the teeth fall out
(Fig. 14 and 15). [Illustration: Fig 13th Curvature of the spine in old
age. + + A spine of a woman of 35 years. B + + a man of 83 years.
From Ewald.] [Illustration: Fig 14th Mandible of an adult human. After
Toldt.] [Illustration: Fig 15th Mandible of an old man.

After Ribbert.] Thinking and acting of human aging have also changed.
Man thinks and acts slower carriers. Man limping when the age has
come, even in thought, just as you laboriously with crutches to move on
and patch staircase goes. Let's look at the internal organs of an old
man, so we find that they are _kleiner_ than a younger people. You
can directly from one of the institutions _Schwund_ aged speak. We
already have the externally visible loss of mandible thought. Also,
the bone otherwise suffer a real shrinkage, the cranial bone (Fig. 16)
and all the others too.

The bones are thinner and the thinning of the bones goes so far that
they are brittle. Everyone knows that old people may suffer bone
fractures, especially in certain bones, such as on legs neck. And
as the bones, so experienced and all other institutions people
have a shrinkage: the liver, reduced by half, may be the kidneys,
heart, etc. But _Besonders striking is the shrinkage that the brains
of old people erfährt._ The windings of the brain, from nerve cells,
are narrower become widely vary the furrows between the windings.
But not only smaller and harder the organs in old age has become. Derb
tough and the doctor feels it in his hand when he shall exercise the
morgue. [Illustration: Fig 16th Skull roof of an old man. Right and left
at the crest bone can be seen very clearly the _Knochenschwund_: there
are shallow pits in the bone created.

After Ziegler.] Since we have a whole lot about how the institutions at
the age changed. But all that we can only understand when we consider
the microscope to help take the bodies of old people microscopically
examined.

Let us, for example, a piece of kidney from a man who died from old age
(Fig. 17). There are still at a point well-preserved kidney cells to
see the renal tubules, as it is for a normal kidney is not a better one.
But we are also renal tubules, which are completely collapsed, where
even the clearing of Kanälchen has been eroded. The cells of this
Kanälchen are reduced, "atrophic," as they say. These cells have an age
shrinkage experienced. Just as it is compatible with the cells of
the liver, glands, brain and other organs because the organs _Zellen_
of small, atrophic become, are just the old people in institutions is
less than in recent years. _Es Finds atrophy at the age of the cells
instead, a shrinkage of the living cell substance. The shrinkage of
the living substance of cells, features all the organs of the aged
Körpers._ [Illustration: Fig 17th Horizontal sections through renal
tubules from the kidney of an old man. + + with a well-preserved cells,
one sees clearly the clearing of the renal tubules. + b + c + + and with
atrophic cells: the Kanälchen have collapsed, a clearing is no longer
available. Highly magnified. After Ziegler. Slightly schematized.]
Even harder and rough, we have said, the organs in old age. Already
externally can be hard on the pulse of an old man watching. What does
this mean?

The microscopic examination of the bodies of old people shows us that
in their very ample amounts of connective tissue found. The connective
tissue is also live in fresh bodies in kidney, liver, etc. is
always available.

It makes sense the way down, in which the cells of the organs are bedded.
The connective tissue is now at the age of exuberant development.

That would be not so bad. But the connective tissue in old age is very
hard, fibrous, and it is not so elastic as formerly.

Very striking is the hardening of the connective tissue, the blood
tubes wrapped, and what we as a hard heart for all people feel
this is the tough connective tissue to the blood tubes around.

And as the cells of the kidney, liver, brain and all other organs in old
age is no longer quite her usual work can do, because they have experienced
age shrinkage, including the connective tissue. It failed in the service:
it is the cells and organs no longer the soft and elastic bed and
gives them no longer, as formerly their grip. We see this particularly
on the curvature of the spine in old age. Disastrous is this failure
of the connective tissue in the blood vessels.

The distribution of blood in the body can only take place quite regularly,
if the blood tubes, good elastic. The flexible tubes are among the
Pumpapparat the blood circulation, they work in the distribution of blood
in the body to the heart in your hand.

A pumping namely, a fluid through tubes _starre_ driveth gives an
intermittent stream, a stream in various clashes.

On the other hand, pushes the same pumping the fluid through tubes
_elastische_ not shocks, but continuous, uninterrupted. The flexible
tubes of blood have thus a very important share in the distribution
of blood in the body: they ensure that the blood _dauernd_ organs
and cells to flow.

Had it fixed, so would the blood to the cells only in some clashes that
have all the second, once with each heartbeat. Now, however, at the age
of the blood tubes taking important elasticity, when the connective
tissue in which they are bedded, has become tougher. The supply of blood
to the cells in the body is affected. The metabolism of the cells will
be damaged. And it adds that the blood pump itself, the cells of the
heart, an old experienced shrinkage. Even the aged heart is small and can
then no longer as meaningful work, as in younger days. All this helps
to ensure that the atrophy of the substance of all living cells in the
body even faster.

The old-age shrinkage of cells in the cell state means that there is now
less substance in the living organism - the cells are smaller and it
is now in the body less vital in the metabolism of substance burnt.
This is self-evident: in the aging organism burns the fire of life
- quite literally to be understood - not more like once in May, it
does not burn in blazing heat as before, as in the youth of man.

It has been found that the metabolism in old people and old women
experience a decrease. Thus, the combustion processes for people aged
around 68 to 86 years by about 20% lower than for people who are
middle-aged stand. All in all, is the _es retires the cells in cell
state, that they are Atrophic that they have a age shrinkage
experienced, with the metabolism of the cells a significant decrease
erfährt_ 7.

How we die.

Now we know what it retires the cells in cell state. But what we gain for
the understanding of the natural death, we are looking for, if we now
know that the cells in the state cells of age shrinkage learn?
We were in the fifth chapter then concluded that the multicellular
organism dies, _wenn specific cells required for the normal course of
metabolism in the state cells are important in their work versagen_.
We now show the changes in aging cells, cells in the state, we have
determined indicate which cells in the body most likely to fail and
the death of the cells initiating State? No. We have just seen that
cells of the cells _sämtliche_ State of age suffer from wasting.
However, we want to know why more or less suddenly the moment comes,
where a fast Hinsterben all cells of the cell state begins.

It tells us what we are about the age shrinkage of cells in the state
cells and the decrease of their metabolism have not yet made. Do we
want to gain insight here, so we have another path. We should then
not be restricted to merely the bodies of people who died of old age, to
investigate. We have to watch you _How stirbt_. To us the search
easier, we first want to watch, how to approach a _Krankheit_ dies,
such as death by illness comes. Those who wanted to but in joyful
jubilation of life in the numbers sink, which statistical offices and
hospitals have identified and from which herauszulesen is what and how
people die! And some of those who face these lines to get's me is not
bad, that I now want to go off all the murky images of death
hervorzuzaubern.

It may well go there, that of death of a slipper animalcules and
speaks well of the death of the people from old age. But by the death
from disease, from death to us is the cold horror!

And since I would like to _Nothnagel_ words come, who shortly before his
own death in a lecture a light full representation of the death has
been: "It is a gamble, if I do business, not, as usual, hold formations
of art and poetry or poignant depictions of the lives and history or
hoheitgeschmückte clearance of science, but such a night-born problem
of how to die, before your mental eye to lead. The courage to give me
the consideration that the vital force of this problem is not thinking
that one can resist. If it is but an inescapable question that everyone,
without exception, are personal. We love it indifferent or reckless,
brave, or shown fearful or even joyfully, with the rest of the philosopher
or the curiosity of the researcher's record, but we are reminded in
this or that way but once some of them. The serious people, but it
behooves, a process that every living manner of destruction, and a
strong attention on their depth. "And so because we take the courage,
including the death by illness to speak ... If we look at the death
statistics Watch as we find them very numerous "deaths" recorded.
The official list of causes of death, the Supreme Medizinalbehörden
in the various German states to apply the doctors have recommended,
contains over 175 different numbers. And the "short list", the
Imperial Health Office for the use of death statistics, is one of 23
causes of death. Because people die from infectious diseases such as
tuberculosis, typhoid fever, scarlet fever, diphtheria, measles, Rose,
pneumonia and influenza to smallpox, dysentery, stiff neck, to
whooping cough, etc. The temptation of other digestive diseases, diseases
of the heart, lungs, kidneys, the liver, the nervous system. And
others are dying of cancer, than fall victim to the battle field of
work in factory or mine, are the victim of an accident, a murder, dying
of poison. And what of the horrors more! Thus initially a quite
extraordinary diversity from » causes of death. " Upon closer watch it,
however, that the death of people is much more uniform. Take for
example the case that a man of pneumonia died. At first glance
there seems no doubt that a disease of the lungs to the death of our
patients has indebted. The diseased lungs breathing may not be as good
care. The cells of the body is not getting enough oxygen, and carbon
dioxide from them will not prompt enough herausgeschwemmt. Above all,
the nerve cells that are extremely sensitive to hypoxia are.

The meaning of health umnebeln, and finally, our patient is unconscious.
But still, the breathing is not quite still and the heart still doing his
work. But finally, the heart begins to erlahmen. Because the heart muscle
cells can only work hard if they are enough oxygen with the blood of fed
and if they get no metabolic products remain loaded. Normally, blood
vessels makes it particularly the heart muscle cells allerfrischeste
the blood in the body.

Well, where breathing has become defective, where the lungs are
no longer enough oxygen to get into the blood, is of course also
the oxygen supply to the heart muscle cells poorly - the shock
result of the heart begins to become irregular and finally stop the
heart, although the respiration of our patients still had not
entirely ceased.

For the heart, however, was the inadequate supply of oxygen so
insufficient that it is his work no longer could do. Our patient is
dead, we say that he died of pneumonia. That is correct, than the
pneumonia had made him sick. But of all organs has _Herz_ but the
first fails, and the arrest of _Herzens_ the death of the cells in
the state initiated cells. Another example. A child is ill diphtheria.
The inflammation of the larynx showed respiratory distress calls. The
child "stifled" if the doctor did not happen to cut out saving trachea:
the arrest of the heart, when hypoxia occurs, even if some still
breathing stops, the fate of a child sealed.

And even more: it just happens that a diphtheria sick child dies
before it ever came to breathlessness.
There was something delightful in
the grasp of his hand, warm and clean, as if it never touched anything
but the comfortable woolen yarn, instead of cold sea water and slippery
fish.

"What are the painted stakes for, down in the field?" I hastened to ask,
and he came out a step or two along the path to see; and looked at the
stakes as if his attention were called to them for the first time.

"Folks laughed at me when I first bought this place an' come here to
live," he explained. "They said 'twa'n't no kind of a field privilege at
all; no place to raise anything, all full o' stones. I was aware 'twas
good land, an' I worked some on it--odd times when I didn't have nothin'
else on hand--till I cleared them loose stones all out. You never see
a prettier piece than 'tis now; now did ye? Well, as for them painted
marks, them's my buoys. I struck on to some heavy rocks that didn't show
none, but a plow'd be liable to ground on 'em, an' so I ketched holt
an' buoyed 'em same's you see. They don't trouble me no more'n if they
wa'n't there."

"You haven't been to sea for nothing," I said laughing.

"One trade helps another," said Elijah with an amiable smile. "Come
right in an' set down. Come in an' rest ye," he exclaimed, and led the
way into his comfortable kitchen. The sunshine poured in at the two
further windows, and a cat was curled up sound asleep on the table that
stood between them. There was a new-looking light oilcloth of a tiled
pattern on the floor, and a crockery teapot, large for a household
of only one person, stood on the bright stove. I ventured to say that
somebody must be a very good housekeeper.

"That's me," acknowledged the old fisherman with frankness. "There ain't
nobody here but me. I try to keep things looking right, same's poor dear
left 'em. You set down here in this chair, then you can look off an' see
the water. None on 'em thought I was goin' to get along alone, no way,
but I wa'n't goin' to have my house turned upsi' down an' all changed
about; no, not to please nobody. I was the only one knew just how she
liked to have things set, poor dear, an' I said I was goin' to make
shift, and I have made shift. I'd rather tough it out alone." And he
sighed heavily, as if to sigh were his familiar consolation.

We were both silent for a minute; the old man looked out the window, as
if he had forgotten I was there.

"You must miss her very much?" I said at last.

"I do miss her," he answered, and sighed again. "Folks all kep'
repeatin' that time would ease me, but I can't find it does. No, I miss
her just the same every day."

"How long is it since she died?" I asked.

"Eight year now, come the first of October. It don't seem near so long.
I've got a sister that comes and stops 'long o' me a little spell,
spring an' fall, an' odd times if I send after her. I ain't near so good
a hand to sew as I be to knit, and she's very quick to set everything
to rights. She's a married woman with a family; her son's folks lives
at home, an' I can't make no great claim on her time. But it makes me
a kind o' good excuse, when I do send, to help her a little; she ain't
none too well off. Poor dear always liked her, and we used to contrive
our ways together. 'Tis full as easy to be alone. I set here an'
think it all over, an' think considerable when the weather's bad to go
outside. I get so some days it feels as if poor dear might step right
back into this kitchen. I keep a-watchin' them doors as if she might
step in to ary one. Yes, ma'am, I keep a-lookin' off an' droppin' o' my
stitches; that's just how it seems. I can't git over losin' of her no
way nor no how. Yes, ma'am, that's just how it seems to me."

I did not say anything, and he did not look up.

"I git feelin' so sometimes I have to lay everything by an' go out door.
She was a sweet pretty creatur' long's she lived," the old man added
mournfully. "There's that little rockin' chair o' her'n, I set an'
notice it an' think how strange 'tis a creatur' like her should be gone
an' that chair be here right in its old place."


"I wish I had known her; Mrs. Todd told me about your wife one day," I
said.

"You'd have liked to come and see her; all the folks did," said poor
Elijah. "She'd been so pleased to hear everything and see somebody new
that took such an int'rest. She had a kind o' gift to make it pleasant
for folks. I guess likely Almiry Todd told you she was a pretty woman,
especially in her young days; late years, too, she kep' her looks and
come to be so pleasant lookin'. There, 'tain't so much matter, I shall
be done afore a great while. No; I sha'n't trouble the fish a great
sight more."

The old widower sat with his head bowed over his knitting, as if he were
hastily shortening the very thread of time. The minutes went slowly by.
He stopped his work and clasped his hands firmly together. I saw he had
forgotten his guest, and I kept the afternoon watch with him. At last he
looked up as if but a moment had passed of his continual loneliness.

"Yes, ma'am, I'm one that has seen trouble," he said, and began to knit
again.

The visible tribute of his careful housekeeping, and the clean bright
room which had once enshrined his wife, and now enshrined her memory,
was very moving to me; he had no thought for any one else or for any
other place. I began to see her myself in her home,--a delicate-looking,
faded little woman, who leaned upon his rough strength and affectionate
heart, who was always watching for his boat out of this very window, and
who always opened the door and welcomed him when he came home.

"I used to laugh at her, poor dear," said Elijah, as if he read my
thought. "I used to make light of her timid notions. She used to be
fearful when I was out in bad weather or baffled about gittin' ashore.
She used to say the time seemed long to her, but I've found out all
about it now. I used to be dreadful thoughtless when I was a young man
and the fish was bitin' well. I'd stay out late some o' them days, an'
I expect she'd watch an' watch an' lose heart a-waitin'. My heart alive!
what a supper she'd git, an' be right there watchin' from the door, with
somethin' over her head if 'twas cold, waitin' to hear all about it as I
come up the field. Lord, how I think o' all them little things!"

"This was what she called the best room; in this way," he said
presently, laying his knitting on the table, and leading the way across
the front entry and unlocking a door, which he threw open with an air
of pride. The best room seemed to me a much sadder and more empty place
than the kitchen; its conventionalities lacked the simple perfection of
the humbler room and failed on the side of poor ambition; it was only
when one remembered what patient saving, and what high respect for
society in the abstract go to such furnishing that the little parlor was
interesting at all. I could imagine the great day of certain purchases,
the bewildering shops of the next large town, the aspiring anxious
woman, the clumsy sea-tanned man in his best clothes, so eager to be
pleased, but at ease only when they were safe back in the sailboat
again, going down the bay with their precious freight, the hoarded money
all spent and nothing to think of but tiller and sail. I looked at
the unworn carpet, the glass vases on the mantelpiece with their prim
bunches of bleached swamp grass and dusty marsh rosemary, and I could
read the history of Mrs. Tilley's best room from its very beginning.

"You see for yourself what beautiful rugs she could make; now I'm going
to show you her best tea things she thought so much of," said the master
of the house, opening the door of a shallow cupboard. "That's real
chiny, all of it on those two shelves," he told me proudly. "I bought
it all myself, when we was first married, in the port of Bordeaux. There
never was one single piece of it broke until-- Well, I used to say,
long as she lived, there never was a piece broke, but long at the last I
noticed she'd look kind o' distressed, an' I thought 'twas 'count o' me
boastin'. When they asked if they should use it when the folks was here
to supper, time o' her funeral, I knew she'd want to have everything
nice, and I said 'certain.' Some o' the women they come runnin' to me
an' called me, while they was takin' of the chiny down, an' showed me
there was one o' the cups broke an' the pieces wropped in paper and
pushed way back here, corner o' the shelf. They didn't want me to go an'
think they done it. Poor dear! I had to put right out o' the house when
I see that. I knowed in one minute how 'twas. We'd got so used to sayin'
'twas all there just's I fetched it home, an' so when she broke that cup
somehow or 'nother she couldn't frame no words to come an' tell me. She
couldn't think 'twould vex me, 'twas her own hurt pride. I guess there
wa'n't no other secret ever lay between us."

The French cups with their gay sprigs of pink and blue, the best
tumblers, an old flowered bowl and tea caddy, and a japanned waiter or
two adorned the shelves. These, with a few daguerreotypes in a little
square pile, had the closet to themselves, and I was conscious of much
pleasure in seeing them. One is shown over many a house in these days
where the interest may be more complex, but not more definite.

"Those were her best things, poor dear," said Elijah as he locked the
door again. "She told me that last summer before she was taken away that
she couldn't think o' anything more she wanted, there was everything in
the house, an' all her rooms was furnished pretty. I was goin' over to
the Port, an' inquired for errands. I used to ask her to say what she
wanted, cost or no cost--she was a very reasonable woman, an' 'twas the
place where she done all but her extra shopping. It kind o' chilled me
up when she spoke so satisfied."

"You don't go out fishing after Christmas?" I asked, as we came back to
the bright kitchen.

"No; I take stiddy to my knitting after January sets in," said the old
seafarer. "'Tain't worth while, fish make off into deeper water an' you
can't stand no such perishin' for the sake o' what you get. I leave out
a few traps in sheltered coves an' do a little lobsterin' on fair days.
The young fellows braves it out, some on 'em; but, for me, I lay in
my winter's yarn an' set here where 'tis warm, an' knit an' take my
comfort. Mother learnt me once when I was a lad; she was a beautiful
knitter herself. I was laid up with a bad knee, an' she said 'twould
take up my time an' help her; we was a large family. They'll buy all the
folks can do down here to Addicks' store. They say our Dunnet stockin's
is gettin' to be celebrated up to Boston,--good quality o' wool an'
even knittin' or somethin'. I've always been called a pretty hand to do
nettin', but seines is master cheap to what they used to be when they
was all hand worked. I change off to nettin' long towards spring, and I
piece up my trawls and lines and get my fishin' stuff to rights. Lobster
pots they require attention, but I make 'em up in spring weather when
it's warm there in the barn. No; I ain't one o' them that likes to set
an' do nothin'."

"You see the rugs, poor dear did them; she wa'n't very partial to
knittin'," old Elijah went on, after he had counted his stitches. "Our
rugs is beginnin' to show wear, but I can't master none o' them womanish
tricks. My sister, she tinkers 'em up. She said last time she was here
that she guessed they'd last my time."

"The old ones are always the prettiest," I said.

"You ain't referrin' to the braided ones now?" answered Mr. Tilley. "You
see ours is braided for the most part, an' their good looks is all in
the beginnin'. Poor dear used to say they made an easier floor. I go
shufflin' round the house same's if 'twas a bo't, and I always used to
be stubbin' up the corners o' the hooked kind. Her an' me was always
havin' our jokes together same's a boy an' girl. Outsiders never'd know
nothin' about it to see us. She had nice manners with all, but to me
there was nobody so entertainin'. She'd take off anybody's natural
talk winter evenin's when we set here alone, so you'd think 'twas them
a-speakin'. There, there!"

I saw that he had dropped a stitch again, and was snarling the blue yarn
round his clumsy fingers. He handled it and threw it off at arm's length
as if it were a cod line; and frowned impatiently, but I saw a tear
shining on his cheek.

I said that I must be going, it was growing late, and asked if I might
come again, and if he would take me out to the fishing grounds someday.

"Yes, come any time you want to," said my host, "'tain't so pleasant as
when poor dear was here. Oh, I didn't want to lose her an' she didn't
want to go, but it had to be. Such things ain't for us to say; there's
no yes an' no to it."

"You find Almiry Todd one o' the best o' women?" said Mr. Tilley as we
parted. He was standing in the doorway and I had started off down the
narrow green field. "No, there ain't a better hearted woman in the State
o' Maine. I've known her from a girl. She's had the best o' mothers. You
tell her I'm liable to fetch her up a couple or three nice good mackerel
early tomorrow," he said. "Now don't let it slip your mind. Poor dear,
she always thought a sight o' Almiry, and she used to remind me there
was nobody to fish for her; but I don't rec'lect it as I ought to. I see
you drop a line yourself very handy now an' then."

We laughed together like the best of friends, and I spoke again about
the fishing grounds, and confessed that I had no fancy for a southerly
breeze and a ground swell.

"Nor me neither," said the old fisherman. "Nobody likes 'em, say what
they may. Poor dear was disobliged by the mere sight of a bo't. Almiry's
got the best o' mothers, I expect you know; Mis' Blackett out to Green
Island; and we was always plannin' to go out when summer come; but
there, I couldn't pick no day's weather that seemed to suit her just
right. I never set out to worry her neither, 'twa'n't no kind o' use;
she was so pleasant we couldn't have no fret nor trouble. 'Twas never
'you dear an' you darlin'' afore folks, an' 'you divil' behind the
door!"

As I looked back from the lower end of the field I saw him still
standing, a lonely figure in the doorway. "Poor dear," I repeated to
myself half aloud; "I wonder where she is and what she knows of the
little world she left. I wonder what she has been doing these eight
years!"

I gave the message about the mackerel to Mrs. Todd.

"Been visitin' with 'Lijah?" she asked with interest. "I expect you had
kind of a dull session; he ain't the talkin' kind; dwellin' so much long
o' fish seems to make 'em lose the gift o' speech." But when I told
her that Mr. Tilley had been talking to me that day, she interrupted me
quickly.

"Then 'twas all about his wife, an' he can't say nothin' too pleasant
neither. She was modest with strangers, but there ain't one o' her old
friends can ever make up her loss. For me, I don't want to go there no
more. Adam you are embarrassed. What light! The first maid occurs. Hey
Adam! Liese, what hast thou there? Erste Magd Braunschweiger sausage,
Mr. Richter. Adam are pupillary files. I am Light, embarrassed! Adam
will come back to the registry. Erste Magd The sausages? Adam Sausages!
What!

The impact here.

Light It was a misunderstanding. The second maid occurs. As a bookcase,
Mr. Judge, I find the wig not. Adam Why not? Second maid Hm! Because
you - Adam now? Second maid yesterday evening - Glock ELF - Adam now?
Werd ichs hear? Second maid Ah, yes You came, you bethinks without
the wig into the house. I Adam, without the wig? Zweite Magd, in fact.
There is the Liesegang who's witnessed. And your andr is the wig-maker.
Adam I would -? Erste Magd Yes, my fairly, Mr Adam Richter! baldness
were you, as your wiederkamt; your spracht your backwards like you do
not know? The blood you have, I still wash the head. The Adam outrageous!
First girl I do not want to be honest. Adam foot stop, I say, it is not
a real word. Do you have the light Wund since yesterday?

Adam No, today. The wound today and yesterday the wig. I wore it on the
white powdered head, and took her with the hat, to honor, just as I
stepped into the house, accidentally starting. As for the washing, which
I do not know. - Scher thee to Satan, where you hingehörst! in the
registry! ( First maid from.) Go, Margaret! godfather clerk will lend me
his, my hätt In the cat this morning Gejungt, the pig! You would
eingesäuet Mir under the bed because I know now. Light The cat? What?
Are you -? Adam As I live.

Five young, yellow and black, and one is white. The black, I want in
the Vecht ersäufen. What should I do? Do you have one? Light in the
wig? Adam The devil will fetch me, I had hung up the wig, on a chair,
because I went to bed, the chair I berühr in the night, she falls - Light
is the top cat it in his mouth - Adam My Seel - Light And bears under
the bed and jungt that. Ins Maul Adam? No - Do not light?

How else? The Adam Katz? Oh, what! Light failure? Or perhaps you? Adam ins
Maul! I think I pushed it with the foot down today, when I saw it. Good
lighting, good. Kanaillen Adam die! The Balzer and young, where a place
is. Kichernd Second maid. Hingehn Should I? Adam Yes, and my greeting
At Muhme black robe, the Küsterin. I send her the wig back unharmed today,
you do not need him to say. Do you understand me? Second maid I'll be
ready to order.

(Ab) Third appearance Adam and light. avenges Adam Mir heut nothing
good, gossip light. Why light?
Yes, I've seen to all your 'rangements," she
repeated in a gentler tone. "These things I've left on the kitchen table
you'll want to carry by hand; the basket needn't be returned. I guess
I shall walk over towards the Port now an' inquire how old Mis' Edward
Caplin is."

I glanced at my friend's face, and saw a look that touched me to the
heart. I had been sorry enough before to go away.

"I guess you'll excuse me if I ain't down there to stand around on the
w'arf and see you go," she said, still trying to be gruff. "Yes, I ought
to go over and inquire for Mis' Edward Caplin; it's her third shock, and
if mother gets in on Sunday she'll want to know just how the old lady
is." With this last word Mrs. Todd turned and left me as if with sudden
thought of something she had forgotten, so that I felt sure she was
coming back, but presently I heard her go out of the kitchen door and
walk down the path toward the gate. I could not part so; I ran after
her to say good-by, but she shook her head and waved her hand without
looking back when she heard my hurrying steps, and so went away down the
street.

When I went in again the little house had suddenly grown lonely, and my
room looked empty as it had the day I came. I and all my belongings had
died out of it, and I knew how it would seem when Mrs. Todd came back
and found her lodger gone. So we die before our own eyes; so we see some
chapters of our lives come to their natural end.

I found the little packages on the kitchen table. The Piccolomini
Friedrich Schiller in five people lifts Wallenstein, Duke of Friedland,
Generalissimo emperor during the Thirty Years' War Octavio Piccolomini,
Lieutenant General Max Piccolomini, his son, Colonel in a Cuirassier
Regiment Graf Terzky, Wallenstein Schwager, Chief of several regiments
illo Field Marshal, Wallenstein Isolani confidant, General Croats
Buttler, head of a Dragoons Regiment Tiefenbach, head of a regiment
of Don Maradas dragoons, under General Wallenstein Götz, under
General Wallenstein Colalto, under General Wallenstein Rittmeister
Neumann, Terzkys Adjutant War Quest Mountain by Emperor sent Baptista
Seni, astrologers Duchess of Friedland, Wallenstein wife Thekla ,
Princess of Friedland, her daughter, Countess Terzky, a sister of
the Duchess Kornet cellar master of the count Terzky A Kornet
Friedländische Pagenberg and operated and Hoboisten Several colonels
and generals First Elevator An old Gothic hall on the Town Hall to
Pilsen, with flags and other things decorated war equipment.

First appearance illo with Buttler, and Isolani. illo. You have arrived
late - But your coming! The wide path, Graf Isolan excuse your hems.
Isolani. We also do not come with empty hands, it was announced at us
Danube Werth, A Swedish transport was en route with food, to the six
hundred wagons .- The Croatians attacked me on, We get it. illo. He grad
suits us, meeting here, the stately dining. Buttler. It is quite lively
here, I seh's. Isolani. Yes, yes, the churches themselves are fully
soldiers (are around) Also on the City Hall, I see, you already have
ichr fairly established - Now! now! the soldier and sends Behilft,
as he can! illo. thirty regiments have been together, the Supreme
found Colalto, Götz, Maradas, Hinnersam, too, son and father Piccolomini
- you will welcome some old friend.
The sea was
full of life and spirit, the tops of the waves flew back as if they were
winged like the gulls themselves, and like them had the freedom of the
wind. Out in the main channel we passed a bent-shouldered old fisherman
bound for the evening round among his lobster traps. He was toiling
along with short oars, and the dory tossed and sank and tossed again
with the steamer's waves. I saw that it was old Elijah Tilley, and
though we had so long been strangers we had come to be warm friends, and
I wished that he had waited for one of his mates, it was such hard work
to row along shore through rough seas and tend the traps alone. As we
passed I waved my hand and tried to call to him, and he looked up and
answered my farewells by a solemn nod. The little town, with the tall
masts of its disabled schooners in the inner bay, stood high above the
flat sea for a few minutes then it sank back into the uniformity of the
coast, and became indistinguishable from the other towns that looked as
if they were crumbled on the furzy-green stoniness of the shore.

The small outer islands of the bay were covered among the ledges with
turf that looked as fresh as the early grass; there had been some days
of rain the week before, and the darker green of the sweet-fern was
scattered on all the pasture heights. It looked like the beginning of
summer ashore, though the sheep, round and warm in their winter wool,
betrayed the season of the year as they went feeding along the slopes
in the low afternoon sunshine. Presently the wind began to blow and we
struck out seaward to double the long sheltering headland of the cape,
and when I looked back again, the islands and the headland had run
together and Dunnet Landing and all its coasts were lost to sight.