For a space John stood pale and rigid, making no attempt to reread the
letter; then all at once one of those rare and curious upheavals of
feeling that shake men to their souls seized upon him. The blood rushed
back into his face in a dark wave; the rose-colored mist that had
floated before his vision flamed suddenly to red; the same implacable
rage that, years ago, had impelled his grandfather to disinherit his
favorite son swelled in his heart. All ideas, all considerations, save
one, became blurred and indistinct; but this one idea rode him, spurred
him to a frenzy of desire. It was the blind, instinctive, human wish to
wreak his loss and disappointment upon some tangible, visible object.

With a dazed movement he turned to the bed; but only the huddled,
impassive figure beneath the coverlet met his gaze. For more than a
minute he stared at it helplessly; then a new thought shot across his
mind and his lips drew together in a thin, hard line. The road to
revenge lay open before him! With an abrupt gesture he stepped forward
and pulled back the counterpane.

In the yellow lamp-light the thin face of the dead man had an ashen hue;
the half-opened eyes and the prominent teeth, from which the lips had
partly receded, confronted him grewsomely. But the force of his
disappointment and rage was something before which mere human horror was
swept aside. With another rapid movement, he stooped over the bed and
unclasped the thin gold chain that hung round the dead man's neck,
letting the metal symbol and the long, thin key slip from it into his
hand. Turning to the dressing-table, he caught up a lamp; hurried from
the room; and, descending the stairs, passed into the study.

To his excited glance the place looked strangely undisturbed. Though the
frames of the windows rattled in the gale, the interior arrangements
were as precise and bare as usual; the fireless grate stared at him
coldly, and against the whitewashed wall the heavy iron safe stood out
like an accentuated blot of shadow. Impelled by his one dominating idea,
he crossed without an instant's hesitation to the door of this hitherto
inviolable repository of his uncle's secrets, and, inserting the key he
carried, threw back the massive door.

One glance showed him the thing he sought. Lying in solitary state upon
the highest shelf was a heavy book bound in white leather. The edges of
the cover were worn yellow with time and use, and from the centre of the
binding gleamed the familiar octagonal symbol exquisitely wrought in
gold and jewels. With hands that trembled slightly he lifted the book
from its place, closed and locked the door of the safe, and,
extinguishing the lamp, left the room.

In the flood of unreasoning rage and thwarted hope that surged about
him, he had no definite plan regarding the object in his hand. In March
and April these courts receive glorious rich coloring from beds of
California poppies and anemones, bordered with creeping juniper.

The gay spring flowers will be followed by summer annuals, and later
by our autumn blossoms,

The Court of the Universe
This court, which strongly resembles the great area in front of St.

Peter's, Rome, with its sweep of colonnade to right and left, was
designed by the New York firm of McKim, Meade and White.

The architecture is Italian Renaissance and gives you the beautiful
spirit of the old-time work.

It is a wonderful court in architecture, ornamentation, color,
arrangement, and above all in meaning.

In order to get the full joy of it you must pursue a regular plan and
you cannot hurry. Don't try to do it all in one day. First walk thru
the court to the Triumphal Arch on the right.

Pass thru it and read the quotation on the right at the top of the
arch.

-

The Cosmical Side of the Court of the Universe

     
     "The universe - an infinite sphere. Its center everywhere, its
     circumference, nowhere." This comes from Pascal, from his Pensées.
     
     This splendid quotation gives you the infinite side of your
     subject.

Now pass back to the Court of the Universe and you will see ninety times
repeated against the sky, A. Stirling Calder's very decorative "Jeweled
Star." This will suggest the myriad of suns in our great universe (since
stars are suns).

The nearest star to us, our sun ("The Rising Sun," by A.

A.

Weinmann of New York) then attracts the attention.

He is seen just before daybreak.

This fresh, strong young sun is just bout to start on his journey.

Dawn is soon to break upon the world and with muscles stretched, the
heavenly joy of the first move expressed upon his face, the wind blowing
thru his hair, the vigor of young life pulsating thru his body,
he will start the chest forward and move those outstretched wings.

Walk toward him and you will see him begin his journey thru space.

Now read the quotation an the Triumphal Arch of the Rising Sun:

"The moon sinks yonder in the west While in the east the glorious
sun Behind the herald dawn appears Thus rise and set in constant
change those shining orbs And regulate the very life of this our world

."
- By Kalidasa (the Shakespeare of India).

The sun at setting is represented by a beautiful woman. The
day is just about to close and with muscles relaxed (knees bent, head
drooping, arms falling, wings folding) she is soon to sink to slumber,
to pass from view. This is what is suggested by calling the figure the
Setting Sun.

In the Fine Arts Palace, Mr. A. A.

Weinmann has called the same figure "Descending Night," and that title
is much more consistent and satisfactory, for how are you going to
account for the youthful sun's appearing at the end of the day as a
woman?

Then again the reliefs refer to "Descending Night," for they are called
"The Mysteries of Dusk."
Now raise your eyes to those beautiful cameo figures on the burnt
orange ground at the entrance to the colonnades, and you will be
carried in thought to the Zodiac, that great imaginary belt thru
which the sun and planets travel.
There you see the zodiacal figures, two and two, with their symbols,
gliding thru space.
The clouds or nebulous matter is suggested by the female figures
with swirling drapery, toward the end of the frieze.
In the center stands Atlas, mythologically the first astronomer.
Your fancy has carried you on the wings of the wind at this very
suggestion.
These fourteen maids are Atlas' fourteen daughters.
Go close to the die of the fountain of the Rising Sun and look at
the reliefs.
The subject is Day Triumphant. The genius of Time with hour-glass
is followed by the genius of Light with flaming torch, and Energy
sounds on his trumpet the announcement of the break of day.
Truth follows with mirror and sword emerging triumphant from the
sinister powers of Darkness. Falsehood shrinks from its own image
reflected in the mirror of Truth. Vice cowers and struggles in the
coils of a serpent.

-
Walk over to the corresponding die on the fountain of Descending
Night.
On it are shown the Gentle Powers of the Night. Dusk envelops in
her cloak Labor, Love and Peace.
Following are Illusions carried upon the wings of Sleep.Having dismissed her cab, the new-comer crossed St. George's Terrace
with an appearance of haste, and entering Hellier Crescent, immediately
mounted the steps of No. 8.

The last member of this strange procession had disappeared into the
house as she reached the door; but, acting with apparent familiarity,
she lifted the knocker and let it fall once.

For a moment there was no response; then, as in the case of the former
visitors, the slide was drawn back and a beam of light came through the
grating, to be immediately obscured by the shadowy suggestion of a face
with two inquiring eyes.

"The Word?" demanded a solemn voice.

The new-comer lifted her head.

"He shall be Power made absolute!" she responded in a low and slightly
tremulous voice; and a moment later the door opened, and she stepped
into the hall.

The scene inside the house was curious in the extreme. If there were
quiet and darkness outside, a brilliant light and a tense, contagious
excitement reigned within. The large hall, lighted by tall lamps, was
covered with a thick black carpet into which the feet sank noiselessly,
and the walls and ceiling were draped in the same sombre tint; but at
intervals of a few feet, columns of white marble, chiselled into curious
shapes, gleamed upon the observer from shadowy niches.

On ordinary occasions, there was a solemnity, a coldness, in this sombre
vestibule; but to-night a strange electric activity seemed to have been
breathed upon the atmosphere. Women with flushed faces and men with
feverishly bright eyes hurried to and fro in an irrepressible, aimless
agitation. A blending of dread and hysterical anticipation was stamped
upon every face. People stopped one another with nervous, unstrung
gesture and odd, disjointed sentences.

As the last comer entered, she paused for a moment, uncertain and
hesitating; but almost as she did so, a remarkable-looking and massively
built man who was standing in the hall, disengaged himself from a group
of people, and, coming directly towards her, took her hand.

"Mrs. Witcherley! At last!" he exclaimed, in a full, emotional voice. "I
looked for you among the gathering and for a moment I almost feared--"

"That I would fail?" Her voice was still tinged with agitation; the
pupils of her large eyes were distended.

"No, I did not mean that. But at such a moment we burn lest even one of
the Elect be missing." He continued to hold her hand, looking into her
face with his prominent dark eyes, from which flashed and glowed an
excitement that spread over his whole heavy face.

"The night of nights!" he exclaimed. "To have lived to witness it!" His
face glowed with a sudden enthusiasm; and freeing her fingers, he lifted
up his right hand. "'He shall walk into your midst--and sit above you as
a King!'" he quoted, in a loud voice. Then remembering his companion, he
lowered his tone.

"Everything is in readiness," he added, more soberly. "The Precursor
still unceasingly prophesies the Advent. Come with me into the Place.
The Gathering is all but assembled." Laying his large hand upon her arm,
he led her forward unresistingly through the groups of men and women,
and onward down a long corridor to where a curtain hid an arched
doorway.

For a moment they paused outside this door, and the man--still laboring
under some strange excitement--again raised his hand:

"Come!" he cried. "And before we leave the Place, may the Hope of the
Universe be fulfilled!" Lifting the curtain, he ushered her through the
door.

The room--or chapel--into which they stepped was large and lofty,
covered on floor and walls with sections of marble alternately black and
white; overhead swung a huge octagonal symbol in jewelled and polished
metal; and at the end farthest from the door a haze of incense clouded
what appeared to be an altar.

A concourse of people filled every corner of this vast room; and from
the crouched or upright figures rose a continuous, inaudible murmuring.

Still guiding his companion, the massively built man forced a way
between the closely packed figures. But, half-way up the room, the woman
paused and glanced at him.

"This will do," she whispered. "Not any nearer, please. Not any nearer."

His only answer was to lay his hand upon her arm, and by a persistent
pressure to draw her onward up the narrow aisle. With fury they demand
the maiden's death.
In vain your opposition. Let her die And throw her head down from the
battlements!

Her blood alone will satisfy the host.

ISABEL (coming in).
With ladders they begin to scale the walls.
Appease the angry people! Will you wait Till in blind fury they
o'erthrow the tower, And we beneath its towers are destroyed?
Protect her here you cannot. Give her up!

LIONEL.
Let them storm on. In fury let them rage!
Firm is this castle, and beneath its ruins I will be buried ere I
yield to them.After this she demurred no more, but moved obediently into the appointed
seat, her companion placing himself beside her.

THIBAUT enters, clad in black. RAIMOND follows him, and tries to hold
him back.

RAIMOND.
Stay, father Thibaut! Do not join the crowds!
Here, at this joyous festival you meet None but the happy, whom
your grief offends.
Come! Let us quit the town with hasty steps.At
a first glance this veil seemed almost too dense to penetrate; but as
her sight grew accustomed to its drifting whiteness, she was able to
discern the objects that lay behind.

In place of the altar, usually prominent in every religious building,
there was a wide semicircular space, within which stood a gold chair
raised upon a dais and a heavy lectern of symbolic design on which
rested a white leather book, worn yellow at the edges. Over this book a
man was poring, apparently unconscious of the active interest he evoked.
He was short and thick-set, with a square jaw, a long upper lip, and
keen eyes. Over a head of vividly red hair, he wore a round black silk
cap, and his figure was enveloped in a flowing black gown.

They have In twenty battles fled before our arms, Ere this heroic maiden
fought for them.
All the whole nation I despise, save one, And this one they have banished.
Come, Fastolfe, We soon will give them such another day As that
of Poictiers and of Agincourt.

Do you remain with the fortress, queen, And guard the maiden till
the fight is o'er.

I leave for your protection fifty knights.

FASTOLFE.
How!

general, shall we march against the foe And leave this raging fury in
our rear?

JOHANNA.
What! can a fettered woman frighten thee?

LIONEL.
Promise, Johanna, not to free thyself.

JOHANNA.
To free myself is now my only wish.

ISABEL.
Bind her with triple chains. I pledged my life That she shall not
escape.

[She is bound with heavy chains.He moved forward calmly and deliberately, his gaze fixed, his senses
apparently unconscious of the many eyes and tongues from which
frightened glances and frightened, awe-struck words escaped as he made
his solitary, impressive progress.

Reaching the railing, he paused and lifted one hand as if in benediction
towards the red-haired man who still remained in solitary occupation of
the Sanctuary.

At the action, a gasp went up from the crowded chapel, and even those
who still crouched upon the floor ventured to raise their heads and
glance at the spot where the tall figure in the white serge robe stood
motionless and impressive. Then the whole concourse of devotees stirred
in involuntary excitement as the red-haired man, with a cry of rapture,
rushed forward and prostrated himself at the feet of the stranger.

Should I deserve to be heaven's messenger Unless the Master's will I
blindly honored?
And I am not so wretched as thou thinkest.

I feel privation--this in humble life Is no misfortune; I'm a fugitive,--
But in the waste I learned to know myself.His lips were trembling with some strange emotion, and it
seemed that he could scarcely command his gestures. After a protracted
moment of struggle, however, he appeared to regain his self-control; for
with a slightly tremulous movement he stepped forward, laid his hands on
the low railing and glanced at the assembled people.

