The witness tried to speak but his lips emitted no sound. He nodded.

"You are a native of Christiania?"

Again Hanson nodded.

"You must speak out," said Counsel kindly, "and you need have no fear.
How long have you known Colonel Boundary?"

This time Hanson found his voice.

"For ten years," he said huskily.

An usher came forward from the press at the back of the court with a
glass of water and handed it to the witness, who drank eagerly. Counsel
waited until he had drained the glass before he spoke again.

"You have in your possession certain documentary evidence convicting
Colonel Boundary of certain malpractices?"

"Yes," said the witness.

"You have promised the police that you will reveal in court where those
documents have been stored?"

"Yes," said Hanson again.

"Will you tell the court now, in order that the police may lose as
little time as possible, where you have hidden that evidence?"

Colonel Boundary was showing the first signs of interest he had evinced
in the proceedings. He leaned forward, his head craned round as though
endeavouring to catch the eye of the witness.

Hanson was speaking, and speaking with difficulty.

"I haf--put those papers,"--he stopped and swayed--"I haf put those
papers----" he began again, and then, without a second's warning, he
fell limply forward.

"I am afraid he has fainted," said the magistrate.

Detectives were crowding round the witness, and had lifted him from the
witness stand. One said something hurriedly, and Stafford King left his
seat. He was bending over the prostrate figure, tearing open the collar
from his throat, and presently was joined by the police surgeon, who was
in court. There was a little whispered consultation, and then Stafford
King straightened himself up and his face was pale and hard.

"I regret to inform your Worship," he said, "that the witness is dead."


CHAPTER VI

STAFFORD KING RESIGNS


A week later, Stafford King came into the office of the First
Commissioner of the Criminal Intelligence Department, and Sir Stanley
looked up with a kindly but pitying look in his eye.

"Well, Stafford," he said gently, "sit down, won't you. What has
happened?"

Stafford King shrugged his shoulders.

"Boundary is discharged," he said shortly.

Sir Stanley nodded.

"It was inevitable," he said, "I suppose there's no hope of connecting
him and his gang with the death of Hanson?"

"Not a ghost of a hope, I am afraid," said Stafford, shaking his head.
"Hanson was undoubtedly murdered, and the poison which killed him was in
the glass of water which the usher brought. I've been examining the
usher again to-day, and all he can remember is that he saw somebody
pushing through the crowd at the back of the court, who handed the glass
over the heads of the people. Nobody seems to have seen the man who
passed it. That was the method by which the gang got rid of their
traitor."

"Clever," said Sir Stanley, putting his finger-tips together. "They knew
just the condition of mind in which Hanson would be when he came into
court. They had the dope ready, and they knew that the detectives would
allow the usher to bring the man water, when they would not allow
anybody else to approach him. This is a pretty bad business, Stafford."

"I realise that," said the young chief. "Of course, I shall resign.
There's nothing else to do. I thought we had him this time, especially
with the evidence we had in relation to the Spillsbury case."

"You mean the letter which Spillsbury wrote to the woman Marsh? How did
that come, by the way?"

"It reached Scotland Yard by post."

"Do you know who sent it?"

"There was no covering note at all," replied Stafford. "It was in a
plain envelope with a typewritten address and was sent to me personally.
The letter, of course, was valueless by itself."

"Have you made any search to discover the documents which Hanson spoke
about?"

"We have searched everywhere," said the other a little wearily, "but it
is a pretty hopeless business looking through London for a handful of
documents. Anyway, friend Boundary is free."

The other was watching him closely.

"It is a bitter disappointment to you, my young friend," he said;
"you've been working on the case for years. I fear you'll never have
another such chance of putting Boundary in the dock. He's got a lot of
public sympathy, too. Your thorough-paced rascal who escapes from the
hands of the police has always a large following amongst the public, and
I doubt whether the Home Secretary will sanction any further
proceedings, unless we have most convincing proof. What's this?"

Stafford had laid a letter on the table.

"My resignation," said that young man grimly.

The First Commissioner took up the envelope and tore it in four pieces.

"It is not accepted," he said cheerfully; "you did your best, and you're
no more responsible than I am. If you resign, I ought to resign, and so
ought every officer who has been on this game. A few years ago I took
exactly the same step--offered my resignation over a purely private and
personal matter, and it was not accepted. I have been glad since, and so
will you be. Go on with your work and give Boundary a rest for awhile."

Stafford was looking down at him abstractedly.

"Do you think we shall ever catch the fellow, sir?"

Sir Stanley smiled.

"Frankly, I don't," he admitted. "As I said before, the only danger I
see to Boundary is this mysterious individual who apparently crops up
now and again in his daily life, and who, I suspect, was the person who
sent you the Spillsbury letter--the Jack o' Judgment, doesn't he call
himself? Do you know what I think?" he asked quietly. "I think that if
you found the 'Jack,' if you ran him to earth, stripped him of his
mystic guise, you would discover somebody who has a greater grudge
against Boundary than the police."

Stafford smiled.

"We can't run about after phantoms, sir," he said, with a touch of
asperity in his voice.

The chief looked at him curiously.

"I hear you do quite a lot of running about," he said carelessly, as he
began to arrange the papers on his table. "By the way, how is Miss
White?"

Stafford flushed.

"She was very well when I saw her last night," he said stiffly; "she is
leaving the stage."

"And her father?"

Stafford was silent for a second.

"He left his home a week before the case came into court and has not
been seen since," he said.

The chief nodded.

"Whilst White is away and until he turns up I should keep a watchful eye
on his daughter," he said.

"What do you mean, sir?" asked Stafford.

"I'm just making a suggestion," said the other. "Think it over."

Stafford thought it over on his way to meet the girl, who was waiting
for him on a sunny seat in Temple Gardens, for the day was fine and even
warm, and, two hours before luncheon, the place was comparatively empty
of people.

She saw the trouble in his face and rose to meet him, and for a moment
forgot her own distress of mind, her doubts and fears. Evidently she
knew the reason for his attendance at Scotland Yard, and something of
the interview which he had had.

"I offered my resignation," he replied, in answer to her unspoken
question, "and Sir Stanley refused it."

"I think he was just," she said. "Why, it would be simply monstrous if
your career were spoilt through no fault of your own."

He laughed.

"Don't let us talk about me," he said. "What have you done?"

"I've cancelled all my contracts; I have other work to do."

"How are----" He hesitated, but she knew just what he meant, and patted
his arm gratefully.

"Thank you, I have all the money I want," she said. "Father left me
quite a respectable balance. I am closing the house at Horsham and
storing the furniture, and shall keep just sufficient to fill a little
flat I have taken in Bloomsbury."

"But what are you going to do?" he asked curiously.

She shook her head.

"Oh, there are lots of things that a girl can do," she said vaguely,
"besides going on the stage."

"But isn't it a sacrifice? Didn't you love your work?"

She hesitated.

"I thought I did at first," she said. "You see, I was always a very good
mimic. When I was quite a little girl I could imitate the colonel.
Listen!"

Suddenly to his amazement he heard the drawling growl of Dan Boundary.
She laughed with glee at his amazement, but the smile vanished and she
sighed.

"I want you to tell me one thing, Mr. King----"

"Stafford--you promised me," he began.

She reddened.

"I hardly like calling you by your christian name but it sounds so like
a surname that perhaps it won't be so bad."

"What do you want to ask?" he demanded.

She was silent for a moment, then she said:

"How far was my father implicated in this terrible business?"

"In the gang?"

She nodded.

He was in a dilemma. Solomon White was implicated as deeply as any save
the colonel. In his younger days he had been the genius who was
responsible for the organisation and had been for years the colonel's
right-hand man until the more subtle villainy of Pinto Silva, that
Portuguese adventurer, had ousted him, and, if the truth be told, until
the sight of his girl growing to womanhood had brought qualms to the
heart of this man, who, whatever his faults, loved the girl dearly.

"You don't answer me," she said, "but I think I am answered by your
silence. Was my father--a bad man?"

"I would not judge your father," he said. "I can tell you this, that for
the past few years he has played a very small part in the affairs of the
gang. But what are you going to do?"

"How persistent you are!" she laughed. "Why, there are so many things I
am going to do that I haven't time to tell you. For one thing, I am
going to work to undo some of the mischief which the gang have wrought.
I am going to make such reparation as I can," she said, her lips
trembling, "for the evil deeds my father has committed."

"You have a mission, eh?" he said with a little smile.

"Don't laugh at me," she pleaded. "I feel it here." She put her hand on
her heart. "There's something which tells me that, even if my father
built up this gang, as you told me once he did--ah! you had forgotten
that."

Stafford King had indeed forgotten the statement.

"Yes?" he said. "You intend to pull it down?"

She nodded.

"I feel, too, that I am at bay. I am the daughter of Solomon White, and
Solomon White is regarded by the colonel as a traitor. Do you think they
will leave me alone? Don't you think they are going to watch me day and
night and get me in their power just as soon as they can? Think of the
lever that would be, the lever to force my father back to them!"

"Oh, you'll be watched all right," he said easily, and remembered the
commissioner's warning. "In fact, you're being watched now. Do you
mind?"

"Now?" she asked in surprise.

He nodded towards a lady who sat a dozen yards away and whose face was
carefully shaded by a parasol.

"Who is she?" asked the girl curiously.

"A young person called Lollie Marsh," laughed Stafford. "At present she
has a mission too, which is to entangle me into a compromising
position."

The girl looked towards the spy with a new interest and a new
resentment.

"She has been trailing me for weeks," he went on, "and it would be
embarrassing to tell you the number of times we have been literally
thrown into one another's arms. Poor girl!" he said, with mock concern,
"she must be bored with sitting there so long. Let us take a stroll."

If he expected Lollie to follow, he was to be disappointed She stayed on
watching the disappearing figures, without attempting to rise, and
waiting until they were out of sight, she walked out on to the
Embankment and hailed a passing taxi. She seemed quite satisfied in her
mind that the plan she had evolved for the trapping of Stafford King
could not fail to succeed.


CHAPTER VII

THE COLONEL CONDUCTS HIS BUSINESS


A merry little dinner party was assembled that night in a luxurious flat
in Albemarle House. It was a bachelor party, and consisted of three--the
colonel, resplendent in evening dress, "Swell" Crewe and a middle-aged
man whose antique dress coat and none too spotless linen certainly did
not advertise their owner's prosperity. Yet this man with the stubbly
moustache and the bald head could write his cheque for seven figures,
being Mr. Thomas Crotin, of the firm of Crotin and Principle, whose
swollen mills occupy a respectable acreage in Huddersfield and Dewsbury.

"You're Colonel Boundary, are you?" he said admiringly, and for about
the seventh time since the meal started.

The colonel nodded with a good-humoured twinkle in his eye.

"Well, fancy that!" said Mr. Crotin. "I'll have something to talk about
when I go back to Yorkshire. It is lucky I met your friend, Captain
Crewe, at our club in Huddersfield."

There was something more than luck in that meeting, as the colonel well
knew.

"I read about the trial and all," said the Yorkshireman; "I must say it
looked very black against you, colonel."

The colonel smiled again and lifted a bottle towards the other.

"Nay, nay!" said the spinner. "I'll have nowt more. I've got as much as
I can carry, and I know when I've had enough."

The colonel replaced the bottle by his side.

"So you read of the trial, did you?"

"I did and all," said the other, "and I said to my missus: 'Yon's a
clever fellow, I'd like to meet him.'"

"You have an admiration for the criminal classes, eh?" said the colonel
good-humouredly.

"Well, I'm not saying you're a criminal," said the other, taking his
host literally, "but being a J.P. and on the bench of magistrates, I
naturally take an interest in these cases. You never know what you can
learn."

"And what did your lady wife say?" asked Boundary.

The Yorkshireman smiled broadly.

"Well, she doesn't take any interest in these things. She's a proper
London lady, my wife. She was in a high position when I married."

"Five years ago," said Boundary, "you married the daughter of Lord
Westsevern. It cost you a hundred thousand pounds to pay the old man's
debts."

The Yorkshireman stared at him.

"How did you know that?" he asked.

"You're nominated for Parliament, too, aren't you. And you're to be
Mayor of Little Thornhill?"

Mr. Crotin laughed uproariously.

"Well, you've got me properly taped," he said admiringly, and the
colonel agreed with a gesture.

"So you're interested in the criminal classes?"

Mr. Crotin waved a protesting hand.

"I'm not saying you're a member of the criminal classes, colonel," he
said. "My friend Crewe here wouldn't think I would be so rude. Of
course, I know the charge was all wrong."

"That's where you're mistaken," interrupted the colonel calmly; "it was
all right."

"Eh?"

The man stared.

"The charge was perfectly sound," said the colonel, playing with his
fruit knife; "for twenty years I have been making money by buying
businesses at about a twentieth of their value and selling them again."

"But how----" began the other.

"Wait, I'll tell you. I've got men working for me all over the country,
agents and sub-agents, who are constantly on the look-out for scandal.
Housekeepers, servants, valets--you know the sort of people who get hold
of information."

Mr. Crotin was speechless.

"Sooner or later I find a very incriminating fact which concerns a
gentleman of property. I prefer those scandals which verge on the
criminal," the colonel went on.

The outraged Mr. Crotin was rolling his serviette.

"Where are you going? What are you going to do? The night's young," said
the colonel innocently.

"I'm going," said Mr. Crotin, very red of face. "A joke's a joke, and
when friend Crewe introduced me to you, I hadn't any idea that you were
that kind of man. You don't suppose that I'm going to sit here in your
society--me with my high connections--after what you've said?"

"Why not?" asked the colonel; "after all, business is business, and as
I'm making an offer to you for the Riverborne Mill----"

"The Riverborne Mill?" roared the spinner. "Ah! that's a joke of yours!
You'll buy no Riverborne Mill of me, sitha!"

"On the contrary, I shall buy the Riverborne Mill from you. In fact, I
have all the papers and transfers ready for you to sign."

"Oh, you have, have you?" said the man grimly. "And what might you be
offering me for the Riverborne?"

"I'm offering you thirty thousand pounds cash," said the colonel, and
his bearer was stricken speechless.

"Thirty thousand pounds cash!" he said after awhile. "Why, man, that
property is worth two hundred thousand pounds."

"I thought it was worth a little more," said the colonel carelessly.

"You're a fool or a madman," said the angry Yorkshireman. "It isn't my
mill, it is a limited company."

"But you hold the majority of the shares--ninety-five per cent., I
think," said the colonel. "Those are the shares which you will transfer
to me at the price I suggest."

"I'll see you damned first," roared Crotin, bringing his hand down smash
on the table.

"Sit down again for one moment." The colonel's voice was gentle but
insistent. "Do you know Maggie Delman?"

Suddenly Crotin's face went white.

"She was one of your father's mill-girls when you were little more than
a boy," the colonel proceeded, "and you were rather in love with her,
and one Easter you went away together to Blackpool. Do you remember?"

Still Crotin did not speak.

"You married the young lady and the marriage was kept secret because you
were afraid of your father, and as the years went on and the girl was
content with the little home you had made for her and the allowance you
gave her, there seemed to be no need to admit your marriage, especially
as there were no children. Then you began to take part in local politics
and to accumulate ambitions. You dared not divorce your wife and you
thought there was no necessity for it. You had a chance of improving
yourself socially by marrying the daughter of an English lord, and you
jumped at it."

"You've got to prove that," he said huskily.

The man found his voice.

"I can prove it all right. Oh, no, your wife hasn't betrayed you--your
real wife, I mean. You've betrayed yourself by insisting on paying her
by telegraphic money orders. We heard of these mysterious payments but
suspected nothing beyond a vulgar love affair. Then one night, whilst
your placid and complacent wife was in a cinema, one of my people
searched her box and came upon the certificate of marriage. Would you
like to see it?"

"I've nothing to say," said Crotin thickly. "You've got me, mister. So
that is how you do it!"

"That is how I do it," said the colonel. "I believe in being frank with
people like you. Here are the transfers. You see the place for your
signature marked with a pencil."

Suddenly Crotin leaped at him in a blind fury, but the colonel gripped
him by the throat with a hand like a steel vice, and shook him as a dog
would shake a rat. And the gentle tone in his voice changed as quickly.

"Sit down and sign!" snarled Boundary. "If you play that game, I'll
break your damned neck! Come any of those tricks with me and I'll smash
you. Give him the pen, Crewe."

"I'll see you in gaol for this," said the white-faced man shakily.

"That's about the place you will see me, if you don't sign, and it is
the inside of that gaol you'll be to see me."

The man rose up unsteadily, flinging down the pen as he did so.

"You'll suffer for this," he said between his teeth.

"Not unduly," said the colonel.

There was a tap at the door and the colonel swung round.

"Who's that?" he asked.

"Can I come in?" said a voice.

Crewe was frowning.

"Who is it?" asked the colonel.

The door opened slowly. A gloved hand, and then a white, hooded face,
slipped through the narrow entry.

"Jack o' Judgment! Poor old Jack o' Judgment come to make a call,"
chuckled the hateful voice. "Down, dog; down!" He flourished the
long-barrelled revolver theatrically, then turned with a chuckle of
laughter to the gaping Mr. Crotin.

"Poor Jacob!" he crooned, "he has sold his birthright for a mess of
pottage! Don't touch that paper, Crewe, or you die the death!"

His hand leapt out and snatched the transfer, which he thrust into the
hand of the wool-spinner.

"Get out and go home, my poor sheep," he said, "back to the blankets! Do
you think they'd be satisfied with one mill? They'd come for a mill
every year and they'd never leave you till you were dead or broke. Go to
the police, my poor lamb, and tell them your sad story. Go to the
admirable Mr. Stafford King--he'll fall on your neck. You won't, I see
you won't!"

The laughter rose again, and then swiftly with one arm he swung back the
merchant and stood in silence till the door of the flat slammed.

The colonel found his voice.

"I don't know who you are," he said, breathing heavily, "but I'll make a
bargain with you. I've offered a hundred thousand pounds to anybody who
gets you. I'll offer you the same amount to leave me alone."

"Make it a hundred thousand millions!" said Jack o' Judgment in his
curious, squeaky voice, "give me the moon and an apple, and I'm yours!"

He was gone before they could realise he had passed through the door,
and he had left the flat before either moved.

"Quick! The window!" said the colonel.

The window commanded a view of the front entrance of Albemarle House,
and the entry was well lighted. They reached the window in time to see
the Yorkshireman emerge with unsteady steps and stride into the night.
They waited for their visitor to follow. A minute, two minutes passed,
and then somebody walked down the steps to the light. It was a woman,
and as she turned her face the colonel gasped.

"Maisie White!" he said in a wondering voice. "What the devil is she
doing here?"


CHAPTER VIII

THE LISTENER AT THE DOOR


Maisie White had taken up her abode in a modest flat in Doughty Street,
Bloomsbury. The building had been originally intended for a dwelling
house, but its enterprising owner had fitted a kitchenette and a
bathroom to every floor and had made each suite self-contained.

She found the one bedroom and a sitting-room quite sufficient for her
needs. Since the day of her father's departure she had not heard from
him, and she had resolutely refused to worry. What was Solomon White's
association with the Boundary gang, she could only guess. She knew it
had been an important one, but her fears on his behalf had less to do
with the action the police might take against him than with Boundary's
sinister threat.

She had other reasons for leaving the stage than she had told Stafford
King. On the stage she was a marked woman and her movements could be
followed for at least three hours in the day, and she was anxious for
more anonymity. She was conscious of two facts as she opened the outer
door that night to let herself into the hallway, and hurried up to her
apartments. The first was that she had been followed home, and that
impression was the more important of the two. She did not switch on the
light when she entered her room, but bolting the door behind her, she
moved swiftly to the window and raised it noiselessly. Looking out, she
saw two men on the opposite side of the street, standing together in
consultation. It was too dark to recognise them, but she thought that
one figure was Pinto Silva.

She was not frightened, but nevertheless she looked thoughtfully at the
telephone, and her hand was on the receiver before she changed her mind.
After all, they would know where she lived and an inquiry at her agents
or even at the theatre would tell them to where her letters had been
readdressed. She hesitated a moment, then pulled down the blinds and
switched on the light.

Outside the two men saw the light flash up and watched her shadow cross
the blind.

"It is Maisie all right," said Pinto. "Now tell me what happened."

In a few words Crewe described the scene which he had witnessed in the
Albemarle flat.

"Impossible!" said Pinto; "are you suggesting that Maisie is Jack o'
Judgment?"

Crewe shrugged.

"I know nothing about it," he said; "there are the facts."

Pinto looked up at the light again.

"I'm going across to see her," he said, and Crewe made a grimace.

"Is that wise?" he asked; "she doesn't know we have followed her home.
Won't she be suspicious?"

Pinto shrugged.

"She's a pretty clever girl that," he said, "and if she doesn't know
we're outside, there's nothing of Solomon White in her composition."

He crossed the road and struck a match to discover which was her bell.
He guessed right the first time. Maisie heard the tinkle and knew what
it portended. She had not started to disrobe, and after a few moments'
hesitation she went down the stairs and opened the door.

"It is rather a late hour to call on you," said Pinto pleasantly, "but
we saw you going away from Albemarle Place, and could not overtake you."

There was a question in his voice, though he did not give it actual
words.

"It is rather late for small talk," she said coolly. "Is there any
reason for your call?"

"Well, Miss White, there were several things I wanted to talk to you
about," said Pinto, taken aback by her calm. "Have you heard from your
father?"

"Don't you think," she said, "it would be better if you came at a more
conventional hour? I don't feel inclined to gossip on the doorstep and
I'm afraid I can't ask you in."

"The colonel is worrying," Pinto hastened to explain. "You see, Solly's
one of his best friends."

The girl laughed softly.

"I know," she said. "I heard the colonel talking to my father at
Horsham," she added meaningly.

"You've got to make allowances for the colonel," urged Pinto; "he lost
his temper, but he's feeling all right now. Couldn't you persuade your
father to communicate with us--with him?"

She shook her head.

"I am not in a position to communicate with my father," she replied
quietly. "I am just as ignorant of his whereabouts as you are. If
anybody is anxious it is surely myself, Mr. Silva."

"And another point," Silva went on, so that there should be no gap in
the conversation, "why did you give up your theatrical engagements,
Maisie? I took a lot of trouble to get them for you, and it is stupid to
jeopardise your career. I have plenty of influence, but managers will
not stand that kind of treatment, and when you go back----"

"I am not going back," she said. "Really, Mr. Silva, you must excuse me
to-night. I am very tired after a hard day's work----" she checked
herself.

"What are you doing now, Maisie?" asked Silva curiously.

"I have no wish to prolong this conversation," said the girl, "but there
is one thing I should like to say, and that is that I would prefer you
to call me Miss White."

"All right, all right," said Silva genially, "and what were you doing at
the flat to-night, Mai--Miss White?"

"Good night," said the girl and closed the door in his face.

He cursed angrily in the dark and raised his hand to rap on the panel of
the door, but thought better of it and, turning, walked back to the
interested Crewe, who stood in the shadow of a lamp-post watching the
scene.

"Well?" asked Crewe.

"Confound the girl, she won't talk," grumbled Silva. "I'd give something
to break that pride of hers, Crewe. By jove, I'll do it one of these
days," he added between his teeth.

Crewe laughed.

"There's no sense in going off the deep end because a girl turns you
down," he said. "What did she say about the flat? And what did she say
about her visit to Albemarle Place?"

"She said nothing," said the other shortly. "Come along, let's go back
to the colonel."

On the return journey he declined to be drawn into any kind of
conversation, and Crewe, after one or two attempts to procure
enlightenment as to the result of the interview, relapsed into silence.

They found the colonel waiting for them, and to all appearances the
colonel was undisturbed by the happenings of the evening.

"Well?" he asked.

"She admits she was here," said Pinto.

"What was she doing?"

"You'd better ask her yourself," said the other with some asperity. "I
tell you, colonel, I can't handle that woman."

"Nobody ever thought you could," said the colonel. "Did she give you any
idea as to what her business was?"

Pinto shook his head and the colonel paced the big room thoughtfully,
his big hands in his pockets.

"Here's a situation," he said. "There's some outsider who's following
every movement we make, who knew that boob from Huddersfield was coming,
and who knew what our business was. That somebody was this infernal Jack
o' Judgment, but who is Jack o' Judgment, hey?"

He looked round fiercely.

"I'll tell you who he is," he went on, speaking slowly "He's somebody
who knows our gang as well as we know it ourselves, somebody who has
been on the inside, somebody who has access, or who has had access, to
our working methods. In fact," he said using his pet phrase, "a business
associate."

"Rubbish!" said Pinto.

This polished man of Portugal, who had come into the gang very late in
the day, was one of the few people who were privileged to offer blunt
opposition to the leader of the Boundary Gang.

"You might as well say it is I, or that it is Crewe, or Dempsey, or
Selby----"

"Or White," said the colonel slowly; "don't forget White."

They stared at him.

"What do you mean?" asked Crewe with a frown.

White had been a favourite of his.

"How could it be White?"

"Why shouldn't it be White?" said the colonel. "When did Jack o'
Judgment make his first appearance? I'll tell you. About the time we
started getting busy framing up something against White. Did we ever see
him when White was with us--no! Isn't it obviously somebody who has been
a business associate and knows our little ways? Why, of course it is.
Tell me somebody else?

"You don't suggest it is 'Snow' Gregory, anyway?" he added
sarcastically.

Crewe shivered and half-closed his eyes.

"For heaven's sake don't mention 'Snow' Gregory," he said irritably.

"Why shouldn't I?" snarled the colonel. "He's worth money and life and
liberty to us, Crewe. He's an awful example that keeps some of our
business associates on the straight path. Not," he added with elaborate
care, "not that we were in any way responsible for his untimely end. But
he died--providentially. A doper's bad enough, but a doper who talks and
boasts and tells me, as he told me in this very room, just where he'd
put me, is a mighty dangerous man, Crewe."

"Did he do that?" asked Crewe with interest.

The colonel nodded.

"In this very room where you're standing," he said impressively, "at the
end of that table he stood, all lit up with 'coco' and he told me things
about our organisation that I thought nobody knew but myself. That's the
worst of drugs," he said, shaking his head reprovingly; "you never know
how clever they'll make a man, and they made 'Snow' a bit too clever.
I'm not saying that I regretted his death--far from it. I don't know how
he got mixed up in the affair----"

"Oh, shut up!" growled Pinto; "why go on acting before us? We were all
in it."

"Hush!" said the colonel with a glance at the door.

There was a silence. All eyes were fixed on the door.

"Did you hear anything?" asked the colonel under his breath.

His face was a shade paler than they had ever remembered seeing it.

"It is nothing," said Pinto; "that fellow's got on your nerves."

The colonel walked to the sideboard and poured out a generous portion of
whisky and drank it at a gulp.

"Lots of things are getting on my nerves," he said, "but nothing gets on
my nerves so much as losing money. Crewe, we've got to go after that
Yorkshireman again--at least somebody has got to go after him."

"And that somebody is not going to be me," said Crewe quietly. "I did my
part of the business. Let Pinto have a cut."

Pinto Silva shook his head.

"We'll drop him," he said decisively, and for the first time Crewe
realised how dominating a factor Pinto had become in the government of
the band.

"We'll drop him----"

Suddenly he stopped and craned his head round.

It was he who had heard something near the door, and now with noiseless
steps he tiptoed across the room to the door, and gripping the handle,
opened it suddenly. A gun had appeared in his hand, but he did not use
it. Instead, he darted through the open doorway and they heard the sound
of a struggle. Presently he came back, dragging by the collar a man.

"Got him!" he said triumphantly, and hurled his captive into the nearest
chair.


CHAPTER IX

THE COLONEL EMPLOYS A DETECTIVE


Their prisoner was a stranger. He was a lean, furtive-looking man of
thirty-five, below middle height, respectably dressed, and at first
glance, the colonel, whose hobby was distinguishing at a look the social
standing of humanity, was unable to place him.

Crewe locked the door.

"Now then," said the colonel, "what the devil were you doing listening
at my door? Was that his game, Mr. Silva?"

"That was his game," said the other, brushing his hands.

"What have you got to say before I send for the police?" asked the
colonel virtuously. "What have you got to say for yourself? Sneaking
about a gentleman's flat, listening at keyholes!"

The man, who had been roughly handled, had risen and was putting his
collar straight. If he had been taken aback by the sudden onslaught, he
was completely self-possessed now.

"If you want to send for the police, you'd better start right away," he
said; "you've got a telephone, haven't you? Perhaps I'll have a job for
the policeman, too. You've no right to assault me, my friend," he said,
addressing Pinto resentfully.

"What were you doing?" asked the colonel.

"Find out," said the man sharply.

The colonel stroked his long moustache, and his manner underwent a
change.

"Now look here, old man," he said almost jovially; "we're all friends
here, and we don't want any trouble. I daresay you've made a mistake,
and my friend has made a mistake. Have a whisky and soda?"

The man grinned crooked.

"Not me, thank you," he said emphatically; "if I remember rightly, there
was a young gentleman who took a glass of water in North Lambeth Police
Court the other day, and----"

The colonel's eyes narrowed.

"Well, sit down and be sociable. If you're suggesting that I'm going to
poison you, you're also suggesting that you know something which I don't
want you to tell. Or that you have discovered one of those terrible
secrets that the newspapers are all writing about. Now be a sensible
man; have a drink."

The man hesitated.

"You have a drink of whisky out of the same bottle, and I'll join you."

"Help yourself," said the colonel good-naturedly. "Give me any glass you
like."

The man went to the sideboard, poured out two pegs and sent the
soda-water sizzling into the long glasses.

"Here's yours and here's mine," he said; "good luck!"

He drank the whisky off, after he had seen the colonel drink his, and
wiped his mouth with a gaudy handkerchief.

