Produced by Jason Isbell, Irma Spehar, Christine D. and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


"Do you like ours 'n' father's new book, Bay?"

"Aw, there's not any picture of the Santa-cart written in it!"

        Oh!
    What a lot of lots of things
      For little boys to like!

[Illustration: So Bay doesn't stay in the stars any more]


THE BAY AND PADIE BOOK


The Writer wishes to thank the Editor of "The Bulletin," Sydney,
for permission to reprint "Nonsense Immortal," and the Editor of
"The Triad," Sydney, for a similar courtesy regarding "Kitchen
Lullaby" and "Little Boys."

  The
  BAY AND PADIE
  BOOK

  KIDDIE SONGS

  By
  FURNLEY MAURICE

  Illustrations by
  VERA HAMILTON
  and
  CYRIL DOBBS

  Commonwealth of Australia
  Sydney J. Endacott
  Melbourne
  1917

[Illustration: Signature: Sydney J. Endacott]

First Edition November 1917 Second Edition February 1918

Wholly set up and printed in Australia at the Galleon Press,
Norris-street, Surrey Hills, Vic., for Sydney J. Endacott, 14
Cumming-street, Moonee Vale, Vic.


THE SHADOW SHOW

    Trains with wheels and clouds of smoke,
    Funny crowds of dodging folk,
    Trams that run along with sparks,
    Sofa games and pillow larks,
    Grubs and ponies, worms and tigers,
      Sparrows on the tree,
        Oh!
    What a lot of lots of things
      For little boys to see!

    Aeroplanes and paper darts,
    Woodmen driving broken carts,
    Minahs on the chimney tops,
    Swallows dodging near the shops,
    Barking pups that make the postman
      Fall down off his bike;
        Oh!
    What a lot of lots of things
      For little boys to like!

    Great big pictures in big books,
    Pastry from the pastrycook's,
    Circuses and Mentone sand,
    Musics of the soldier band,
    Chocolates wrapped in silver paper
      So they won't get wet;
        Oh!
    What a lot of lots of things
      For little boys to get!


THE SOLDIER BAND

  My mother and my father are both having tea to drink;
  Inside the pastry shop they saw me last.
  They don't know where I've got to, for I've runned from where they think;
  I heard the soldier band go marching past.

  Oh, tiddley--om--ti--pomp they go! Stamp soldier, stamp!
  A cab-horse jumped into the air and bumped against a lamp.
  Ta--rah--ra--rah, the trumpets go telling the boys to come,
  And always and all the time, bang goes the drum.

  Look at their lovely leather legs! The big brass things they blow!
    I don't care where I walk or who I meet,
  I'm following the band away to where the musics grow,
    I'm hitting my boots heavy on the street.

  For I must find the music man that lets them play so loud,
    And find the funny place where soldiers go
  To fill their trumpets with the noise they blow among the crowd--
    It's not a tea and pastry shop I know.

  Oh, I must find the music place, and stamp along the track,
    And try to let no trams run over me;
  If I'm a long, long way from home, the band will play me back,
    That's if I'm good and never spill my tea.

  When I grow up a soldier man, I'll buy a pole to wag,
    With silver top and tassels red and blue;
  I'll tell my little brother to be carrying the flag,
    While I call out and tell him how to do.

  I don't know where my father is, I've left him in a shop,
    And if I'm lost there's bound to be a noise;
  If fathers want their children, they should make the policeman stop
    The music of the bands that steal the boys.

  Oh, tiddley--om--ti--pomp they go! Stamp, soldier, stamp!
  A captain with a silver sword is marching them to camp.
  Ta--rah--ra--rah, the trumpets go, telling the boys to come,
  And always and all the time, bang goes the drum.


INVALID

    Raid, raid, go away,
    Dote cub back udtil I say,
    That wote be for beddy a day.

    Ad wot's the good of sudlight, dow?
      When I ab kept id bed,
    Ad rubbed ad poultised for to cure
      The cold that's id be head?

    I've beed out od the kitched lawd,
      With dothig od be feet,
    Ad subthig's coffig id be deck
      Ad all be head's a heat.

    Tell Bay to dot bake such a doise;
      Dote rud the cart so hard!
    For tissudt fair, just wud of us
      To rud arowd the yard.

    Ad wed I try to say a tale,
      Or sig a little sog,
    The coffig cubs idtoo be deck
      Ad tickles dredful strog.

    Ad wed is father cubbig obe?
      He'd dot be log he said--
    If this is jist a cold it bust
      Be awful to be dead!

    Oh what a log, log day it is!
      Ibe tired of blocks ad books;
    I've cowted all the ceilig lides,
      I've thought of sheep ad chooks.

    I've drawd a bad's face with a bo,
      I've drawed a pipe to sboke;
    Just wed I thought I was asleep
      I wedt ad thought I woke!

    Wot's the good of sudlight dow,
      Ad wot's the good of raid?
    Ad wot's the good of eddythig
      Wed all your head's a paid?

    Raid, raid go away,
    Ad dote cub back udtil I say,
    Ad that wote be for beddy a day.


This, to many readers, may appear inexpedient; as Grellman and
Hoyland have written largely on this neglected part of the human
family.

    But it should be recollected, that there
      are thousands of respectable
    and intelligent christians, who never have
    read, and never may read either of the
      above authors.

    The writer of the present work is
      partly indebted for the sympathies
    he feels, and which he wishes to awaken in
    others toward these miserable wanderers, to
      various authors who have written on them, but more particularly
to Grellman and Hoyland, who, in addition to the facts which came
under their own immediate notice, have published the observations
of travellers and others interested in the history of this people.

A list of these authors may be seen in the Appendix.

    But his knowledge of this people does not entirely depend
    on the testimony of others, having had the
    opportunity of closely examining for himself their habits
    and character in familiar visits to their tents, and by
    allowing his door to be free of access to all those
    encamped near Southampton, when they have needed his help and
advice.

    Thus has he gained a general knowledge of their
    vicious habits, their comparative virtues, and their
    unhappy modes of life, which he hopes the following
    pages will fully prove, and be the means of placing their character
in the light of truth, and of correcting various mistakes respecting
them, which have given rise to many unjust and injurious prejudices
against them.

    The Author could have enlarged the present work very considerably,
    had he detailed all the facts with which he is well acquainted.
    
    His object, however, was to furnish a work which should be
    concise and cheap, that he might be the means of
    exciting among his countrymen an energetic benevolence toward this
despised people; for it cannot be denied that many thousands of
them have never given the condition of the Gipsies a single thought.

    Such a work is now presented to the public. Whether the author has
    succeeded, will be best known to those persons who have the most
correct and extensive information relative to the unhappy race in
question.

    Should he be the honoured instrument of exciting in any
    breasts the same feelings of pity, mercy, love and zeal for
    these poor English heathens, as is felt and carried
    into useful plans for the heathens abroad, by christians of all
    denominations; he will then be certain that, by the
    blessing of the Redeemer, the confidence of the Gipsies
    will be gained, and, that they will be led to that Saviour,
    who has said, _Whosoever cometh unto me_, _I will in no wise cast
him out_.

    But Sufi sprang from an unknown spot,
      And the two boys wondered, afraid,
    When he carried the mouse to a garden plot
      And played, and played, and played.


THE SKY IN THE POOL

    Down by the glassy pool
      Sand and water meet,
    There's a little wooden stool,
      Marks of little feet.

    When the broth was in the bowl,
      Mother called to-day;
    Mother called and no one came,
      Someone was away.

    Then there came a little boy,
      Whose broth was very cool,
    Stuttering in wonderment,
      "The sky is in the pool!"

    And mother wept, because the clear
      Depths of all pool-skies,
    The soul's wonder, the heart's fear,


NEELY LORST

    There's women and there's men as well and little baby things,
    And some haves only dresses on and some of 'em haves wings,
    They nibble dandelions for meat, they drink the bubble frorf,
    They never spill their cocoa-milk all down the table-clorf,
    They never cry because it hurts, they always eat their brorf.

    Last night we heard a trumpet in the tea-tree down the street,
    And Padie left the table that was full of things to eat,
    He galloped for the music that seemed not so far away,
    And neely found the fairies where the trumpet used to play!

    Our mother went and catched him and he neely wasn't found,
    He neely fell into the creek through looking round and round.
    A naughty sea-shell cutted him, he had a bleedy toe,
    He lorst one Sunday sandal and he didn't seem to know;
    He only stood and wondered why all fairies live in moons,
    And go home in the twilight with their trumpets blowing tunes.


A WHISPER SONG

    When you're coming in the door,
      Please come gently, very gently!
    Micky might be on the floor!
      Fact, he might be anywhere!
    Near the hallstand, by the stair!
      Hush! step gently, very gently!
    When you're coming in the door.

    Tip-toe, tip-toe, hush the noise,
      There's a wide-eye-whisper tune!
    Micky's making songs for boys
      Sleepy after the afternoon.

    Anyone seen Micky here?
      Him that lives above the ceiling?
    Sometimes far and sometimes near
      Boys have heard his little squealing.

    Hush you! Hush! I heard a patter
      On the 'randah in the wet!
    Now'n again we've heard him chatter,
      But we've never seen him yet.

    Tip-toe, tip-toe, through the house,
      'Round the pantry, down the hall!
    P'raps he's only just a mouse,
      P'raps he's nuffing real at all.

    Hush you! Hush! I think I hear
      Just a little noise of humming!
    If you see him waiting near,
      Please don't whisper him we're coming.

    Someone smashed the photo-lady;
      Who upset the pot of musk?
    Was it Micky? Was it Padie
      Hunting Micky in the dusk?

    In the after afternoons
    When there comes big, starey moons,
      Often we've heard Micky playing
    By the window, fairy tunes;
      But I don't know what he's saying
    In the after afternoons.

    Anyone seen Micky, say,
      On the Coota-wattle perching?
    He might know and run away
      If he knows we're searching, searching.

    When he talks to Bay and me,
      Micky doesn't seem to know
    It's too far for boys to see
      If he's in the trellis tree;
    It's too damp for boys to go
      Hunting in the grass below.

    On the rafters in the night
      I've heard little footmarks trot;
    And I watch the candle light,
      Wondering if it's him or not.

    Micky's always everywhere;
      Watches children while they sleeping;
    'Round about the attic stair
      Sometimes mother saw him peeping.

    Micky doesn't like much noise,
      He's a wide-eye whisper fairy;
    Very kind to girls and boys,
      Very shy and most contrary.

    Tip-toe, tip-toe! Hush the noise!
      The following circumstance lately
    occurred, and will shew the
      improvement that has taken place in her daughters.

One of them had been sent by her mother to receive the weekly sum
allowed her.

    On receiving the money, she
      said, "This is
    twopence too much, sir." Being
      accustomed now and then to give her a few pence towards buying a
Testament, she was told to keep it for that purpose.

    "I thank you," said she, "I
      have got a Testament,
    now, and mother has
      given her's to my next sister, since she has had a bible; and my
youngest sister had a Testament given her at the Sunday School: but
one of us is saving money to buy a hymn-book with; I will give _her_
the twopence."

    This incident, trifling as it
      may seem to some, will
    not fail to gratify others,
      whose hearts are anxiously desirous of improving the Gipsies.

    In the autumn of 1830, the author
      felt a strong desire to
    visit Farnham, where were,
      at that time, thousands of poor people assembled to pick hops,
among whom were many Gipsies.

    Stanley was sent a few days
      before to make known his
    intentions of preaching to them
      on the evening of a fixed day.

While at Farnham, Stanley ate, drank, and slept in some of their
camps, by which he gained their confidence and affection.

    During the author's stay he
      accompanied Stanley to various
    hop-plantations, where great numbers
      of the most wretched part of the community are employed in the
hopping season.

    Great numbers of tracts were distributed
      among them, while the
    author entered into many free and familiar
      conversations with them.

Many were found very much depraved; but none were more depraved
among the Gipsies, than many of the other class; for they were
blasphemers of God and his religion.

    One man, like many of old, stirred up
      the people to reject and despise the
    truth. He said, "No one would get any
    thing by praying to God;" and, "if
      people wanted bread on a Sunday, it would be better for them to
steal a mess of potatoes, and wood to cook them with, than go to
church."

    Some of the poor shuddered at his boldness,
      and contempt of God's law. With much
    impudence he declared, "that he knew a man who
    put his dough into the oven on a Sunday without
      heating it, and then went to church to pray that God would bake
it for him; but that the fool was disappointed."

    The minister said to him--"You know that you
      have told a wilful lie. You never
    knew such a man. There is not one
    of these little children will believe
      you." He appeared confounded at this unexpected rebuke.

    May this sinner repent and be saved!
      
    Among the hop-pickers of Farnham were many
    Gipsies the visitors had long known; and their smiling
      faces spoke the gladness of their hearts and the warmth of their
gratitude, when they were noticed by their friends affectionately
and kindly; nor had they forgotten the favours that had been shewn
them at Southampton.

    
      In the time when knights were bold
      Ladies rode with bells and chains,
    Horses rugged in white and gold,
      Feather-legged with plaited manes.

    Singing, Watch Europa go,
      Wearing thinner clothes than silk.
    Riding from the cattle show
      On her bull as white as milk.

    Sturt he led a caravan,
      Kelly made the bankers jump;
    Leichardt was a camel-man
      Riding on a camel-hump.

    Down the Road of Stories march
      Gentle-folk and bullock-men,
    Cracking whips and wearing starch

    Down the Road of Stories go
    All the people that we know.
    Oh! what wonders grandmas show,
      Spectacles on brow,
    'Bout the Road from Long Ago,
      Long Ago, Long Ago,
    'Bout the Road from Long Ago,
      Long Ago till Now.


SLEEP SONG

    Half-past bunny-time,
      'Possums by the moon;
    Tea and bread-and-honey time,
      Sleep-time soon.

    Things that poets pant to see,
      The beautiful, the true,
    Are nothing to the phantasy
      The closed eyes view.


KITCHEN LULLABY

    Steady in the kitchen, steady in the hall,
    Don't let the dipper or the gruel pot fall!
      The ole blind's flapping
      And the little dog's snapping
    At the butcher and the baker and the woodman when they call.

      Ssh! ssh! ssh! for the little boy peeping,
      Ssh! ssh! ssh! did the milky make him start?
      Little boy sleeping, sleeping, sleeping,
      Little boy sleeping at his mother's heart.

    What a lot of noises, carts and buzzing flies!
    Keep his little hands down, shut his little eyes;
        For the boys are larking
        And the dogs are barking
    And he can't go to bye-low though he tries and tries.

      Ssh! ssh! ssh! for the little boy blinking,
      Blinking at the fairies who are wanting him to go;
      Little boy thinking, thinking, thinking,
      Little boy thinking if he will or no.

    Rubs his little eye for to push the sleep away;
    Better on the lawn is it? Watching spriggies play?
        Minahs and starlings,
        But no such darlings
    As the little boy that's never been to sleep this day.

      Ssh! ssh! ssh! for the big eyes gleaming,
      Dee, dee, softly his mother sings;
      Little boy dreaming, dreaming, dreaming,
      Fluttering to bye-low on bull-fly wings.


BARTER

    Kiddies must have little shoes
      Softly buckled round their toes,
    Rompers wrought in butcher blues,
      That's the way the money goes.

    In the Summer silky cool
      Fabrics foaming in the breeze;
    In the Winter muffling wool--
      We must buy our kiddies these.

    Woolly gaiters, tasselled hoods,
      Mantles soft that flow and fall,
    All the very best of foods,
      All the very best of all.

    Babies must have songs for sleep,
      Anxious watchings night and day,
    Kisses if they laugh or weep,
      So the ripe hours rush away.

    And for this we pay (it seems
      We may not serve visions, too)
    With our high neglected dreams,
      With great things we meant to do.


FATHER SONG

    They mean such a wonderful lot to me,
      It's quite absurd how my soul is smitten
    With Padie, who's four, and Bay, who's three,
      And Sufi, a Persian kitten!

    So mother must worry, and father must fuss,
      But I'll fake these songs to a sadder version
    When manhood steals the boys from us,
      And the Bottle-o pinches the Persian!


SUNDAY DINNER

    The butcher comed and he bringed no meat,
      But he crawled in the poultry pen,
    And he putted his hand among they feet,
      And catched the father hen.

    He catched it as hard as anything,
      But it didn't once crowed at all,
    And he tied its feet with a bundle of string
      And hanged it up on the wall.

    And now and again its wings went flap,
      But that didn't frighten me!
    I runned for my little brother chap
      To come outside and see.

    The father hen's not crowing now,
      The ittooest ittoo bit;
    We're going to tell our father how
      The butcher's hurted it!

    Our father has mended the bathroom door
      And the leg of the rocking chair:
    He mended the fence long time before,
      And he bought my horse some hair.

    He made the bikes so they wouldn't squeal,
      And he made the bunny to talk;
    He hammered some tacks in the engine wheel
      When the engine couldn't walk.

    And he cured the teddy when it was dead,
      And he mended the barrow for me--
    So father will mend the rooster's head
      Before he haves his tea.


THE CONCERT IN THE GARDEN

    The wheelbarrow wept to the willows
      And Padie called out for a hymn:
    He dabbled his boots on the pillows
      And the minister looked quite grim.

    While the Emu turned the pages
      The Wallaby sang with zest,
    Of the error in uncle's wages
      While the chairs all turned to the West.

    The Baker paused with a frigid stare
      And his heels apart, of course;
    And the shell-back sprang from his sunny lair
      With his hand upon his horse.

    The rooster's grandma nursed the cat,
      Which uttered nor purr nor sound,
    While the Platypus followed the Minister's hat
      Around and round and round.


WHISPER!!!

    Sit up in your beds and hark!
    Something said "meow" in the dark!
    Was it a gentleman saying some prayers?
    Was it a mousie trapped under the stairs?
    Was it a manager stealing some shares
    Or a newspaper having a lark?
    Sit up in your beds and hark!
    Something said "meow" in the dark!
    Would you your treasures securely keep,
    Never turn lamps out and never go sleep.


THE COMING OF BAY

    Bay doesn't stay in the stars any more;
      He didn't much cry nor care
    When God pushed him out of a big star door
      Into the everywhere.

    I ringed him up on the telephome
      And down he flied to me!
    Didn't you know how Bay came home?
      I got the push-cart, see?
    And wheeled him in the front-yard door
      Just one way and another,
    I didn't make mud-marks on the floor,
    Or scratch the paint on the front-way door,
      'Cos I am a careful brother;
    I putted him into the new white cot,
    I covered him up till he grew quite hot,
      And then called mother to see;
    So Bay doesn't stay in the stars any more
      But only with mother and me.


BABY SONG

    The grandmas talked with worried eyes
      And said it was a shame--
    Nobody wanted Littley then
      Before our Littley came.

    Boyo's nose will be out of joint,
      He's a toddling baby yet,
    And now there's another one coming along,
      Poor little pet!

    But Littley rode through the storm of doubt
      And the cloud of the troubled brow;
    Nobody wanted Littley then--
      But you should hear them now!


SOUL DISCIPLINE

    They say I'm a bad-tempered man,
      And yet I never swear
    When flop into my porridge
      Comes a woolly Teddy Bear!

    They say I'm an impatient man,
      And yet I never shoot
    When, after breakfasting, I find
      Damp toffy in my boot!

    And when my wife and my two sons
      Are dutifully kissed,
    I don't go crook if I'm called back
      When Sufi has been missed!

    I'm always on the scowl and quick
      To censure or condemn;
    But, somehow things seem different
      With little boys like them.


WEEP SONG

    Strike, strike, strike again,
      Bump them on the head;
    Every minute somebody,
      Falls down dead.

    Algernons and Berts
    Washing out their shirts,
    Babies in the bed
    Crying for some bread.
    Gentlemen with brains,
    Looking for their trains.

    Strike, strike, strike again,
      Always on the head;
    Every minute somebody
      Drops down dead.


MASTER IN EQUITY

    Did I hear the two boys say,
    "Two boys have been good to-day?"
    Santa's schooner's lost a sail,
    Someone tored it with a nail,
    What's that mark on Sufi's tail?
      I dunno, da you?
    Did boys eat they trifle slow
      When they mother told them to?
    I dunno, I dunno,
      I dunno, da you?

    Who's been cutting Sufi's hair?
      There's a broken dish I see;
    Padie, don't be hiding there,
      Bring my slippers out to me.
    Both boys have been good they say,
      Only cried an ittoo bit;
    Anyone been fighting Bay,
    Two new scars since yesterday?
      That was just a weeny hit,
      'Cos he'd always want to sit
      On the picture of the train
      Just when I was reading it.
    Two boys have been good again.
    Two boys didn't do some more
    What they were said not to do,
    Two boys have been good it's true!
    On the lawn's a splendid show,
    Twenteen firewoods in a row!
    Where does this hand-mirror go?
    I dunno, I dunno!
    Wheelmarks on the front-room floor,
      Sunday cake forks spread out too!
    Mudprints on the kitchen door--

    Wonder how they got there for?
    I dunno, I dunno,
      I dunno, da you?

    Did I hear the two boys say,
    "Two boys have been good to-day?"
    Why is mother worried so?
      All these good things can't be true.
    Have the boys been good who show
      Scratches red and bruises blue?
    The Home Missionaries
      have frequently paid flying visits to their camps, and prayed,
read, preached and distributed tracts.

In all cases they have been treated with much respect, and their
labour has been repaid with the most sincere marks of gratitude.

    But I never met with very warm
      support in carrying
    on this object, but was often
      exposed to some
    sarcastical insinuations or
      sardonic smiles from those
    who thought the attempt to
      ameliorate the condition of the Gipsies, only Quixotic.

    "I think their wandering life is
      one very great
    impediment in the way of
      improving the Gipsy
    tribes, and yet they are so
      attached to it, that,
    when taken into families,
      as servants, they will not stay.

Nor can any good be done to their children; for, like all wild
people, the parents are attached to them to a fault; so that they
cannot allow them to be absent from them even to enjoy the instruction
of a school, suspecting that such a separation might end in their
final disunion.

    "Were a distinct society
      formed to effect a reformation
    among the Gipsies, many
      of the nobility, and other classes of the higher orders, would no
doubt subscribe.

    There is a feeling among them on
      the subject, and many
    times the formation of a society
      has been on the tapis. The
    Gipsies are singularly attached
      to the Establishment,
    and many of them are married
      at the parish churches; and it is a pity the episcopalian body
have not taken them up.

    There is a prejudice against them
      which I think is
    unfounded; but I cannot enter
      into details in a
    mere letter. People look on them
      as vagabonds, and _they_
    seem shy in return; and hence
      they continue a kind of outcast body in a civilized country.

    "If any further steps
      are taken, and if I
    can in any way assist
      in promoting your good
    object, you may command
      my services.
    
      "I am, dear sir, respectfully yours, 
"I.

COBBIN."

    _Extracts from the Letter of a
      Clergyman's Lady_.
    
    "Sir,
      "My best thanks are due to you for your compliance with my request;
and, in return, I beg to assure you, that I consider your answer
to my friend's objection, as quite satisfactory and efficient.

    I rejoice to hear that God has been
      pleased to bless the endeavours
    and earnest exertion of the
    Scripture-readers (to the Gipsies)
    with success. To behold sixteen, and
      afterwards twenty-one Gipsies voluntarily attending Divine worship,
must have conveyed feelings of heartfelt gratitude to the heart of
every Christian, and at the same time encourage him to persevere
in earnest prayer to the Father of mercies, to pour his holy Spirit
into their souls, that they might become the true and faithful
followers of the Redeemer.

    
      Two bikes 'round in the picnic place ...
    Old horse tied to the apple-case.

    Gentle Jesus ... send the boys,
    Bats and balls for they winter toys.

    Sufi's naughty ... not 'lowed out....
    Pigeon feathers blowing about.

    Two bikes 'round in the ... two bikes 'round....
    Feathers blowing ... the scooter's found.

    God bless Jesus ... Bay's asleep ...
    Where's my pillow-book? ... Soul to keep.

    Two bikes ... two ... are the stars alight?
    Bye ... good-bye ... that's all ... t'night.

    Two brown heads on the pillows deep,
    Two boys mumble theyselfs to sleep.


     Transcriber's note

     The original pages each have a verse of "A Whisper Song" appearing
     as a sidenote. Since this also appears on its own as a poem I removed
     the sidenoted verses from the text version to make it less disjointed.
     The sidenoted verses were, however, retained for the html.