No true patriot will permit himself to take toll of their heroism in
money or seek to grow rich by the shedding of their blood. He will
give as freely and with as unstinted self-sacrifice as they. When
they are giving their lives, will he not at least give his money?

I hear it insisted that more than a just price, more than a price
that will sustain our industries, must be paid; that it is necessary
to pay very liberal and unusual profits in order to "stimulate
production," that nothing but pecuniary rewards will do--rewards paid
in money, not in the mere liberation of the world.


IS A BRIBE NECESSARY?

I take it for granted that those who argue thus do not stop to think
what that means. Do they mean that you must be paid, must be bribed,
to make your contribution, a contribution that costs you neither a
drop of blood, nor a tear, when the whole world is in travail and men
everywhere depend upon and call to you to bring them out of bondage
and make the world a fit place to live in again amidst peace and
justice?

Do they mean that you will exact a price, drive a bargain, with the
men who are enduring the agony of this war on the battlefield, in the
trenches, amid the lurking dangers of the sea, or with the bereaved
women and pitiful children, before you will come forward to do your
duty and give some part of your life, in easy, peaceful fashion, for
the things we are fighting for, the things we have pledged our
fortunes, our lives, our sacred honor, to vindicate and
defend--liberty and justice and fair dealing and the peace of
nations?

Of course you will not. It is inconceivable. Your patriotism is of
the same self-denying stuff as the patriotism of the men dead or
maimed on the fields of France, or else it is no patriotism at all.
Let us never speak, then, of profits and of patriotism in the same
sentence, but face facts and meet them. Let us do sound business, but
not in the midst of a mist.

Many a grievous burden of taxation will be laid on this Nation, in
this generation and in the next, to pay for this war; let us see to
it that for every dollar that is taken from the people's pockets it
shall be possible to obtain a dollar's worth of the sound stuffs they
need.


HIGH FREIGHTS AID GERMANY

Let us for a moment turn to the ship-owners of the United States and
the other ocean carriers whose example they have followed, and ask
them if they realize what obstacles, what almost insuperable
obstacles, they have been putting in the way of the successful
prosecution of this war by the ocean freight rates they have been
exacting.

They are doing everything that high freight charges can do to make
the war a failure, to make it impossible. I do not say that they
realize this or intend it.

The thing has happened naturally enough, because the commercial
processes which we are content to see operate in ordinary times have
without sufficient thought been continued into a period where they
have no proper place. I am not questioning motives. I am merely
stating a fact, and stating it in order that attention may be fixed
upon it.

The fact is that those who have fixed war freight rates have taken
the most effective means in their power to defeat the armies engaged
against Germany. When they realize this we may, I take it for
granted, count upon them to reconsider the whole matter. It is high
time. Their extra hazards are covered by war-risk insurance.


THE LAW TO DEAL WITH OFFENDERS

I know, and you know, what response to this great challenge of duty
and of opportunity the Nation will expect of you; and I know what
response you will make. Those who do not respond, who do not respond
in the spirit of those who have gone to give their lives for us on
bloody fields far away, may safely be left to be dealt with by
opinion and the law--for the law must, of course, command those
things.

I am dealing with the matter thus publicly and frankly, not because I
have any doubt or fear as to the result, but only in order that, in
all our thinking and in all our dealings with one another we may move
in a perfectly clear air of mutual understanding.

And there is something more that we must add to our thinking. The
public is now as much part of the Government as are the Army and Navy
themselves. The whole people, in all their activities, are now
mobilized and in service for the accomplishment of the Nation's task
in this war. It is in such circumstances impossible justly to
distinguish between industrial purchases made by the Government and
industries. And it is just as much our duty to sustain the industries
of the country, all the industries that contribute to its life, as it
is to sustain our forces in the field and on the sea. We must make
the prices to the public the same as the prices to the Government.


PRICES MEAN VICTORY OR DEFEAT

Prices mean the same thing everywhere now. They mean the efficiency
or the inefficiency of the Nation, whether it is the Government that
pays them or not. They mean victory or defeat. They mean that America
will win her place once for all among the foremost free Nations of
the world, or that she will sink to defeat and become a second-rate
Power alike in thought and action. This is a day of her reckoning,
and every man among us must personally face that reckoning along with
her.

The case needs no arguing. I assume that I am only expressing your
own thoughts--what must be in the mind of every true man when he
faces the tragedy and the solemn glory of the present war, for the
emancipation of mankind. I summon you to a great duty, a great
privilege, a shining dignity and distinction.

I shall expect every man who is not a slacker to be at my side
throughout this great enterprise. In it no man can win honor who
thinks of himself.


XII

REPLY OF THE UNITED STATES TO THE COMMUNICATION OF THE POPE TO THE
BELLIGERENT GOVERNMENTS

(_August 27, 1917_)

To His Holiness Benedictus XV., Pope.

In acknowledgment of the communication of Your Holiness to the
belligerent peoples, dated August 1, 1917, the President of the
United States requests me to transmit the following reply:

Every heart that has not been blinded and hardened by this terrible
war must be touched by this moving appeal of His Holiness, the Pope,
must feel the dignity and force of the humane and generous motives
which prompted it, and must fervently wish that we might take the
path of peace he so persuasively points out. But it would be folly to
take it if it does not, in fact, lead to the goal he proposes. Our
response must be based upon the stern facts and upon nothing else. It
is not a mere cessation of arms he desires; it is a stable and
enduring peace. This agony must not be gone through with again, and
it must be a matter of very sober judgment what will insure us
against it.


THE PROPOSAL FROM THE VATICAN

His Holiness, in substance, proposes that we return to the _status
quo ante bellum_, and that then there be a general condonation,
disarmament, and a concert of nations based upon an acceptance of the
principle of arbitration; that by a similar concert freedom of the
seas be established; and that the territorial claims of France and
Italy, the perplexing problems of the Balkan states, and the
restitution of Poland be left to such conciliatory adjustments as may
be possible in the new temper of such a peace, due regard being paid
to the aspirations of the peoples whose political fortunes and
affiliations will be involved.

It is manifest that no part of this program can be successfully
carried out unless the restitution of the _status quo ante_
furnishes a firm and satisfactory basis for it. The object of this
war is to deliver the free peoples of the world from the menace and
the actual power of a vast military establishment controlled by an
irresponsible Government, which, having secretly planned to dominate
the world, proceeded to carry the plan out without regard either to
the sacred obligations of treaty or the long-established practices
and long-cherished principles of international action and honor;
which chose its own time for the war; delivered its blow fiercely and
suddenly; stopped at no barrier either of law or of mercy; swept a
whole continent within the tide of blood--not the blood of soldiers
only, but the blood of innocent women and children also, and of the
helpless poor; and now stands balked but not defeated, the enemy of
four-fifths of the world. This power is not the German people. It is
the ruthless master of the German people. It is no business of ours
how that great people came under its control or submitted with
temporary zest to the domination of its purpose; but it is our
business to see to it that the history of the rest of the world is no
longer left to its handling.

To deal with such a power by way of peace upon the plan proposed by
His Holiness the Pope would, so far as we can see, involve a
recuperation of its strength and a renewal of its policy; would make
it necessary to create a permanent hostile combination of nations
against the German people who are its instruments; and would result
in abandoning the new-born Russia to the intrigue, the manifold
subtle interference, and the certain counter-revolution which would
be attempted by all the malign influences to which the German
Government has of late accustomed the world. Can peace be based upon
a restitution of its power or upon any word of honor it could pledge
in a treaty of settlement and accommodation?

Responsible statesmen must now everywhere see, if they never saw
before, that no peace can rest securely upon political or economic
restrictions meant to benefit some nations and cripple or embarrass
others, upon vindictive action of any sort, or any kind of revenge or
deliberate injury. The American people have suffered intolerable
wrongs at the hands of the Imperial German Government, but they
desire no reprisal upon the German people, who have themselves
suffered all things in this war which they did not choose. They
believe that peace should rest upon the rights of peoples, not the
rights of governments--the rights of peoples great or small, weak or
powerful--their equal right to freedom and security and
self-government and to a participation upon fair terms in the
economic opportunities of the world, the German people, of course,
included, if they will accept equality and not seek domination.

The test, therefore, of every plan of peace is this: Is it based upon
the faith of all the peoples involved or merely upon the word of an
ambitious and intriguing Government on the one hand, and of a group
of free peoples on the other? This is a test which goes to the root
of the matter; and it is the test which must be applied.


THE TEST THAT MUST BE APPLIED

The purposes of the United States in this war are known to the whole
world, to every people to whom the truth has been permitted to come.
They do not need to be stated again. We seek no material advantage of
any kind. We believe that the intolerable wrongs done in this war by
the furious and brutal power of the Imperial German Government ought
to be repaired, but not at the expense of the sovereignty of any
people--rather a vindication of the sovereignty both of those that
are weak and of those that are strong. Punitive damages, the
dismemberment of empires, the establishment of selfish and exclusive
economic leagues, we deem inexpedient and in the end worse than
futile, no proper basis for a peace of any kind, least of all for an
enduring peace. That must be based upon justice and fairness and the
common rights of mankind.


THE GERMAN RULERS CANNOT BE TRUSTED

We cannot take the word of the present rulers of Germany as a
guaranty of anything that is to endure, unless explicitly supported
by such conclusive evidence of the will and purpose of the German
people themselves as the other peoples of the world would be
justified in accepting. Without such guarantees treaties of
settlement, agreements for disarmament, covenants to set up
arbitration in the place of force, territorial adjustments,
reconstitutions of small nations, if made with the German Government,
no man, no nation could now depend on. We must await some new
evidence of the purposes of the great peoples of the Central Powers.
God grant it may be given soon, and in a way to restore the
confidence of all peoples everywhere in the faith of nations and the
possibility of a covenanted peace.


ROBERT LANSING,

Secretary of State of the United States of America.


XIII

A MESSAGE TO TEACHERS AND SCHOOL OFFICERS

(_September 30, 1917_)


The war is bringing to the minds of our people a new appreciation of
the problems of national life and a deeper understanding of the
meaning and aims of democracy. Matters which heretofore have seemed
commonplace and trivial are seen in a truer light. The urgent demand
for the production and proper distribution of food and other national
resources has made us aware of the close dependence of individual on
individual and nation on nation. .

{40} Mr. Bray's marriage made little difference in his habits this year.
He was almost every night with his friends at cards or backgammon;
in the summer evenings at bowls; frequently at the morning services
on week days at the Middle Church.

He had very little to do at this time in his profession.

{41} Mr. Lane, of East Horsley Park.

{42} Mr.

Evelyn, afterwards Sir John, then M.P. for Helstone, had
offered him an appointment at the Board of Green Cloth, which he
at first, by the wish of his wife, declined to accept; but a few
days afterwards, being better advised, he was glad to find that he
could still have it.

The following note was among the Memoranda which he left of his
early life.--'Nothing could be pleasanter than our situation at the
Board of Green Cloth. The Principals were all members of the House of
Commons. We sat in the same room, at the same green cloth table,
with them, by whom we were treated rather as associates than as
clerks.' Mr. Bray was at first only an assistant, together with Mr.

Selwyn, a barrister, afterwards in large practice; Mr. Blenman, also
of the Bar, and Mr. Fanshawe, but they rose to be chief clerks. His
usual attendance was from 11 to 3. He took a house in Holles
Street, and settled there December 14th, but in the following year
he moved to Great Russell Street.

{43} This child died in July,
{44} After a Royal birth caudle was given to the Clerks of the
Green Cloth and others in office at St. James's.

{45} Of Bury Hill, now Mr.

Barclay's.

{46} Of the Rookery, now Mr. Fuller's. His son, Thomas Robert Malthus,
was the great writer on Population. His youngest daughter married
Mr. Bray's son Edward.
{47} His son Edward, who married Miss Malthus, and left a large
family. His other sons died in childhood. Mr. Bray had no collateral
relations of his name after the death of his uncle and brothers
within many generations.Whitehouse, the President spoke as
follows:

Mrs. Whitehouse and Ladies,--It is with great pleasure that
I receive you. I esteem it a privilege to do so. I know the
difficulties which you have been laboring under in New York State, so
clearly set forth by Mrs. Whitehouse, but in my judgment those
difficulties cannot be used as an excuse by the leaders of any party
or by the voters of any party for neglecting the question which you
are pressing upon them. Because, after all, the whole world now is
witnessing a struggle between two ideals of government. It is a
struggle which goes deeper and touches more of the foundations of the
organized life of men than any struggle that has ever taken place
before, and no settlement of the questions that lie on the surface
can satisfy a situation which requires that the questions which lie
underneath and at the foundation should also be settled and settled
right. I am free to say that I think the question of woman suffrage
is one of those questions which lie at the foundation.

The world has witnessed a slow political reconstruction, and men have
generally been obliged to be satisfied with the slowness of the
process. In a sense it is wholesome that it should be slow, because
then it is solid and sure. But I believe that this war is going so to
quicken the convictions and the consciousness of mankind with regard
to political questions that the speed of reconstruction will be
greatly increased. And I believe that just because we are quickened
by the questions of this war, we ought to be quickened to give this
question of woman suffrage our immediate consideration.


NOW IS THE TIME TO ACT

As one of the spokesmen of a great party, I would be doing nothing
less than obeying the mandates of that party if I gave my hearty
support to the question of woman suffrage which you represent, but I
do not want to speak merely as one of the spokesmen of a party. I
want to speak for myself, and say that it seems to me that this is
the time for the States of this Union to take this action. I perhaps
may be touched a little too much by the traditions of our politics,
traditions which lay such questions almost entirely upon the States,
but I want to see communities declare themselves quickened at this
time and show the consequence of the quickening.

I think the whole country has appreciated the way in which the women
have risen to this great occasion. They not only have done what they
have been asked to do, and done it with ardor and efficiency, but
they have shown a power to organize for doing things of their own
initiative, which is quite a different thing, and a very much more
difficult thing, and I think the whole country has admired the spirit
and the capacity and the vision of the women of the United States.

It is almost absurd to say that the country depends upon the women
for a large part of the inspiration of its life. That is too obvious
to say; but it is now depending upon the women also for suggestions
of service, which have been rendered in abundance and with the
distinction of originality. I, therefore, am very glad to add my
voice to those which are urging the people of the great State of New
York to set a great example by voting for woman suffrage. It would be
a pleasure if I might utter that advice in their presence. Inasmuch
as I am bound too close to my duties here to make that possible, I am
glad to have the privilege to ask you to convey that message to them.

It seems to me that this is a time of privilege. All our principles,
all our hearts, all our purposes, are being searched; searched not
only by our own consciences, but searched by the world; and it is
time for the people of the States of this country to show the world
in what practical sense they have learned the lessons of
democracy--that they are fighting for democracy because they believe
it, and that there is no application of democracy which they do not
believe in.

I feel, therefore, that I am standing upon the firmest foundations of
the age in bidding godspeed to the cause which you represent and in
expressing the ardent hope that the people of New York may realize
the great occasion which faces them on Election Day and may respond
to it in noble fashion.


XV

THE THANKSGIVING DAY PROCLAMATION

(_November 7, 1917_)


It has long been the honored custom of our people to turn in the
fruitful autumn of the year in praise and thanksgiving to Almighty
God for His many blessings and mercies to us as a Nation. That custom
we can follow now, even in the midst of the tragedy of a world shaken
by war and immeasurable disaster, in the midst of sorrow and great
peril, because even amidst the darkness that has gathered about us we
can see the great blessings God has bestowed upon us; blessings that
are better than mere peace of mind and prosperity of enterprise.

We have been given the opportunity to serve mankind as we once served
ourselves in the great day of our declaration of independence, by
taking up arms against a tyranny that threatened to master and debase
men everywhere and joining with other free peoples in demanding for
all the nations of the world what we then demanded and obtained for
ourselves. In this day of the revelation of our duty not only to
defend our rights as a Nation, but to defend also the rights of free
men throughout the world, there has been vouchsafed us in full and
inspiring measure the resolution and spirit of united action. We have
been brought to one mind and purpose. A new vigor of common counsel
and common action has been revealed in us.

We should especially thank God that, in such circumstances, in the
midst of the greatest enterprise the spirits of men have ever entered
upon, we have, if we but observe a reasonable and practicable
economy, abundance with which to supply the needs of those associated
with us as well as our own.

A new light shines about us. The great duties of a new day awaken a
new and greater national spirit in us. We shall never again be
divided or wonder what stuff we are made of.

And while we render thanks for these things, let us pray Almighty God
that in all humbleness of spirit we may look always to Him for
guidance; that we may be kept constant in the spirit and purpose of
service; that by His grace our minds may be directed and our hands
strengthened, and that in His good time liberty and security and
peace and the comradeship of a common justice may be vouchsafed all
the nations of the earth.

Wherefore, I, Woodrow Wilson, President of the United States of
America, do hereby designate Thursday, the 29th day of November next,
as a day of thanksgiving and prayer, and invite the people throughout
the land to cease upon that day from their ordinary occupations and
in their several homes and places of worship to render thanks to God,
the Great Ruler of nations.


XVI

LABOR MUST BEAR ITS PART

(_November 12, 1917_)


In his address before the American Federation of Labor, assembled in
convention at Buffalo, New York, the President spoke as follows:

Mr. President, Delegates of the American Federation of Labor, Ladies
and Gentlemen,--I esteem it a great privilege and a real honor to be
thus admitted to your public councils. When your executive committee
paid me the compliment of inviting me here I gladly accepted the
invitation, because it seems to me that this, above all other times
in your history, is the time for common counsel, for the drawing not
only of the energies, but of the minds of the nation together. I
thought that it was a welcome opportunity for disclosing to you some
of the thoughts that have been gathering in my mind during the last
momentous months.

I am introduced to you as the President of the United States, and yet
I would be pleased if you would put the thought of the office into
the background and regard me as one of your fellow-citizens who has
come here to speak, not the words of authority, but the words of
counsel, the words which men should speak to one another who wish to
be frank in a moment more critical, perhaps, than the history of the
world has ever yet known, a moment when it is every man's duty to
forget himself, to forget his own interests, to fill himself with the
nobility of a great national and world conception and act upon a new
platform elevated above the ordinary affairs of life, elevated to
where men have views of the long destiny of mankind.

I think that in order to realize just what this moment of counsel is,
it is very desirable that we should remind ourselves just how this
war came about and just what it is for. You can explain most wars
very simply, but the explanation of this is not so simple. Its roots
run deep into all the obscure soils of history, and, in my view, this
is the last decisive issue between the old principles of power and
the new principles of freedom.


GERMANY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE WAR

The war was started by Germany. Her authorities deny that they
started it, but I am willing to let the statement I have just made
await the verdict of history. The thing that needs to be explained is
why Germany started the war. Remember what the position of Germany in
the world was--as enviable a position as any nation has ever
occupied. As an authority, he used the most winning persuasion.

He respected the mental individuality even of a child, and would use
his admirable tact in kindly encouraging every indication of talent,
which, from want of a sufficient self-reliance or of a timely
care, was hiding itself. Year after year, in vacation-time,
Töpffer left the city with his thirty or forty young companions,
and with them he travelled on foot through the mountains and around
the lakes of Switzerland,--sometimes pushing in the track of Agassiz
over glacier billows, sometimes wandering far down upon the fertile
plains of Lombardy and Venetia.

These were always most delightful excursions, when the ordinary halt
became a common enjoyment, not only from the fun-loving spirit
of the master, but also for the promise of future illustrations.
She had a place in the sun. Why was she not
satisfied? What more did she want? There was nothing in the world of
peace that she did not already have, and have in abundance.

We boast of the extraordinary pace of American advancement. We show
with pride the statistics of the increase of our industries and of
the population of our cities. Well, those statistics did not match
the recent statistics of Germany. Her old cities took on youth, grew
faster than any American cities ever grew; her old industries opened
their eyes and saw a new world and went out for its conquest, and yet
the authorities of Germany were not satisfied.

You have one part of the answer to the question why she was not
satisfied in her methods of competition. There is no important
industry in Germany upon which the Government had not laid its hands
to direct it and, when necessity arose, control it.

You have only to ask any man whom you meet who is familiar with the
conditions that prevailed before the war in the matter of
international competition to find out the methods of competition
which the German manufacturers and exporters used under the patronage
and support of the Government of Germany. You will find that they
were the same sorts of competition that we have decided to prevent by
law within our own borders. If they could not sell their goods
cheaper than we could sell ours, at a profit to themselves, they
could get a subsidy from the Government which made it possible to
sell them cheaper anyhow; and the conditions of competition were thus
controlled in large measure by the German Government itself.

But that did not satisfy the German Government. All the while there
was lying behind its thought, in its dreams of the future, a
political control which would enable it, in the long run, to dominate
the labor and the industry of the world.


SUCCESS BY AUTHORITY

They were not content with success by superior achievement; they
wanted success by authority. I suppose very few of you have thought
much about the Berlin to Bagdad railway. The Berlin to Bagdad railway
was constructed in order to run the threat of force down the flank of
the industrial undertakings of half a dozen other countries, so that
when German competition came in it would not be resisted too
far--because there was always the possibility of getting German
armies into the heart of that country quicker than any other armies
could be got there.

Look at the map of Europe now. Germany, in thrusting upon us again
and again the discussion of peace, talks about what? Talks about
Belgium, talks about northern France, talks about Alsace-Lorraine.
She has kept all that her dreams contemplated when the war began. If
she can keep that, her power can disturb the world as long as she
keeps it; always provided--for I feel bound to put this provision
in--always provided the present influences that control the German
Government continue to control it.

I believe that the spirit of freedom can get into the hearts of
Germans and find as fine a welcome there as it can find in any other
hearts. But the spirit of freedom does not suit the plans of the
Pan-Germans. Power cannot be used with concentrated force against
free peoples if it is used by free people. The Duchess de
Broglie and the Baroness Rumpf are rare instances of the truest Christian
womanhood in exalted stations.--But a whole magazine article would
not suffice to give a list of the great, the noble, and the gifted who
have sojourned for a time in the city of Geneva.

Yet, if Geneva has borrowed some of the great of other countries, she
has amply repaid the debt. She sent her Casaubon to the court of James
I. of England, to be the defender of the faith.THE POLITICAL POWER OF THE WORLD

Germany is determined that the political power of the world shall
belong to her. There have been such ambitions before. They have been
in part realized. But never before have those ambitions been based
upon so exact and precise and scientific a plan of domination.

May I not say it is amazing to me that any group of people should be
so ill informed as to suppose, as some groups in Russia apparently
suppose, that any reforms planned in the interest of the people can
live in the presence of a Germany powerful enough to undermine or
overthrow them by intrigue or force?

Any body of free men that compounds with the present German
Government is compounding for its own destruction. But that is not
the whole of the story. Any man in America or anywhere else who
supposes that the free industry and enterprise of the world can
continue if the Pan-German plan is achieved and German power fastened
upon the world is as fatuous as the dreamers of Russia.

What I am opposed to is not the feeling of the pacifists, but their
stupidity. My heart is with them, but my mind has a contempt for
them. I want peace, but I know how to get it, and they do not.

You will notice that I sent a friend of mine, Colonel House, to
Europe, who is as great a lover of peace as any man in the world; but
I did not send him on a peace mission. I sent him to take part in a
conference as to how the war was to be won. And he knows, as I know,
that that is the way to get peace if you want it for more than a few
minutes.

If we are true friends of freedom--our own or anybody else's--we will
see that the power of this country and the productivity of this
country is raised to its absolute maximum and that absolutely nobody
is allowed to stand in the way of it.

When I say that nobody ought to be allowed to stand in the way, I
don't mean that they shall be prevented by the power of Government,
but by the power of the American spirit. Our duty, if we are to do
this great thing and show America to be what we believe her to be,
the greatest hope and energy in the world, then we must stand
together night and day until the job is finished.


LABOR MUST BE FREE

While we are fighting for freedom we must see, among other things,
that labor is free, and that means a number of interesting things. It
means not only that we must do what we have declared our purpose to
do--see that the conditions of labor are not rendered more onerous by
the war--but also that we shall see to it that the instrumentalities
by which the conditions of labor are improved are not blocked or
checked. That we must do. That has been the matter about which I have
taken pleasure in conferring, from time to time, with your president,
Mr. Gompers; and if I may be permitted to do so, I want to express my
admiration of his patriotic courage, his large vision, his
statesman-like sense and a mind that knows how to pull in harness.
The horses that kick over the traces will have to be put in a corral.

Now, to "stand together" means that nobody must interrupt the
processes of our energy if the interruption can possibly be avoided
without the absolute invasion of freedom. To put it concretely, that
means this: Nobody has a right to stop the processes of labor until
all the methods of conciliation and settlement have been exhausted,
and I might as well say right here that I am not talking to you
alone. You sometimes stop the courses of labor, but there are others
who do the same. I am speaking of my own experience when I say that
you are reasonable in a larger number of cases than the capitalists.

I am not saying these things to them personally yet, because I
haven't had a chance. But they have to be said, not in any spirit of
criticism.

But, in order to clear the atmosphere and come down to business,
everybody on both sides has got to transact business, and the
settlement is never impossible when both sides want to do the square
and right thing. Moreover, a settlement is always hard to avoid when
the parties can be brought face to face. I can differ with a man much
more radically when he isn't in the room than I can when he is in the
room, because then the awkward thing is that he can come back at me
and answer what I say. It is always dangerous for a man to have the
floor entirely to himself. And, therefore, we must insist in every
instance that the parties come into each other's presence and there
discuss the issues between them, and not separately in places which
have no communication with each other.

I like to remind myself of a delightful saying of an Englishman of a
past generation, Charles Lamb. He was with a group of friends and he
spoke harshly of some man who was not present. I ought to say that
Lamb stuttered a little bit. And one of his friends said, "Why,
Charles, I didn't know that you knew So-and-so?" "Oh," he said, "I
don't. I can't hate a man I know."

There is a great deal of human nature, of very pleasant human nature,
in that saying. Bray's oldest friend then living. He died in 1868
at a very advanced age, having during his long life rendered most
valuable services to the public, and particularly by his contributions
to English history.

{113} Mr. Higgins was employed by Mr. Bray in writing for him.
His last guest at Shere was his old friend Mr. Carlisle, one of the
Secretaries of the Antiquary Society, who came to Shere on Saturday,
the 28th of October, and remained till Monday.AMERICANS MUST CO-OPERATE

Therefore my counsel to you is this: Let us show ourselves Americans
by showing that we do not want to go off in separate camps or groups
by ourselves, but that we want to co-operate with all other classes
and all other groups in a common enterprise, which is to release the
spirits of the world from bondage. I would be willing to set that up
as the final test of an American. That is the meaning of democracy.

I have been very much distressed, my fellow-citizens, by some of the
things that have happened recently. The mob spirit is displaying
itself here and there in this country. I have no sympathy with what
some men are saying, but I have no sympathy with the men that take
their punishment into their own hands; and I want to say to every man
who does join such a mob that I recognize him as unworthy of the free
institutions of the United States.

There are some organizations in this country whose object is anarchy
and the destruction of the law. I despise and hate their purpose as
much as any man, but I respect the ancient processes of justice, and
I would be too proud not to see them done justice, however wrong they
are. And so I want to utter my earnest protest against any
manifestation of the spirit of lawlessness anywhere or in any cause.
Why, gentlemen, look what it means.

We claim to be the greatest democratic people in the world, and
democracy means, first of all, that we can govern ourselves. If our
men have not self-control, then they are not capable of that great
thing which we call democratic government. A man who takes the law
into his own hands is not the right man to co-operate in any form of
orderly development of law and institutions.

And some of the processes by which the struggle between capital and
labor is carried on are processes that come very near to taking the
law into your own hands. I do not mean for a moment to compare them
with what I have just been speaking of, but I want you to see that
they are mere gradations of the manifestations of the unwillingness
to co-operate. My eyesight is so good that I can and generally do use
my eyes in reading or writing from the time of getting up in the
morning till 10 at night. My hearing is in no way impaired. I have not
lost one front tooth and very few others.BETTER CONDITIONS MAY BE AT HAND

I am hopeful that in the very near future new instrumentalities may
be organized by which we can see to it that various things that are
now going on shall not go on. There are various processes of the
dilution of labor and the unnecessary substitution of labor and
bidding in different markets and unfairly upsetting the whole
competition of labor which ought not to go on--I mean now, on the
part of employers--and we must interject into this some
instrumentality of co-operation by which the fair thing will be done
all around.

I am hopeful that some such instrumentalities may be devised, but
whether they are or not we must use those that we have, and upon
every occasion where it is necessary to have such an instrumentality,
originated upon that occasion, if necessary.

And so, my fellow-citizens, the reason that I came away from
Washington is that I sometimes get lonely down there--there are so
many people in Washington who know things that are not so, and there
are so few people in Washington who know anything about what the
people of the United States are thinking about. I have to come away
to get reminded of the rest of the country. I have come away and talk
to men who are up against the real thing and say to them, I am with
you if you are with me. The only test of being with me is not to
think about me personally at all, but merely to think of me as the
expression for the time being of the power and dignity and hope of
the American people.


XVII

ADDRESS TO CONGRESS (_December 4, 1917_)


Gentlemen of the Congress,--Eight months have elapsed since
I last had the honor of addressing you. They have been months crowded
with events of immense and grave significance for us. I shall not
undertake to detail or even to summarize these events. The practical
particulars of the part we have played in them will be laid before
you in the reports of the executive departments. I shall discuss only
our present outlook upon these vast affairs, our present duties and
the immediate means of accomplishing the objects we shall hold always
in view.

