(http://www.pgdp.net/)


"SAY, FELLOWS--"

Fifty Practical Talks with Boys on Life's Big Issues

by

WADE C. SMITH

Author of "The Little Jetts Telling Bible Stories"

[Illustration]

New York     Chicago
Fleming H. Revell Company
London and Edinburgh

1921


Adapted from the Author's weekly Sunday School Lesson Treatments in
_The Sunday School Times_, by permission of the Editors.

New York: 158 Fifth Avenue
Chicago: 17 North Wabash Ave.
London: 21 Paternoster Square
Edinburgh: 75 Princes Street


_Dedicated to

her whose instruction and example
first inspired in me the purposes
and ideals which make for patience,
courage, endurance and faith--

MY MOTHER_


Introduction


"My teacher told me to write a composition on the last picture I
looked at," said Henry, a sixth grader, when he came in from school
the other day. "I had seen a picture of a fire engine," he added, "so
I wrote:

"'With a clatter of hoofs and a whirr of wheels, the fire engine
dashed around the corner. The driver was crouched low in the seat. He
was driving like Jehu.'

"But I could not spell Jehu, so I went to my teacher and asked,
'Please, how do you spell Jehu?'

"'Spell what, Henry?'

"'Jehu.'

"'What in the world are you trying to say, boy?'

"'I am trying to tell how fast a fire engine driver goes--as fast as a
chariot driver in the time of King David, I think it was.'

"'Well, Henry, I think you had better say the engine driver drove as
fast as an ancient charioteer.'"

"And did you?" I asked.

"No, sir; I said, 'he was driving like mad.'"

It is plain that this grammar-school teacher had never heard of the
Bible character who had interested her pupil, but the author of this
book knows how to spell "Jehu" to a questioning boy, or to a "gang" of
boys, or to a Sunday-school class of boys.

Is there any boy who does not have a motor in his mind? A writer of a
method article in a recent issue of _The Sunday School Times_ related
an incident of a chap whom he described as "a motor-minded boy." He
said that he was sitting on top of a school desk at recess, kicking
back with his heels, and when asked what he was thinking about,
replied: "I was wondering, if my legs were horses, how fast they would
go!"

It was with a realization of the fact that when a class of
Sunday-school boys assembles, their instinct is of one accord to turn
their legs into horses and to drive them as Jehu drove his pair of
Arabs, that our paper requested Wade Smith to take charge of its
Lesson Help for boys' classes. The management realized the truth of
the statement of Dr. Walter W. Moore, President of Union Theological
Seminary at Richmond, Va., when he said that Mr. Smith was the most
versatile man whom he ever knew.

Although Mr. Smith was already contributing to its columns "The Little
Jetts Teaching the Sunday-school Lesson," he was asked also to
undertake the difficult but important task of writing the lessons for
teachers of, and students in, boys' classes. His highly acceptable
performance of this work is but another evidence of his versatility.

Out of his own richly eventful and happy boyhood, as well as his
experience as a Christian father and a lifelong student of boys, small
and grown up, Mr. Smith wrote the chapters of this book. They appeared
week by week under the title of "Say, Fellows--" Letters from our
readers have testified to their helpfulness. The writer of this
Introduction teaches two Sunday-school classes--one composed of his
two boys in their home preparation for Sunday school, and the other an
Adult Men's class in the church to which he belongs. When his own boys
have finished studying their lesson in their Quarterlies, they almost
invariably come to their father and say, "Now read us what Mr. Smith
says, and then we will be ready for the lesson."

On two occasions I recall introducing the lesson to my adult class by
recounting Mr. Smith's striking stories out of his own experience
about the boy who was drowned and restored to life, illustrating the
Resurrection Lesson (See page 60), and of his first and last deer hunt
(See page 76), and both times the attention of the men was gripped in
an unusual way by these remarkable incidents. No doubt, hundreds of
teachers have had similar experiences in making use of Mr. Smith's
illustrations.

So great has been the helpfulness of the "Say, Fellows--" lessons that
the demand has come for their publication in the delightful book form
in which they now appear. In expressing my own pleasure that these
lesson treatments, having served their immediate purpose, are now to
be rescued from yellowing files and preserved under the covers of a
book, I am but voicing the hearty sentiment of the entire staff of the
paper.

May God's rich blessing rest upon the pages of this book as it takes a
deserved place in the libraries of lovers of Motor-minded,
Jehu-driving boys.

HOWARD A. BANKS,
_Associate Editor "The Sunday School Times."
Philadelphia, Pa._


Contents


1.  BUILDING                               13

2.  WORK                                   16

3.  INVISIBLE!                             19

4.  MR. ALMOST                             22

5.  FISHING                                25

6.  SHOWING OFF                            28

7.  KEEPING FIT                            31

8.  QUESTIONING                            34

9.  LOYALTY                                37

10. A GOOD SPORT                           40

11. FEASTING                               44

12. STEWARDSHIP                            47

13. TALENTS                                50

14. FIGHTING                               54

15. DRIFTING                               57

16. RESURRECTION                           60

17. KNOWING HOW                            63

18. FRIENDSHIP                             66

19. ALABASTER                              69

20. TELLING IT                             72

21. READY!                                 76

22. REMEMBERING                            79

23. GETTING EVEN                           82

24. GREATNESS                              85

25. "PAW, I WANTA BE SOMEBODY!"            88

26. "LET DOWN YOUR FEET!"                  92

27. AN "UNASSISTED TRIPLE PLAY"            96

28. FORGIVING                             100

29. PARADOX                               103

30. FRAUD                                 106

31. THE BIG TASK                          110

32. POWER                                 113

33. CHRISTMAS                             116

34. AIMING HIGH                           119

35. WAITING                               122

36. ACTION                                125

37. A CORONATION                          128

38. DO IT RIGHT                           130

39. KEEPING FAITH                         133

40. THE GAME THAT CAME NEAR BLOWING
      UP IN THE SEVENTH INNING            135

41. THE BITTEN APPLE                      138

42. MY KINGDOM                            141

43. A TOOL BOX                            144

44. SAUL NIAGARA                          148

45. "TURNING THE BATTLE AT THE GATE"      152

46. A KING IN RAGS                        155

47. SHAKING UP PHILIPPI                   158

48. GO IN YET--AND WIN!                   162

49. GREEN FRUIT                           166

50. THE BEDOUIN SLAVE                     170


I

BUILDING


Say, fellows, look at Solomon building a temple! Ever see anything
like that? Yes, I have. I saw some boys building a dam. It was a peach
of a dam when they got it finished; and the little stream that
trickled along between the hillsides filled it up by next day, making
a lake big enough to put a boat in. But, oh, how those fellows worked!
For a whole week they brought rocks--big rocks--logs, and mud. Some of
those stones and logs were dragged and rolled a quarter of a mile.
They built right skillfully, too; they ricked it and they anchored the
cribs; they piled in the rocks and braced the supports.

Work? I should think they did. From early morning until dark they
worked, hardly stopping long enough for meals. But it was truly _some_
dam when they got through. Then came the big moment for which they had
laboured and endured: they closed the small outlet protected by
several sections of terra-cotta pipe at the base--and let her fill!

Solomon went at building the temple pretty much the same way. The boys
who built the dam said they were going to make the best _boys'_ dam in
all that country around, and they did. Solomon said he was going to
put up the largest, the strongest, the finest, the best-looking
temple of all for God. He put one hundred and fifty thousand strong
men in the forests and in the quarries, getting out the finest timber
and the best stone; he had these materials brought by sea and by land;
he employed workers in brass, and stone-cutters and gold-beaters
wherever he could find the most skillful, regardless of the cost, and
he himself directed the work.

Well, it was a peach of a temple, too. Nothing like it had ever been
seen before. Crowning the highest hill in Jerusalem, overlooking all
the country around, its marble walls, its shining brass pillars, its
white chiselled columns, and its golden interior, it shone like a gem
of dazzling beauty. When Solomon had finished it, he invited the Lord
to come into it, and "the glory of the Lord filled the house."

Fellows, we are all building some kind of a temple, and we build some
on it every day. I saw a bleary-eyed dope fiend going along the street
the other day. He has built a temple--a temple to the god Appetite.
His temple is truly a sorry looking shack, but it is good enough for
the god he serves. I know a very seedy individual, going around
begging a living of whomsoever will give him a dime or a nickel. He
has built his temple to the god Idleness. It is a ramshackle affair,
to be sure, but it is plenty good for the god he serves. I know
another fellow who has built a very ordinary looking temple--rather
poor inside and out. He served the god "Let Well Enough Alone." There
are many temples like his, and little joy is in them; but they are
good enough for the god "Do-Little."

I think of one more temple builder. Early in his boyhood he learned
that the human body, with its wonderful soul, is a temple for God to
live in. Said he, "If God is to live in my body, then it must be fit."
He began to think of everything he did for his health, for the
training of his mind, his hands and other members, as fitting or
_un_fitting the temple, according to whether it was good or bad. He
quickly saw that his choices of entertainment and recreation were as
important as his work, in the building he was putting up for God's
dwelling. One day he made the most important discovery of all: it was
that after all he might do to make the temple fit, it could never be
so until the doors were flung wide and the Lord Himself should come
in. Then, like Solomon, he "dedicated" it--and the Lord Jesus came in
and made the temple fit, for "the glory of the Lord filled the house."

Which simply means that he surrendered his life to Jesus Christ. A
fellow's biggest and best and grandest work is the Temple of the Lord.

Let's get at the job.

     _Read 2 Chronicles 5:1-14._


II

WORK


Say, fellows, shake hands with Mr. Work. Humanly speaking, the way in
which you meet and hook up with this gentleman will have more to do
with determining your success in life than any other one thing. Mr.
Work is a member of the most amazingly successful concern in the
community. His senior partner is Mr. Faith. "Faith and Work,
Unlimited"--that's the style of the firm, and they certainly have put
across the biggest contracts ever known to the world.

Some time I hope we may have the senior partner with us, but Mr. Work
is here to-day, and we shall get a-plenty from him. In fact, "Plenty"
is his middle name. Let's look him over. He is full of life and
vigour. See his muscles, firm and hard. Watch the flash of his eye.
Something there that inspires a fellow. Notice how he is in demand.
Everywhere, people want him. Get that cheery smile; it grew on a well
done job, and stays there by repetition of well done jobs. Observe his
steadiness, his confidence, and, withal, his acceptable humility. Why,
he looks good either in Scotch cheviot or in overalls.

I want to tell you a secret about this fellow. He is often mistaken
for another celebrated and much honoured one--Mr. Genius. Thomas
Edison says that genius is just another name for conscientious hard
work. That being so, any fellow can make a success and an honoured
name who is willing to dig--and dig intelligently.

But the best thing that can be said about work is to repeat what our
Lord said: "My Father worketh hitherto, and I work." Work is a divine
characteristic, a divine institution. Our great God works. Jesus
Christ His royal Son worked incessantly when upon earth, and works now
continually. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit are
the most tireless workers in the universe. Now what do you think of
anybody who could despise work? What would you think of one who
refused the work at hand and sat idly by, or went off on some useless
excursion to escape it, while God, unwilling to lose a minute,
ceaselessly works?

Of course, fellows, I'm not saying we should never go a-fishing or
play a game of ball. Recreation is in the divine program. Every proper
recreation is a help to good work. We owe it to our job and to
ourselves to keep fit, and recreation is a part of the keep fit
schedule. We only need to be careful and keep work and recreation in
their right proportions.

The bitterest pills a fellow has to take are those produced by
idleness. Idleness usually lets down the portcullis and the devil
comes across and takes charge. Not that work alone is sufficient to
keep us clean and out of trouble; oh, no, that would be a fatal error,
and many have fallen by it. The firm, you remember, is "Faith and
Work, Unlimited." Mr. Christian Faith is the senior partner of this
firm, and is absolutely necessary to the truly successful career in
the great business of life. We are simply looking over Mr. Work
to-day.

One other wonderful thought, to me, about this matter of work,
fellows, is that when a boy is born into the world, his work is born
with him--his own particular task, his life-work. God Himself arranges
it. Isn't that fine? Who could do it so wisely? So you may depend your
job somewhere awaits you, if you have not already discovered it, and
it is a perfect fit.

How to know your task? First, ask God. Pray over this thing. Then do
the thing next at hand, the duty calling now. Do it the best way you
know and put your level best into it. It is the surest way I know for
a fellow to find his best level; and usually you _work upward_ to it
when you seek it in that way.

Listen, fellows, this is Gospel--"Well done, good and faithful
servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will set thee
over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."

     _Read Romans 12:11 and Proverbs 22:29._


III

INVISIBLE!


Say, fellows, have you ever thought what a fight you could put up if
you were invisible? Why, you could walk right up in front of a fellow
and smash his nose or knock him down before he could put up his guard
or smash back--and even then he couldn't see you to hit you. Of course
that would be a cowardly thing to do, but I'm just saying "Suppose."
And this is to introduce right here your arch enemy, the devil, who is
not a "suppose" at all, but is very real, very personal, and very
invisible,--always present and ready to do his cowardly, dirty work.

Somebody said people are like a lot of safes. We may be generally of
the same pattern, but each has a different combination. Perhaps none
of us knows the combination to any but our own, but the devil carries
them all in his note-book, and he never makes the mistake of trying to
throw a fellow with a drink when his combination is a cigarette, or
vice versa.

The devil's finger is in all our affairs, and we can keep nothing
secret from him. No matter what we try to do, he is ever present to
try to make us do it his way. Even when we worship God, or pray, or
sing, he has the audacity to try to make suggestions. You think the
Wright brothers were clever to "conquer the air," and they were; but
the devil has won the title of "Prince of the power of the air"! His
airplane is instantaneous and noiseless; he requires no special
landing field, but can light on the lobe of your ear with a precision
that is uncanny, and, lighting there, he whispers things into your
heart that you would not dare to utter with your lips. Then they led
me right to the thicket where we are after a few steps a small hut
stood deserted, the ivy had released the walls entwined, and even
the closed door with his grating moved.

The mother took me to an old juniper tree in the height of the door stood
beside, and I had her from a hole in the same fetch a key with which
they aufschloß the door after I had helped her, which carefully Efeuranken
without to tear up, away from the door. Well, we went through a small
kitchen gerätlose into a viereckte desk. I stepped into it with
aversion, because the few rays which the shutters were closed,
showed me all kinds of large birds on the walls in light undetermined.

My mother however, was replaced immediately with a shop window, and
saw one after the other side of the Lahntal, where the old Lauren
Burger Castle stands out in black mountain. On the walls of the little
room built on, I saw many deer antlers mounted stuffed birds, and
especially a series of old hawks also refused and hung some hunting
equipment, crossbows, spears, nets, etc., in order for a nice simple
Betschemel, before St. Hubertus woodcarved the picture was. Since St.
Hubertus was displayed, as he kneels in front of a deer to him
with a cross between the antlers on the hunt challenged, because
the Lord be his wild heart stirred.

I looked at all these things that I previously never seen, with anxious
amazement while my mother, on a wooden chair sitting silently out
the window after the castle saw Lauren. Everything to me since last
evening, had met, had the calm following the usual impression in my
soul is broken and if I remember back now, I am probably feeling then
the feeling of a wheel compare when it comes to the mill suddenly
alive and could see how it himself and all the other wheels with
him upside down without going to be able to imagine what it itself
and the other wheels actually, and what ever is a mill.

     Particularly but it baffled me that my mother with all the equipment
of the chalet was quite familiar, and in the hut did, as if they
always had it, so I asked her with the words: "Dear Mother, we are
now here, is this is our house, then I want us to build a small
garden and a bird plates are. " Because she said kindly: "What do
you want then start with the birds?"

, Whereupon I said: "I want to pray the Lord's Prayer teach."

As she asked: "Do thou, where is your father?"

And I replied: "In heaven."

Then she took me to himself, and I myself had to put their feet,
and since they told me ohngefähr the things I write here. If I also
love each of their words now that I am an adult, no longer quite
so can actually know, but it should not have been much different,
because I have anything sharp in the memory taken, and I often tell
her again, so that too much rather than too Here are some mag.

She said, however: "Dear John, you've got me since yesterday probably
sadder than ever, because I thought yesterday, as the work was
completed, starting out as I now all the roads would go with me you're
gone.

You I also searched yesterday asked why I weep, as I stood in front
of your Bettlein, but I did not answer you, just pray with you, so
we want to sleep. But now I want to tell you much, because I think
you'll be pious, if you know early how on earth is a lot of sadness,
and in heaven only the joy that we unchanging faithfulness and
strength in the earthly Leide alone can earn.

You will then be referred to your increasingly turn to God, and
you can lead by his angels on earth, the belief in Jesus, the hope
of Jesus and the love of Jesus, whose Gespielen are the simplicity,
the humility, the innocence and the truth. Also thou shalt not be
sad for the suffering sake, that you will hit the earth, no, just
about all your debt and whose suffering is punishment. Also thou
shalt not trauren to see your pain, but only to the sufferings of your
Savior on the Cross, where he died as a innocent lamb to the
dahinnimmt the guilt of the world, and this reconciliation thou
shalt turn thee, and they firmly believe and hope on them, and you
only get from all sin, so that your soul not tarnish that your
Jesus, your Redeemer, your Savior, your God you with his holy blood
has washed clean, then your faith, your confidence grow through all
the suffering, and you will get a joyful heart to fight for your
God, you created in the Father, the Son and erlöset geheiliget in
the Holy Spirit. " What I like my blessed mother, the beautiful
Lauren Burger Els, in the blessed house of my grandfather, the
Vogler Kilian on Hirzentreu of himself and the dear grandfather
told this is the mountain height Hirzentreu, and this house, where
we sit, my dear one Blessed Father, the bird plates Kilian, known
far and wide only the good and pious Kilian Falk called masters.

He is gone to God ten years ago, and is buried in the churchyard of
the monastery Arnstein. He is born to Kitzing in francs, and this
house itself erbauet here because he is considered one Falkenier
of the Count of Nassau, my blessed mother, a hunter abandoned orphan,
on his housewife chose, and settled here with her. It also stands out
in the garden or the tree on which my father, my mother for the
first time seen, because he saved her life, because when my father
had a deer, the enraged animal was here my mother, which serves as
a poor Mägdlein Herbs for the monastery at Arnstein gentlemen
gathered, and took the deer in my mother's wrath on the antlers.

My father, this herzulaufend saw a shot from his crossbow Bolz after the
deer, and took him without any danger of my mother in the right eye ,
and the wounded animal appeared to him, blinded, now grade contrary,
since my father took a good courage, and he snatched the half-virgin
of the antlers, put them under those trees, and refreshed them in
the stream, which rises here. When they that had recovered, they saw
to their great surprise, that the deer in the bushes next to them
stood and, with the main pain soon swings back and forth, sometimes
sad lowered to the ground. As touched the blood niederrinnende my
good father, he came to the suffering animals, Bolz moved him
from the eye, and he washed the wound with water from which all the
deer had done quietly.

But when my father after the terrified maiden monastery Arnstein
accompanying the deer ran them through the forest to which they are
both very touched and their talks were a greater confidentiality.
Kloster Arnstein Before they were the hands, and separated with mutual
insurance with each other in Christian marriage to live. Well, my father
made of his noble services los built with permission of the monastery
Gentlemen this hut, and led my mother Agnes, as his dear
housewife inside. The venison was good through the Hülfe, which made
him my father, so mild and tame become that he was always
on the side if he is to his hut with his mother built. My father
always took care of the sick deer eye, which soon ausheilte, but was
blind. Afterward, when my parents lived here, the deer was always
friendly to them, and I know quite well that he, when we ate,
the head to the window hereinsteckte here, and I as a child gave
him bread.

But once my dad heard him violently in the night screaming, as he
stood with his mother, and she went out to see what the good animals
lacking.

He was fighting with other deer, which his blind eye because of his
superior were wounded so violently that he dawn of days to the feet
of my parents died.

     We wept for him as a loyal and grateful friend, and my father has
taken him under the same tree, where he shot him, buried his antlers
in the tree in such a way that, for eternal memory in the same
overgrown, too seen, and my father was this hut because of the
faithful called deer Hirzentreu.

My mother is good, too, soon died, and I was still such a small
Mägdelein that I do not quite know what death is.

Erinnre I am still quite well that I was sitting on her bed when
she was ill, and her fought the flies, and all their prayers and
the little sayings that they taught me vorsagte, and my father went
to hand it to maintain as much as a child interview.

As I have often, when my mother was looking for medicinal herbs, with
her in the forest had been, and they advise me on all sorts of healing
powers of plants had, it was my soul was so filled with the desire
to help her that I was once in the night before collapsing days in
the forest tantamount to some of her herbs to find what I had
dreamed.

I ran around and looked long with indescribable fear the herbs,
which I did not seen to have remembered. Already the sun was high in
the sky, and I was far from our hut lost, but I forgot, before the
desire, the medicinal herb to be found my hunger, and when I finally
arrived in great fatigue niederkniete and with tears on the dear Baby
Jesus prayed that it might me looking for the herb to help him
I would give my bread, I am against those who fatigue.

After some hours I awoke, and saw a beautiful noble woman stand before
me, a servant led her horse on which sat Söhnlein her, and she was
dismounted when they came for me so alone in the wild forest is seen.
She asked me who I was and I told her that I was from the Vogler Els
Hirzentreu, and this morning expected, a herbs for the sick mother to
look, she kissed me and said she wanted to drive me home with them
after Lauren of the castle, because she was the housewife of the old
Lauren Burgers, your grandmother, then she wanted me on the Lahn
by Hirzentreu can bring.

She sat down now to the horse and took me in front of the horse on the
neck, but her Söhnlein, Jörg, sat behind her and she had with the
poor covers. We took a little walk after Lahntal down, and I had
almost even forget everything, because the riding, the foreign woman
and her Söhnlein that many small songs with her singing, my soul
employed. But the hunger began to press me, and I noticed with wines
that I am no longer my bread in my bag was. Since the noblewoman asked
me, "Els, what you cry?" and I told her: "I hungre, because I have the
child Jesus my bread, and the herbs from him, but now I have the
herbs and hungre lost" while I vehemently demanded that they let
me into the forest behind, to find the herbs.

I had the herb of the noblewoman but describe, because his name I knew
not. As she said at once: "My dear child, you've probably dreamed of,
but God's mercy is great, because see, my servant shall bear such
an herb in a damp cloth set in his Wadsack on the back, but this
herb does not grow here on land, but I changed it in the monastery
Arnstein, where I was to confession, receive from the gardener, who
is assisted by a priest from foreign lands beyond the sea has. "
Since it was a condition of servitude Wadsack the open, and lo and
behold, it was the same herb in them that I seen in dreams.

My joy was unspeakable, and the good noblewoman ordered the servants,
once the herb to bring my father and tell him what I wanted, and
like me the noblewoman with Lauren after the castle taken. The servant
knew my father well and I even ran with joy the wooded ridges according
to our hut. Now the noblewoman rode with me and her completely
alone to Söhnlein Lahn and down at a shallow point across to the
Lauren Castle, where the servant soon came, and me on the boat to
my parents brought back hieher.

The good noblewoman had a lot of love shown to me and gave me another
Krüglein with old wine, and some strengthening Gewürzküchlein for the
sick mother, and promised them tomorrow to visit. Your Söhnlein but
that was not present when I made the castle Lauren went, I had to
nachgelaufen water and gave me a whole Rosmarienstock, he made his
Gärtlein torn, and said: "You little to make your mother
in bed, this is a good Ruch, if one is Siech. Elslein, come back!
" Since he gave me a hand and we left. Hirzentreu When we arrived,
my father took me to the mother Bette, and hugged me and said, "Els,
I have the whole day not live and not die ably out of concern that
seist you lost, but God has comforted me wonderfully by what
happened and told me your father from the cabbage cooked a potion,
which made me wonderfully erquicket. " Since I gave the father the
Rosmarienstock who planted it in a beautiful new addition to the
parent Krug deposit, and now took the servant farewell, after the
wine and the Würzküchlein where the father.

It was about the evening has become my father gave the mother nor
by the wines and spices, and it was strengthened so that it is the
evening song with the father softly with great devotion mitsang what
I'm at her feet on her entschlief camp. Towards morning, but the father
woke me and told me, crying: "Wake up, dear Elslein, and look after
the mother and give her what she requested, she is indeed ill, and
I want to go to the monastery at Arnstein run the last sacred
Wegzehrung for them.

Hold you still, so she sleeps, and pray silently, and so it requires of
you to drink, also look to Kienspan burning in the fireplace that
is not an accident. " Then he joined the mother wiped her face and
said, "God you do, dear Agnes, to conduct a Christian, I go after
Kloster Arnstein; O how is you, my dear Agnes?"

As the mother said: "I do like a sick child my head in his lap,
said:" I will comfort you like a mother comforted, "and I have
confidence that he will keep me full of consolation to you divorce,
so then go out and bring me the last consolation!

     " Because she kissed her father and went to continue.

But I talked quietly at the foot of the bed, "Mother, may I come
to you?"

As she said: "Yes, dear Elslein, but only to stand by and bring me
the little cross in my chest, I am very verlanget afterwards."

I quickly hurried to the freezer, but the lid was so heavy that I could
not collect it, which I complained to the mother, who said: "Elslein,
pray! Of the herb you brought to me so refreshed, you will also help
, to open the chest, so you trust him. " Because I fell in front
of the chest on his knees and prayed, Jesus, let me open the chest,
and God is my mercy, I opened the chest with little trouble and the
mother brought the little cross.

It is the same, which is still in Polsnich depends on my bed, and our
freezer at home is also the same chest. The mother took the cross in
their folded hands and kissed it and pressed it to her heart, and
I presented myself to her on the head cushion and pressed my cheek to
theirs. They did not speak, she whispered, praying, and so I
entschlief, but soon awoke me loud words from her, and I heard them
say: "Guardian is the night? Who da? Good friend! Be comforted
me bins! Fear Do not, Mr, you're there, so hot I come to you on the
water! " and after these words they are moving laboriously in dreams.
I understood it not, and she awoke with kisses: "Lieb Mutter, which
requires your heart?" As proposed in the eye and said: "O my Jesus,
I'm not with you! Elslein, my child, say, have you seen the dear
Savior, where is he gone?" I understood it not, and looked at her
Kreuzlein in the bed, which was omitted in her hands, and put it
back in the hands with the words: "Heart Mother, there is the dear
Savior."

As they kissed the cross again, and then said: "Elslein, I was alone
on a boat on a large water a long, long night, no star in the sky, and
I longed for the days, finally I saw a Sternlein, which moved quietly
through the water, like a guard through the hallway, and since I cried
with all his might: "Keepers is the night?" and the star replied:
"When the morning ways; the point already, but it is night, and when
you ask, but you will come back and ask again. "Then it came to me
over the waves well, and I saw that it was a lonely figure. I cried:"
Who is there?

"and it replied:" Good friend, "Oh, because my heart was so joyful,
and I thought: If it might be my Jesus? Then he said:" Be comforted,
bins, I fear thee not, "and I said:" Lord, you're it so hot I come to
you on the water. "Then he waved to me, and I stepped from the
boat on the water, but could not reach the Lord, the herschwebte
before me, like a cloud or a shadow, and if I so quite brave and
eager to him received, and rather thought that he certainly was
that he would be my mercy, and a wagon Elias from heaven call me
to put into it and to the heavenly paradise will go, oh, he had me
so close, so close that I already felt pangs of animosity, but then
suddenly a wave and a wind rose, and I thought to be diminished,
and sinking on the water, and my concern grew, disappeared the image
of the Lord before me in the distance, yes, it was again the lone
star, which I first saw, and also disappeared.

Since I was all alone on the water, and drove the boat to me, since I
saw you sit on it and after me weep, and I walked with difficulty to
you out and sat with you in the boat, and herzte thee, and thou
entschliefst in my arms.
One
of the wisest and finest things a fellow can do is to make it a rule
to ask Jesus _some_ questions every day in His Word. Make a place in
your day's schedule--make it in the morning, first thing if possible,
or very soon after you are up. Open your Bible with a question, and
let that question be: "Lord Jesus, what would you like to tell me
to-day out of these verses of Scripture which I am about to read?
What thing in my life would you warn me against, or what thing should
I do which I am not doing? Or, is there a better way I should try?

"Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth."

Fellows, start a day like that--honestly--and _you cannot fail_!

     _Read Matthew 22:15-46._


IX

LOYALTY


Say, fellows, what is the most loyal thing you ever did? I should like
to know. Was it when you waded into a big bully who was licking your
little brother, and took the drubbing yourself? Or was it when some
fellows accused you of being tied to your mother's apron strings, and
you flashed back at them: "Yes, and she is the finest mother a boy
ever had!" Or was it when you sat up all night in a coach on a
railroad trip to root for your team next day on the enemy's field?

I heard of a British boy in Flanders who was brought back of the lines
for surgical treatment, and when they opened his shirt they found
tattooed on his breast the words: _For My King!_ I read of a French
lad whose arm had to be amputated at the shoulder, having been
shattered by a German shell. When he regained consciousness, the
surgeon, moved with deep sympathy, said, "Oh, my poor boy, I am so
sorry you lost your arm!" The boy's eyes snapped as he answered:
"Lost! No, don't say that; I _gave_ it to France!"

Each one of you fellows has a tremendous capacity for being loyal to
some thing, some principle, or _somebody_. It is a costly part of your
make-up, because it will cause you to make sacrifice. What are you
choosing as the object of your loyalty?

Fellows, I want to offer you King Jesus as the One upon whom you can
spend your loyalty to the limit. There is none like Him. He is the
chief among ten thousand. When He gives you a task He gives you at the
same time the power to do it. When He sends you to men, He opens the
hearts of those to whom you are sent. You can undertake anything for
King Jesus without fear, no matter how difficult or how impossible the
task may seem.

Why, fellows, think of those two disciples going after that colt for
Jesus their King to ride upon! He sent them for it. The beast belonged
to some one else, yet they were to untie it and bring it. If the owner
objected, all they were to say was: "The Lord hath need of him." That
would settle it. They brought it as directed. That was faith, and that
was loyalty.

To-day King Jesus wants messengers--not to send out for asses, but
into the haunts of sin for lost men and women; and into the social,
commercial, and industrial world to present His claims. Some, hearing
the call, are answering, "But how do I know I will succeed in that
sort of business? Will I be contented in such work? Will it pay? Will
it keep me in a comfortable living? Will men come when I tell them?"
Listen, fellows, King Jesus says: "All power is given unto
me--Go!--and lo, I am with you alway!" That is sufficient, it is the
King's own word for it; and here is the place where you can exercise
your priceless loyalty to the limit, and never know a moment's
regret. The King Himself goes with you.

The loyal servants of King Jesus never have to root for a losing game;
victory is assured from the beginning.

     _Read Mark 11:1-11._


X

A GOOD SPORT


Say, fellows, I overheard a remark the other day as I passed a bunch
of boys down on the corner. One of the boys was saying, "Oh, he's a
good sport, all right," and I wondered just what that boy thought it
took to make a good sport. About that time one of the boys whom I knew
pulled out of the crowd and coming my way overtook me, so I asked him
who was the "good sport" the fellows were talking about.

"Why," he said, "it was Jim Love; when he was in the two-mile
cross-country foot race the other day, with a good chance of getting
ahead of Tom Locke, who won it, Jim stopped long enough to help a guy
across a footlog with a sack of potatoes or something--and even then
came in just a few yards behind Tom. He would have won, but for that
stop; but he said the old man looked as if he was about to fall off
the footlog. Tom saw it, too, but he waded the creek and got a better
lead on Jim."

It did me good to think of those fellows classing Jim up as "a good
sport," after I knew what had happened. They had the right idea. I
believe our Lord would have called Jim a good sport, too, if He had
been telling the boys of to-day about it, because the Christ spirit in
a fellow is what makes him a "good sport" in the highest sense. Once
when a proud Pharisee was trying to trap our Lord with a "catch
question," Jesus answered him with a story very much like that which
made the boys call Jim Love a good sport.

The Pharisee asked Jesus, "Who is my neighbour?" and Jesus told him
about the Good Samaritan. A man was travelling from Jerusalem down the
rough mountain road to Jericho, and was attacked by bandits, beaten,
robbed, and left lying beside the road half dead. A priest came along,
but he was in a hurry; he had important religious duties awaiting him,
and besides, that fellow looked as if he was in bad and it would take
a lot of time and trouble to "undertake" him, so Mr. Priest just
hummed a little tune to himself, looked at the sky and passed on.

Then came a Levite. He got down off his donkey and stepped over and
looked at the poor fellow. Yes, he was breathing, but so near dead he
probably would not last long, so why worry? So passed on the Levite.
But next came along a man whom the priest and the Levite despised
because he was a Samaritan. They regarded him as a very poor sort of a
citizen.

But the Samaritan had a heart in him and he had a way of saying to
himself when he saw anybody in distress: "Suppose I was in that
fellow's fix, what would I like to have done for me?" When he asked
himself that question on this occasion, the answer came quick and
strong: "Get down and help him all you can; yes, your business is
urgent, too, but here is a fellow-man in hard luck and you've got the
stuff to help with!"

That is the way the heart of a good sport talks back to a fellow, and
a good sport listens when his heart speaks, and a good sport acts
quickly. So the Samaritan got down off his donkey and ran to the man,
felt his pulse, spoke to him, loosened his shirt and looked into that
ugly wound all bleeding. Then back to his travelling sack and out with
the oil and wine.

Pouring in the soothing and healing stuff, he doubtless said: "There
now, old fellow, you're feeling better already; just keep steady a
bit, and we'll get you out of this; a little water? yes, hold on a
minute--" and down to the trickling stream he runs and brings a cool
drink in his little leather cup.

Ah, it was fine to see that beaten man revive! He opened his eyes wide
and looked the gratitude he was not yet able to speak. Soon the
Samaritan got the whole story of the attack, listening with
sympathetic indignation as the wounded man told how it happened, how
he was taken by surprise by those cowardly ruffians, stripped, robbed,
and beaten into insensibility. Directly he was trying to raise up on
his elbow, and the Samaritan said:

"Now you just put your arm around my neck and hold steady while I
lift. That's it, get your weight on your right foot, lean forward, and
I'll get you atop this beast. Ah! that's the stuff, you're getting
stronger every minute--now steady just a moment, let me pick up that
oil bottle--all right--Get up! Bess--steady, girl, keep your hoofs in
the path, and we'll make it fine. There, that's the movement.

"The inn is only a mile down the road now, friend, and there is food
and a good bed awaiting you--oh, well, that's all right about your
money being taken, I'll take care of that. The innkeeper and I are
good friends, and likely with the good treatment you'll get you will
be on your way in a couple of days--"

And so they go, the donkey picking her way carefully over the rougher
places under the restraining voice of her master, while the wounded
man leans heavily upon his benefactor.

Then, you know the rest, fellows. That despised Samaritan saw the
thing clean through. He did not leave "his neighbour" until he had
spent a night with him at the inn and had an understanding next
morning with the innkeeper as to his safekeeping until able to resume
the journey.

And what did our Lord teach in that graphic story? Why, simply this:
Anybody whom you can help is your neighbour. If there is a poor man at
my door needing something I can give, he is my neighbour. Or, if there
is a rich Chinaman six thousand miles across the seas, needing the
spiritual help I can send him through my prayers, my gifts, or my
personal attention--he is my neighbour. Distance, short or long, is
not the measure of neighbourhood; but need and my ability to help are
the tests which determine how near by is my brother man.

The Boy Scouts have a fine motto: "Do a Good Turn Daily." There is
just one better--"Do a Good Turn Whenever You Can," and that is loving
your neighbour.

     _Read Luke 10:25-37._


XI

FEASTING


Say, fellows, a man raised a glass of water to his mouth to take a
drink; some one passing struck his elbow, and--! Now an interesting
thing has happened: each one of you fellows got a picture, complete in
all details, to a climax. Yet there was no real picture; it was all in
your imagination, spurred by twenty-one simple words. And it was a
_moving picture_, too, and it went away past the word-spurs, because
you painted the balance of it yourselves like a flash. You saw the
glass fall and smash on the floor, and you saw the water spatter the
man's feet and trousers--then some of you saw him jump back and look
up quick and kind of mad like at the person passing, and maybe say
something rough.

Well, that's a wonderful machine you've got there, fellows; anything
that can make a moving picture out of a thin line of material like
that--a really for-the-moment interesting picture, with all the
finishing touches--has a most valuable and useful outfit. Now Jesus
knew His hearers had outfits of that wonderful kind, so in speaking to
them He helped them draw pictures which would enable them to see some
very interesting and startling things--things which they needed to
know worse than a dying man needs a doctor.

Most of the pictures which He drew in this way were to show what the
kingdom of heaven is like. Men in those days, just as nowadays, were
walking around bumping right up against the kingdom of heaven without
knowing it. So Jesus drew pictures to help them see this wonderful
kingdom, in order that they might not only become glad citizens of it
but also to escape an awful fate.

The picture I want to present is of a great and rich king who was also
both good and generous, making a marriage feast for his son and
inviting a large number of guests.

Now, fellows, use your fine imagination again. You saw the king's
surprise when the first servants reported; you saw him knit his brows
(like this) and stand silently thinking a moment before deciding to
send a second word; but can you imagine his astonishment a little
later, when two of that second squad came running in, all breathless,
and told him that though they fully explained the magnificence of the
wedding supper, some turned upon their heels with a flimsy excuse,
others rudely laughed outright in the messengers' faces, and--oh, the
horror of it!--still others actually stoned and beat some of the
messengers to death!--and their bodies were even at that moment lying
in the street, being licked by dogs.

I say, can you see the king now? I think you can, for you have heard
what he did. Yes, his servants went out again to those same people,
but this time with swords and spears and fire, a terrible army of
them, marching to the dread drum-beat of judgment, "and destroyed
those murderers and burned up their city."

Yes, fellows, I know what you are saying. You are saying, "Well, I
don't see how anybody could be as big a fool as that!" And yet, do you
know that people are just as foolish to-day? Jesus told that parable
to help us, too. The kingdom of heaven is just as close to you and to
me; the greatest King of all--that's Jesus--is inviting boys and men
to come in to the feast of usefulness and happiness and joy of an
out-and-out Christian life, a feast which He has Himself prepared, and
some are turning their backs upon His call, unwilling to take the
King's own word for it that they will have the time of their lives,
which will grow sweeter and finer and better as the days go by, and
never, never end!

I tell you, fellows, there's nobody who can make a feast like Jesus;
things taste even a lot better than they look on the card, for He
always gives more than He promises. Don't _you_ make the mistake of
turning down His invitation. It would be a tragedy. Let's answer His
gracious call to-day like this:

    "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord,
      Over mountain or plain or sea;
    I'll say what you want me to say, dear Lord;
      I'll be what you want me to be."

     _Read Matthew 22:1-10._


XII

STEWARDSHIP


Say, fellows, how much is a boy worth in money? The United States
Labour Bureau in 1914 estimated the average cost of rearing a boy to
the age of sixteen was then $1,325. It must average at least $1,500
now. Well, fellows, that is what you cost; are you worth it? I am
talking of actual, not sentimental, values. Father and mother wouldn't
take a million dollars for any one of you, I suppose, but that does
not mean you are worth it. An investment of $1,500 ordinarily is
expected to yield at least six per cent. a year, which is $90.

I know a fourteen-year-old boy who is earning $7 a week. He gives it
all to his widowed mother on Saturday night. She gives him back a
dollar of it. He first takes out ten cents for his church pledge and
five cents for Sunday-school. Then he puts fifty cents in his savings
bank. He has about $25 in the bank. The remainder, thirty-five cents,
he spends as his fancy dictates. He is a steady boy and it is
reasonable to count upon his putting in eleven months a year at his
work, allowing one month for vacation. His gross financial value to
his mother for the year, therefore, is not less than $280. It costs
her about $12.50 a month to provide his food and clothing. That takes
off $150, so his net financial value a year is $130, which is six per
cent. on $2,166. Thus you see that fourteen-year-old boy is a paying
investment on considerably more than the average cost of a
sixteen-year-old boy, and I do not wonder that that fellow's mother
would not take a million for him, for the money part of his value is
the least of all.

But this is not by any means an accurate way to arrive at a boy's real
value. The more fortunate boy will be going to school nine months of
the year. He is preparing for a later very much higher value than the
boy who is denied an education, and while he may not be earning money
now, he is earning a certain knowledge, skill, and development which
will give him equipment of high value. At any rate, sooner or later,
fellows, you find yourself with a capacity for earning and
accumulating money. And, remember, in your relation to your money,
that after all it is not _yours_, but God's--no matter how it comes
into your hands.

In Luke 16 is the account of Dives, whom God permitted to be rich, but
who made the fatal mistake of using his wealth for the sole purpose of
gratifying himself. He built a luxurious home, he bought fine clothes
and feasted every day on costly food. There were suffering and want
all about him, but he turned his face away from the needy. One poor
fellow named Lazarus, too weak to walk and all covered with sores, was
laid at this rich man's gate where he was bound to see him day after
day.

The dogs came and licked the poor man's sores, but Dives passed him
by. Lazarus got a servant to ask for the scraps taken from the rich
man's table, but he needed other help. God gave Dives money and gave
him an opportunity to serve his fellow-man with it, but Dives failed
to catch the idea, somehow. He foolishly spent his money upon himself,
and one night Dives lay down to sleep on a full stomach and woke up in
torment.

Fellows, money was his undoing. Money can be a curse, or it can be a
blessing. All depends upon whether or not you recognize God's
ownership, acknowledge it, and act upon it. Some of the saddest lives
ever lived are those built around a wrong conception of their relation
to money. Some of the happiest and most successful lives are those
built upon the principle that money is a God-given trust to be used
for Him.

Fellows, what are you going to be worth--to God, and to your
fellow-man?

     _Read Luke 16:19-31._


XIII

TALENTS


Say, fellows, one morning in spring a boy came to me and said: "Dad,
let's go fishing; I saw the bass jumping in the lake just now, and
that means they are ready to bite."

"All right," I replied, "you get the bait and the lines ready and we
will go at four this afternoon." He did so.

Then we went around to the point on the lake where he had seen the
fish jumping. I made a dandy throw, first try, and as the bait began
bobbing in and out among the flags I could just see myself hanging a
beauty. I was watching the line so hard that I forgot the boy for two
or three minutes; then, turning, I saw him standing there looking very
sad.

"What's the matter," I said, "why don't you unwrap your line and
fish?"

He whimpered: "I want to fish for bass, with a big line, like yours."

"Why," I said, "you couldn't handle a big rod and line like this; and
if you could, you would get it tangled up in those flags out there;
now you just unwrap your little line, put a little worm on your little
hook and drop it over there by that stump, and you will catch a little
perch."

Well, he didn't want to do it, but because I ordered him to do it he
cast in his hook. In the meantime, I was watching my minnow again; it
was playing beautifully, but getting no strike. I was still watching
it intently, when all of a sudden I heard a great splashing beside me,
and looking around--there was a sight! That boy's little pole was
nearly bent double, and at the end of his line threshing and churning
the water at a terrific rate was a big fish! The boy was having the
time of his life; oh, he played him, he tightened him and slacked him,
but all the time bringing him nearer to the bank.

In about a half minute (it seemed much longer) there was _a
pound-and-a-half bass_ flapping out there on the grass. In the
meantime, the big hook continued to do nothing--and it never did, that
afternoon. We went home with the one bass, and that night the family
sat around the supper table and greatly enjoyed the fish _caught on
the little hook_.

God will honour the fellow that does the best he can _with what he has
in his hand_. And perhaps it will be a far greater honour than you
ever dreamed of.

When our Lord told the parable He did not mean to make small of the
fellow who has only small ability. He condemned the fellow who refused
to use what ability he had because it was small and because he did not
have as much as somebody else to work with. Let's suppose the last
part of that parable had read this way:

"Then he which had received the One Talent came and said, Lord, you
only gave me one talent, and when I saw you giving that other fellow
five and still another two, I was all cut up about it. I did not see
why you should give them more to work with than you gave me. I boiled
inside. I said to myself, Well, if that is the way he treats me, I
will simply take his talent and bury it until he comes back; then I
will dig it up and hand it back to him just as he handed it to me.

"But then I thought again, and I remembered that it was your property
you were distributing, and you had a perfect right to do it as you
chose. I remembered that you are both a wise and a kind master; you
have never given me a reason to question your love for me and your
interest in me; and you know me and my capacity for handling your
property far better than I know myself. So I decided to take that One
Talent and work with it and do the very best I could with it. And,
Lord, I did; and here, see--I have gained another one to go with it;
here are _two talents_."

Bless your life, fellows, do you know what his lord would have said to
that man? He would have said to him exactly what he said to the other
two men.

A poor boy in New York got himself a job at a little lunch stand. He
found he had a little talent for making the lunches attractive and
people would buy them. He stuck at it, saved his earnings, and after a
while bought out the lunch stand. He enlarged the variety of his
lunches and added some other goods. And, to make a long story short,
he is now acknowledged to be the greatest hotel man in the world.

The fellow who uses the talent he has, be it one, two, or five, and
takes Jesus for his partner, is bound to be a success.

     _Read Matthew 25:14-30._


XIV

FIGHTING


Say, fellows! of all the boys in the Old Testament, David is my
choice. There was something about that chap that was "real class."

If David were to happen in your bunch, doubtless when you got to
knowing him every one of you would want him for a chum. He was the
kind of fellow that real boys like: not a braggart and not a "sissy,"
but generally when it came to his turn to bat he smashed the ball for
a clean hit. Or if he should happen to strike out, he didn't slam the
stick to the ground, but with a smile stepped back and turned a
handspring and lit on his feet rooting for the next man up. Of course,
you know there was not any baseball in those days, but that is about
the way David would have played the game.

Out there minding the sheep, David didn't get moody. It might have
been a slow job for others, but not for him. No, he had a harp and he
made music with it. He had a sling, and could hit a quarter on a
telegraph pole with it--if there had been quarters and telegraph
poles. But there were other things to use that sling on, and they gave
David a touch of real life.

David knew that lions, bears, and wolves lurked in the forests near
the pastures in which his sheep must graze, and he got ready for them.
Notice, fellows, here is one of the secrets of David's success: he was
always ready. His big opportunity came when he arrived at King Saul's
camp on that errand for his father, and he was ready for it.

He was ready, first, because he believed God's power was greater than
any army, and that God would fight for any one who fought for Him. Did
you notice in the Bible account how David told the king that God would
handle the matter; and how he also told Goliath out there on the
field, while all men held their breath, that it was Goliath plus
sword, spear, and shield, against David plus God?

And so God helped. One smooth stone, the first out of the sling,
crunched through that big bluffer's head like a baseball through a
stained glass window, and the Philistine fell on his face.

Everybody's giant comes some day. Every fellow's big opportunity comes
one time, at least, and he can be just as ready for it as David was.

That's the big news to-day.

I like to think of the five smooth stones as representing five
characteristics of David's readiness.

_First Stone:_ (the one he slung) _Faith._ We have been talking about
that--faith in God. David prayed as he picked up those stones, you
know he did.

_Second Stone: A pure heart._ God searched it that day at Bethlehem
and approved him for anointing. David was clean. You would never hear
him telling smutty stories, nor did he think them.

_Third Stone: Industrious habits._ Think of his skill in playing the
harp, and his effectiveness with that deadly sling.

_Fourth Stone: A courageous spirit._ A lion's mane, a bear's skin, and
a giant's head, of which we know, bear testimony to this. No wonder
the shepherd boy could stand before a king and reason with him in the
presence of a national crisis.

_Fifth Stone: A humble spirit._ Listed last, but not least by a good
deal. "Thy servant will go and fight this Philistine"; "Thy servant
kept his father's sheep and--" "The Lord will" do this thing--not I.
David's humility throughout his boyhood and young manhood--indeed
throughout his whole life--is one of the fine and strong points of his
character.

In the brook that runs alongside your lives, fellows, these five
smooth stones and others are waiting for each one of you. Put them in
your "scrip" _now_ and be ready for life's opportunities; for they are
coming, head on, to meet you, and _God wants to be on your side_.

     _Read the seventeenth chapter of 1 Samuel._


XV

DRIFTING


Say, fellows, there is a little animal in the North Woods, called the
weasel. In coldest winter its fur turns snow white and its pelt is
very valuable. The white fur of the weasel (sometimes called the
ermine) is used to make some of the most beautiful and expensive
stoles that elegant and wealthy ladies wear. Therefore, in very cold
winters, trapping the weasel is profitable as well as interesting.

Now here comes the queer part of this story: The weasel is small, and
any scar made upon its snow-white coat is doubly conspicuous. If the
pelt is torn or injured it is rejected; so the trapper must take his
captive clean and scarless. The weasel will not enter a cage trap, and
the much used snap-jaw steel trap would tear the skin. But the weasel
likes to lick a smooth surface, especially if it is the slightest bit
greasy; so the trapper smears with grease the blade of a large knife
and lays it on top of the snow, secured by a chain attached to the
handle, and covers the chain with snow to hide it.

The weasel comes along and immediately indulges its natural desire to
lick the smooth blade, and instantly the end of its tongue clings fast
to the cold steel. Try as it may, it cannot pull loose without tearing
its tongue out, which usually it will not do, but sits quietly by,
until released by the trapper, released only to die. Luckless weasel,
trapped by the tongue.

Now, fellows, the weasel does no more wicked thing than to follow its
natural inclinations; but natural inclinations are not safe guides;
they more frequently lead to death. We folks are much like the weasel;
we are much of the time dead bent in the direction of what is worst
for us. Is not our God good to give us the plain warnings which we as
intelligent beings can see and understand--and, seeing and
understanding, "Stop, Look, and Listen!"--turn about and head toward
safety, success, and happiness! Surely, He _is good_. But what matters
how good God is and how plain His warnings if we go right on in the
wrong direction?

If a weasel could understand a warning and should say, "Yes, I know,
but I am just going to lick this once," what would it matter how clear
the warning was?

God's warnings are such as should turn us face about; right now,
before we are hard and fast in one of the devil's many crafty snares,
for he always lays his snares along the path of our _natural
inclinations_. God warns: "Abhor evil," learn to hate it, pray to hate
it. "Cleave to the good," learn to love it, pray to love it.

Naturally, we seek our own praise, but face about! seek the praise for
another, in true brotherly spirit. Naturally, we are lazy and would
shirk our task; but brace up! put vim in the job; that honours God,
and incidentally, puts both success and joy in the work. When we get
in trouble, naturally we chafe and become impatient; God says, "Be
patient in tribulation." That's a "Right-about-face!" for you. We pray
once and quit--naturally. God says keep on praying. When folks nag at
us and pester us, naturally we blaze out at them. God says, don't
blaze, but bless. And that's "To the rear! Hey!"

Naturally, our noses turn up and our heads are lifted to salute the
lofty ones; God says look around for those not so well off as we are,
and lavish our sociability on _them_. Naturally, we try to "get even"
with the fellow who does us a mean turn; God says turn that matter
over to Him; He will take care of it. And when that fellow needs help,
as surely he will sooner or later (maybe right now), make him the
special object of our kindness.

Oh, yes, I know, fellows, it is much easier to do the way you feel
like doing. But when your boat is drifting down the current, which is
the natural way, it takes a Real Fellow to dig his oars in and turn
and row up-stream. And that's what you propose to be: a Real Fellow,
and the best part of it is you then become a Yoke-fellow with Jesus
Christ; and let me tell you, _He pulls a good oar_!

Fellows, drifting means "over the falls." "There is a way which
seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death"
(Prov. 16:25). Pulling up-stream with Christ means getting to the
sunshine of the eternal hills. "But the path of the righteous is as
the dawning light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day"
(Prov. 4:18).

Fellows, I had rather PULL with Christ than DRIFT with the devil,
wouldn't you?

     _Read the twelfth chapter of Romans._


XVI

RESURRECTION


Say, fellows, I'll never forget one exciting morning on the banks of
the Etowah River, a treacherous stream that threads its way through
the red hills of northwest Georgia. A bunch of us boys were spending
that morning in swimming. Not much swimming, either, for only one boy
in the crowd could swim, and all except him were under thirteen years
old. Bob was fifteen, and a good swimmer. One of the boys waded out
pretty deep, and the undercurrent swept him off his feet. There was a
cry, and he sank.

Then it was that Bob did a fine thing, which has caused the rest of us
to look upon him as a real hero ever since. He ran along the bank,
down-stream a little way, and jumped in, rapidly made his way to a
point a few yards below where the boy had gone down, dived, and came
up with him. The rest of us waded out as far as we dared, to meet him,
and all together we drew the couple to shore. But, fellows, that boy
was dead--at least he seemed to be, and we were certain of it.

We lifted his limp body out of the water and laid it on the ground. We
were three miles from town. Scared? We were terrified! All of us were
trembling from head to foot with fright. There were no Boy Scouts in
those days, and boys had not learned the scientific way to restore a
drowned person to life. We were alone and helpless in the presence of
sudden death, and knew not what to do.

One boy suggested that we ought to "get the water out of him," and
that was followed by another suggestion, to put the body over the
lower limb of a near-by tree letting the head hang down, so the water
could run out of the mouth. This we proceeded to do, with a great deal
of difficulty, but finally we got it up there, hanging across the
limb, pretty much like a wet necktie.

After the body had hung in the tree about five minutes, while we stood
about, panting, pale, and terror-stricken, we again took it down and
laid it out on the ground. All of a sudden, to our amazement there was
a movement about the mouth and a little gasp, as for breath. The rough
handling of the body getting it in and out of the tree had had some
effect.

Instinctively we began to roll him over and move his arms about. We
knew nothing of the proper method, but the mouth opened and he
breathed again--then again--and as we let him rest a moment on his
back, he opened his eyes and looked at us, from one to the other.

Fellows, can you imagine how we felt? Well, we couldn't speak; we just
jumped around like Indians and shouted and laughed and cried. It was
wonderful--the most thrilling experience I think I ever had, but I was
wobbly in the knees for a week afterward.

The thing which tremendously impressed me was the coming back from
death to life--for so it seemed to us. But what do you suppose must
have been the feelings of those two women and the disciples, on that
astonishing morning when the two Marys went at early dawn with spices
to place about the Lord's body,--the body which they had seen die upon
the cross two days before; the body they had seen lifted down from the
cross and which they had helped to prepare for burial; the body they
had seen sealed up in the tomb as the sun went down on the darkest,
saddest day the world ever knew?

Links to the moon stood still on the pale sky, and right, the sky was
like the first gold loud. Since I found myself between night and day,
and folded her hands, and it occurred to me joyfully on
heart, that today was my twentieth birthday, and I like it much
better than in the past few years, because I love my birthday on
the open field in a torn Mäntelein received, and a morsel of bread
charity was entertaining.

O joy and honor! I thought for myself and looked to the morning light,
and said: "You are my light, you will be my day!"

, Also believed in my sheer simplicity, the sky was golden to the
best of my sake, the swallow was only sung, to wish me luck,
and the tower had just blown me so sweet to celebrate, because the
sky just reddened from the sun, the Lord called, as the swallow
but only sung in God's springtime lust, and the guard only blown to
God's honor, probably like a Stündlein had slept, so it is of the
Munster Men verstattet would. So is the man in the slightly
wanton joy, and believe that he was quite the center of all things,
and it was all meant.

     As I left the happy eyes wandering in the chamber, and saw on the
stool is a new outfit, to me my loving Lord and Knight Veltlin
Türlingen of the evening had herauftragen in the dark, and my desire,
I could no longer hold back, jumped at my camp, and put these clothes
are not without tears of gratitude to.

It was but a fine blue doublet, folded around the loins and gestutzet,
and red and white dress by leg ländschem cloth, even dull shoe Kogel
and one black with a blue pen, not to mention a white Hemmet
Hauslinnen, colorful stitching on neck gekrauset and, like I had
never previously worn.

As promised, I almost felt easy and happy, and I would probably
like to do a jump, as if I had a new man dressed with the new dress.

But my pride was not long, because my Mäntelein torn, which I, as a
curtain in front of the had hung window, illuminated by the
rising sun, and all its holes were so many mouths, and all of his
scraps of so many tongues to myself in my foolish pride zeihten.
It was as Mäntelein say this to me: "Oh John, you're such a purchase
Eitler Lord, that thou, angelanget in the harbor, the sails torn forget
yourself in the same geführet? John, you're so proud shipwrecked that
you are the board, which you with God Hülfe to take a green island,
with the foot in the waves ungrateful zurückstößest?

O John, you ungrateful friend, do you want, save me not on your shoulders
in a house of God, and set up as a memory that erbarmet thy God? "Oh,
that was probably hard and true words of one of my coats, and I
took it with Shame of the window, and put it on to my new state, and
grabbed it with both hands firmly around the chest, as I wanted to
ask forgiveness, and went with the idea of the stairs into the
garden: If I were a poor student had'm traveling, I will always
be a poor student travelers remain on earth because we are all poor
and have manifold with herumwandeln our lives, and learn, and poor
students remain until the Lord our erbarmet and we einführet by his
bitter death into everlasting life.

Since I am now in the garden had come, which I previously have not seen
-- because my Gracious Lord and Knight was late in the evening
with me and I arrived in the darkness in my Stüblein have been - I
could before viewing the wonder and new things around me do not
come to prayers.

I found myself from the beautiful Laubgängen, Zierfeldern and the
flowering plants and trees almost as much as überraschet by my new
garb.

I found myself like a neugebornen Baby, what with all spielet, and still
can not pray, and after some experience in the sweetness of life
thanks to his hands folded learn.

The flowering time, the jolly singing of the birds, the many young
herbs and Blümlein, with Taublicken awoke before the sun, the cool
jet, which in a colorful pebbles and shells designed fountain danced
me all seemed so new and wonderful, as I would have never seen the like,
and I do not know what all this should be. Like the little children
go through the flowers and they break, and wind and wreaths at the
hands grasp, and with the wreaths in dance circles, even though a
lively floral wreath, as they do not remember the fruit floating
in the summer and the harvest in the rich autumn, and death in the
gloomy winter profound: So, I walked like a poor knave child without
simple joke through the garden before and was very moving about my
new happiness to me yesterday morning had not yet dreamed of, not
to Prayers go.

My joyful amazement wanted but not long, because my eyes when I
ersättiget had promised it to me as a hungry, without a prayer
of a rich meal gesetzet, what about him not God blessed. All the home,
well maintained comfort of the beautiful flower garden filled me with
sad thoughts, and the poverty, the loneliness of my own life came to
me in this rich environment for the first time in life before the
soul. "What can be sadder than the picture of a beggar on golden
Basically gemalet? "O my mother," I said to myself, "who was gentle and
nice, and finer and more noble than you, who was dignified, full of
flowers to walk, than you, probably her sister and mistress could
be?

the Standen Tränlein not on the cheeks like roses Tautröpflein to this,
do not you went through the forest like a Lüftlein by flowers, and your
eyes were not true and sweet-looking as the violets blue, your
lips do not like the rosinfarbenen carnations, and flew thy yellow
hair is not like the sunshine? But you like to have to go with your
Hagar Ismael through the thorns in the desert. Oh, why was not you
as a garden and a house, and why do you live among five boards and
two Brettlein and you're your life has become even more glad not thy
death?

You have you no braided wreath. but I is not been cultured than
yours, and I can not remember in your joy, because nothing belongs to
me than the poverty, and I have no purse, from which I you could
be the most grave built by Marmelstein and gold. "How sad I was there
and turned my eyes from everything wohlgefiel them, and did not
want to watch, because they are not with me could see their eyes
because they are never so Lust rest was allowed.

Also, I could still bittrer on the soul, that I was a knight's
son, without arms and without weapons. Tears filled my eyes, and
indignation filled my whole body, in the new promotional outfit seemed
to burn, and I stretched my tight, throw me Mäntelein so that even
more torn. So I gradually, as I search the wilderness , after a solitary
unkempt parts of the garden, and hardly I stood in the high grass at
high lime, so I could no longer understand how this innre pain and
anger in me for the first time in my life had come, and against the
wall of the garden coordinated way, I saw the same in a deep bow
area Heiligenhäuslein appropriate wohlvergittert in them was a
buntgemaltes carving, the adoration of the holy Three Kings in the
Stable at Bethlehem, situated.

Davor I knelt down on the grass and prayed with all my heart.

     As soon zerrann all my suffering and my pride in front of the Son
of God, the naked and poor in a manger lay before me, and yet the
kings served.

How I felt in my unruly ashamed!

And since I was accused with tears, thanked me with all my heart
to the Lord that he is driving me poor students do not forget, and
me through his mercy to my merciful Lord, and Knight brought, also
vowed, as I am all about pride, and the arts, which I assisted by
his senses with weak erlernet, to increase his kingdom on earth
faithfully applied.

Since I am now after such a significant consolation prayers in
my heart felt, I took gülden knitted band, what was the Ave Maria, from
my prayer book, and hung it by the grid langend, the image of the
Virgin Mary on his arm, as the victim of a foolish man who, before her
son had found solace in prayer.

This band, however, was my sweetheart, what I had.

Monastery A devout woman, my mother selge Befreundte, it had me for a
song that I sang it and sealed, geschenket, and it was too Marburg
Elisabethen grave at St. angerühret been I had it but so far as a
leaf in my pointer prayer booklet geführet.

Then I took my Mäntelein, and it rolled along in a long bead and
wove it through the upper bars of the grid in front of the picture,
rolled as a curtain, to commemorate my time poverty, which by God
in joy and abundance had changed .

Then I turned me to the back garden, which seemed to me very differently
than before. So nothing like before the minds of the people there,
which after all are transformed. Now, since I had prayed, released me,
all the red, and white body colors Blümlein those flowers of the
garden, by the king in his castle Ahasverus garden Süsan changed,
his anger to forget.

Yes, it was as if God through these flowers have gone and its just
about my unruly anger here at the loveliness of his works gesänftiget,
because here on this first morning of my twentieth year, is to
me a lot of light in the soul work, and I am the spring has become
a wise teacher. but I was particularly high cathedral tower shocked
when I schattichten from a tree and gear hervortrat him over the
roofs of neighboring houses looking down on me saw. Was it
me in the beginning so afraid of him as a warbler to be a giant
when the bush on her nest and she opens niederblickt.

All people work, so it is the ordinary limits in size or exceed perfection,
has something frightening in itself, and we must linger long time
before you compare it with peace and consolation can enjoy. I have
this but not alone at the sight of this tower heights high perceived
but also for even sweet and fine works, of which I only want to mention
the very fine and natural paintings of the painter Wilhelm in
Cologne, by the masters as the best champion in all German lands is
respected because he malet a man of any all shape, as he lived.

The works of William but this, which I of Cologne seen, are so delicate,
subtle, sharp and vivid that you almost believe should be that they
were the hands of angels, and erbebet you in their sights, because they
seem to live and not live. Man fühlet as well, something that man
can create and what is more beautiful than its ordinary and His
creation, and one is appalled that this glory so strange and rare,
so probably a lot of rungs on the ladder to this perfection where
not missing, but must be invisible and we all probably deep down are
thrown.

The huge artificiality of lovely tribute Münster tower would have me
back almost depressed because I thought with astonishment, but as I
under the high oaks, in dark woods, on high mountains on steep
precipices and falling waterfalls in secluded valleys in the desert
quite, quite, even well-even sat hungry and I do not feel so moved
as when the sight of this tower.

When I see the leaves and twigs of the trees look so I ask not how
they came up, and not frightened when they move back and forth
with noise, but when I look at these wonderful tower with its
many Türmlein, columns and scrolls that is always out drive apart
and transparent as the skeleton of a leaf, then it seems to me that
the dream of a profound Werkmeister, before he probably would
frighten even when he woke up and finished it as before in the sky
would, unless that he niederfiele on his face and exclaimed: "Lord,
this work is not by me in its perfection, you have only yourself
bedienet my hands, my is nothing as the shortcomings, but to cover
with the mantle of your love, and let them disappear in the mystery
of your degree.

"No one, however, this probably erlebet, no one has such a work of
his invention, the crown aufgesetzet, all sexes are from the scaffolding
herabgestiegen and have to rest in the tombs at the foot of the
tower made of knows nothing about it, and off seriously and stone,
no heart and no mind has actually a pretty tower is unreasonable,
and yet stands as if he himself hervorgewachsen need it and no one
to thank.

This massive expression of the sublime, but in such works, in which
the wisdom and effort and devotion of centuries of endless lines
of the law, the relationship of distress and the ornamental tops
with groundbreaking hinangeklommen audacity to stop at the summit
to praise the Lord, combined with his actual inner death, so that
he, of all through his life in the deepest heart rühret, but nothing
like this mitempfindet, that is what his vision and the appearance
of all human works a huge horror beimischet.

     It is as he asked: What am I and why am I and what is it that you
so rühret in me?

What can we respond to him but other than the works of the Lord are
incomprehensible, he drives us to build and create about life,
because we were immortal and perfect, and we have fallen to his
death through sin, but thou Tower stand as a witness that we are
dark feel what we were before this time, and that we are still
struggling after infinite target, so you will stand as a carrier
of our effort and our penance in honor of our Blessed Savior, and
maker of Jesus Christ, we erlöset by his bittres suffering and dying.

Amen.

So I thought in me, and although surrounded by live trees and flowers,
in which, as even in the hard rock, a soul seems to reside, which
breathes with the people and fühlet, in the spring with him
freuet, and in Winter mourns with him, I could but my eyes do
not turn from the towers. The sense of the people always strebet after
the incomprehensible, as though there the goal of the career and the
key of heaven, because man can admire alone, and admiration of all
pathogens is a messenger of God, the mahnet us to the light, which we
lost, and that is promised us by the blood of Christ, so we are partakers
make. So, I am also always published all my tribulations as a
longing for a better life, and all my hours were only bitter cold,
storms of days of winter, where the lovely spring, dressed with
flowers and singing, follow, so I SAEE good seeds and fill my soul
with the praise of God.

In such considerations, I wanted to return to the Sommerhäuslein go, but
saw my merciful Lord, and Knight even deep with folded hands under a
tree sitting in the sunshine, and dared not vorüberzugehen him, so I
do not disturbed. I put my question in its vicinity bescheidentlich
to Laubwand, and took my cap in his hands, expecting that his eyes
might turn to me might. The sight of my Lord raised up a great reverence
in me.

I asked him yesterday, not seen, because it has darkened, as he
told me to be merciful on the way it took. He had a snow-white
hair on head and beard, and probably liked him a lot of concerns
about his hingeflogen.

I reminded myself, never such a devout old knight to have seen, with
his severe and mild countenance such a confidence in my heart lowered.
God grant that I so cherish may be gray! I thought and felt with all
your soul to love the Lord drawn. But he seemed to be very sorrowful,
and often sighed deeply, and the little birds that have him in the tree
sang so funny, it was not comforted. Since I am so for a while after
him hingesehen had turned his eyes to randomly the places where I
stood, and spoke kindly to me with the words: "How did you, John, that
you stand there so silent?"

What I said to him: "I would not disturb your peace, Lord, your seems
to me in serious thought. "The knight said this:" John, how do you
like your new home, are you satisfied with me? "As I said," Lord,
should not I be happy? Since I now know where to sleep and where bread
and who serve at the Men's sake, because I know now whom to love, to
whom, except to thank God, and for whom to pray, except for me. O
Lord, my new home I like well, God grant that I also wohlgefalle
her, and they are worthy. " Since the Knight smiled and said: "John,
if you are your words seriously, we are good companions, because I
like your speech well.

But what do you want to do, I probably fallen, what wilt thou give me,
because you do not have "Then I replied:" Lord, I remain your debtor
before the world, because I can give you no doublet of doublet,
which I do by your grace, but before God I give you a good number
of men, because before I give him you my heart. "Then the knight
returned jokingly:" If I give you now my heart wanted to deinige,
so I kept jerkin but this benefit, as then, John?

"What I said: 'Sir, your counts so strict when you wanted me to try
to counter-statement, and then I must say that my heart certainly has
no value against the Eure, which is geprüfet by long years since the
mine is poor and without merit, since it so well, what it wanted,
has not benefited ways; the point, since it has no value, it is
with you can give, because the belief in the mercy of Christ is not
with the heart can be and this belief alone, but a heart to be
blessed and Beseler make the interview.

So take it out as it is, and füget add what you can not mitgeben. But
I have a gift, which I will let you enjoy, and to me your not so
easy to obtain sollet; because it is fast and flee them, even they
will find with all the serious crowd may not be easy, because she
is sweet and funny view, and I could tell you they are really their
own, so you would not like to leave again, a good Gesellin So it is.
"My Lord, who had become very serious, said this, sadly before
looking down:" And what is before a gem, John, with whom you boast
so?

"Then I replied:" Lord, it is my youth, which I will let you enjoy,
as I can. For your age your vergesset with me, I will delight you
with some fun speeches and thoughts. "But what I had last spoken,
it was probably foolish and a bad beginning of my speeches promised
gratifying, because my Gracious Lord was now very quiet and dark .
Because I'm him remembers his age had, I thought. As I spoke to him
shyly: "Lord, I have provided you with foolish words erzürnet." But he
said: "That you have not already done, John, thou hast spoken the
truth but my heart is harder liked what I long to know you are, my
unworthy.

But He used it to
describe a real tragedy, the greatest tragedy of life; the tragedy of
being unprepared at His coming.

And when is He coming, fellows? Nobody knows. He has not even told the
angels that secret. We don't have to know it. We only have to be
ready.

And how to be ready? Simple as A B C, fellows. Just be busy, doing
God's will--or making an honest effort to do it, and asking Him to
help. Anybody can be ready to meet Him when He comes, if he wants to
and will try. Just be doing your work and playing your play, as He
would have you do it.

But, fellows, it is a big risk to "put off" getting ready. Do it now
while you are young, with all life before you, by saying: "Lord Jesus,
here is my life. Use it in just whatever way you choose. Plan it for
me and help me carry out the plan." That is the way to bag the Big
Game. Some of life's greatest opportunities come but once, and then by
surprise. The happiest and most successful life is the God-planned
life, and a God-planned life never misses the Big Opportunity, because
it is ready--always ready. Ready for life, however long or short it
may be; ready for death whenever that must be; ready for the Coming of
the Lord Himself, which may be any moment, in the twinkling of an eye.

Are you ready, fellows?

     _Read Matthew 25:1-13._


XXII

REMEMBERING


Say, fellows, all through the United States some years ago there
sounded a slogan. It was a slogan of hate,--a slogan of revenge. It
was the rallying cry of the Navy, it was shouted by the Army.
Newspapers carried it daily on the front page, alongside their titles;
business houses had it printed on their stationery; it was engraved
upon souvenirs; it hung as a motto upon the walls at many public
gatherings, and it became a household word throughout the nation:
"Remember the Maine!"

Remember--remember--never forget. And the purpose in remembering was
Retaliation. One night while the United States battleship _Maine_ lay
peacefully at anchor in the harbour of Havana, an explosion tore a
great hole in her hull and she quickly sank, carrying down many
officers and men to sudden death.

There was hardly any doubt that Spanish officers had from the shore
treacherously exploded a mine underneath the battleship, and later
investigations seemed to confirm this theory. Immediately the United
States, an outraged nation, arose to drive the Spanish army from Cuba
and her navy from American waters, and the spirit of revenge was kept
alive by the slogan, "Remember the Maine!"

Now, fellows, those are just the cold facts to show how powerfully
can be used the word, Remember--how powerfully to kill and to destroy;
how powerfully to nourish the harsh and cruel side of our natures. Not
that it was wrong for America to lift the Spanish yoke from helpless
Cuba, we are not dealing with that question. That with which we have
to do to-day is the energy and force developed by _remembering_. Like
dynamite, it can be force for good or for evil. Remembering the taunts
and cruelties of our enemies usually carries us into a cruel and
destructive program.

I am so glad this lesson presents to us the good side of that really
great word Remember, for to-day it is Remember Jesus. When you link
that Name with a word it transforms it; link that Name with a life and
it transforms it. Jesus Himself gave us the slogan. He was so intent
upon our keeping it in mind that He instituted a feast by which we
might commemorate it.

Even the food of that supper had a significance: Bread, to represent
His own body nailed upon the cross for us, and wine to represent His
blood which flowed for us. I think, fellows, if you should give your
life to save another, you would not like that one to forget all about
it, would you?

But Jesus had more than that in mind. He knew that "remembering" would
mean much to you who are trying to live a straight-out Christian life.
Celebrating at stated times by this Remembrance Supper would help you
to remember Him also _between times_. It is in these between times we
so much need the power which comes by Remembering Jesus.

Am I downhearted because I have been mistreated? Remember Jesus. He
was most mistreated of all men. Am I feeling that I'd like to "get
even" with somebody and redress a wrong? Remember Jesus. He did not
strike back, but laid down His life for His enemies. Am I feeling that
I cannot hold out in this Christian program? Remember Jesus. He is
right by my side and will help me hold out. Do people seem to
misunderstand me? Remember Jesus. He understands, and that is
sufficient. Does it look as if I am about to make a failure? Remember
Jesus, through whom we are more than conquerors.

I tell you, fellows, it is the biggest and finest Remember of all,
because it makes us strong, it makes us happy, it enables us to
overcome, it makes us invincible!

Remember Jesus.

     _Read 1 Corinthians 11:23-34._


XXIII

GETTING EVEN


Say, fellows! I saw a big touring car sideswipe a Ford runabout and
knock it several feet to one side on the country road. Of course each
of the drivers thought the other was to blame, and a warm argument
followed.

The big car was unhurt, and proceeded on its way, but the flivver had
its running board and fender badly battered. While the young fellow of
the runabout examined to see what further damage his car might have
sustained, the prosperous-looking gentleman was speeding up the
highway, chuckling over his own car's escape from injury.

I asked the man of the Ford if his engine had suffered. No, he thought
it was all right; he would crank up and see. Good! She started off
with a clutter, and he asked me if I wanted to ride. I had not far to
go, but gladly accepted, for I was rather struck with this young
fellow's grip on himself. It took self-control to avoid making the air
blue with abuse. The way that big fellow had hurried on, leaving the
runabout in trouble, was certainly not on the square, to say the
least.

A turn in the road brought a fresh surprise. There was the touring
car, a hundred yards ahead, standing in the middle of the road, hood
up, and the big man peering into the engine. There was room to pass,
and I wondered what the man at the wheel in the runabout would do.
Would the little car rattle past with its damaged fender? It would be
only human nature to sing out some sort of a taunt: "Thought you were
in a hurry!" or "Don't block the road!"--and yet this young fellow did
not seem to be that kind. His self-control during the incident back
there in the road made me expect something different, and I was not
disappointed. The runabout did pass, but stopped ten yards ahead, and
my companion got out.

"Engine trouble? Need any help?"

The big fellow's face was a puzzle, as he looked up with a worried
grin and mopped his brow with a grease-smeared hand. Yes, there was
engine trouble, and it was serious.

To make a long story short, when last I saw them as they turned the
curve of the road ahead, the big car's front axle was connected by a
chain to the rear of the runabout as it chugged away in low gear
dragging the big one to the nearest garage.

Say, fellows! it takes a dead game sport to do a trick like that. Any
cheap skate can whiz past and give his enemy in trouble the
hard-boiled eye, but it takes a fine soul to be generous when the
natural impulse calls for spite work.

In the small hours of that fine morning, as Saul slept and as his
guards were heavy with sleep about him, David put one over on his
pursuer--an act of kindness which overwhelmed him with shame. David
had not only to fight a natural impulse to get even, but he had with
him an adviser who used the most persuasive arguments to induce him
to take Saul's life. Indeed, Abishai proposed to do the deed himself,
as though that would leave David clear of guilt in the matter. But no,
David was a man of principle, and he knew three very vital things:

1. "Vengeance is mine, I will repay," said the Lord.

2. A magnanimous spirit wins, and no sad regrets cloud the victory.

3. He that ruleth his own spirit is better than he that taketh a city.

     _Read twenty-sixth chapter of 1 Samuel and Romans 12:20-21._


XXIV

GREATNESS


Say, fellows, if I should make up an unusually good story about you,
some noble thing you did, or some kind and generous act, to whom
should I tell it, to be sure it would be believed? Yes, I see you know
of whom I am thinking--your mother. I might tell your brother and
sister, and they would say: "Phew! are you sure it was Dick?" I might
tell your employer, and his eyes would roam around over the objects on
his desk; or your teacher, and he would look at the sky and say:
"Think it will rain?" I might tell your father, and he would be
grateful--but surprised! But let me tell your mother! There I would
find one who is ready to believe anything good I would say about you.

I tell you, fellows, a mother is a wonderful gift to a boy, for her
prayers alone. Long before you learned to say, "Now I lay me down to
sleep," she was praying that you would be a great and good man some
day. Those prayers of mothers have kept many a boy from going wrong.
One night in a great city where I had gone to find work I had fallen
in with some young fellows who "knew the ropes," and being far from
home and lonesome I was glad to accept their companionship. They
invited me to join them in an "evening lark" to which no loyal
Christian would lend himself, and though I was a nominal Christian I
was tempted sorely. I regarded myself as "my own man," having just
turned twenty-one.

But just as I wavered between right and wrong, my mother's face
flashed before me. It was only for an instant, but it was enough. I
heard her voice, heard it in prayer. That night a thousand miles away
she was praying for me, and saved me from what might have been a fatal
step. I firmly believe, fellows, but for my mother's prayers that
night and many nights, before and since, I should not now be enjoying
the privilege of talking about the great things of life and the
Kingdom to you.

Treasure that dear mother, if you have one, fellows; she is God's
peculiar gift.

Well, James and John had such a mother, and she did the most natural
and motherly kind of a thing. She wanted _her boys_ to go away up
high; they must even stand in the highest places, on the right and
left hand of the King in His glory. Like all mothers, she was
ambitious for her boys.

Then Jesus in His wonderful way explained that the road to true
greatness was not that which the world was following, in which those
in power and authority were overbearing masters to their inferiors;
but it is a path of service to mankind, a path already blazed by
Himself. Last night in the local evening paper I saw these headlines:
CHATTANOOGA DOCTOR ATTAINS EMINENCE. The article stated that a very
remarkable invention for the removal of foreign particles from the
lungs or bronchial tubes, such as might be accidentally swallowed, had
been successfully demonstrated before a national medical society, and
had been written up in the _American Medical Journal_; it was said
that the discovery had brought great honour to the doctor in the world
of medicine.

That was the recognition, but what had preceded? Days and nights at
bedsides of suffering; days and nights in the laboratory; days and
nights of study to relieve pain; hours of weariness unknown to the
world, but borne on by the thought of doing a service to humanity. And
do you suppose the final publicity is what rewards this doctor?
Hardly. A reporter on his local city paper sought an interview, after
the far-away medical journal had published the first news, but the
doctor, in his service overalls in the midst of treating his patients,
declined the interview, saying it would involve a technical
description which the general public would hardly be interested in.
Then it was "Good-morning," and the doctor returned to his work.

True greatness does not care to make one dash to fame, then loaf in
its glory.

The thing our great Commander wants us to be earnest about is doing
our best, wherever the place of service. He will look after the
reward. He is even more ambitious for us than our mothers are.

     _Read Matthew 20:20-28._


XXV

"PAW, I WANTA BE SOMEBODY!"


Say, fellows, away back in the mountains of western North Carolina,
far up on the mountainside, at the head of a cove, there lived a
fifteen-year-old boy. He had sisters and brothers and parents, but
they dwelt in a little tumble-down shack and were wretchedly poor.
Jake was the oldest of the children, and he had to work hard in the
little patch of corn on the steep mountainside, which barely yielded a
crop.

Down the path a mile or so there was a little log schoolhouse where a
lady teacher gave some of the mountain children lessons in "readin',
ritin', and 'rithmetic." Jake had passed and repassed that schoolhouse
many times and wished that he might "go thar and larn," but Jake was
too important a hand on "the farm" to "waste enny time at sich"--so
thought his parents, neither of whom could read or write. "An' Jake
was pow'ful handy 'bout fixin' things, like tools en sich."

One day, when "the crop" was pretty well "laid by," Jake came to the
shack and, throwing his hoe into the corner, said: "Paw, I wanta be
Somebody!" Then Jake went on to say he had been thinking that now the
corn was in shape to go ahead and make what it would, he "might put
in some time ev'y day at the schoolhouse a-larnin' how to read and
write."

"But y'ain't got nothin' to buy books," was suggested.

"I'll see 'bout that 'ar," said Jake.

Next morning when the teacher arrived, Jake was waiting at the
schoolhouse door.

Adam commands Ew. Graces the process after the formalities, or so, he
Huisum As usual, to keep? Walter After the legal formalities, he Huisum
As usual, nothing else. Adam Good, good. I will serve you to know.

Are you ready, Mr. Schreiber? Light to your services. Adam - So nimm,
justice, because your run! Plaintiffs step forward. Mrs Marthe
Here Herrndorf judge! Adam Who are you? Mrs Marthe Who -? your Adam.
Mrs Marthe Who I -?

Adam Who you are! Wes name, status, place of residence, and so on.
Mrs Marthe I think he spaßt, Mr. Richter. Adam fun, which I chair
on behalf of the Justice, Mrs. Martha, And the judiciary must know
who you are. halblaut light. Let's strange but the Frag - Mrs Marthe
all I was looking at your Sunday in the window so, if you go onto
Vorwerk! Walter Do you know the woman? Adam She lives around the corner
here, Ew.

Grace, If the footpath goes through the hedges, widow 'of a warden,
a midwife now, otherwise an honest woman of good calls. Walter, if
you're so informed, Mr. Richter, similar questions are superfluous. If
their name in the log And writes: the office well known. Also
das Adam You're not responsible for the paperwork. Tut as Sister
Grace anbefohlen. Interrogates Walter on the subject of the action
now. Adam Now should I -? Walter Yes, identify the object ! Adam
This is also a pitcher, forgive. Walter How? Likewise! A pitcher
Adam.

A mere pitcher. Sets a pitcher, and writes: the office well known.
Hingeworfene light on my presumed Will you, Mr Judge -? Adam Mein Seel,
ichs if you say, So writes ihrs out. Ists not a pitcher, Mrs Marthe?
Mrs Marthe Yes, here the pitcher - Since Adam did ihrs. The
wife Marthe zerbrochne - Adam pedantic concern. Light, I ask you -
Adam And who broke the jug? Certainly the rascal -?

Wife Marthe Yes, he, the rascal there - Adam for himself.

I do not need more. Ruprecht That is not true, Mr. Richter. Adam for
themselves. On, the resurrected, you old Adam! Ruprecht The liar in the
neck into it - Adam Schweig, Maulaffe!

You stuck your neck still early enough to iron. - Sets a pitcher, Mr.

Schreiber, as I said, Zusamt the name of the crush him. Now the same
thing to be determined . Mr. Walter Richter! Ei! What a violent
procedure. Why Adam? Your Light Will not formally Adam No! I say,
love your grace no formalities. Walter, if you are the instruction,
Mr. Richter Adam, not of the process know, Is this the place now
do not you teach it. If your right otherwise not be so, you can give,
Sun stand from: Perhaps your recorder.

Adam Allowed! I gabs how it's here in Huisum usual; Ew. Grace did
so I ordered. Hätt Walter I -? Adam On my honor! Walter I commanded
you, right here under the laws to grant Huisum And here I believe the
law as elsewhere in the united states.

As Adam submiß I must ask forgiveness, we have here, with your
permission, statute, peculiar in Huisum, Not recorded, I must
gestehn, but by tradition we Proven survived.

     From this form, I dare to hope, I am still not an iota derogated .

But even in your other form, I am, how they practice in the kingdom
might be at home.

If your evidence?

Well, command, I can be right now, so give jetzo. Walter poor give
me your opinions, Mr. Richter. It was. You start from scratch the
case back to Adam .-- On Ehr! Give eight, you will be satisfied.
- Mrs Marthe Rull! Bring your complaint to.
The lake was not over a hundred yards wide at the widest.

I was just noting how deserted and quiet was the place which only a
few moments before had been fairly alive with a happy throng of sport
lovers, little and big, when I saw coming toward the platform from the
bath house a tall, thin man in his bathing suit. He looked so pale and
weak and thin that I wondered if he could possibly be thinking of
going into that cold water at that time of evening and _alone_!

I had not long to be in doubt about it, for straight out on the
platform he went and then _on the spring-board_! He lifted his arms
above his head and pointed his hands together as a man going to dive.
Holla, you giant! what the Doctor says to my water? Lakay. He says,
Lord, the water on oneself sey a good healthy water, but what the
person RESTREINT from which it brings, which would like more
diseases in themselves, than they imagine .

Suppose I did not
and he should begin to sink, could I jump in that fifteen-foot water
with my clothes on and save him? These thoughts flashed rapidly
through my mind, but in the twinkling of an eye he was off the
spring-board, head downward into the water.

I held my breath and waited for him to rise. It seemed he had gone to
the bottom and stuck there; the water became actually smooth again,
and almost still, where he had disappeared. I thought he would never
come up. My heart jumped into my throat.

Then he came up--very near where he had gone down--and faintly struck
out swimming. I thought of course he would at once make for the piers
of the platform; surely a fellow swimming as weakly as that, all
alone, and in water cold and deep, would not risk himself far from
shore. But, to my amazement, he was apparently starting for the other
side!

It was then I discovered I was not the only witness. On the other side
of the lake, down close to the water's edge, and watching with evident
anxiety, was a lady. It was easy to see by her movements that she had
a strong personal interest in the swimmer's actions, and that she was
very anxiously watching him. She had evidently come down to keep him
company, or as a precaution, while he took his solitary evening swim.

These things, which were taken in at a glance, coupled with the fact
that the swimmer was plainly growing weaker and making very poor
progress, confirmed all my apprehensions, and I was just thinking I
must quickly take measures for his relief when I saw coming out of the
bath house on a dead run, two husky young fellows in bathing suits,
making for the spring-board.

At the same time the lady shouted: "Father! Father! can you make it?"

The swimmer gurgled something which sounded like, "No."

He had gotten about half-way across and was merely struggling to keep
his head above water. The two huskies went off the spring-board so
close one behind the other that it looked foolhardy, and struck out
rapidly for the drowning man, but he had gone down his second time
already.

It was a race between life and death. I said: "They will never reach
him in time." The lady screamed. Then a new voice broke upon the still
evening air. A boy over on the walkway by the dam shouted at the top
of his lungs: "_Mister! Let down your feet!_" The struggling man heard
it; he did let down his feet, rose up about waist deep in the water
_and walked out_!

Fellows, as I walked on up the hill toward supper, trying to work my
heart back down where it belonged, I did some tall thinking. Had _I_
ever "drowned" in shallow water? Sure, I had. The great big things God
has planned for you and me to do seem impossible because we do not
take into account that they are to be done through God's power and not
our own.

We summon the nerve to tackle the task, but, forgetting Him, like
Peter trying to walk on the water, we sink. We foolishly try to do the
thing in our own strength, when there at our hand is the great power
of Almighty God just waiting to flow through us and accomplish it
gloriously.

Oh, fellows, if you would just let down your feet on the mighty power
of God, you would walk out of all your difficulty. Here is a great
overpowering temptation getting the best of you--and you, drowning in
shallow water.

Let down your feet! Here is an inspiring challenge out of God's Word,
to put forth your hand and heart and mind and help win the world for
Him. You are tempted to say: "Who am I?" Let down your feet, and
you'll see who you are. You are a child of God, through whom He is
willing to do mighty works.

And you will rise upon your feet, you poor, weak fellow, and you will
hold aloft the Banner of the Cross, and you will achieve for God in a
way that will set all the bells of heaven ringing.

     _Read Matthew 28:16-20._


XXVII

AN "UNASSISTED TRIPLE PLAY"


Say, fellows, when that "Indian," Wambganss, put three men out with
one unassisted play in the world's series and retired the Brooklyn
Dodgers with bases full, twenty thousand frantic Cleveland fans rose
as one man and sent up a yell that sounded like the roar of Niagara.
It comes but once in a generation for a lone baseball player to make
an "unassisted triple play" in a world's series, and doubtless that
night the Cleveland second baseman was the most envied baseball player
in the world. For one man to do, alone, what thousands of onlookers
could not do, was enough to turn all fandom topsy-turvy in a delirium
of amazement.

There is something in you and me, fellows, that leaps to its feet and
screeches with delight when we see any one rise to the demands of a
crisis and do the fine thing. Now, I want you to turn to a place in
the Bible where is described a finer thing than could happen in any
world's series. It has always seemed to me to be about the most
wonderful event that ever happened. It is John's account of one of the
most wonderful miracles that Jesus performed.

More than five thousand hungry people lingered on the hillsides near
the lake shore, and there was nothing for them to eat. Jesus was
testing His men that day to see how far they had recognized His
divine power. He turned to Philip and said: "Where shall we get food
for them?" Philip did not know it was a test question; neither did he
realize that Jesus could turn every blade of grass to a loaf of bread
if He chose to do so. Therefore, Philip replied: "I do not know, Lord;
it looks as if they will have to go home hungry."

Now Andrew was casting about to see what he might discover to help out
the situation, and his eye fell upon a boy standing near by with a
rather familiar shaped bundle in the folds of his tunic. Andrew
sniffed, and saw the tails of two dried fish sticking through. Andrew
had a long nose for fish. He knew what it was: the boy had brought a
lunch with him.

"How many barley cakes have you, son?" inquired Andrew. "Five,"
answered the boy. "Wait a minute," said Andrew. Something had flashed
into his mind. It was a big moment for Andrew; he was on the verge of
doing a fine thing, himself, and he stepped quickly to where Jesus
stood.

"Master!" he said, his eyes snapping with the very thought of what
_might happen_--"Master, there's a lad here with five barley cakes and
two small fishes--" and (oh, the tragedy of it!) then he must have
caught Philip's hard-boiled eye. He must have thought, "Now, Philip is
saying I'm a fool for suggesting such a thing--and I guess I am"; for
he quickly added "--_but what are they among so many?_"

Jesus calmly turned His eyes on Andrew, as though He said:
"Almost!--Andrew--almost did your faith win a victory; make the men
sit down on the grass, and bring the lad's lunch to me."

Now, fellows, I can imagine Andrew going back to that boy and saying,
"Son, the Master has need of this food you have brought; shall I take
it to Him?" And this boy's first thought, naturally, was: "Then, what
will I do? I'm a long way from home; I'm hungry, and I was just fixing
to eat it myself--but--"

The boy had been listening to Jesus as He talked to the crowd. He had
seen those wonderful eyes melting with compassion. His own eyes had
feasted upon that majestic countenance, and his ears had tingled, and
his boyish heart thrilled with the marvellous words which fell from
the Master's lips. "Surely," he had thought, "this _must_ be the
Messiah, for no other could speak like Him, nor work these marvellous
cures." So quickly he brushed aside his self-interest, and held out
the little bundle of fishes and bread.

Now, fellows, watch--What?--a triple play at a world series and twenty
thousand fans leaping and yelling like mad? Bless you, no. Something
happened right then which will be remembered a millennium after
baseball has been forgotten. Jesus took the boy's lunch and fed five
thousand hungry men, besides women and children, until they could eat
no more.

I have many times tried to picture in my imagination that glad and
astonished boy. His eyes must have nearly popped out when he saw what
was going on, the Master giving out the bread and fishes--and the
bread and fishes _never giving out_!

And the big news to-day, fellows, is that you and I can make a play
like that. No matter what it is you've got in your hand, let Jesus use
it. He can do more with it than we can. No matter whether it is much
or little, give it to Him. In fact, that's the way to save it and make
the most of it. He said so (Luke 9:24) Himself; give it to Him. It
matters not so much _what_ it is in your hand; the thing that matters
is _what you do with it_. Give it to Him. You may not hear the
bleachers roar over your gift, but, listen, fellows, when a life is
surrendered to Christ the battlements of heaven ring with a shout that
encircles God's throne, and the score is for Eternity!

Fellows, let's play the REAL GAME.

     _Read John 6:5-14._


XXVIII

FORGIVING


Say, fellows, I want you to take a look at Simon Peter to-day. He is
as interesting as a fast game of volley ball. And he did get some hot
ones handed to him. Impulsive fellow that he was, he was always
getting his foot into it. Peter was a plunger; he wanted to _do
things_, and do them right now. Loyal soul--he would fight for his
friend at the drop of a hat; but he was subject to fits of depression,
and at such times his heart would fail him, or he would lose his grip
on himself and do something to regret sorely afterward.

Now, fellows, Jesus loved Peter with a mighty love, and He spent much
time helping him to gain self-control and learn to be a steady,
thoroughgoing, dependable Christian. Many times Jesus had to call him
down sharply. Once He even called Peter "Satan" (see Mark 8:33). It
really was Satan to whom Jesus spoke--Satan operating in Peter, as he
operates in you and me sometimes when we are weak enough to permit it;
but it must have been an awful jolt to Peter to get that from his
Master.

Peter gradually improved. He was making an honest effort to be the man
he ought to be; but there one thing which gave him more trouble than
anything else. He got to the point where he could close his jaws
tight and keep from calling down the fellow who made him mad, but he
couldn't keep from surging inside. He would surge when he went to bed,
and he would be still surging when he got up--all inside. After a
while he got to where he could forgive, but when the offense was
repeated it was "all off," and Peter would find himself surging again.
Now the second surging was just as uncomfortable and made him feel as
mean as the first, so Peter began to wonder just what would be the
limit, according to Jesus' idea, to which a man must forgive and then
surge and feel good over it. You see, Peter was trying to train by the
rules of Jesus, so it was quite the proper thing for him to ask Jesus
about it when in doubt. A good sport is always ready to listen to the
Coach.

Jesus was teaching the Golden Rule, the law of kindness and of
good-will. He had just been showing how to make peace with one who has
done you an injury, when Peter spoke up and asked the question which
brought forth one of Jesus' most remarkable parables. Peter said:
"Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him?
until seven times?"

Seven times! Think of that. It was going some, wasn't it? Doubtless
Peter thought so. Perhaps he said to himself: "Well, for once I have
proposed something which will show the Lord that I have learned to be
a longsuffering Peter. Just imagine it: Forgave him Sunday; he
repeated the offense Monday, and I forgave him again; also the same on
Tuesday. He deliberately did that dirty trick again on Wednesday, and
I still stood my ground on the forgiving program. Thursday and Friday
the rascal repeated the offense, and I forgave, and did it again on
Saturday; that was seven times, and lo! when Sunday came the
ungrateful wretch was at it again, and I'm done. Seven times! It was a
wonderful test of my control, and I shall present it to the Lord--"

And what did Jesus say? Why, Peter must have staggered under that
answer, for it revealed to him far more than the "four hundred and
ninety times" program. In the light of that parable in Matthew
18:21-35, it revealed to Peter that God had already forgiven so much
that was sinful in him that he might just as well settle down to a
program of forgiving his brother every day for the balance of his
life, if he did not want to forfeit the forgiveness of God. No more
surging for Peter.

And that is what the lesson means for you and for me to-day. A
missionary once said, "We cannot outgive God." It is quite as true
that we cannot out-forgive God. And, moreover, we dare not harbour
unforgiveness in our hearts against any fellow-being, for when we do
it we are dangerously close to the edge of a fearful precipice, where
one slip would put us--with the Tormentors.

Let's all shake hands--hard!

     _Read Matthew 18:21-35._


XXIX

PARADOX


Say, fellows, do you know what a paradox is? It is something which
seems to contradict itself. I saw a man hold in his hand something
worth one hundred dollars. I would have been willing to give him one
hundred dollars for it. He destroyed it right before my eyes; yet his
action caused nobody any loss. Now there is a paradox, and it seems
quite puzzling, doesn't it? It looks quite impossible, you may say.
But the explanation is very simple. What the man held in his hand was
his own check on the bank. He had made a slight scratch on it which
did not affect its value, only its neatness, and he preferred to tear
it to pieces and rewrite it.

Here now in the eleventh chapter of Matthew, our Lord in His
impressive way is teaching in a paradox, and you may mark it well, for
it indicates a specially important proposition. He says: "Come unto
me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.
Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in
heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls." It seems queer that in
coming in answer to that invitation you should have a yoke to put on.

But your first wrong impression is that the Lord is sorry for folks
who work. Not at all; work is a blessed privilege. Pity the poor
idler, not the worker. Be sorry for him who is by any cause debarred
from working, not for the red-blooded fellow who is feeling the thrill
of accomplishing something. Our Lord is sorry for those who are "heavy
laden" while they work--laden with worry, with anxiety, with fears and
forebodings--yes, even with a guilty conscience.

Then the yoke. Who would think of a yoke in connection with rest? I
suppose you fellows have seen oxen wearing yokes. They do not look
very restful, do they? Yet Jesus clearly says His yoke is "easy"!
Well, let's see.

For a moment, think of life as a great game. In many respects it is
just that. It takes skill and wit and patience and determination to
win the ordinary game; also the willingness to take a lot of
punishment at times. There are three things about the game of life
which are like all other games: (1) We must either win or lose; (2)
there is uncertainty; and (3) we all want to win. But there are also
three things true of the life game which are not true about other
games.

The first of these three dissimilarities is that in the life game you
have got to play whether you will or no. You can beg off from a game
of tennis, or baseball, or dominoes; but the life game you have got to
play, willing or unwilling, sick or well, fit or not fit. There's no
choice; you've got to play--_you are already playing._

Second, you must play against an adversary who is not only more
skillful, more speedy, more enduring, but is _invisible_, and whom,
humanly speaking, it is absolutely impossible to beat. Such a game!
Such an adversary!

But the third dissimilarity is the most remarkable of all, and it is
the shot which carries the big news to-day,--there is a rule by which
you can certainly win. Can you say that about any other game? In other
games, your rival can apply the rule as well as you, but in the game
of life the rule is only available for you, and it is an absolutely
sure winner. Turn to your Bibles and look at it, in the twenty-fourth
verse of the ninth chapter of Luke: "Whosoever will save his life
shall lose it; but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same
shall save it."

Losing your life for Jesus--which simply means _investing_ it for Him.
Whatever you do, do that thing in His name and in a way worthy of Him.
Your _life_, you know, is simply made up of the events of the
twenty-four hours of each day. Invest each event with Jesus. That
means your play as well as work. It means clean play and good hard
playing to win, but in the way Christ would approve, honest, fair,
chivalrous--and it is true sport, I tell you. That is a part of what
it means, wearing Jesus' yoke, simply doing the thing as Jesus would
do it.

     Since my dreams, I lived all alone so you beneath the heart, there
were the joys, the sorrows and joys thy Mir and pain.

And thy heart was indeed very big, and did not, who complain, And
wine, you still in your lap, Half your heart I bear thee.

I cried: Come, dear mother, come!

cooling you in waves of love! Since you felt so quiet, so pious in thee
hinabgezogen. So blessed mother all alone in your desire berauschet,
Have I clear your mind, you pure in heart, belauschet. What sacred
in you at all hours, all I had; Now Kiss me, sweet mouth, well, because
you have to cure me. O blessed, blessed, without guilt, how could I do
with pray thee, O great impatience, Ans sharp light to come! O Mother,
keep your child warm, The world is cold and bright, And wear it
religiously, you're too poor to Hin threshold of the tomb.

Put it in linen, which du woven flowers to which you gepflücket, Stirb
with that if it raises the äuglein, In the sky there you erblicket.
lallt How to get a pious heart, And never learn to speak, look
forever to you, looks skyward and wants delights in breaking.

Cancels not Freud, but breaks down in grief, we all interrupts them.
Oh, you go far and wide, And near, the sheaths, when I sang the
song very hergesagt were me and my Lord Knight a bit quiet
. Then he pointed and said: "You're right, dear John, you were
quite rich, such a dear mother on earth to find it is a nice song,
but it's also a lot of grief to everyone who has it so gesetzet, that
it is so painful at the end of the sheath is talking? "As I said,"
My father has it that when I was not yet born, because he had to
distinguish my mother, and she never wiedergesehn, and I know him not
. As the tears broke from me, but my Gracious Lord kindly drove me to
hand over the head and said: "Be wohlgemut! I want to be your father,
that is enough on earth that God GEBS!" Because I should kiss his hand
and continued: "Ah, Mr. Ritter, of such wealth in such a loving mother
was still not enough, because good people took me in her
arms and carried me into the church, because I was by the holy
baptism recorded among the children of God, and was cleansed from
all sin and became partakers of Versühnung our Lord Jesus Christ.

Since I first became rich beyond all measure, because I had eternal
life and the key of heaven geschenket. But then neither was given
me a lot earthly glory, and what is needed for life and fun, because
I was gelehret that the splendor of the sun all my gold was the
level of the rivers all my silver, the green meadows of flowers
with her all my carpets and Tapezereien, the sky with his blue
gestirnten vaults and the high forest green all my buildings and
halls, so finally I became so rich that my whole world was open,
and all good people my servant warden, to whom I speak was: Give
me this, give me that, and I also had no Lord, the Lord of lords,
the God of my life to live, and in whose hands I said the Holy
Spirit gives his grace and my Lord Jesus, I mercy, without any major
flaws to return hope and I have to Slogans chosen on my plate -
because I'm a knight's son -: The sky is my hat, The Earth is my
shoe, heilge The Cross is my sword, Who I am see, I love and value.

"As Mr. Veltlin smiled and said:" Your hat is better than your shoe
that you will soon expire, but your sword is the most powerful on
earth and has a good Weaponsmith had, you are a good knight, and
your trip may be off peacefully, as you see, you have loved and valuable.
But tell me now you come here! "As I pulled a book from my book bag
and said:" I want you to read it, because I have started me down,
so is quite extensive, as I haggard, with all kinds of speech and
look at how I became aware that it has been and can be had. " Then
said Mr.

Veltlin: "You can write about? John, I can not, and I am eager to hear
whether you have everything written down so that I may enjoy it most,
because the Scriptures as somewhat artificial and the human stranger,
where than ordinary speech, which then flies fast, they should also
reserved the decent people dargereicht, and so well and clear. read
now!

" As I pointed to: Chronika of the traveling student Lauren John Burger,
of Polsnich on the Lahn This book is valuable and dear to me; Who
steals it to me, is a thief. I was born on 20 May 1318 to Polsnich an
der Lahn, which is a courtyard, which belongs to the monastery of
Arnstein, that I was christened John. My blessed mother lived in a
small house in front of the yard, and called it the beautiful
Lauren Burger Els, but my father, whom I never seen, was the Knight
of the Lauren Castle, the monastery at Arnstein opposite the Lahn
lies.

What it is for a condition with him that, I will write down as much as
I experienced when I at the time in my life do, as it has been known
to myself. The first, which I have from early youth, my mother's right
erinnre clearly, is that they taught me, me with the character of
the Holy Cross to call and the hands to fold and the Lord's Prayer
and the English greeting to pray.

She said my prayers, I looked towards her lips and said after her, and
I remember quite clearly my great joy, when I for the first time at
night next to her on her Betschemel knelt, and these sacred prayers
and finished with her miscarriage without saying.

Now when I pray, I often, when I looked after her lips and brought
forward after her. She was poor, pious and industrious, and if I like
them in some business later seen floating me her picture but
mostly praying, singing or spinning before your eyes. When they
came for me at night sometimes even those who believed in bed, I
still watched and listened to the purring of its spindle and moving
her singing, for they sat late on, in honor of her bread to earn.

The sight of my mother hold blessed, so if they slip in lamp before
hinsang and fascinating, often moved me to tears, why, know God
certainly, and I probably listening to childish hearts have prayed
for them.

Once I know that I even had a cry, as I do at night when they rock
so to himself, heard singing as a nightingale began before our window
to sing and it was very late, and the full moon shone clear and
bright My mother heard but not to sing, and sang the Vögelein and
at the same time.

As for the first time I have felt sadness and childish concerns about
the seriousness of life had, I still feel, but not able to
pronounce, so I am also quietly in bed and raised my mother listened.

She sang a song but that was thus: It was singing for many
years well before even the nightingale, That was sweeter
sound, since we were together. I can not sing and cry And spinne the
thread alone so clear and pure as long as the moon will appear.

Since we were together, As the nightingale sang; Now mahnet me
their sound, That you drove by me. So many times the moon may seem, I
am thy memorial alone, My heart is clear and pure, God wants us
unite!

Since you drove by me, Always Sing the nightingale, I think in their
sound, as we were together.

     God wants to unite us, Here I am spinning so alone, The moon shines
clear and pure, I would like to sing and weep!

Especially sad but there was I propose that the bird and my mother
also sang and yet not quite together, and then I would probably
like to know whether the bird in his song my mother thought, and
whether he also cried rather than have sung.

I asked about my mother with the words: "Mother, what the nightingale
sings because of this?"

Then she said: "The nightingale longs and praise God, so I do too. But,
John, why you wake up? sleep, you need to be out tomorrow morning and
with me to the monastery Arnstein go if you do not sleep, so I am not
with you. " As they cleared the lamp, and stepped in front of my
Bettlein and gave me the sign of the cross on forehead, mouth and
heart, and kissed me, and since I felt that she was crying, I wrapped
my arms around her neck and pressed her face fixed to the mine, and
since we both wept. but I asked her: "O mother dear heart, what you
cry, and why do you cross me again? I have already prayed." "Dear John",
she said this, " I do you always have the Cross and kiss you, when I
go to sleep that you and God bless your mother on the night will
benefit, but so far you've always slept in when I did, and knew it
not. " But why does she cry, she said I was not.

Then they undressed and lay down to bed, and prayed aloud, I said
it under: Lord Jesus, I want to go to sleep, fourteen angels let me
stand, two on my right, two to my left, two of my chiefs! Two of
my feet, two to cover me, Two that I am awake, Two, To show me
the heavenly paradise! What we quietly asleep. The next morning
I woke up earlier than the mother. The swallows began to sing. I
dressed myself and came quietly to the bed of my mother, and had
their hands folded quietly, and the young days appeared on their
faces.

Your sight filled me with love and sadness, because I had Barbara,
the daughter of Hofmeier recently so silent with folded hands in the
coffin is sehn, and took me such a deep fear that my mother gave
impetuous kiss. You woke up in my arms, and when I give her the
cause of my tears, said she took my hands from her neck, and folded
them, and included them in their loving hands, and so we prayed
together to God and thanked him that he this night we received and
have given this day to improve our state.

At the end of the prayer said the mother: "You have feared that I
was dead, John, we must all die, you think of our Lord Jesus and
the Heavenly Mother Mary that you are the father and mother more
than your earthly father and I, though I must leave thee.

And when I used to join hands to pray, because I am the eternal
silence those who, so close your hands into the mine and pray with
me, that our Savior together into the eternal glory of his view
look left. "Because I was silent and appeared to Fensterlein of our
chamber, and looked after the next day. But as my mother had dressed,
she appeared behind me and gave me friendly eyes, with the words:
"Wait a little, dear child, you will immediately see something
that you never seen."

While my eyes zuhielt so, I asked her: "Dear mother, then the prayer
is powerful, and like it better then God, if one's hands folded in
such a way as you did with me ?"

--" Of "said the mother," if, then do it, so how we love, but God is
still much more than each other, and in the church when all the
people together to pray and the priest prays at the altar, as is the
prayer of the priest's hand in which they all have their hands
folded. What did I take you by the Christian love taught? " As I spoke,
"Thou shalt love the father and mother, that thou mayest be long on
earth, thou shalt love your neighbor as yourself and God about
everything ."--" right," said the mother, "o how blessed is the world
where all people so vereinet prayed, as we could do it tonight,
and as a pious congregation in the church is doing. " As I said,
childish: "But all men can not their hands on two hands together."
- "Oh, certainly, they can," replied the mother, "and the love of
our Savior Jesus Christ's hands, and everywhere all places, and his
holy hands on the Cross for us has spread, to redeem us from sin.

    He gave us the prayer gelehret
      yes, and he is the hand
    in which we lay our hands,
      so our prayers to God should
    invade, because he himself
      has said on the earth: "All things are given to me by my father,
and nobody erkennet the son than the father, and nobody Kennet the
father than the son, and to whom the Son wills to reveal .

Come to me, all you who labor and are laden, and I will give you
rest.

    "And Saint
    John
    says:"
    The father
    has loved the Son and has given him everything in his hand.

     We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous,
is the reconciliation for our sins, but not only for ours but also
for the sins of the world.

There is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man
Christ Jesus, who gave himself for us all to salvation has abandoned.

"Oh, just want all their hands in hands of Christ in which God has
given everything, glaubend , hoping and loving set, then we would
all look together in the face of God. " After these words, did the
mother love her hands from my eyes and said: "Blessed be Jesus
Christ!"

And I replied: "In eternity, Amen!" and saw with great animosity in
the splendor of the morning sun, above the Lahntal hervorstieg. "Oh,
mother," I cried out, "this is God's countenance ?"--" No,
my child," she answered, "that is only created its sun, which
he about us poor people seem to be sinful, but those to love him,
God is, what no eye seen and no ear has heard and what no human
heart has come.

"I did but then the sun rise for the first time see so early because I
never got up. This morning my mother and all the talk and doing the
same, I have to do now often thought of with great benefits. Now,
however, took my mother linen, which they woven and yarn that she
spun and gezwirnet to view it in the monastery for sale. They wore it
in the basket on his head, and since I have asked, she gave me a few
strands of yarn to wear, what I do with a great love for my mother
very carefully until after Arnstein had worn.

We arrived in the Abbot daselbst office, was with the beautiful images
ausgemalt also negotiated the abbot himself to the cloth with the
mother and was a sacred, but even otherwise friendly and funny
man who asked me, since I use the beautiful images in the walls
looked so hard: "Hans, you probably like my cell, did you also feel
like a spiritual order to overcome? If you are devout, and industrious,
you can with the time that my pictures, and the abbot, when I breastfeed
in the Convention of the church to sleep.

"Then I replied:" I'd probably want to abbot in the cell to be beautiful,
high-Worthy Lord, when my dear mother wanted to live indoors. " As the
abbot laughed and said: "Dear Hans, if beautiful Lauren Burger with Els
in the cells is expected to live, would like the small Klosterpförtlein
too narrow, so many should be looking for the holy orders, but
that does not, because the Lord speaks, We aim to take us on the
cross, to leave everything and follow him, and yet a mother lives
with us in our cells, which is still a lot of sweet and milder than
yours. " As soon as I saw the abbot, and soon my mother in his
speech and could not quite believe, also said last: "Oh, high Worthy
Sir, I zeiget it!"

Then the abbot laughed again and said: "My Hans, you can show them
not, but we all live in her lap, and also you, it is the holy mother,
the church, which our dear Lord Jesus to a bride chosen, but understand
that you have not. " As I said, "No!", And he gave me three
Bildlein from his prayer book, that was St. Jörgen picture of my father,
the knight Jörgen Lauren Castle, Patron, St. Elsbethen picture, my
mother's patron saint, and St. Johannsen gülden mouth with the picture,
my patron, I felt great joy, and when I got him the sleeveless wanted
to kiss, he gave me his hand and said: "John, please wife Else,
your mother that you're soon up to the school is doing because thou
shalt learn to serve fair, and for each show a half-Heller received
from me. " As the mother begged the abbot to his blessing, and we
both knelt before him, and he laid his hands on us and prayed.

My mother did but the money that he agrees with it for the linen given
back, a Mass for their concern in St. Jörgen chapel to read, and
because the abbot asked: "Laurenburgerin, what is your concern?",
were my mother's tears in their eyes, and she spoke with Shame: "That's
God, I prey, high Worthy Lord." The abbot replied with grave and
friendly voice: "Laurenburgerin, fear your money back and apply
it to your child, I know, your lives threatened, I want the Holy
Mass, even for you and with all my heart to pray for you, but ergebet
you also in the will of the Lord, and not worldly grief hanget too
much after. " My mother wanted but the money is not re-take and
said: "Heaven bless you, High Worthy Lord, for your gentleness, but
I do not need the money, which I prepared to sacrifice holy, does
the noble wife Lauren Burgers to swear not to be they could not
develop a small sacrifice. " Then said the abbot: "So you have the
heart to fear, I will ensure Kerzlein before St.

Jörgen picture can be put. Linen yarn and prayer at the bottom of the
monastery's brother Sulpizius that he choir shirts to make, because
even your linen are finely . As the mother took the linen, and we
gave it below Schneider's brother, but the mother gave the basket
back, until we came out of the church.

In the church we went to the left in a chapel, stood on the altar
of St.

     Jörgen picture as he durchbohret the dragon, the altar, the Knight
of the Lauren Castle and many gifts donated to the monastery done,
have her funeral in this chapel, as I learn nachmals.

To the right of the altar, I knelt down with my mother, with a stone
image of the brick in the wall was.

This was but an old knight, which had a long spiritual raiment, and
presented a young knight who knelt before him, her hands upon the
head.

My mother was quite often, and with internal movement after kneeling
knight. I looked at him, and felt a great joy to him, he would also
like something done love drum and put him a green wreath on his stone
head, which I braided in the forest and still playing in the hands wore.
Because my mother saw it, it went like lightning through their eyes,
and she hugged me fiercely in the church, but her cheeks were shame
and their eyes full of tears, because she let me go and lowered the
key to the Betstuhl. I felt great about their Bangigkeit touching
gesture.

There was a brother of the sacristy with a beautiful colored wax
candle, which he lit the eternal light, it is approaching our Betstuhl
and then handed them to my mother and me to kiss, and when we done
this, he put them on St. Jörgen Leuchter which, in addition to St.
Jörgen altar stood, and was designed as a spear, the dragon with a
razor. The victim was the candle, which we promised the Lord Abbot.

Now the Glöcklein sounded, and the pious Mr. Liebreich Ministranten
joined with the altar and read to us the Holy Mass itself with great
devotion. As my mother told me in his ear: "Pray hübsch pious, John,
the old knight standing is the old Lauren Burger, your grandfather,
hübsch pray for him!"

Now I had the courage not more, in the image to look, and became my
grandfather was an even more serious and sorglicher idea, but I
have prayed for the first time with a right internal cardiac
anxiety, as in the past never, but why I am so prayed, I can no longer
be clearly judged. Since the show was finished, I asked my mother again
after the image of stone with the words: "Mother, what do because the
old Burger Lauren there?" But she did not answer, and saw with wet
eyes to the kneeling knight, which I Kränzlein aufgesetzet. When I
asked them again, she said: "The old Lauren Burger doing what I did
to you yesterday evening, as I take you in bed with the holy crosses
described."

Because I asked them: "Will the old because Lauren Burger also go
to sleep?" And she said: "Yes, he wants to go to sleep in eternal
peace." But I asked: "Will the kneeling knight because even go to
sleep?"

As she spoke: "Ah, God give him a blissful awakening, so he's already
asleep!"

and became very sad, and lifted me up to the picture, with the words:
"Kiss the kneeling, it was quite nice, it is your good father." Then I
kissed him warmly and sat him on his way Kränzlein Haupt, would
not let him.

But my mother kept me on the arms and carried me out of the church
out, and they had almost forgotten even her basket, which is still
in the Sulpizius brother stood. But we came nachgelaufen and brought
the basket, there was a nice white bread inside the monastery and
a Krüglein full wine, which gave us the Dept.

     She thanked Mr. and went quietly with me left the forest to a
different way than we had come .

She had the basket on the right arm and helped me on the left, I
told her that I was not tired, and it will sour that she should let
me go.

But she would not let go of me, and I noticed her in a secret
pleasure for me to bear, and they shut me sometimes with the arms
fixed to her chest so that I felt her heart beat.

Since I was quite aware of her love life, and enjoyed their
kindness with childlike joy, for they used me or not to wear,
because, although tall and slim, but with some concern and night
vigil was invalidated.

She was soft and white with long blond hair, and golden rays were
the lashes on her pure blue eyes, I am still with peace, love and
warning look.

Yes, her dear face was like a translucent Fensterlein her heart, her
soul from the inside with every movement blushing pale and looked to
the sky. Her mouth was all quiet and tender closed, and attracted a
chaste awe. I say this here, because I will never forget how I used
to love her noble face looked and how well and hold them looked blissful
as they are by me so tenderly the free air above the green lawn hintrug,
and my Härlein and her long blond hair in the wind durcheinanderflogen
and lark about us against the sun floating, Lobsang. Since I was
infinitely well, and my longing, not to tire, was so fervent that I
glaubend felt, I do not weary them, and playing with her hair,
said to her: "Dear Mother, I am not quite easy?

I am as I dream, I flöge. " But you did not answer, than with a gentle
pressure of her arm, and I started her hair in braids to weave that
her playing of the wind should not be onerous, and they had it with her
head Hinneigen friendly gern geschehen. Since, however, I was ready
and they sent me through the forest under the trees hintrug, I broke
a green oak branch from, walked him into a wreath, and it put him
on the head with the words: "Dear mother, you are now decorated as
the Knight kneeling in St.

Jörgen Chapel, now you have a Kränzlein, and though we were now through
the forest opposite way would, would you both enjoy each other very
well on the beautiful wreaths? " My mother answered, but not
sad and went away, which I also was saddened. So we moved quietly and
well isolated for an hour through the dense forest, as if we were
the only people in the world, and would not have much joy. Now there
was light in the branches of the forest and ended against the edge of
the mountain, which is in the lonely Lahntal lowered, where the mother
kissed me and left me on the earth.
His entire stock in
trade had been transmuted into the coin of the realm, his profits were
secure, his losses were nil. He had found a good thing, he had
recognized an opportunity, and he had let no grass grow under his feet
while he laid hold upon it and reaped the golden harvest.

Fellows, there is something like that, only far better, offering to
you this moment. It is the _treasure_--not of perishable value like
gold, but of eternal value. Jesus Christ is offering to take you into
business with Him and let you deal with values so much finer and
higher than anything else that the surprise and joy of them will last
through all eternity.

     _Read Matthew 13:44-52._


XXXVII

A CORONATION


Say, fellows: This is David's big day. Let's enjoy it with him. Let's
get in the crowd gathering at Hebron and see a coronation.

And what a crowd! About three hundred and forty-four thousand mighty
men of war--all the tribes of Israel were represented there that
day--and they came over the hills of Judah from north and east and
south to put a crown on David which would make him king of all Israel.

For many years David had waited for this day. At the death of Saul,
two tribes, Judah and Benjamin, had proclaimed him king, but ten of
the tribes had crowned Saul's son, Ishbosheth, as his father's
successor. So David waited seven and a half years longer, and then the
whole kingdom came under his rule.

Many times during those long years when a fugitive from Saul, hiding
in caves or seeking the protection of heathen kings, it must have
seemed as if God had forgotten him, and once David did almost break
down, but he rallied, took a fresh hold, and "carried on."

Now, fellows, it must be a fine sight to see a man receive a royal
crown, but it is a finer sight when there are fine qualities in a man
deserving honour and reward. No head deserves a crown unless there
are crowning virtues in the life. What were some of the qualities in
David which merited a crowning on that great day?

One was his faith. Faith in God; faith in his fellow-man; faith in
himself. It takes faith even to start anywhere, and it takes more
faith to arrive. David's faith was of the coronation variety.

Another was his patience. David waited. He did not try to force
matters. Whenever God was ready--that was David's time. In one of his
great psalms, he wrote: "I waited patiently for the Lord, and he heard
my cry. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry
clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings." David's
patience was crowned.

Another was David's continual kindness to a foe. He was even kind to
Saul's memory and rewarded the men who reverently took Saul's body
from the wall of Bethshan and gave it decent burial. David's chivalry
was crowned.

But, fellows, the fine thing to know is that the same princely
qualities can exist to-day in each one of us; not for crowns on our
heads, but for a great satisfaction in our hearts. Faith, patience,
and a knightly spirit are just as possible possessions now as they
were in David's day. They are spoken of in slightly different terms by
Paul in the thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians,--Faith, hope, and
love. You can have them all. They are priceless, but you can have them
if you ask for them.

Be a prince of the Royal House!

     _Read 2 Samuel 2:1-7._


XXXVIII

DO IT RIGHT


Say, fellows, down-town the other day a man tried to save a boy who
was caught near some wires, and got killed himself for his trouble.
Hard luck, wasn't it? Yet he had nobody to blame for it but himself.
He took hold of a wire which carried the electric current for the
street cars. He broke a law of nature and got punished. There was a
way he could have gotten the wire away from the boy. A Boy Scout did
it later _with a pole_.

Just the difference between touching with the hand or touching with a
stick--very little, perhaps, but the law of electricity made the
difference important, so that the one meant death--the other, life!

Now here comes along King David trying twice to move the ark of the
Lord up to Jerusalem, where it ought to be, the first attempt proving
fatal because he was foolish enough to try to handle it as the
Philistines did, instead of doing it strictly by the rules God had
made--rules which David should have known very well, because they were
in his Bible (Num. 4:4-6, 15; also 1 Chron. 15:11-15). The rules
required that the ark should be carried on poles resting on the
shoulders of certain men set apart for that service, but David
permitted them to put it on an ox cart, attended by Ahio and Uzzah,
two well-meaning fellows, no doubt, but not according to the rules.
One of the oxen stumbled, the ark jostled, and Uzzah put his hand on
it to steady it. Presto! Uzzah a dead man on the side of the road!

They called David from where he was marching at the front of the
procession, and when he got back there and saw what had happened, it
gave him an awful shock, for he knew he was just as guilty as
Uzzah--and perhaps more so. He ordered the men to take the ark into
Obed-edom's house beside the road and be careful to pick it up by the
poles. Then he went on back to Jerusalem without it. He got out the
Book of Numbers and went over the rules about the ark very carefully.
For three months he studied the matter. Then he went after the ark
again--this time in God's way. He called for the priests and the men
appointed to carry the ark; he organized a band and a great choir of
singers, and went to Obed-edom's house. There they picked up the ark
by the poles and started. Still David was scared, and when they had
moved forward only ten yards ("six paces") he made them stop, while a
sacrifice of oxen and rams was made to the Lord.

David was overjoyed when he saw everything going well, and he began to
dance and to sing. All the way to Jerusalem he danced and shouted for
joy.

David thought a lot of the ark, because it meant the presence of God,
and that meant in this case the blessing of God. As he grew older and
wiser he had greater reverence for God's house and all the holy things
which were tokens of God's presence. In one of the psalms he wrote:

    The Lord is in His holy temple;
    Let all the earth keep silence before Him.

The least a boy can do for God's honour is to keep quiet in church.

The best a boy can do for himself is to put God at the very center of
his every interest--the fear of God, love for God, and reverence for
all His holy law.

Take hold as God says, and everything will go fine!

     _Read 2 Samuel 6:1-11._


XXXIX

KEEPING FAITH


Say, fellows, it takes a real sport to live up to a promise when
conditions shift on him. If there is a streak of yellow in his system
he will find some way to kick out every time. Life is a big game, and
it takes a real man to play it on the square--if only square and no
more.

But, fellows, what can you say about that one man in a thousand who
plays the game of "Remember and Pay" as finely as David did?

Young gentlemen, please meet Mephibosheth, this man of the twisted
feet and outlandish name. Kings did not usually choose such to live in
their courts and sit at the royal table. Only the fine-looking men and
beautiful women were invited to become members of the king's
household.

But, worse still, this Mephibosheth, being a grandson of Saul, was at
any time a possible pretender to the throne. It was the custom of
kings to get rid of such. Not so David. When he finds out about the
poor cripple over there across the mountains east of the Jordan, he
sends for him and invites him to come and live at the palace in
Jerusalem.

Now you will find David's promise to Jonathan in 1 Samuel 20:14-17;
and his promise to Saul in 1 Samuel 24:20-22. David had only agreed
that when he became king he would not kill Saul's descendants. He
could have fulfilled his promise by simply allowing Mephibosheth to
live as he was doing, visiting around, kind of sneaky like, without
any pocket change, among the few friends who would take him in.

What do you suppose Mephibosheth thought when the messengers showed up
one morning at Machir's house and called for him to appear before the
king? Scared to death, don't you think? No doubt he thought it was all
over for him now, except the "slow driving and music on the hill."
Why, when he came before the king he bowed clear down to the marble
floor, doing obeisance, and called himself a dead dog. Then, what
happened? He had to pinch himself to see whether he was dreaming. He
never got over the surprise of it as long as he lived. King David
helped him up on his crutches and told him to cheer up, for from that
time forward he should sit at his table, and be as one of the king's
own sons.

More than that: with all the thoughtfulness and fine courtesy of a
Christian gentleman, David turned over to this cripple his grandfather
Saul's estate, together with Saul's servant, old Ziba, with his
fifteen sons and twenty slaves, to till the land. That was to provide
Mephibosheth with an income.

Now, what do you know about that, fellows? It was playing the game of
kindness to win, wasn't it? Win what? Why, to win the satisfaction
which can only come to one who keeps his promise--and then some, for
good measure!

Yes, it takes even more than a good sport to do that. It takes one who
is willing to be Christlike.

     _Read 2 Samuel, Chapter 9._


XL

THE GAME THAT CAME NEAR BLOWING UP IN THE SEVENTH INNING


Say, fellows, have you heard the sorrowful news about David? Too bad!
Just as we were beginning to think David, with his fine manly ways,
his love for God's honour, for God's ark, his bravery, his fairness
and kindness--just as we were thinking he would make a clean record to
the end of the game, now here comes an awful flunk!

It's kind of like when the score is 2 to 0, in favor of the home team,
and we are feeling good--then all of a sudden in the seventh inning
the boys go all to pieces, and let the other side put four men across
the plate.

Strange how David fumbled and played badly when he had had such a long
winning streak, but so it must ever be when you get the idea you're
"it" and can't slip. David let down, and away down. Fellows, would you
believe it if it were not in the Bible--he broke all the commandments
from the sixth to the tenth, inclusive. God says whatsoever a man
sows, that shall he also reap. David sowed the wind and reaped the
whirlwind. Absalom, his son, committed all the sins his father did,
and added some, for he broke the fifth commandment also, and broke his
father's heart.

David was very fond of Absalom, and would have done anything for him,
but that boy didn't appreciate it. He was a good-looking chap; the
girls admired him, and a lot of foolish fellows hung around him,
flattered him, and made him vain.

Absalom had the big-head. If there is a sorry sight upon earth it is a
fellow that is stuck on himself. Absalom was conceited and proud. He
wanted even to be king in place of his father, and was unwilling to
wait for what would have come in due time. Many a fellow spills the
beans by being unwilling to wait. He ruins his best chance by trying
to pick the fruit before it is ripe. If there is ever a time when
patience is golden it is in the time of youth. A boy wants to stop
studying and training, and take a short-cut to fame and success. It is
usually a bad mistake.

Absalom's blunder was fatal. He tried to land on his father's throne
by treachery; he landed in a tree, caught by his head. He thought to
win a crown; he got three hot darts between the ribs from Joab. He
planned to have a pile of wealth quickly gained, but by the end of the
week his handsome form was buried deep beneath a pile of rocks. Ever
afterward when an Israelite passed that monument of dishonour, he
picked up a stone and cast it upon the heap to show his contempt for
the memory of a disloyal son.

Oh, fellows, the tragic day of a boy's life is when he decides to
throw over a good father. No matter what prize is offered. It may be
to get more liberty; it may be to escape restraint or rebuke, but it
is a bad trade at best. Ordinarily a boy's best man friend is his
father. If this does not seem to be the case, usually it is because
the son won't allow it. Many a father longs, like David, for his boy's
confidence and companionship. Many a boy could have in his father the
finest chum imaginable, if he would give his father a chance to show
him what a real chum is.

Fellows, let's give Dad some of that fine Scout loyalty and watch him
warm up to it. He may have some chum qualities you never thought of.

     _Read 2 Samuel 11:1-27, and
           2 Samuel 15:7-18._


XLI

THE BITTEN APPLE


Say, fellows, I was visiting a boy friend one afternoon and while we
played his mother called him. Wondering if there was anything wrong, I
waited and listened while he answered the summons. I could hear her
speaking to him as she said: "Bob, here are two apples--one for you
and one for Wade."

Then I waited, and as Bob did not return at once I stepped to the
corner of the house to see what kept him. That fellow was sitting on
the step digging his teeth into one of the apples. I thought: "Well,
that's polite, starting on his own before he gives the other to his
guest!" It rather disgusted me. Directly Bob came round the corner,
kind of sheepish like, and what do you suppose he did? Well, fellows,
he offered me _the bitten apple_!

That was enough for me. Take it? I guess not. I turned on my heel
without a word and went straight home. I don't think anything ever
inspired more contempt in me as a boy than that piece of petty
thievery.

Of course, fellows, that was not a Christian way to treat an erring
playmate, and I fear I had very little charity in my heart; I am just
telling you frankly how that act of Bob's impressed me. And it was
only in the beginning of Bob's eventful career. Twenty-five years
later, Bob's name was in the daily papers all over the country. He
had gotten away with a big sum of money that belonged to others who
had trusted him, and now he is a poor hunted fugitive from his native
land, if indeed he is alive.

The boy who begins taking just a bite of somebody else's apple is
likely going to pull off _something big_ some day!

Suppose Bob's mother had handed him seven apples and asked him to save
one of them for her, and he had made away with the whole lot, don't
you think that would have been pretty mean and low down?

Listen, fellows, something mighty close to that--only a lot worse--is
happening with boys to-day who look upon themselves as the souls of
honour. I am just wondering if they fully realize it. It is not in
their relationship to mother, but to God their heavenly Father and
creator. He has placed in your hands and in mine, each week, seven
full twenty-four hour days. He says, "Six for you and one for Me."

He trusts you to keep that One Day, the Sabbath, for Him. How do we
discharge that trust? Are we worthy of it? God does not lock us up in
a dark room on Sunday and handcuff us and chain our feet to the floor.
No, He trusts us; He prefers to trust us. He wants us to honour His
laws about the Sabbath, of our own free will. That is the kind of
service God likes--willing service.

And, fellows, you cannot abuse that trust and escape the penalty. God
has commanded in His Word, "Remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy.
Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work; but the seventh day
is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work."
No man, no boy, can continually break the Sabbath day and get away
with it. Sooner or later he will come to sorrow because of it.

On the other hand, God distinctly promises blessings upon those who
honour His Sabbath (Isa. 58:13, 14).

Fellows, God is the best "payer" that ever promised. He always pays
more than He promises. His day concerns our happiness, our health, our
prosperity, our usefulness, our success. All these vital issues are
involved.

And I am going to tell you just one more fine secret. It is a nugget
of pure gold. The best way to avoid violating God's Sabbath is to get
busy honouring it with service--service to Him. Go regularly to
Sunday-school and to church service--and go _on time_. You will find
something to do there.

Spend your Sabbath afternoon in the study of God's Word, read some
good book that will feed your soul; spend some time in some work of
mercy. Take a bit of something good to eat to the poor fellow in jail
and tell him you do it because you love Jesus Christ and are trying to
serve Him, and want him to love Christ and serve Him, too. You will
find it a short day, but, oh, such a fine and happy one, and you will
go to bed refreshed. Next morning you will wake up whistling and you
will turn off work at the store or at school like a forty-horse
tractor.

     _Read Exodus 20:8-11, and
           Isaiah 58:10-14._


XLII

MY KINGDOM


Say, fellows, I heard a boy quoting Shakespeare the other day. He was
coming out of a movie with two other boys, just as I was passing. They
had probably been in there an hour or more, for they seemed glad to
get out in the fresh air. But the boy's exclamation was what caught my
attention; it was this:

"My kingdom for a cigarette!"

To be sure, Shakespeare makes Richard III say, "My kingdom for a
horse!"--the boy changed a word; and it was just a careless remark
expressing his craving for a smoke, but it raised a question in my
mind: Did that young fellow realize he said a very important and true
thing? When Richard III cried out, "My kingdom for a horse!" he was
dead in earnest; he was fighting for his very life against
overwhelming odds, and he was really willing to surrender his kingdom
for some swift means of getting away from that desperate scene of
carnage. But if the cigarette boy had been faced pointblank with the
proposition I do not believe he would have agreed to give up _his_
kingdom for the "coffin tack."

Yes, this boy had a kingdom; every boy has a kingdom.

As I paused on the corner, the three boys entered a store and quickly
came out, each with a cigarette in his mouth, taking deep inhalations
and expelling smoke through lips and nostrils as they sauntered down
the street.

I was still thinking of the boy's kingdom. Through a wonderful plan
God, the Creator, puts each boy over an empire. Perhaps you may think
it is a small one, but to him it is greater and means more for his
success and happiness than any empire on earth. God places a scepter
in each boy's hand and says, "Govern!--Rule over your kingdom!" And it
is a very wonderful kingdom, with four splendid provinces called
Physical, Mental, Social, and Spiritual. Each of these provinces is
capable of producing great values and making rich and powerful almost
beyond belief.

God also places at each boy's hand the resources for fighting off the
enemies of his kingdom. This defensive armament, which is also for
building work, in part consists of common sense, information (or
education), will-power, determination, aspiration, and physical
strength--and to make each of these effective, He gives His Word and
sends His Holy Spirit to guide and sustain. If a fellow just realized
it and would use what God puts in his hand he would have a kingdom he
wouldn't exchange for Solomon's.

But, fellows, what a pity when a boy will exchange his kingdom for a
cigarette; in comes the cigarette; down goes the physical
province--the cigarette destroys the delicate tissues of the mucous
membrane; down goes the mental province--the cigarette makes the mind
dull and listless and takes away its snap and vigour; down goes the
social province--the cigarette makes its victim shun the best and seek
the lower grades of social life and activity; down goes the spiritual
province, the most precious of all--for spirit chokes and dies in the
atmosphere of the cigarette and its inevitable accompaniments.

This, of course, is just one of the enemies of a boy's kingdom; I have
spoken of it particularly because it is the one which seems to catch
boys off their guard most easily. There are many others. Intemperance
of any kind is an enemy to the best interests of your empire. Send out
a proclamation to yourself, to-day, and put all provinces on notice
that _you_ are on your throne and God is your Counsellor--and that
henceforth none of the kingdom's enemies will be admitted across the
border.

     _Read 1 Corinthians 10:9-15._


XLIII

A TOOL BOX


Say, fellows, on one of my boyhood birthdays I received a tool box. It
was a peach of a tool box, too; not one of the dime store variety,
with a saw the same length as the gimlet, but with a set of tools that
no amateur carpenter would despise. I was greatly delighted with that
tool box, and immediately began planning the things I would make.
Mother wanted a shelf on the back porch and a coop for an old hen just
off with her chicks; my dog needed a dog house, and I even aspired to
a rowboat for the pond. I could hardly wait for material before
getting to work. If you, and uses the time, I need it, in my book to
me something to remember. Adam Well, if you so command - Come on,
Margaret!

Walter - You're so malicious injured, Mr.

Richter Adam. Are you enjoy? Adam - Have a real murder shock this morning
when I emerged the bed, done: "Behold, gnäd'ger Mr. Gerichtsrat
a slap in the room out, I believe it would be to the grave. Walter I'm
sorry .-- It is but not further from its consequences? Adam I do not
think so. And even in my duty to continue to disturb me. Allows! Walter
Go, go! Adam to the beadle. The plaintiffs call you - march! (Adam,
the maid and the beadle from.) Sixth appearance Mrs. Martha, Eve, Veit
and Ruprecht occur .-- Walter and light in the background .
It
didn't match. I sawed some more, and that didn't match. I began to
think perhaps Fritz didn't specially need a dog house anyhow; so I
tried to work the dog house materials into the chicken coop, but that
wouldn't go, either. Then I sawed some more for the chicken coop. It
was not as simple a proposition as I had thought it would be, besides
there was a confusion of design somehow in my mind. The day wound up
with nothing accomplished, except a lot of good material butchered to
the point of kindling wood only. Next morning I tackled something I
"knew I could do,"--the shelf. But that proved to be a surprisingly
obstinate job; the supports I sawed at different angles, and when
trying to force the joints together by nailing, I split them both. The
shelf was a failure.

Then I saw a light.

I was rather dejectedly pondering the situation as I stood by the tool
box, and my eye fell again on that motto! In not one instance had I
made sure I was right before I went ahead. My zeal had been without
knowledge. I had mistaken "Purpose" and "Determination," as the high
prerequisites, instead of "Being Sure I was Right."

Fellows, Saul the Pharisee had zeal without knowledge. He blazed away
upon the presumption that Jesus was an impostor. Why, the Jesus idea
was preposterous, Saul mused. L Sc. 1) That Plautus a jocular allusion
in the sense it had, because we can not doubt, because the Proverbial-saying,
horns for Hahnreyschaft to say, very old, like from one point of the
Artemidorus erhellet, which says: Proseipein autv oti porneusei h gunh
sou, kai to legomenon, KERATA AUTW POIHSEI - Oneirocr. L. II. C. 12.

Warburton.) (Ed *** In English, here is a pun with the word (Lightness),
whose double meaning has been noticed elsewhere. Because it is not in
German ausdrüken leaves, so goes the whole lost of fun. In Switzerland,
where light and easy beydes Liecht pronounced, perhaps it went
on.) Lakay. He's gone from Schmidt Field, Eu. Glory of a horse Kauff.
Falstaff. I bought him in Paul's, and he buys me IZT for a horse in
Smithfield. If I IZT only one woman from a B ** l could get so
wär 'ich manned, begault and beweibt! Fifth Scene.

(The top judge, Lord and his Serves on the former.) (We must omit
this scene entirely . The biggest fun in them is the idea that Falstaff
has to make as if he does not hear well, and the insolent answers
it, to the privilege of deafness to the top judge, Lord giebt of him
because of his non-healing Lifestyle beschilt.) Sixth Scene. (Transforms
into the palace of the Archbishop of York.) (The ore Bischoff Hastings,
Thomas Mowbray, and Lord Bardolph occur.) York. You have now the
nature of our case heard, and our resources Kennet . IZT Entdeket
us, my noble friends, I beg you all, entdeket ungescheut what their
hopes of our denket.

    What say you to Lord Marshal? Mowbray.
      I approve entirely the matter
    of our arms, but I wish more convinced
      Seyn, like us with the
    resources we have such a
      terrible power as the
    king, the forehead can offer. Hastings.
      Our dermal thickness is five
    and twenty thousand men outstanding
      people to grow, and the
    great Northumberland, whose chest
      from just glows ester revenge, giebt us the hope of a mighty
reliable support.

     Bardolph.

The question, Lord Hastings, is this: Whether we will use such five
o'clock-eight p.m. thousand men that we have, without Northumberland,
a company can dare?

Hastings.

With him we can's. Bardolph. Okay, so this is the fact everything on the
tribunal. If we are without him too weak, it is my Meynung, we
should not too deep in, until we have his Beystand. Bey such a
bloody operation like ours, you can hypothesis, desires, expectations
of an uncertain support, not in the bill market. York. Diss is very
true, Lord Bardolph; the young hot-Spurs case Schrewsbury giebt
us Lectiones. Bardolph .
Something tremendously tragic and startling
happens. It plunges headlong over a precipice. Here is power gone mad.

Saul, the Pharisee, the scholar, the zealot--the colossal
mind--sweeping everything before him like an irresistible tide, riding
upon the crest of power, haling men and women to prison, breathing out
threatenings and slaughter and making havoc of the church, fell
headlong to the earth, as a blinding light burst forth from heaven and
the voice of the Lord sounded in his ears--the "still small voice,"
yet mightier than the roar of any cataract.

"Who art thou, Lord?" "I am Jesus whom thou persecutest." "Lord, what
wilt thou have me to do?" Saul's conversion was complete. Convert
means to _turn about_. It means an entire change; not to be robbed of
one's powers, but to have those powers diverted into another and
entirely different channel.

Look again at the Falls--that great destructive mass tumbling over the
cliff, beating rocks to pieces and slashing gigantic gorges in its
course. What is happening? Science is harnessing the power of the
cataract and with it producing light and heat and power for the cities
of Canada and the United States. Darkness is dispelled, warmth takes
the place of chill, the wheels of industry are humming, and men and
women are enabled to live and make bread for their little ones,
because of the conversion of a mighty force into life-giving
usefulness.

Fellows, some people seem to think to accept Christ as the Master of
their lives means to take away or paralyze their powers--to deprive
them of some special activeness they possess and which they shrink
from giving up. Bless you, there could not be a worse mistake. To
accept Christ means to have those same powers, even though they might
have been devoted to evil, now turned into channels of finest, highest
service--the kind of service that really satisfies the cravings of the
human heart. I see a boy who, because he is of an intensely sociable
disposition, seeks the companionship of a gang of fellows around the
loafing places and pool-rooms in the evenings. Touched by the spirit
of Christ, those social qualities will be even more enthusiastically
devoted to winning other young people into Christian life and service.
I see a young fellow with an unbroken will, glorying in his freedom,
as he sees it, to resist the counsels of wiser ones against his evil
habits, cigarettes or any other destructive thing that may have gotten
into his life. That same will-power, that same stubbornness, touched
by the power of Christ becomes the rock-ribbed steadfastness that has
enabled men to put through great achievements for God. I see a boy who
can invent much devilment and get himself and others into an almost
incredible amount of trouble and sorrow. It might be the judgment of
some that "killing is the only thing good for him," but touched by the
spirit of Jesus, that boy becomes a veritable genius for doing
effective things to promote the Kingdom of God--and no fellow in the
community happier than he. He verily throbs with the joy of living.

No, fellows, you don't turn a river back up-stream to convert it; you
simply harness it, and its powers flow on, but for good and not for
destruction. If you want to be a power that blesses wherever it
touches, and dashes back into your own heart the spray of the salt
and the tang of the fresh morning air, hear to-day the Voice of your
Master, and quickly answer: "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?"

     _Read Acts 9:1-19._


XLV

"TURNING THE BATTLE AT THE GATE"


Say, fellows, now and then a thing happens which sets our blood
tingling and makes every nerve in us want to send up a mighty shout.
For instance, when the score is against us in the ninth inning, and
with two men out and the bases full, our pinch hitter comes to bat,
coolly waits, picks out the "good one," and swats the pill over
left-field fence! Or when Hindenburg's hordes are pouring into the
Marne wedge, almost to the gates of Paris, Foch calmly waits--and
prays while he waits--then at the crucial moment hurls those chafing
reserves against them, turns disaster into victory and enshrines the
names of Chateau-Thierry, Belleau Wood, and the American Marines in
song and story for ages to come.

Fellows, every life is a campaign, and it is the biggest game of all;
into this great contest come crises now and then, and the way we meet
them largely determines the result. If those crises have not begun to
come in your life, let it be the sure sign to you that God is holding
them off while He gives you the opportunity to make the necessary
preparation for them, for come they will. There will be times when the
storm is breaking around your head and the ground will seem to be
crumbling beneath your feet. Such times come to every fellow who sets
his face to a principle and determines to stand like a man, no matter
what it costs.

Fellows, Paul was that kind of a man. The mother said, "God bless
you, comfort the father, until her nachkommet. Elslein, and I already
fly." As she saw me with unspeakable love, and then turned to look
at the sky. I said, "God escort you, dear mother!" and wept aloud. Since
the noblewoman wore me out to their Söhnlein, which told me everything,
and since a couple of pigeons over to Lauren Castle flew, we both
stretched childish hands, and cried: "As they fly, fly as they
escort you God, dear heart mother "I then took the noblewoman with
Lauren after the castle, and I stayed until the next day there since
the mother already in the monastery of Arnstein was buried.

The old servant, however, was when my father left, and my father
was a full day in Kloster Arnstein been the consolation of the
spiritual masters to enjoy. The noblewoman is also to have been
buried, and since they roost after Lauren returned, she brought her
Lord, the Knight of the Lauren Castle, and the older son, John,
with which the old Lauren Burger at the Count of Nassau was that
of Johann Godfather was, and had the Laurenburgerin them on the return
encounter.

The knight was friendly and gave me my wake-up from the Count of Nassau
table, and as his housewife him the pious death of my mother erzählet,
he was very compassionate with my father, and said: "The Count Johann
has become the table of Falk pious master spoken, and above all his
servants in his honor thought I had him promise to be of the Vogler
to greet him, and he wants him soon send a sick falcon, that he
care. Come, Elslein, "said Knight then to me, "I want yourself to
bring your father, it is still high in the days, and he may well
need consolation." Since the Knights brought me back to Hirzentreu,
and went to George again.

The noblewoman but remained with Johann back of it should be of the
essence of the Counts of Nassau tell. We found my father, but with
Lauren Burger servant before the door, sit in quiet conversation, and
as such his master herankommen saw me in her arms up the steep path
was, he stood up and stepped aside, but my father ran against me,
took me by the arms and knight herzte me in tears. As he spoke of
Lauren Burger honestly and comforted him as best he could, sat
down to him on the bench and told him of the Nassauers favor to
him, and they said some, not as a knight to a servant, but as good
neighbors and friends since the accident make Gesellen.

But it was the Lauren Burger also his first home including the child in
the bed Kindelbrück died, which he imagined with great love. Under
such a conversation, I stood between my father's knees, and George next
to the Lauren Burger, and we reflected on his bare chest armor,
and laughed, because it is hollow ground, our faces in some way
adjusted.

Then told me the father's ear, I let the wine and the spice
from the parent table will, because I went to the office, but had
become very different, where the bed stood, and stood the Betschemel
the Altärlein, and hung a new Madonna picture on the wall, and at
the same mother and father Brautkränzlein their spindle but stood
in front of my Bänklein, and everything was even changed.

     This was my father the good old Lauren Burger bondage so arranged
that he his suffering the more forgotten and a new life may begin.

After I wondered enough about everything, I took the wine and the
spice, which is the gift of Laurenburgerin remaining was, and brought
it to the Father also; handed the jug of the Knights.

Since the Lord drank, and had him order the father to do so.

Ritter also said: "This is a delicious wine that was probably the
emperor is expected to offer, you have probably made him a monastery
cellar? Grows to a gentleman of such wine is not the spear, the
tastes of the Krummstab." My father smiled and said: "Gracious Lord,
You have by your drunk, but he has a mild Fasse located, for your
dear wife Ida has these draft of my blessed Agnes brought to
refreshment, and if it tastes better than you at home so ists,
because your God's blessings schmecket. "

Now think of the folks in your block, fellows; how many of them are in
some sad plight which would make you shrink from exchanging places
with them? They are being set upon; can you get in there and help in
some way,--you with your good free strong arm, your big, sympathetic
heart, your pocketbook, your resources of interest and fun?

And whom will you choose to help, and why? Will it be Tom Jones up
here on the corner, who broke his arm and needs somebody to come sit
with him and talk,--Tom Jones, who is rich and has a car of his own,
and who will likely share it with you when he gets well, if you are
good to him? Or will it be little Willie Bell over there across the
railroad, who is a hopeless cripple, whose folks are poor as anything,
and who can probably never repay you in any sort of way?

Do you know, fellows, why some folks choose the Willie Bells to help?
Why, it is because they love Jesus Christ. They believe God's Word as
it tells us in to-day's wonderful passage in Matthew: "Then shall the
King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father,
inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world:
for I was hungry, and ye gave me to eat; I was thirsty, and ye gave me
drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me in; naked, and ye clothed me;
I was sick and ye visited me.... Then shall the righteous answer him,
saying, Lord, when did we see _thee_ hungry, or thirsty, or naked, or
sick--and helped?... And the King shall answer and say unto them,
Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of
these, ye have done it unto me."

You see, fellows, it takes some faith and some imagination. Ask God to
give you, first, Faith. Then ask Him to give you a consecrated
Imagination. Then you will see in every unfortunate person that you
can help--you will see _your King_. You have His own word for it, to
justify that imagination and to confirm it.

Oh, yes, you may sometimes in your zeal help somebody who is unworthy.
Don't let the fear of that make you miss the blessing. The very fact
that you go to him in the name of your Christ and for His sake, may be
the means of helping that poor unworthy one to cast off his rags of
sin and become clothed in the righteousness of your King.

I tell you, fellows, it is a wonderful thing to be in the service of
such a Master. All your efforts for Him are given full value. Even
your mistakes, if honestly made are transmuted into the gold of
satisfaction. Let's launch out for Him, to-day. Let's take Him at His
word, and see how it works.

     _Read Matthew 25:31-46._


XLVII

SHAKING UP PHILIPPI


Say, fellows, that was one exciting day in Philippi. Not since Mark
Antony's Roman legions went tearing through to meet and destroy the
armies of Brutus and Cassius, nearly a hundred years before, had the
town been so shaken up; and all because of two inoffensive looking
Jews who had quietly walked in there and told about Jesus Christ. They
had come over the winding road from Neapolis, nine miles distant on
the seashore, where they had gotten out of a ship from Asia. A poor
crazy girl, a fortune teller, heard the message, her heart was changed
and she became sane and normal; it put an end to her "fortune telling"
and this enraged her masters, who had Paul and Silas arrested and put
into prison.

That created some stir, but it was nothing to what was to follow. The
jailer seemed to take special pains to make his prisoners secure,
putting them in an inside cell and making their feet fast in the
stocks. These fellows looked so unworried that he probably suspected
they had a well-laid plan to escape. The jailer was further surprised
to hear the two prisoners singing--actually singing some of their
hymns, though they must have been in great discomfort.

Away into the night they sang. The other prisoners heard them and
marvelled. Surely these new jail-birds had something which they, the
old ones, did not possess. The jailer, as he retired, doubtless
remarked to his wife: "Well, there's something uncanny about those two
men; here it is midnight and they are singing and going on like two
schoolboys on a picnic excursion!"

He hadn't been asleep long, when a brick fell out of the mantelpiece
near the jailer's bed and the furniture about the room began to dance
a jig. Mrs. Jailer screamed and the children began to cry in terror.
The door creaked and pushed off its hinges, falling with a slam-bang.
The jailer jumped and landed in the middle of the floor. A flash of
lightning put a photograph on his staring eye that he never got rid of
to his dying day. The prison walls were cracked and falling, the doors
were down and the dazed prisoners were groping about.

Alas, poor jailer, the thing of all most dreaded was about to
happen--his prisoners would escape! Earthquakes were bad enough, but
the sudden thought he got of himself answering to the governor next
morning with his life for the escape of those put in his charge was
more than he could bear. Reaching for his sword he placed it, hilt to
the ground, to fall upon its point and end his life right there;--then
he heard a clear voice coming through the darkness: "Stop! don't do
that. We're all here; nobody wants to get away."

It was one of those psalm singing Jews! he recognized that at once,
and putting up his sword he called to his wife to light the lamp quick
and bring it; then he rushed into the cell where Paul and Silas stood,
their feet free from stocks and hands unmanacled, and fell down on his
face before them.

"Sirs, what must I do to be saved?" And the Philippian jailer was
thinking about the peril of his soul, for like a flash it had been
revealed to him that these men were from God. Paul's answer came quick
and true: "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved,
and thy house." And thy house--for Paul saw behind the jailer his
crouching, trembling wife and children. Paul told them all about it
then, and as the blessed truth came into their hearts, they stopped
trembling and began to find new hope in Jesus and a new joy in
service. Eve the iron stuck into the neck? Are you also judge? He then,
of the outrageous, which is sitting there, because he's - Walter you
hear the devil! Hush! He writhes until then, no hair - On Eve,
Ruprecht! The judge Adam has broken the jug! Ruprecht Oh, wait,
you, Madam Marthe It? The wife Brigitte there? Eve Er, yes! On,
Ruprecht! He was yesterday at your Eve! On! Drum 'him! Jetzo turn
on him as you like. Walter is on. Stop there! Who here disorders
- Eve Have Right!

Iron is deserved, go, Ruprecht! Go, turn him down by the Tribunal.
Forgive Adam, your Lord. "Runs away. Eve Here! On! Ruprecht stop
him! Geschwind Eve! Adam What? Ruprecht Flash Hinketeufel! Eve Do you
have him? Ruprecht Gotts shock and weather, it is merely his coat!
Walter Fort! Retrieves the beadle! Ruprecht suggests the mantle. Ratz!
That is one. And Ratz! And Ratz! Even one. And another thing! In
the absence of the hump. Walter He ungezogner man! - Creates order me
here! - To Him, if He does not immediately calm, He is the award of
iron is still true. Veit Be quiet, you rascal thorny! The Twelfth
appearance without previous Adam .-- They all go to the front of
the stage.

Ruprecht egg, mushrooms, as I now shamefully insulted you! Oh, god
lightning, all weather, and, like yesterday! Oh, thou my golden
girl, heart - bride! Will you forgive me your life can be? Eve
throws himself at the feet of the Gerichtsrat. Lord! If you do not help,
we are lost! Walter Lost? Why? Ruprecht Lord God! Whats? Eve
Ruprecht saved by the conscriptions!

That conscriptions - Does Adam judges me as a secret entrusted
- Geht after East Indies, and from there, you know, Returns One of
three men just back!It was the
one way in which he could in those first moments of his belief express
his faith, and he did it. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the
least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me."

This is the thing which is crowned by Rejoicing.

     _Read Acts 16:16-34._


XLVIII

GO IN YET--AND WIN!


Say, fellows, look in upon three interesting personalities--Paul,
Barnabas and Mark; each one widely differing from the other two, yet
their lives bound up together in the biggest enterprise the world ever
knew--the winning of the world for Christ.

They are planning another big "hike"--one that will be full of
hardship and perils, and Paul and Barnabas are having a hot discussion
about Mark. Barnabas wants to take him and Paul wants to leave
him--and why? Well, last year when they were taking a trip of this
kind, Mark left them and went back home. Paul says he's done with
Mark; if a fellow hasn't got a backbone better than a stick of
spaghetti, he doesn't want to load up with him. Barnabas, on the other
hand, thinks a lot of Mark; in fact, Mark is his nephew and he has a
strong interest in him. He knows Mark made a mistake back there in
Pamphylia, but who does not make a slip sometime? "Let's give him
another chance; he will make good because he is deeply sorry; I have
talked to him and I know that he is determined to redeem himself."

"No," says Paul, and his jaw is set; "I would like to give him another
chance, but the Cause is too great and too important to take chances
on a fellow who has thrown a chance away."

So it goes. Both men are determined, and there happens the only thing
that can happen under such circumstances; they separate. Paul chooses
Silas as his companion, while Barnabas takes Mark with him. Barnabas
was one of the biggest-hearted fellows you ever saw. His very name
means, "Son of Consolation." He couldn't bear to see a fellow denied
the chance to make good. Paul, himself, had been befriended in that
same way by Barnabas at Jerusalem only a few years before. Humanly
speaking, it was through the friendly offices of Barnabas that Paul
had risen to prominence in the church.

Fellows, I am not criticizing Paul (far be it from me), because Paul
was doubtless conscientious in his stand about Mark; but let me tell
you fellows--don't ever miss a chance to help some poor fellow who has
made a mistake, to make good. One of the finest things that will come
to your experience will be seeing your touch of sympathy and
encouragement put life and hope into some unfortunate "Down but not
out."

What happened to Mark? Why, he made good. He made so good that Paul
afterward sent for him, and he and Paul put through some great schemes
together for Jesus Christ. And that was not all; one of the four
Gospels bears Mark's name. Think of what an honour that was! Peter got
him to help him write it. Yes, Mark made good.

I heard of a fine young fellow the other night, only eighteen years
old, who because he had made a mistake--had made a bad break and lost
his job--who knowing he was himself to blame--had formed some habits
that contributed to his downfall--for all that was hopelessly dejected
and actually saying he wished he could die. Well, what do you think of
that? With all the best and biggest part of his life before him, with
youth and health and loving parents, and some good friends ready to
help him, wanting to die! Piffle!

Do you know, I just wanted to slap that fellow on the back and bring
him to his senses. Make good? Of course he could. "Come back?" Sure!
There is just one thing to do with a failure, fellows. Get on top of
it with both feet and bury it--with success.

I heard of an old horse, too old and sick to work. His owner wanted to
get rid of him but was unwilling to shoot him. The old horse just
wouldn't die. He was that spunky. One day, he dropped into a well in
the pasture, but he hit the bottom still upon his feet. His owner,
thinking it a chance now to rid himself of his horse, took a shovel
and began vigorously shovelling the dirt in to cover him. But as each
shovel of dirt landed on the horse's back, he shook his skin, like
horses do, and trod the dirt down under his feet. Well, it is aimed
arrow of death, He will not spoil me; to your wounds, Lord, I come
quickly, Da werd ichs life inherit.

    Since I am the mother hergesagt the song, she was
      quiet again eingeschlummert.
    The day broke, and I took a Zweiglein of the
      Rosmarienstock, when their camp was, and gave it to the crosses
in their hands folded.

    As he flew, the turtle dove, which nests in our house
      to the window and pecked out and
    shouted: "Ruckuck." Otherwise you did it all
      morning, because I strewed their feed then, but today I did not
have the courage, and thought: Ah, because the dove ways; the point
already, which the mother wants to take, but I will not leave her
the hard time.

So I stood silently, softly from the side of the mother, and went out
and knelt in the stream in the grass and prayed for them. As I listened
Glöcklein in the forest and saw my father coming soon, and the
wore a light, and two religious men went with him, which was a
decent high-Gut, and the other the sacred oil, and they followed a
few devout men and women who silent praying.

     Since I ran against my father and said: "Heart Father, the dove of
heaven is already here, what the mother wants to pick up, but we
must not coincide with, I have it promised to stay with you and to
comfort thee, until we follow in the glory. " My father understood
me well, and joined with the clergy in the hut, but I stayed outside
and prayed with the crew.

Afterwards came the noblewoman by Lauren Castle with her Söhnlein,
the Junker Jörg, on the Lahn to Hirzentreu as the night before I
promised, and the same old servant was back at her.

I wish every fellow could get the habit under such circumstances, of
stopping still a moment and saying to himself: "Hey here, this thing
has a _meaning_--what can it be?" That will yield a better dividend
than fretting over the interruption. As a rule, he will discover
something he can be doing while he waits, something that immensely
strengthens the main chance.

When Lord Clive, "the founder of the Empire of India," sailed from
England for Madras, at the age of eighteen, all impatient to enter
upon his life plan, storms overtook the ship and so far diverted her
course that within a month young Clive found himself stranded in a
port of Brazil instead of India. There he had to remain nine months
before he resumed his voyage; but what did he do? Chafe over the
interruption and delay? Bless you, no; he seized the opportunity to
master the Portuguese language, which accomplishment proved to be a
tremendous asset later on, in his great constructive work in India.

Paul and Silas, as they travelled through those provinces of Western
Asia Minor, all afire with their great purpose of preaching the
Gospel, met blank disappointment. Upon arrival at each point they were
confronted with an unmistakable message from the Holy Spirit to keep
their mouths shut. What could it mean? What was the use? Should they
give it up? Should they sit down and sulk? No, said Paul, we will keep
agoing; the Lord will show us what He wants us to do when He is ready.
And sure enough, the big orders came one night in a vision to Paul, in
which a man appeared and delivered to him the great Macedonian
Call--the call which opened up to that patiently waiting servant
"God's Greater Plan" for his life--a far more splendid one than he
had ever dreamed of.

Fellows, I cannot give you any finer thing out of that period of
Paul's life, so full of fine things, than the thought of patient
waiting upon God's plan--His plan _for you_. Since I heard the wing-beat
of a dove through the air, and I cried again with great longing,
"Guardian, is the night?" It flew but a Täublein over my head, which
cried to me: "Put wings of love, and follow me, your soul will
not, because they rest on the Sündflut; see the heavenly strecket
Noah his hand out of the ark gestirnten from which you have flown
out to you again hineinzunehmen, but eighth, that is purely your
feathers!

" Since I saw the sky full of stars, looked out of the hands, feet
and side of the Lord, and the holy five wounds shone like Rubin and
bled down, and the dove flew them, but I had wings and spread them
out and she wanted to swing, but they were heavy and impure, but I
cried: "O Lord, just one drop of your blood on my wings, and they
will be cleaned." And it flowed down to them because they were pure,
and I swung it joyfully, but you lagst in my lap, because I wanted
to kiss you and farewell to you, as you snake your hands around me and
wanted me, and your words awakened me from a blissful dream. "That
told me the sick mother, what you dream, and I heard her even
more attention to than when they told me a story told otherwise.

Since they had ended, I said to her: "Mother, that was very nice, but
fall asleep again, and if the dove ways; the point again, then ask
her that I also can fly, I will pray too; of my herbs, and my chest
is opened, the I will also surely give wings I can fly with thee
."--" That is, he certainly, my dear Elslein so are you is good,
"said the mother," but when I went back asleep, and that would
Täublein again and I flöge with him, so you would certainly like
to stay with your father that he was not alone, so I would ask you.

"Then I said to her:" Yes, I want, so you will soon wiederkehrst,
and bring me something.

"She replied:" I will not return, but will you follow me, and since
everything is in full glory, but you hear, Elslein, thou must not
leave me a hard time, and also the father comforted, if he should
cry, and tell him how I told you that you will follow me, because the
Täublein will soon come to me, so when I hear their wings beat
already. "
All day upon the hot sands the battle had
raged, and as the sun was setting a Bedouin chief fell, mortally
wounded. Quickly his watchful body-servant eased his master's dying
form from the back of the Arabian steed and dragged him out of the
thick fighting to a protected spot where he might say his last word
and die in comparative quiet. The chieftain's words were few but
significant. He simply said to his man: "Go and tell Allah that I
come." The loyal slave knew what it meant: only his spirit could carry
a message like that, and the clay house it occupied must be destroyed
before the spirit would depart.

Possibly he hesitated as his hand grasped the hilt of his dagger, for
life was sweet even to a slave; back home was a slave-maid in the
house of his master, and she had been promised as his bride upon
return from this campaign in the valley of the Nile. Many a daydream
of the future had served to shorten the tedious marches over the hot
sands as he rode beside his master. Long after the camp was asleep
the slave gazed at the star which seemed to guard her whose life and
future were bound up in his own. But only a moment he paused; one more
look at his chief, whose fast ebbing blood stained the sand upon which
he lay--this chief who was not only his master by right of actual
ownership, but one who had been always his benefactor and friend--one
searching look into the eyes whose merest glance he had learned to
interpret for a last sign of recognition; then with a firm,
unfaltering hand he drew his blade and thrust it deep into his own
heart, that his spirit might be free to fly "to Allah," with the
announcement of his master's coming.

Now, fellows, there is something fine about that, even if it
be only a romance. Loyalty that rises to the height of complete
self-forgetfulness challenges the best that is in us. But, after all,
the picture falls to pieces because it is built upon a false faith and
a suicide. I am glad that you and I can to-day, in real life, take
part in something finer--something requiring just as superb loyalty,
and for a Cause that is really worth the best that is in us.

Jesus Christ is the Chief of all chieftains. His last words upon earth
were, "Go ye--tell them." They were not the words of a dying chief,
but of one gloriously alive and triumphant over death, the last and
greatest enemy of all; not the command of one powerless in the
presence of his foes, but one who could say, "All power is given unto
me in heaven and in earth;" not a master who must send his obedient
slave on a fearful and futile mission alone, but one who girds his
courier with the assurance, "And lo, I am with you alway, even unto
the end of the world."

Saul caught a great vision of service when Jesus spoke to him in the
way. Prostrate upon the ground in the blinding light, Saul did not
say, "Lord, let me die!" He said, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to
_live and do_?" You and I may say just as big and fine a thing as that
to our Lord to-day. Jesus' command to Saul was in substance, "Go
ye--tell them." It is the same to you and me.

Will it cost you anything to obey? Yes, it will cost you your life.
But not in the hopeless way the Arab's slave gave his. Your hand is on
the hilt of the dagger, but Jesus is not requiring a man so much to
die for Him these days; He is calling for living couriers, those who
will give their lives _in life_ for Him. So you plunge the dagger deep
into--not your heart, but your false pride--that thing which keeps you
back from "announcing" your Master's Name. You plunge it deep into
that thing in your life plan which would interfere with a real program
of witnessing for Jesus. With God's help you stab that habit of
thought or act which stifles your impulse to do His will and
embarrasses you in trying to serve Him. It is what Paul meant when he
said to the Galatians, "And they that are Christ's have crucified the
flesh with the passions and lusts."

Fellows, every one of us can be a herald of our Master's coming to the
souls about us who have not realized His near approach. Adam What do I
do now? What do I do? He reaches for his clothes. Erste Magd occurs.
Here I am, Lord. Wollt light your trousers attraction? Are you great?
Second maid occurs. Here I am, Herrndorf judges. Take light rock.
Adam looks around. Who?

The Gerichtsrat? Light Oh, the maid is. Bäffchen The Adam! Coat!
Collar! Erste Magd Only jacket! Adam What? - Rock from? Hurtig!
Servant to light. Gerichtsrat The Lord will be here very welcome. We
are quite ready, to receive him. Das Adam tells him the devil too! The
judge can excuse Adam. Excuse light! Adam Entschuld'gen. If he is
already on about? The Serves He is still in the inn. He has ordered
the blacksmith, the carriage was broken. Adam Good. My recommendation!
The blacksmith is lazy. I would apologize. I would almost neck and
legs broken, even a look, 's is a spectacle, as I look, And every
purgiert startle me by nature. I would be sick. Be your light in
your senses? - The Lord Gerichtsrat wär very pleasant. - Will you?
Adam To executioner! What light? Adam The devil will fetch me,
ists not as good as if I have a powder!

The light is still missing, that you on the way it is lit. Margaret
Adam! he! The sack of bones! Liese!

     The two maids Here we are, yes.

     What do you want? Fort Adam!

I say.

Kuhkäse, ham, butter,
sausages, bottles from
the registry done!

And quick! - You do not.

The other .-- Maulaffe!

You, yes! - Gotts lightning, Margaret! Liese is the Kuhmagd, In the
registry! (The first girl is from.) The second maid Say, can you
understand you! Adam foot stop now, I say -!

Fort! creating my
wig! march! From the
bookcase! Quick!

Pack yourself! (From the second maid.)

Light to the servant. It is the Lord Gerichtsrat, I hope nothing
bad on the trip are encountered?

The Serves more now! We are in the sunken overturned. Adam plague!
Geschundner My foot! I get the boots - light egg, you are my heaven!
Overturned, says you? But no further damage -? The Serves Nothing of
importance.

The Lord sprained
his hand a little. The pole
broke.

Adam That he broke his neck!

If you buy
only one book this year--let it be this one."--_S.S. Times._

HOWARD J. GEE

Methods of Church School Administration

16mo.

A Text Book for Community Training Schools and International and State
Schools of Sunday School Methods. Margaret Slattery says: "Practical
and adaptable to schools of various sizes in either city or country.
Will meet a long-felt need. I endorse both plan and purpose heartily."

E.C. KNAPP
General Secretary Inland Empire
State Sunday School Association

The Sunday School Between Sundays

12mo.

Mr. Knapp offers a large number of ideas and suggestions, all of which
are practical and capable of tangible realization. Pastors, teachers
and all other workers among folk will find Mr. Knapp's book of great
interest and special value.




EXPERIENCES OF LIFE


DONALD HANKEY
Author of "A Student in Arms"

Letters of Donald Hankey

With Introduction and Notes by Edward Miller, M.A. Illustrated, 8vo.

"As a further revelation of the personality of the man who wrote 'A
Student in Arms,' these personal letters possess an interest difficult
to overestimate. They are intimate, human, appealing; they cover
Hankey's college days; the periods spent in foreign travel; the years
in Australia, and the fateful months he spent in France as one of the
immortal 'First Hundred Thousand,' and where he made the supreme
sacrifice."--_Christian Work._

ARTHUR PORRITT

The Strategy of Life

A Book for Boys and Young Men. Foreword by John Henry Jowett, D.D.
12mo.

"I wish that this little book might be placed in the hands of every
boy and young man throughout the Anglo-Saxon world: Here we have
practical guidance in the essential secrets which lie behind all
Social Reconstruction; even the fashioning of character and the
nourishing of life."--Rev. J.H. Jowett.

Mr. Schreiber, sends
from America, they should
be immediately appointed the wife Brigitte invite.

Walter And do you - time, which I much worth saving - even the
kindly Sach a little.

(Light). Zehnter appearance The former without light.

Later some maids. Up Adam. Meanwhile, one could, if so complaisant,
From the seats a little air -? Walter Hm! Oh, yes. What I want to
say - Adam Allows You also, That the parties to appear Brigitt woman
-? Walter What?
--_S.S. Times._

A.H. McKINNEY

Guiding Girls to Christian Womanhood

12mo.

In her progress towards maturity a girl requires something richer,
something of a more permanent, fundamental order. How this may be
provided is set forth by a writer who knows, not only the adolescent
mind, but the methods best calculated to enrich and develop the nature
as life becomes fraught with increasing responsibilities. The book has
an excellent bibliography and list of activities suitable for growing
girls.