Produced by Freethought Archives, www.freethought.vze.com


SUPERSTITION UNVEILED.

BY

CHARLES SOUTHWELL,
AUTHOR OF "SUPERNATURALISM EXPLODED;" "IMPOSSIBILITY OF ATHEISM
DEMONSTRATED," ETC.


Abridged by the Author from his
"APOLOGY FOR ATHEISM."


     "Not one of you reflects that you ought to
     know your Gods before you worship them."


LONDON:
EDWARD TRUELOVE, 240, STRAND,
THREE DOORS FROM TEMPLE BAR,
AND ALL BOOKSELLERS

1854.


SUPERSTITION UNVEILED.


Religion has an important bearing on all the relations and conditions of
life. The connexion between religious faith and political practice is,
in truth, far closer than is generally thought. Public opinion has not
yet ripened into a knowledge that religious error is the intangible but
real substratum of all political injustice. Though the 'Schoolmaster'
has done much, there still remain among us, many honest and energetic
assertors of 'the rights of man,' who have to learn that a people in the
fetters of superstition cannot, secure political freedom. These
reformers admit the vast influence of Mohammedanism on the politics of
Constantinople, and yet persist in acting as if Christianity had little
or nothing to do with the politics of England.

At a recent meeting of the Anti-State Church Association it was remarked
that _throw what we would into the political cauldron, out it came in an
ecclesiastical shape_. If the newspaper report may be relied on, there
was much laughing among the hearers of those words, the deep meaning of
which, it may safely be affirmed, only a select few of them could
fathom.

Hostility to state churches by no means implies a knowledge of the close
and important connection between ecclesiastical and political questions.
Men may appreciate the justice of voluntaryism in religion, and yet have
rather cloudy conceptions with respect to the influence of opinions and
things ecclesiastical on the condition of nations. They may clearly see
that he who needs the priest, should disdain to saddle others with the
cost of him, while blind to the fact that no people having faith in the
supernatural ever failed to mix up such faith with political affairs.
Even leading members of the 'Fourth Estate' are constantly declaring
their disinclination for religious criticism, and express particular
anxiety to keep their journals free of everything 'strictly
theological.' Their notion is, that newspaper writers should endeavour
to keep clear of so 'awful' a topic. And yet seldom does a day pass in
which this self-imposed editorial rule is not violated--a fact
significant, as any fact can be of _connection_ between religion and
politics.

It is quite possible the editors of newspapers have weighty reasons for
their repugnance to agitate the much vexed question of religion; but it
seems they cannot help doing so. In a leading article of this days'
_Post_, [Endnote 4:1] we are told--_The stain and reproach of Romanism
in Ireland is, that it is a political system, and a wicked political
system, for it regards only the exercise of power_, and neglects utterly
the duty of improvement. In journals supported by Romanists, and of
course devoted to the interests of their church, the very same charge is
made against English Protestantism. To denounce each other's 'holy
apostolic religion' may be incompatible with the taste of 'gentlemen of
the press,' but certainly they do it with a brisk and hearty vehemence
that inclines one to think it a 'labour of love.' What men do _con
amore_ they usually do well, and no one can deny the wonderful talent
for denunciation exhibited by journalists when writing down each other's
'true Christianity.' The unsparing invective quoted above from the
_Post_ is a good specimen. If just, Irish Romanism _ought_ to be
destroyed, and newspaper writers cannot be better employed than in
helping on the work of its destruction, or the destruction of any other
religion to which the same 'stain and reproach' may be fairly attached.

I have no spite or ill-will towards Roman Catholics though opposed to
their religion, and a willing subscriber to the opinion of Romanism in
Ireland expressed by the _Post_. The past and present condition of that
country is a deep disgrace to its priests, the bulk of whom, Protestant
as well as Romanist, can justly be charged with 'regarding only the
exercise of power, while neglecting utterly the duty of improvement.'

The intriguing and essentially political character of Romanism it would
be idle to deny. No one at all acquainted with its cunningly contrived
'system' will hesitate to characterise it as 'wickedly political,'
productive of nothing but mischief--a system through whose accursed
instrumentality millions are cheated of their sanity as well as
substance, and trained dog-like to lick the hand that smites them. So
perfect is their degradation that literally they 'take no thought for
to-morrow,' it being their practice to wait 'till starvation stares them
in the face,' [4:2] and _then_ make an effort against it.

The _Globe_ of Thursday, October 30th, 1845, contains an article on the
damage sustained by the potatoe crop here and in Ireland, full of matter
calculated to enlighten our first-rate reformers who seem profoundly
ignorant that superstition is the bane of intellect, and most formidable
of all the obstacles which stand between the people and their rights.
One paragraph is so peculiarly significant of the miserable condition to
which Romanism _and_ Protestantism have reduced a peasantry said to be
'the finest in the world,' that I here subjoin it.

_The best means to arrest the progress of the pestilence in the people's
food have occupied the attention of scientific men. The commission
appointed by government, consisting of three of the must celebrated
practical chemists, has published a preliminary report, in which several
suggestions, rather than ascertained results, are communicated, by which
the sound portions of the root may, it is hoped, be preserved from the
epidemic, and possibly, the tainted be rendered innoxious, and even
partially nutritious. Followed implicitly, their directions might
mitigate the calamity. As no ecclesiastical offence was too small for
the Commissioners to deal with, and as their jurisdiction was not
limited (like that of the ordinaries) to a district or a diocese, courts
of High Commission may be called universal ordinaries.[170] Finally,
if a person stood excommunicate over forty days, an ecclesiastical judge,
on application to the diocesan, might procure against him out of Chancery
the writ _De excommunicato capiendo_. This writ was probably not
very often resorted to in practice, partly because of the great
expense involved, and partly perhaps, too, because of the slack
execution of the writ by certain undersheriffs or bailiffs, encouraged
as they were by the rather hostile attitude sometimes assumed against
the courts Christian by the Queen's temporal judges.[171] The writ
was, however, certainly no dead letter, and served also _in terrorem_
to reduce stubborn offenders.[172] Indeed Archbishop Bancroft in
1605 called it "the chiefest temporal strength of ecclesiastical
jurisdiction

."[173]
In view of the fact that "standing excommunicate" was in itself a
presentable offence before the ordinary, and an offence often presented,[174]
and in view of the further fact that the excommunicate might, according
to a contemporary who writes with authority, "be punished for absence
from diuine praier, neither shall his excommunication excuse him, for
it is in his owne default,"[175] it is queried whether such an involuntary
absentee from church did not make himself just as liable to presentment
at quarter sessions for recusancy[176] as any voluntary recusant. Perhaps
it is for this reason that grand juries are sometimes complained of for
discriminating among the names sent in to them on the bishops'
certificates for indictment at quarter sessions, and for certifying
some and throwing out others "at their pleasure."[177]
But be this as it may--and it is conjecture unsupported by positive
proof--enough has been said, it is hoped, to show that ordinaries were
quite capable of making their decrees obeyed, and that excommunication
(contrary to the commonly received opinion) was a most effective means
of coercion. Many, indeed, were its uses. It might (or its equivalent
interdiction or suspension[178]), as has been seen,[179] be used to
compel a parish officer to perform the duties of his office. It might
also be employed, when persuasion failed, to induce a parishioner
to accept office when chosen by his fellows.[180] But, it would
seem, one single definition would comprise all cases: excommunication
was employed against all those who disobeyed some order of the
spiritual judge, express or implied--it was a summary process for
contempt of court, in fact, and was daily used as such.

To recapitulate: a very large part of the parishioner's life and
activity fell under the surveillance and regulation of the
ecclesiastical courts. They compelled him to attend on specified
days his parish church, and no other; to be married there; to have
his children baptized and his wife churched there; to receive a certain
number of times communion there; to contribute to the maintenance of
church and churchyard, as well as to the finding of the requisites
for service or the church ornaments or utensils. In his parish
church he and his children were catechized and instructed, and, if the
latter were taught in a neighboring school-house, it was under the
strict supervision of the ordinary and by his or the bishop's licence and
allowance. So true was this that the schoolmaster was, like the parson,
a church officer. For the parishioner his church was the place of
business where all local affairs, civil or ecclesiastical, were
transacted, as well as the centre of social life in the village. Here
the mandates of the authorities in Church and State were read to him;
here he was admonished of his duty to contribute to, or to perform, the
burdens of parish administration and warned of the penalties for
neglect; here he met with his fellows to settle parish affairs and audit
parish accounts, or to choose parish officers under the auspices of
the ordinary, being himself compelled, if necessary, by that official to
serve when his own turn for office came round. As churchwarden it was his
duty to collect the rents from parish lands and tenements, and to
see that parish offerings were gathered and the parish rates assessed
and paid, or recovered by means of the ecclesiastical courts.

If the church was ruinous; if bread and wine were lacking for the
communion; if any of the books, furniture, utensils or ornaments
enjoined by the diocesan's articles or by the canons were missing;
if the curate did not follow the Rubric, or retained "superstitious"
rites; if the yearly perambulation was omitted; if faults of the minister
or of the parishioners were not presented: he and his fellow-warden
were held responsible by the official.

The machinery which the canon and the civil law placed at the disposal
of the ordinary for his judicial administration of the parish was
extraordinarily flexible. Courts Christian were unencumbered by the
formalities of the common law or by the coöperation of juries. They could
proceed _ex officio, i.e_., without formal presentment and upon hearsay
only, and they were armed with the formidable power of administering
the oath _ex officio_ by which a parishioner was forced to disclose
all he knew against himself.

They could in all cases command the _doing_, as well as the _giving_[181]
of a thing--powers far more extensive than those possessed by any court
of equity of today. Lastly, it was their custom to require that a return
be made in court, or in other words, a certification, that their
commands had been duly performed--thus stamping them as true administrative
bodies.

It was inevitable from the nature of their jurisdiction and procedure
that abuses should be committed both by ecclesiastical judges and by
their officers, such as registrars, proctors and apparitors.
These judges wielded an admirable instrument of administration and
discipline, one that could be bent to meet any emergency, but this
efficiency had been attained at the sacrifice of some indispensable
safeguards for the carrying out of impartial justice. First, no
parishioner's acts, whether done in an official or a private capacity,
were ever quite safe from misrepresentation, or downright
falsification by his enemies, for secret denunciation to wardens
or sidemen (or to the ordinary himself) by any one[182] might start a
proceeding against the person denounced and force him upon oath
to disclose the most private, the most confidential, matters.

Again, proctors, apparitors, registrars, and other scribes whose fees
depended on citations and the drawing up of court proceedings, documents,
or certificates, had every interest in haling persons before the
official, because court fees had to be paid whether a man were found
innocent or guilty.[183] Hence the system tended to create spies, of whom
the chief were the apparitors, or summoners, and their underlings.
There is a very interesting contemporary ballad entitled _"A new Ballad
of the Parrator and the Divell_," attributed by its modern editor
to not later than 1616, which throws much light on the proceedings of
certain unscrupulous apparitors, and reflects also the strong dislike
entertained for the whole tribe of apparitors by people of the time.[184]
The devil going a hunting one Sunday and beating the bushes, up starts a
proud apparitor. During several stanzas the apparitor narrates to
the devil, as one consummately wicked man to another, all the tricks
of his trade to drum up cases for himself and his court. He spies on
lovers as they pass unsuspecting; he haunts the ale-houses and
overhears men's tales over their cups; if business be dull he even
devises scandal among neighbors, and sets them at enmity.
Thus he concocts his accusations of immorality, or drunkenness, or
profanity, or uncharity towards neighbors, and writes them busily down
in his _quorum nomina_, or formulas of citations to appear before the
official's court. "My _corum nomine_ beares such swaye," he
boasts, "They'le sell their clothes my fees to pay." But, remarks the
devil after listening to all this, surely the innocent pay no court
fees, "But answere and discharged bee." "My _corum nomine_ sayth not
so," rejoins the apparitor, "For all pay fees before they goe.--The
lawier's fees must needs be payd,--And every clarke in his
degree--Or els the lawe cannot be stayd--But excommunicate must they
bee." The devil, amazed and disgusted at laws which "excell the paines
of hell," turns to go, whereupon the apparitor seeks to arrest and
fine him for traveling on the Sabbath.

Exclaiming "Thou art no constable!" the devil pounces upon the
unworthy officer and carries him off to hell.[185] Thirdly, even
when at their best and conducted by upright judges and officers,
the modes of proof in force in the courts Christian were sometimes utterly
inadequate as means for getting at the truth. The inquest, or trial
by jury, had never been introduced into these courts, where the archaic
system of compurgation[186] still lingered.

If a man for want of friends, or for want of good reputation, were
unable to procure compurgators to attend him at visitations or
courts, held sometimes twenty miles and more away,[187] he might
be condemned as guilty of specific acts which he had never
committed.[188] He might even fail in his proof because he was poor.

When the judge arraigned Lewis Billings of Barking, Essex archdeaconry,
for "that he hath failed in his purgacion," Billings pleaded "that he
is a very poore man and not able to procure his neighbours to come to
the cort, and beare their charges."[189] But, as is well known,
contemporaries attacked not only the inferior officers, but the judges
themselves.
Complaints of great abuses were loud and long,[190] and when the
ecclesiastical courts were abolished by the Long Parliament in
1641,[191] the satirical literature of the day celebrated their
downfall with a verve, a gusto, and an exultation amazing to one
not familiar with the procedure of these courts.[192]
As was mentioned at the beginning of this chapter, the secular
judges were given statutory authority to take cognizance of breaches
of the order prescribed by the Book of Common Prayer, of the offence
of not attending church, and other delinquencies against the legal
settlement of religion.

Hence in these matters they exercised what might be called a sort
of ecclesiastical jurisdiction in aid of the ordinary and concurrently
with him, though their mode of procedure, of course, was that of the
common law, possessing nothing in common with the practice adopted in
courts Christian. Men who were "hinderers" and "contemners" of
religion; who refrained from going to church without lawful
cause; who had mass-books or super-altars[193] in their
possession;[194] who spoke in contempt of the Book of Common Prayer and
its rites;[195] who caused their children to be baptized with forms
other than those prescribed;[196] ministers who omitted the cross in
baptism;[197] who left off the surplice;[198] who refused to church
women;[199] who called purification "a Jewish ceremony," or who in
their sermons preached seditious doctrine[200]--all these and other like
offenders were indicted at quarter sessions or at the assizes.

CHAPTER II.

PARISH FINANCE.

Speaking generally of the average parish, Elizabethan churchwardens
accounts and vestry minutes show that for the purposes of raising
money amongst themselves to meet every-day parish expenditures,[201]
the parishioners of the period did not commonly resort to rates,
if by "rate" be understood a general assessment of all lands or all
goods alike at a fixed percentage of their revenue or value above
a minimum exempted.

It must not be supposed, however, that in the case of offerings or gatherings,
or of levies to raise a certain sum where each man assessed
himself, it was entirely optional for each to give or to refuse. What
a man customarily gave, or what he had promised to give, or,
again, what the parish thought he ought to give, that the ordinary
might compel him to give.[202] From an offering or a voluntary assessment
to a rate is often but a short step, and the two former shade off into
the latter almost imperceptibly. The justices of the peace and the
ecclesiastical authorities usually cast lump sums upon the parishes,
leaving ways and means to the parishioners themselves.
But it was, of course, optional with the justices to rate each individual
separately when it seemed good to them, and for this they had the
Queen's subsidy books to guide them. Here, however, we are chiefly
concerned with the raising of money amongst the parishioners themselves.
How manifold, how ingenious were the parochial devices for creating
resources, it is the purpose of this chapter to set forth.

But before proceeding to the parish expedients, properly so called, for
raising money, it will be well to say something of parish endowments,
whether in lands, houses or funds. According as the revenue from these
was available for general, or at least for various purposes, or,
on the other hand, was impressed with a trust for some specific object,
these endowments may be divided into general and special. Parishes
well endowed might be able to dispense with some of the devices for
money-getting which we shall have occasion to enumerate, but then, after
all, endowments might come and they might go;[203] moreover, the
financial policy of any one parish would, of course, differ according
to the disposition or the ability of those who shaped it.

Of Loddon, Norfolk, we are told that "no complaint appears about Church
Rates, for there were none, as the revenue of the Town Farm ...
rendered a tax of that description unnecessary."[204]
Of St. Petrock's, Exeter, we are informed that "the parish became so
well endowed by donations of land and houses as to enable the wardens
to dispense almost entirely with the quarterly collections entered in
the earlier accounts."[205] The editor of the Thatcham, Berks, Accounts,
writes: "In the early years of these churchwardens accounts the available
funds were derived chiefly from the two oldest charities, one called
'Lowndye's Almshouses,' the first account of which is for the
year ... 1561 ... to 1562; the other known as 'the Church Estate,'
the first account of which begins in 1566."[206] Summoned by the Bodmin,
Cornwall, justices in January, 159-4/5, to make a report as to the parish
stock, the representatives of Stratton certify at sessions that
their stock "am[oun]ts to the now some of Sixteene poundes, some
yeares it is more & some yeares lesse...."

And, they continue, "the vsinge of our sayde stocke is by the two
wardens & the rest of the eight men w[hi]ch for the same stande sworne,
And it is bestowed aboute her ma[jes]ties service, for buyenge of armor,
settinge forth of souldiers w[i]th powder & shott.... And likewise
for the relievinge & mainetayning of the poore...." They thereupon
give the names of the impotent and decrepit persons and orphan
children "wholly relieved" by the parish, ten in number, and add
that there are upwards of a hundred poor "w[h]ich are not able to
liue of themselues, but haue reliefe dayly one thinge or another
of the seide p[ar]ish

."[207] The little parish of St. Michael's in Bedwardine, Worcestershire,[208]
possessed lands and tenements in various parishes, and in 1599 invested
£10 in buying two more tenements in Worcester city.[209] Its wardens
accounts, we are told by their editor, disclose that there was never
any lack of money for parish purposes "in spite of a rather lavish
expenditure at times in the luxury of law[suits]."[210] Lapworth,
Warwickshire, had many acres of parish land.[211] The churchwardens
of St. John's, Glastonbury, Somerset, return in their accounts the
rent of the parish lands in 1588 at £9 13s. 10d.,[212] and, as these
accounts show, they occasionally received important sums for fines on
changes of tenants.
The various properties managed by the wardens of St.

Michael's, Bath, numbered thirty-seven in 1527, yielding a revenue of
£11 8s.;[213] and even in 1572 the rent amounted to £11 8s.[214]

Indeed, though parish lands and houses were generally vested as to title
in trustees (often a numerous and cumbersome body),[215] the churchwardens
themselves and sometimes other accountants,[216] who like the wardens
were appointed from year to year, usually exercised the actual management.
The feoffees existed chiefly for the purpose of making it difficult
to alienate the parish properties, "and the larger the trust body
the more difficult such alienation was supposed to be."[217]
Contenting ourselves with the above examples, which could easily be
multiplied, we pass on under this same head of general endowments
to an interesting form of personal property, viz., cattle, for not only
did the wardens derive receipts from parish holdings of real estate,
but also from _Endowments of Cows or Sheep_. The Pittington, Durham,
Twelve Men, a sort of parish executive and administrative body, enact
in 1584 "that everie iiij pounde rent[218] within this parrishe, as well
of hamlets as townshippes, shall gras[219] winter and somer one shepe
for the behoufe of this church;"[220] and we are told that these "Church
Shepe," as they were called, were here one of the chief means
of raising funds for parochial purposes.[221] It was the custom of pious
donors, especially among the lowly, to leave one or more sheep or cows
to their parish. In the year 1559 twelve sheep were thus given or
bequeathed to Wootton Church, Hants, by ten donors.[222] These
sheep, as well as the parish cows, were often hired out to parishioners,
who gave security for their return.

Sometimes they were given to poor men at a reduced rent, and thus
they served to support the poor.[223]
That the keeping of cattle was a well-recognized source of parish income
is seen by the Queen's Injunctions of 1559 in which she alludes to
"the profit of cattle" among other sources of parish revenue to be devoted
to the poor, "and if they be provided for, then to the reparation
of highways next adjoining," or to the repair of the church.[224]

Leaving the topic of general endowments to take up those sources
of revenue destined to defray particular forms of expenditure, we
find that _Permanent Parish Endowments_ in lands, goods or money
devoted to the defraying of _Specific Parish Administrative Burdens_
or _Utilities_ were very numerous in the local documents of the
16th century.

Sometimes a land or fund was set apart by the donor, or by the parish
itself, for the support of a parish servant or officer;[225]
sometimes its revenue maintained this or that cripple or blind man,[226]
or a number of them; sometimes it was used for feeding the poor,[227]
or for buying wearing apparel for them;[228] for setting them at work
in houses of correction,[229] or for parish education.[230]
In particular, lands or funds were frequently set apart as special and
permanent endowments for the repair of bridges.[231] In fact, the
proceeds of parish lands or other endowments might be appropriated to
alleviate any tax burden whatsoever. In 1549 it was stated by the
wardens of North Elmham, Norfolk, that the net proceeds of the five and
thirty or forty acres which they rented out were devoted exclusively
towards the paying of the fifteenths due from time to time to the
king and his successors.[232]
To illustrate the variety of purposes for which parish trusts were
created, I cannot do better than quote part of the preamble of the
43 Eliz. c. 4, known as the Statute of Charitable Uses: "Whereas
Landes, Tenements, Rentes ...

Money and Stockes of Money," it is there rehearsed, "have bene
heretofore given, limitted ... and assigned ...
some for Releife of aged, impotent and poore people, some for
Maintenaunce of sicke and maymed Souldiers and Marriners, Schooles of
Learninge ... some for Repaire of Bridges, Fortes, Havens, Causwaies,
Churches, Sea-bankes and Highewaies, some for Educac[i]on and p[re]fermente
of Orphans, some for or towardes Reliefe, Stocke or Maintenaunce for
Howses of Correcc[i]on, some for Mariages of poore Maides, some for
Supportac[i]on, Ayde and Helpe of younge Tradesmen, Handiecraftesmen and
p[er]sons decayed, and others ... for aide or ease of any poore
Inhabitants conc[er]ninge paymente of Fifteenes, settinge out of
Souldiers and other Taxes [etc

.]...."[233]
As for money and goods left by testators or given _inter vivos_ for
_Temporary Expenses_ or _Special Occasions_ (as opposed to the
creation of permanent trusts and endowments), we find a constant
stream of such benefactions throughout the Elizabethan period.

By the Queen's Injunctions of 1559 parsons are diligently to exhort their
parishioners, "and especially when men make their testaments," to give
to the poor-box, the surplus of which, after provision for the needy,
might be devoted to church and highway repair.[234]
Bequests made to the highways or bridges were considered as donated _in
pios usus_.
One John Ryland, A.M., of Northampton, published a 'Preceptor, or
General Repository of useful information, very necessary for the various
ages and departments of life,' in which 'pride and lust, a corrupt pride
of heart, and a furious filthy lust of body,' are announced as the
Atheist's 'springs of action,' 'desire to act the beast without control,
and live like a devil without a check of conscience,' his only 'reasons
for opposing the existence of God,' in which he is told 'a world of
creatures are up in arms against him to kill him as they would a
venomous mad dog,' in which, among other hard names, he is called
'absurd fool,' 'beast,' 'dirty monster,' 'brute,' 'gloomy dark animal,'
'enemy of mankind,' 'wolf to civil society,' 'butcher and murderer of
the human race,' in which, moreover, he is _cursed_ in the following
hearty terms;--'Let the glorious mass of fire burn him, let the moon
light him to the gallows, let the stars in their courses fight against
the Atheist, let the force of the comets dash him to pieces, let the
roar of thunders strike him deaf, let red lightnings blast his guilty
soul, let the sea lift up her mighty waves to bury him, let the lion
tear him to pieces, let dogs devour him, let the air poison him, let the
next crumb of bread choke him, nay, let the dull ass spurn him to
death.'

This is a notable specimen of zeal turned sour.

Bishop Hall was a Divine of solid learning and unquestionable piety,
whose memory is reverenced by a large and most respectable part of the
Christian world. He ranked amongst the best of his class, and, generally
speaking, was so little disposed to persecute his opponents because of
their heterodox opinions, that he wrote and published a "Treatise on
Moderation," in the course of which he eloquently condemns the practice
of regulating, or, rather, attempting to regulate opinion by act of
parliament; yet, incredible as it may appear, in that very Treatise he
applauds Calvin on account of his conduct towards Servetus. Our
authority for this statement is not 'Infidel' but Christian--the
authority of Evans, who, after noticing the Treatise in question, says,
'he (Bishop Hall) has discussed the subject with that ability which is
peculiar to all his writings. But this great and good man, towards the
close of the same Treatise, forgetting the principles which he had been
inculcating, devotes one solitary page to the cause of intolerance: this
page he concludes with these remarkable expressions: "Master Calvin did
well approve himself to God's Church in bringing Servetus to the stake
in Geneva."

Remarkable, indeed! and what is the moral that they point? To me they
are indicative of the startling truth, that neither eloquence nor
learning, nor faith in God and his Scripture, nor all three combined,
are incompatible with the cruelest spirit of persecution. The Treatise
on Moderation will stand an everlasting memorial against its author,
whose fine intellect, spoiled by superstitious education, urged him to
approve a deed, the bare remembrance of which ought to excite in every
breast, feelings of horror and indignation. That such a man should
declare the aim of Universalists is 'to dethrone God and destroy man,'
is not surprising. From genuine bigots they have no right to expect
mercy. He who applauded the bringing of Servetus to the stake must have
deemed their utter extermination a religious duty.

That our street and field preaching Christians, with very few
exceptions, heartily sympathise with the fire and faggot sentiments of
Bishop Hall, is well known, but happily, their absurd ravings are
attended to by none save eminently pious people, whose brains are
_unclogged_ by any conceivable quantity of useful knowledge. In point of
intellect they are utterly contemptible. Their ignorance, however, is
fully matched by their impudence, which never forsake, them. They claim
to be considered God's right-hand men, and of course duly qualified
preachers of his 'word,' though unable to speak five minutes without
taking the same number of liberties with the Queen's English. Swift was
provoked by the prototypes of these pestiferous people, to declare that,
'formerly the apostles received the gift of speaking several languages,
a knowledge so remote from our dealers in the art of enthusiasm, that
they neither understand propriety of speech nor phrases of their own,
much less the gift of tongues.'

The millions of Christian people who have been trained up in the way
they should _not_ go, by this active class of fanatics, are naturally
either opposed to reason or impervious to it. They are convinced not
only that the wisdom of the world is foolishness with God, but that
wisdom with God is foolishness with the world; nor will any one affirm
their 'moderation' in respect to unbelievers one tittle more moderate
than Bishop Hall's; or that they are one tittle less disposed than 'that
good and great man,' to think those who bring heretics to the stake at
Geneva or elsewhere, 'do well approve themselves to God's Church.'
Educated, that is to say _duped_ as they are, they cannot but think
disbelief highly criminal, and when practicable, or convenient, deal
with it as such.

It is, nevertheless, true, that Universalists have been helped to some
of their best arguments by adversaries. Bishop Watson, to wit, has
suggested objections to belief in the Christian's Deity, which they who
hold no such belief consider unanswerable. In his famous 'Apology' he
desired to know what Paine thought 'of an uncaused cause of everything,
and a Being who has no relation to time, not being older to day than he
was yesterday, nor younger to day than he will be to-morrow--who has no
relation to space, not being a part here and a part there, or a whole
anywhere? of an omniscient Being who cannot know the future actions of
man, or if his omniscience enables him to know them, of the contingency
of human actions? of the distinction between vice and virtue, crime and
innocence, sin and duty? of the infinite goodness of a Being who existed
through eternity without any emanation of his goodness manifested in the
creation of sensitive beings? or, if it be contended that there was an
eternal creation, of an effect coeval with its cause, of matter not
posterior to its maker? of the existence of evil, moral and natural, in
the work of an Infinite Being, powerful, wise, and good? finally, of the
gift of freedom of will, when the abuse of freedom becomes the cause of
general misery?' [15:1]

These questions imply much. That they flowed from the pen of a Bishop,
is one of many extraordinary facts which have grown out of theological
controversy. They are questions strongly suggestive of another. Is it
possible to have experience of, or even to imagine, a Being with
attributes so strange, anomalous, and contradictory? It is plain that
Bishop Watson was convinced 'no man by searching can find out God.' The
case is, that he, in the hope of converting Deists, ventured to
insinuate arguments highly favourable to Atheism, whose professors
consider an admission of utter ignorance of God, tantamount to a denial
of His existence. Many Christians, with more candour, perhaps, than
prudence, have avowed the same opinion. Minutius Felix, for example,
said to the Heathen, 'Not one of you reflects that you ought to know
your Gods before you worship them.' [15:2] As if he felt the absurdity
of pretending to love and honour an unknown 'Perhaps.' That he did
himself what he ridiculed in them proves nothing but his own
inconsistency.

The Christian, equally with the Heathen, is open to the reproach of
worshipping HE KNOWS NOT WHAT. Yes, to idol-hating 'enlightened
Christians,' may be fairly applied the severe sarcasm Minutius Felix so
triumphantly levelled against idol-loving 'benighted Heathens.' Will any
one say the Christian absolutely knows more about Jehovah than the
Heathen did about Jupiter? I believe that few, if any, who have
attentively considered Bishop Watson's queries, will say the 'dim
Unknown,' they so darkly shadow forth, is conceivable by any effort
either of sense or imagination.

Under cover, then, of what reason can Christians escape the imputation
of pretending to adore what they have no conception of? The very 'book
of books,' to which they so boldly appeal, is conclusive _against_ them.
In its pages they stand convicted of idolatry. Without doubt a God is
revealed by Revelation; but not _their_ God, not a supernatural Being,
infinite in power, in wisdom, and in goodness. The Bible Deity is
superhuman in nothing; all that His adorers have ascribed to Him being
mere amplification of human powers, human ideas, and human passions. The
Bible Deity 'has mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will he
hardeneth;' is 'jealous,' especially of other Gods; changeful,
vindictive, partial, cruel, unjust, 'angry with the wicked every day;'
and altogether a Being far from respectable, or worthy to be considered
infinite in wisdom, power, and goodness. Is it credible that a Being
supernaturally wise and good, proclaimed the murderous adulterer David,
a man after his own heart, and commanded the wholesale butchery of
Canaanites? Or that a God of boundless power, 'whose tender mercies are
over all his works,' decreed the extermination of entire nations for
being what he made them? Jehovah did all three. Confessedly a God of
Armies and Lord of Hosts; confessedly, too, a hardener of men's, hearts
that he might destroy them, he authorised acts at which human nature
shudders, and of which it is ashamed: yet to _reverence_ Him we are
commanded by the self-styled 'stewards of his mysteries,' on peril of
our 'immortal souls.' Verily, these pious anathematisers task our
credulity a little too much. In their zeal for the God of Israel, they
are apt to forget that only Himself can compass impossibilities, and
altogether lose sight of the fact that where, who, or what Jehovah is,
no man knoweth. Revelation (so-called) reveals nothing about 'the
creator of heaven and earth,' on which a cultivated intellect can repose
with satisfaction. Men naturally desire positive information concerning
the superhuman Deity, belief in whom is the _sine qua non_ of all
superstition. But the Bible furnishes no such information concerning
Jehovah. On the contrary, He is there pronounced 'past finding out,'
incomprehensible, and the like. 'Canst thou by searching find out God?
Canst thou find out the Almighty to perfection?' are questions put by an
'inspired writer,' who felt the cloudy and unsatisfactory nature of all
human conceit concerning Deity.

Now, a Revelation from God might reasonably be expected to make the mode
and nature of His existence manifest. But the Christian Bible falls
infinitely short in this particular. It teaches there is a God; but
throws no light on the dark question _What is God?_ Numerous and various
as are Scripture texts, none can be cited in explanation of a Deity no
older to-day than he was yesterday, nor younger to-day than he will be
to-morrow; of a Deity who has no relation to space, not being a part
here and a part there, or a whole any where: in short, of that Deity
written about by Bishop Watson, who, like every other sincere Christian,
made the mistake of resting his religious faith on 'words without
knowledge.'

It is to this description of faith Universalists object. They think it
the root of superstition, that greatest of all the plagues by which poor
humanity is afflicted. Are they to blame for thus thinking? The
Christian has no mercy on the superstition of the Heathen, and should
scorn to complain when the bitter chalice is returned to his own lips.
Universalists believe the God of Bishop Watson a supernatural chimera,
and to its worshippers have a perfect right to say, _Not one of you
reflects that you ought to know your Gods before you worship them_.
These remarkable words, originally addressed to the Heathen, lose none
of their force when directed against the Christian.

No one can conceive a supernatural Being, and what none can conceive
none ought to worship, or even assert the existence of. Who worships a
something of which he knows nothing is an idolater. To talk of, or bow
down to it, is nonsensical; to pretend affection for it, is worse than
nonsensical. Such conduct, however pious, involves the rankest
hypocrisy; the meanest and most odious species of idolatry; for
labouring to destroy which the Universalist is called 'murderer of the
human soul,' 'blasphemer,' and other foolish names, too numerous to
mention.

It would be well for all parties, if those who raise against us the cry
of 'blasphemy,' were made to perceive that 'godless' unbelievers cannot
be blasphemers; for, as contended by Lord Brougham in his Life of
Voltaire, blasphemy implies belief; and, therefore, Universalists cannot
logically or justly be said to blaspheme him. The blasphemer, properly
so called, is he who imagines Deity, an ascribes to the idol of his own
brain all manner of folly, contradiction, inconsistency, and wickedness.

Superstition is universally abhorred, but no one believes _himself_
superstitious. There never was a religionist who believed his own
religion mere superstition. All shrink indignantly from the charge of
being superstitious; while all raise temples to, and bow down, before
'thingless names.' The 'masses' of every nation erect chimera into
substantial reality, and woe to these who follow not the insane example.
The consequences--the fatal consequences--are everywhere apparent. In
our own country we see social disunion on the grandest possible scale.
Society is split up into an almost infinite variety of sects whose
members imagine themselves patented to think truth and never to be wrong
in the enunciation of it.

_Sanders' News Letter and Daily Advertiser_ of Feb. 18, 1845, among
other curiosities, contains an 'Address of the Dublin Protestant
Operative Association, and Reformation Society,' one sentence of which
is--_We have raised our voices against the spirit of compromise, which
is the opprobrium of the age; we have unfurled the banner of Protestant
truth, and placed ourselves beneath it; we have insisted upon Protestant
ascendancy as just and equitable, because Protestant principles are true
and undeniable_.

Puseyite Protestants tell a tale the very reverse of that so modestly
told by their nominal brethren of the Dublin Operative Association.
They, as may be seen in Palmer's Letter to Golightly, _utterly reject
and anathematise the principle of Protestantism, as a heresy with all
its forms, sects, or denominations_. Nor is that all our 'Romeward
Divines' do, for in addition to rejecting utterly and cursing bitterly,
as well the name as the principle of Protestantism, they eulogise the
Church of Rome, because forsooth _she yields_, says Newman in his letter
to Jelf, _free scope to feelings of awe, mystery, tenderness, reverence,
and devotedness_; while we have it on the authority of Tract 90, that
the Church of England is _in bondage; working in chains, and _(tell it
not in Dublin)_ teaching with the stammering lips of ambiguous
formularies_. Fierce and burning is the hatred of Dublin Operative
Association Christians to Popery, but exactly that style of hatred to
Protestantism is avowed by Puseyites. Both sets of Christians are quite
sure they are right: but (alas! for infallibility) a third set of
Christians insist that they are both wrong. There are Papists, or Roman
Catholics, who consider Protestant principles the very reverse of true
and undeniable, and treat with derisive scorn the 'fictitious
Catholicism' of Puseyite Divines.

Count de Montalambert, in his recently published 'Letter to the Rev. Mr.
Neale on the Architectural, Artistical, and Archaeological Movements of
the Puseyites,' enters his 'protest' against the most unwarranted and
unjustifiable assumption of the name of Catholic by people and things
belonging to the actual Church of England. _'It is easy,'_ he observes,
_'to take up a name, but it is not so easy to get it recognised by the
world and by competent authority. Any man for example, may come out to
Madeira and call himself a Montmorency, or a Howard, and even enjoy the
honour and consideration belonging to such a name till the real
Montmorencys or Howards hear something about it, and denounce him, and
then such a man would be justly scouted from society, and fall down much
lower than the lowness from which he attempted to rise. The attempt to
steal away from us and appropriate to the use of a fraction of the
Church of England that glorious title of Catholic is proved to be an
usurpation by every monument of the past and present--by the coronation
oath of your sovereigns--by all the laws which have established your
Church--even by the recent answer of your University of Oxford to the
lay address against Dr. Pusey, &c., where the Church of England is
justly styled the Reformed Protestant Church. The question then is, have
you, the Church of England, got the picture for your frame? have you got
the truth, the one truth; the same truth as the men of the middle ages.
The Camden Society says yes; but the whole Christian world, both
Protestant and Catholic, says no; and the Catholic world adds that there
is no truth but in unity, and this unity you most certainly have not.
One more; every Catholic will repeat to you the words of Manzoni, as
quoted by M. Faber: 'The greatest deviations are none if the main point
be recognised; the smallest are damnable heresies, if it be denied. That
main point is the infallibility of the Church, or rather of the Pope.'_

No one desires to be eternally punished; and, therefore, if any one
embrace a false faith, it is because he makes the mistake of supposing
it the true one. The three sets of Christians, just adverted to, may all
be equally sincere, but cannot all have the true faith. Protestant
principles, as taught by the Dublin Operative Association, may be true.
Anglo-Catholic principles, as taught by the Oxford Tractmen, may be
true. Roman Catholic principles, as taught by the Count de Montalembert,
may be true; but they cannot ALL be true. It is impossible to reconcile
that orthodox Papists' 'main point,' _i.e._ the infallibility of the
(Romish) Church, or rather of the Pope, with the 'main point' of
orthodox Protestants, who denounce 'the great harlot of Babylon,' that
'scarlet lady who sitteth upon the seven hills,' in the most unmeasured
and virulent terms. Anti-Christ is the name they 'blasphemously' apply
to the actual 'old chimera of a Pope.' Puseyite Divines treat his
Holiness with more tenderness, but even _they_ boggle at his
infallibility, and seem to occupy a position between the rival churches
of Rome and England analogous to that of Captain Macheath when singing
between two favourite doxies--

          How happy could I be with either,
           Were t'other dear charmer away;
          But while you thus teaze me together,
           The devil a word will I say.

Infallibility of Popes is the doctrine insisted upon by Count De
Montalembert as essential--as doctrine the smallest deviation from which
is damnable heresy. Believe and admit Antichrist is _not_ Antichrist,
but God's accredited viceregent upon earth, infinite is the mercy in
store for you; but woe to those who either cannot or will not believe
and admit anything of the kind. On them every sincere Roman Catholic is
sure that God will empty the vials of his wrath.

Priests ascribe to Deity the low, grovelling, vindictive, feelings which
agitate and disgrace themselves. If Roman Catholic principles are true
and undeniable, none but Roman Catholics will be saved from the wrath to
come. If Anglo-Catholic principles are true and undeniable, none but
Anglo-Catholics will be saved from the wrath to come. If orthodox
Protestant principles are true and undeniable, none but orthodox
Protestants will be saved from the wrath to come.

Thus superstitionists

                            Grunt and groan,
          Cursing all systems but their own.

Agreeing in little else save disagreement, the 'main point' of this
class of believers is a matter of little consequence to that class of
believers, and no matter at all to a third class of believers. Look at
the thousand-and-one sects into which the Christian world is divided.
'Some reject Scripture; others admit no other writings but Scripture.
Some say the Devils shall be saved, others that they shall be damned;
others that there are no Devils at all. Some hold that it is lawful to
dissemble in religion, others the contrary. Some say that Antichrist is
come, some say not; others that he is a particular man, others that he
is not a man, but the Devil; and others that by Antichrist is meant a
succession of men. Some will have him to be Nero, some Caligula, some
Mohammed, some the Pope, some Luther, some the Turk, some of the Tribe
of Dan; and so each man according to his fancy will make an Antichrist.
Some only will observe the Lord's day, some only the Sabbath; some both,
and some neither. Some will have all things in common, some not. Some
will have Christ's body only in Heaven, some everywhere; some in the
bread, others with the bread, others about the bread, others under the
bread, and others that Christ's body is the bread, or the bread his
body. And others that his body is transformed into his divinity. Some
will have the Eucharist administered in both kinds, some in one, some
not at all. Some will have Christ descend to hell in respect of his
soul, some only in his power, some in his divinity, some in his body,
some not at all. Some by hell understand the place of the damned, some
_limbus patrum_, others the wrath of God, others the grave. Some will
make Christ two persons, some give him but one nature and one will; some
affirming him to be only God, some only man, some made up of both, some
altogether deny him. Some will have his body come from Heaven, some from
the Virgin, some from the elements. Some will have our souls mortal,
some immortal; some bring them into the body by Infusion, some by
traduction. Some will have souls created before the world, some after;
some will have them created altogether, others severally; some will have
them corporeal, some incorporeal; some of the substance of God, some of
the substance of the body. So infinitely are men's conceits distracted
with a variety of opinions, whereas _there is but one Truth_, which
every man aims at, but few attain it; every man thinks he hath it, and
yet few enjoy it.' [20:1]

Chiefs of these sects are, for the most part, ridiculously intolerant;
so many small Popes, who fancy that whomsoever they bind on earth shall
be bound in Heaven; and whomsoever they loose on earth shall be loosed
in Heaven. They remorselessly cobble the true faith, without which, to
their 'sole exclusive Heaven,' none can be admitted.

          As if religion were intended,
          For nothing else but to be mended.

And never seem so happy as when promising eternal misery to those who
reject their chimeras.

But wisdom, we read, is justified by her children; and to the wise of
every nation the Universalist confidently appeals. He rejects popular
religion, because such religion is based on principles of imaginative
ignorance. Bailly defines it as 'the worship of the unknown, piety,
godliness, humility, before the _unknown_.' Lavater as 'Faith in the
supernatural, invisible, _unknown_'. Vauvenargus as 'the duties of men
towards the _unknown_.' Dr. Johnson as 'Virtue founded upon reverence of
the _unknown_, and expectation of future rewards and punishments.'
Rivarol as 'the science of serving the _unknown_.' La Bruyere as 'the
respectful fear of the _unknown_.' Du Marsais, as 'the worship of the
_unknown_, and the practice of all the virtues.' Walker as 'Virtue
founded upon reverence of the _unknown_, and expectation of rewards or
punishments; a system of divine faith and worship as opposed to other
systems.' De Bonald as 'social intercourse between man and the
_unknown_.' Rees as 'the worship or homage that is due to the _unknown_
as creator, preserver, and, with Christians, as redeemer of the world,'
Lord Brougham as 'the subject of the science called Theology:' a science
he defines as 'the knowledge and attributes of the _unknown_' which
definitions agree in making the essential principle of religion a
principle of ignorance. That they are sufficiently correct definitions
will not be disputed, and upon them the Universalist is satisfied to
rest his case. To him the worship or adoration of what is confessedly
unknown is mere superstition; and to him professors of theology are
'artists in words,' who pretend to teach what nobody has any conception
of. Now, such persons may be well-intentioned; but their wisdom is by no
means apparent. They must be wonderfully deficient of the invaluable
sense so falsely called 'common.' Idolizers of 'thingless names,' they
set at naught the admirable dictum of Locke that it is 'unphilosophic to
suppose names in books signify real entities in nature, unless we can
frame clear and distinct ideas of those entities.'

Theists of every class would do well to calmly and fully consider this
rule of philosophising, for it involves nothing less than the
destruction of belief in the supernatural. The Jupiter of Mythologic
History, the Allah of Alkoran, and the Jehovah of 'Holy Scripture,' if
entities at all, are assuredly entities that baffle human conception. To
'frame clear and distinct ideas of them' is impossible. In respect to
the attribute of _unknown ability_ all Gods are alike.

Books have been written to exhibit the difficulties of (what priests
choose to call) Infidelity, and without doubt unbelief has its
difficulties. But, according to a universally recognised rule of
philosophising, of two difficulties we are in all cases to choose the
least. From a rule so palpably just no one can reasonably depart, and
the Universalist, while freely admitting a great difficulty on his own
side, is satisfied there can be demonstrated an infinitely greater
difficulty on the side of his opponents. The Universalist labours to
convince mankind they are not warranted by the general course of Nature
in assigning to it a Cause; inasmuch as it is more in accordance with
experience to suppose Nature the uncaused cause, than to imagine, as
errorists do, that there is an uncaused cause of Nature.

Theologians ask, who created Nature? without adducing satisfactory
evidence that Nature _was_ created, and without reflecting that if it is
difficult to believe Nature self-existent, it is much more difficult to
believe some self-existent Super-nature, capable of producing it. In
their anxiety to get rid of a natural difficulty, they invent a
supernatural one, and accuse Universalists of 'wilful blindness,' and
'obstinate deafness,' for not choosing so unphilosophic a mode of
explaining universal mystery.

The rule of philosophising just adverted to--that rule which forbids us,
in any case, to chose the greater of two difficulties--is of immense
importance, and should be carefully considered by every one anxious to
arrive at correct conclusions with respect to theology. For if believers
in God do depart from that rule--if their belief necessarily involve its
violation--to persist in such belief is to persist in what is clearly
opposed to pure reason. Now, it has been demonstrated, so far as words
can demonstrate any truth whatever, that the difficulty of him who
believes Nature never had an author, is infinitely less than the
difficulty of him who believes it had a cause itself uncaused.

In the 'Elements of Materialism,' an unequal, but still admirable work
by Dr. Knowlton, a well-known American writer, this question of
comparative difficulty is well handled.

'The sentiment,' says the Doctor, 'that a being exists which never
commenced existence, or what is the same thing, that a being exists
which has existed from all eternity, appears to us to favour Atheism,
for if one Being exist which never commenced existence--why not
another--why not the universe? It weighs nothing, says the Atheist, in
the eye of reason, to say the universe appears to man as though it were
organised by an Almighty Designer, for the maker of a thing must be
superior to the thing made; and if there be a maker of the universe
there can be no doubt, but that if such maker were minutely examined by
man, man would discover such indications of wisdom and design that it
would be more difficult for him to admit that such maker was not caused
or constructed by a pre-existing Designer, than to admit that the
universe was not caused or constructed by a Designer. But no one will
contend for an infinite series of Makers; and if, continues the Atheist,
what would, if viewed, be indications of design, are no proofs of a
designer in the one case, they are not in the other; and as such
indications are the only evidence we have of the existence of a Designer
of the universe, we, as rational beings, contend there is no God. We do
not suppose the existence of any being, of which there is no evidence,
when such supposition, it admitted, so far from diminishing would only
increase a difficulty, which, at best, is sufficiently great. Surely, if
a superior being may have existed from all eternity, an inferior may
have existed from all eternity; if a great God sufficiently mighty to
make a world may have existed from all eternity, of course without
beginning and without cause, such world may have existed from all
eternity, without beginning, and without cause.' [23:1]

These are 'strong reasons' for Universalism. They prove that Theists set
at nought the rule of philosophising which forbids us to choose the
greater of two difficulties. Their system compels them to do so; for
having no other groundwork than the strange hypotheses that time was
when there was no time--something existed when there was nothing, which
something created everything; its advocates would be tongue-tied and
lost if reduced to the hard necessity of appealing to facts, or rigidly
regarding rules of philosophising which have only their reasonableness
to recommend them. They profess ability to account for Nature, and are
of course exceeding eager to justify a profession so presumptuous. This
eagerness betrays them into courses, of which no one bent on rejecting
whatever is either opposed to, or unsanctioned by, experience, can
possibly approve. It is plain that of the God they tell us to believe
'created the worlds,' no man has any experience. This granted, it
follows that worship of such fancied Being is mere superstition. Until
it be shown by reference to the general course of things, that things
had an author, Himself uncreated or unauthorized, religious philosophers
have no right to expect Universalists to abandon their Universalism. The
duty of priests is to reconcile religion with reason, _if they can_, and
admit their inability to do so, _if they cannot_.

Romanists will have nothing to do with reason whenever it appears at
issue with their faith. All sects, as sects, play fast and loose with
reason. Many members of all sects are forward enough to boast about
being able to give a reason for the faith that is in them; but an
overwhelming majority love to exalt faith above reason. Philosophy they
call 'vain,' and some have been found so filled with contempt for it, as
to openly maintain that what is theologically true, is philosophically
false; or, in other terms, that the truths of religion and the truths of
philosophy have nothing in common. According to them, religious truths
are independent of, and superior to, all other truths. Our faith, say
they, if not agreeable to _mere_ reason is infinitely superior to it.
Priests are 'at one' on the point. Dissenting and Protestant, as well as
Romanising priests, find it convenient to abuse reason and extol faith.
As priests, they can scarcely be expected to do otherwise; for reason is
a stern and upright judge whose decrees have hitherto been unfavourable
to superstition. Its professors, who appeal to that judge, play a part
most inconsistent and dangerous, as is evident in the case of Origen
Bachelor, who more zealous and candid than prudent, declared the real
and only question between Atheism and Theism a question of fact;
reducing it to these terms--'Is there reason, all things considered, for
believing that there is a God, an intelligent cause of things, infinite
and perfect in all his attributes and moral qualities?' [24:1]

Now, the reader has seen that the hypothesis of 'an intelligent cause of
things' involves difficulties, greater, infinitely greater than the one
difficulty involved in the hypothesis that things always existed. He has
seen the folly of explaining natural, by the invention of supernatural
mystery, because it manifestly violates a rule of philosophising, the
justness of which it would be ridiculous to dispute. Having clearly
perceived thus much, he will perhaps think it rather 'too bad' as well
as absurd, to call Universalists 'madmen' for lacking faith in the
monstrous dogma that Nature was caused by 'something amounting to
nothing' itself uncaused.

There is something. That truth admits not of being evidenced. It is,
nevertheless, accepted. It is accepted by men of all religious opinions,
equally with men of no religious opinions. If any truth be self-evident
and eternal, here is that truth. To call it in question would be worse
than idle. We may doubt the reality of an external world, we may be
sceptical as to the reality of our own bodies, but we cannot doubt that
there is something. The proposition falls not within the domain of
scepticism. It must be true. To suppose it false is literally
impossible. Its falsehood would involve contradiction, and all
contradiction involves Impossibility. But, if proof of this were needed,
we have it in the fact that no man, sage or simple, ever pretended to
deny there is something. Whatever men could doubt or deny they have
doubted or denied, but in no country of the world, in no age, has the
dogma--there is something--been denied or even treated as doubtful. Here
then Universalists, Theists, and Polytheists agree. They agree of
necessity. There is no escape from the conclusion that something is,
except we adopt the unintelligible dogma--there is nothing--which no
human being can, as nothing amounts to nothing, and of what amounts to
nothing no one can have an idea. To define the word something by any
other word would be labour in vain. There is no other word in any
language whoso meaning is better understood, and they who do not
understand what it means, if such persons there be, are not likely to
understand the meaning of any word or words whatever. Ideas of nothing
none have. That there is something, we repeat, must be true, all dogmas
or propositions being necessarily true whose denial involves an
impossibility. What the nature of that something may be is a secondary
question, and however determined cannot affect the primary dogma--things
are things whatever may be their individual or their aggregate nature.
Nor is it of the least consequence what name or names we may see fit to
give things, so that each word has its fixed and true meaning. Whether,
for example, we use for the sign of that something which is, the word
Universe, or God, or Substance, or Spirit, or Matter, or the letter X,
is of no importance, if we understand the word or letter used to be
merely the sign of that something. Words are seldom useful except when
they are the sign of true ideas; evidently therefore, their legitimate
function is to convey such ideas; and words which convey no ideas at
all, or what is worse, only those which are false, should at once be
expunged from the vocabularies of nations. Something is. The
Universalist calls it matter. Other persons may choose to call it other
names: let them. He chooses to call it this one--and no other.

There ever has been something. Here, again, is a point of unity. All are
equally assured there ever has been something. Something is, something
must always have been, cry the religious, and the cry is echoed by the
irreligious. This last dogma, like the first, admits not of being
evidenced. As nothing is inconceivable, we cannot even imagine a time
when there was nothing. Universalists say, something ever was, which
something is matter. Theists say, something has been from all eternity,
which something is not matter but God. It is, however, important to
state, that while churchwardens and sidemen were _compelled_ to
attend the two general courts of the archdeacon (and of course the
bishop's court) and to write out on each occasion formal lists of
offenders and offences ("presentments" or "detections") these parish
officers might also at any time make _voluntary_ presentments to the
archdeacons. Those functionaries, in fact, seem to have held sittings for
the transaction of current business, or of matters which could not be
terminated at the visitation, every month, or even every three weeks.
Others may have sat (as we should say of a common-law judge) in
chambers.[5] Before each general visitation an apparitor or summoner
of the court went about and gave warning to the churchwardens of some
half-dozen parishes, more or less, to be in attendance with other parish
officers on a day fixed in some church centrally located in respect
of the parishes selected for that day's visitation.

The church of each parish was, indeed, not only its place for worship,
but also the seat and centre for the transaction of all business
concerning the parish. In it, according to law, the minister had to
read aloud from time to time articles of inquiry founded on the
Queen's or the diocesan's injunctions, and to admonish wardens and
sidemen to present offences under these articles at the next
visitation.[6] In it also he gave monition for the annual choice
of collectors for the poor;[7] warning for the yearly perambulation
of the parish bounds;[8] and public announcement of the six certain
days on which each year every parishioner had to attend in person
or send wain and men for the repair of highways.[9] In the parish
church also proclamation had to be made of estrays before the beasts
could be legally seized and impounded.[10] Here, too, school-masters
often taught their pupils[11]--unless, indeed, the parish possessed
a separate school-house.

Here, in the vestry, the parish armor was frequently kept, and sometimes
the parish powder barrels were deposited;[12] here too, occasionally,
country parsons stored their wool or grain.[13]
Finally, in the parish church assembled vestries for the holding of
accounts, the making of rates and the election of officers. Overseers
of the poor held their monthly meetings here. Occasionally the
neighboring justices of the peace met here to take the overseers'
accounts or to transact other business;[14] and in the church also
might be held coroners' inquests over dead bodies.[15] Last, but
not least in importance, in the churches of the market towns the
archdeacon made his visitations and held his court; and on these
occasions the sacred edifice rang with the unseemly squabbles of
the proctors, the accusations of the wardens and sidemen or of the
apparitor, and the recriminations of the accused--in short, the
church was turned for the time being into a moral police court,
where all the parish scandal was carefully gone over and ventilated.[16]

The ecclesiastical courts carried on their judicial administration
of the parish largely, of course, through the medium of the officers
of the parish.

These were the churchwardens, the sidemen and the incumbent, whether
rector, vicar or curate.[17]
First in importance were the churchwardens. Though legislation throughout
the time of Elizabeth was ever adding to their functions duties purely
civil in their nature, and though they themselves were more and
more subjected to the control of the justices of the peace,
nevertheless it is true to say that to the end of the reign the
office of churchwarden is one mainly appertaining to the jurisdiction
and supervision of the courts Christian.

The doctrine of the courts that churchwardens were merely civil officers
belongs to a later period.[18]
After a churchwarden had been chosen or elected, he took the oath
of office before the archdeacon. In this he swore to observe the
Queen's and the bishop's injunctions, and to cause others to observe them;
to present violators of the same to the sworn men (or sidemen), or to
the ordinary's chancellor or official, or to the Queen's high
commissioners; finally, he swore to yield up a faithful accounting
to the parish of all sums that had passed through his hands during
his term of office.[19]
Before each visitation day, as has been said, the archdeacon's or
the bishop's summoner went to each parish and gave warning that a
court would be held in such and such a church on such and such a day.

Pending that day wardens and sidemen drew up their bills of presentment.
These bills were definite answers to a series of articles of inquiry
founded on the diocesan's injunctions, themselves based on the Queen's
Injunctions of 1559 and on the Canons.[20] Failure to present
offences was promptly punished by the judge.[21] Failure to attend
court when duly warned was no less promptly followed by excommunication,
and then it was an expensive matter for the wardens to get out of
the official's book again.[22] But of fees and fines more hereafter.

                             Among the
          churchwardens' principal obligations, as laid down in the injunctions
and articles they were sworn to observe, was the keeping in repair
of the church fabric and its appurtenances, as well as the procuring
and the maintaining in good condition of the church "furniture," a
term which in the language of the time included all the necessaries
for worship and the celebration of the sacraments: church linen,
surplices, the communion cup, the elements themselves, bibles,
prayer books, the writings of authorized commentators on the
Scriptures, or the works of apologists for the Anglican Church;
tables of consanguinity and other official documents enjoined to
be kept in every parish by the diocesan.[23]
The visitation act-books of the period abundantly show the processes
employed by the ecclesiastical authorities in enforcing these and
other duties (which will be detailed in their turn), and prove that
the courts Christian were emphatically administrative as well as
judicial bodies.

To show these courts at work it will be necessary to give a number of
illustrative examples taken from the visitation entries. Thus the
wardens of Childwall, having been presented at the visitation of
the bishop of Chester, 9th October, 1592, because their church "wanteth
reparac[i]on," are excommunicated for not appearing.
On a subsequent day John Whittle, who represents the wardens, informs the
court that the repairs have been executed. Thereupon the wardens are
absolved and the registrar erases the word "excommunicated" from
the act-book.[24] At the same visitation the wardens of Aughton are
presented because "there bible is not sufficient, they want the
first tome of the homilies, Mr.

Juells Replie and Apologie[25] [etc.]...." The two wardens are enjoined
by the judge to buy a sufficient bible and to certify to him that they
have done so.

But--so careful is the supervision over parish affairs--mere
certification by vicar or wardens that a certain article has been
procured in obedience to a court order will not always suffice. If the
thing can be produced in court the judge often orders it to be brought
before him for personal inspection. Accordingly, when at the visitation
of the chancellor of the bishop of Durham, the 13th March, 1578/1579,
the wardens of Coniscliffe are found to "lacke 2 Salter bookes [and] one
booke of the Homelies," they are admonished to certify "that they
have the books detected 4th April and to bringe their boks hither."[26]
Thus, too, the wardens of St. Michael's, Bishop Stortford, record
in 1585 that they have paid 8d.

"when we brought in to the court the byble and comunion booke to shewe
before the comysary."[27] There is a curious entry in the same accounts
some years earlier, viz.: "pd for showing [shoeing] of an horse
when mr Jardfield went to london to se wether it was our byble that was
lost or no and for his charges...."[28]

At the visitation held at Romford Chapel, Essex Archdeaconry, 5th September,
1578, the wardens of Dengie "broughte in theire surplice, which surplice
is torne & verie indecent & uncomly, as appereth; whereupon the judge,
for that theie neglected their othes, [ordered them to confess their
fault and prepare] a newe surplice of holland cloth of v s. thele
[the ell], conteyninge viii elles, _citra festum animarum prox_."
Remembering that money was then worth ten to twelve times what it is
today, this was probably considered too great a burden by the
parishioners of Dengie.

A petition must have been presented to be allowed to procure a cheaper
surplice, for on the 6th October following the wardens were permitted
to prepare a surplice containing six ells only at the reduced price of
2s. 8d. per ell.[29]
It seems to have been the practice in the Dean of York's Peculiar for the
judge to threaten the churchwardens occasionally with a fine for
failure to repair their church or supply missing requisites for service
by a fixed day. Thus at Dean Matthew Hutton's visitation, July, 1568, the
churchyards of Hayton and of Belby were found to be insufficiently
fenced. The order of the court was: "_Habent ad reparanda premissa citra
festum sancti Michaelis proximum sub pena XX s_."[30]
So, too, the Thornton wardens at the same visitation are warned to
repair the body of their church "betwixt this and Michlmes next
upon paine of X s

."[31] But as spiritual tribunals had no legal power to fine[32] or
to imprison, apparently the usual penalty prescribed by the judges in
case of disobedience to, or neglect of, their orders to repair or
replace by a certain day, was, in the words of Bishop Barnes
addressed to the churchwardens in Durham diocese, the "paynes of
interdiction and suspencion [_i.e._, temporary excommunication] to be
pronounced against themselves."[33] Yet here, too, the wardens did not
escape indirect amercement, for absolution from interdiction or
excommunication often meant a payment of various court fees, which
in many cases were by no means light.

These fines the wardens put to their credit in the expense items of
their accounts if they could possibly do so, and it is probable that
the parish always paid them except in cases of very gross individual
delinquency in office. Thus the wardens of St. Martin's, Leicester,
record: "Payd to Mr.

Comyssarye whe[n] we was suspendyd for Lackynge a Byble & to hys offycers
xxiij d."[34] The wardens of Melton Mowbray register: "Ffor our chargs
& marsements at Lecest[e]r ... for yt ye Rood loft whas not takyn down
& deafasyed iiij s. iiij d."[35]
In the same accounts we find some years later: "Payde to ... at the
vicitacion houlden at Melton for dismissinge us oute of there bookes
for not reparinge the churche iij s. ij d.

          "[36] So, also, we read in the St.

Ethelburga-within-Bishopsgate Accounts: "Paid in D[octor] Stanhope's
courte beinge p[re]sented by p[ar]son Bull aboute the glasse windowes
xvj d." And nine years later: "Paid for Mr Gannett and myselfe
['Humfery Jeames'] for absolution iiij s. viij d." Also: "Paid for
our discharge at the courte for [from] our excomm[uni]cacon xvj d."[37]

The act-books abundantly show that ecclesiastical courts were very
far from being limited to mere moral suasion or to spiritual
censures.

They could never have accomplished their work so thoroughly if they had
been. This point will be brought out much more clearly, it is hoped, when
we come to consider excommunication as a weapon of coercion.[38] The
courts fined parishioners individually[39] and they fined them collectively.
What matters it that these fines were called court fees, absolution
fees, commutation of penance, or by any other name?

What signifies it that the proceeds could be applied only _in pios
usus_? The mulcting was none the less real. On the score of bringing
stubborn or careless wardens to terms through their purses, the
following extract from a letter written in 1572 to the official
of the archdeacon of the bishop of London is in point.

The letter informs the judge that Jasper Anderkyn, a churchwarden, "hathe
done nothing of that which he was apoinnted by your worshipp at
Mydsomer to do, for the churche yarde lyeth to commons and all
other thynkes in the churche is ondonne.... I praye you dele w[i]t[h]
hym so yt he maye be a presydent for them that shall have the offyce;
for they wyll but jess att itt, and saye it is butt a mony matter:
therefore lett them paye well for the penaltie whiche was sett on theire
heads."

Continuing, the writer states that his reason for writing is "that you be
not abewseid in youre office by there muche intreatyng for
themselffes, for Jesper Anderkyn stands excommunicated."[40]
Sometimes for failure to perform the ordinary's[41] injunctions a whole
parish was excommunicated or a church interdicted.[42] Thus in the Abbey
Parish Church[43] Accounts we read under the year 1592 how troublesome
and how costly it was "when the church was interdicted" to ride to
Lichfield and there tarry several days seeking absolution.

For this 20 shillings was paid, a very large sum for the time, not to
mention a fee to the summoner, travelling expenses and the writing of
letters on the parish's behalf.[44] The wardens of Stratton, Cornwall,
had a similar experience "when the churche wardyns & the hole p[ar]ysch
was exco[mu]nycatt" in 1565. Among the expense items relating to
that occasion is a significant one: "ffor wyne & goodchere ffor the
buschuppe ys s[er]vantt[s] ij s. viij d."[45]
So close is the supervision of the ordinary over the churchwardens, so
effective the discipline of the church courts, that we seem to hear
occasionally a sort of dialogue going on between judges and wardens,
the former directing certain things to be executed, the latter replying
and reporting from time to time that progress is being made on the work
to be performed, or that the missing objects will be soon supplied.
Accordingly, at the archdeacon of Canterbury's visitation in 1595, we
find the wardens of St.

John in Thanet (Margate) reporting:
"The chancel[46] is out of repairs, for the repairing whereof some things
are provided."[47] Two years later they state to the court:
"For repairing of the churchyard we desire a day."[48] At the same
visitation the wardens of St. Lawrence in Thanet (Ramsgate)
present:
"Our Church is repaired, saving that some glass by reason of the last
wind be broken, the which are [sic] shortly to be amended."[49]
As a final illustration on this score may be adduced the report of
the conscientious wardens of Kilham, Yorkshire, who certify to the
judge of that peculiar, August, 1602, "that there churche walles
ar in suche repaire as heretofore they have beyne.

But not in suche sufficient repaire as is required by the Article[50]
for that effect ministred vnto us."[51]
But the upkeep of the church and its requisites[52] was only one of the
churchwardens' many tasks. They had to look to it that the people attended
church regularly; that the victuallers and ale-houses received no one
while service was being held or a sermon was preached; that each person
was seated in his or her proper place, that each conducted himself with
decorum and remained throughout the service.
Accordingly the act-books tell their interesting story of ministers on
beginning service sending wardens and sidemen abroad to command men to
come to church. The churchwardens and their allies have all sorts of
experiences: they break in upon "exercises" or conventicles;[53]
they peep in at victuallers' houses or at inns where irate hosts
slam doors in their faces and give them bad words on being caught
offending;[54] they come across merrymakers dancing the morris-dance
on the village green during Sunday afternoon service,[55] or they
surprise men at a quiet game of cards at a neighbor's house during
evening prayer.[56]
When admonished by the wardens to enter church, some merely gave
contemptuous replies, such as "what prates thou?"

;[57] others, when the wardens approached, took to their heels and ran
away.[58] Once inside the church the wardens' task was by no means
ended. They had the care of placing each one in his or her seat according
to degree;[59] according to sex;[60] and, in case of women, according
as they were old or young, married or unmarried.[61] Finally, as has
been said, the wardens were expected to keep watch lest some one
slip out before the service was over or the sermon ended.[62]
But while they have one eye on the congregation lest they offend, wardens
and sidemen must keep another on the minister while service
proceeds or the sacraments are administered, in order that the
rites be duly observed and the Rubric followed.

The curate of Theydon Gernon (Essex) is presented by wardens and sidemen
"_quia non fecit suam diligentiam in dicendo preces_, viz. the communion
and Litany";[63] while the rector of East Hanningfield in the same
archdeaconry is not only complained of to the ordinary for not
maintaining the book of articles, and not using the cross in baptism,
but he is also indicted on the same occasion for not praying for the
Queen "accordinge to hir injunctions, viz. he leaveth out of hir
stile the kingdome of Fraunce

."[64] The court's order was that the rector should acknowledge his error
on the following Sunday "_coram gardianis_." The wardens of Wilton,
Yorkshire, report to the commissary of the Dean of York that their curate
recites divine service "very orderlie," but not at a fit time, for he
holds service at eight in the morning and two in the afternoon.[65]
Finally, the rector of Pitsea is complained against to the archdeacon
of Essex for "that he is unsufficient to serve the cure ine that theie
are not edified by him...."[66]
If the parson neglected his duties it was incumbent upon the wardens
to exhort him to perform them.[67] When at the visitation of the
bishop of Chester in 1592 it was found that there was no surplice
at Bolton Church, Manchester Deanery, not only did the judge admonish
one of the Bolton wardens to buy the surplice, but he was instructed
"to offer hit to thee Vicar at the time of ministering the sacraments,
and to certify of his wearing or refusing of hit before the Feast
of the Nativity of our Lord next

."[68]
By virtue of searching articles of inquiry administered to them,[69] such
as, Is your vicar a double-beneficed man, and, if so, is he lawfully
dispensated? Does he keep hospitality?

If non-resident does he give the fortieth part to the poor? Does your
minister wear a surplice at the appointed times, yea or no? Does he
use the cross in baptism and the ring in marriage?[70] Does your
schoolmaster teach without licence of his ordinary under seal, or
no?

          Do you know any person excommunicate
          in your parish who repairs to church?

Do you know anyone ordered by law to do penance, or excommunicate for not
doing the same, who still continues unreformed?

--by virtue of this strict questioning by the ordinary put to them in
written articles before each visitation, church wardens, and
their coadjutors, the sworn men or sidemen, were compelled to exercise
a continual supervision over their minister's conduct as well as over
that of the parishioners generally. This fact, coupled with the
circumstance that they were themselves liable to be reported to the court
and punished if they failed to indict, accounts for the cautious
presentments made by these Elizabethan wardens.

Those of Great Witchingham, Norfolk, for instance, inform the chancellor
that their parson "holdeth two benefices, but whether lawfully
dispensated they know not," and they add that a schoolmaster in their
parish "teacheth publicly, but whether licenced or not they know
not.

"[71] The wardens of Ellerburn, Yorkshire, present Jane Gryme for
fornication, and add "but whether the curate did churche hir or no they
cannot say."[72] And the following year they bring to the court's
knowledge "that their vicar ... is not resident upon his vicaredg, but
what he bestoweth upon the poore they know not."[73] Lastly, the
very prudent wardens of Pickering in the same peculiar bring in
their presentment in this fashion: "_Qui dicunt et presentant_ there
vicar for that he for the moste parte, but not alwaies dothe weare
a surplesse in tyme of dyvyne service.

They present there vicar for that they ar vncerteyne whether
his wif[e] was commended vnto him by justices of peace, nor whether he
was licenced to marrye hir according to hir Maiestie's iniuncions."[74]
The almost unseemly interest here displayed by the wardens in
their vicar's matrimonial relations is explained by the provisions of
article xxix of the Queen's Injunctions of 1559, which ordain that no
priest or deacon shall wed any woman without the bishop's licence and the
advice and allowance of two neighboring justices of
the peace first obtained.

Other parish obligations enforced by the courts Christian through the
churchwardens were the keeping of annual perambulations (or, as
we should say today, beating the bounds of the parish) by parson, wardens
and certain of the substantial men of the parish, in the second week
before Whit-Sunday ("Rogation Week");[75] the exhibiting to the official
of the parish register, or the putting in of copies of it
once a year at Easter;[76] the choosing in conjunction with the
parson of collectors for the poor up to 1597, in most parishes at
any rate;[77] the levying of the 12d. fine on all those who absented
themselves from service;[78] the putting down of all "superstitious"
rites in the parish, such as the carrying of banners in perambulation
week or the wearing of surplices on such occasions;[79] the ringing
of the church bells on Hallowe'en, or on the eve of All Souls;
excessive tolling of bells at funerals,[80] etc.

Newton conceived God to be one and the same for ever, and everywhere,
not only by his own virtue or energy, but also in virtue of his
substance.--Again, 'All things are contained in him and move in him, but
without reciprocal action' (_sed sine muta passione_) God feels nothing
from the movements of bodies; nor do they experience any resistance from
his universal presence. [33:1]

Pause, reader, and demand of yourself whether such a conception of Deity
is either clear, satisfactory, or definite,--God is _one_. Very
good--but one _what?_ From the information, 'He is the same for ever and
everywhere,' we conclude that Newton thought him a Being. Here, however,
matter stops the way; for the idea of Being is in all of us inseparably
associated with the idea of substance. When told that God is an 'Immense
Being,' without parts, and consequently unsubstantial, we try to think
of such a Being; but in vain. Reason puts itself in a _quandary_, the
moment it labours to realise an idea of absolute nothingness; yet
marvellous to relate, Newton did distinctly declare his Deity 'totally
destitute of body,' and urged that _fact_ as a _reason_ why He cannot be
either seen, touched, or understood, and also as a _reason_ why he ought
not to be adored under any corporeal figure!

The proper function of 'Supernaturality or Wonder,' according to
Phrenologists, is to create belief in the reality of supernatural
beings, and begets fondness for news, particularly if extravagant. Most
likely then, such readers of this book as have that organ 'large' will
be delighted with Newton's rhodomontade about a God who resists nothing,
feels nothing, and yet with condescension truly divine, not only
contains all things, but permits them to move in His motionless and
'universal presence;' for 'news' more extravagant, never fell from the
lips of an idiot, or adorned the pages of a prayer-book.

By the same great _savan_ we are taught that God governs all, not as the
soul of the world, but as the Lord and sovereign of all things: that it
is in consequence of His sovereignty He is called the Lord God, the
Universal Emperor--that the word God is relative, and relates itself
with slaves--and that the Deity is the dominion or the sovereignty of
God, not over his own body, as those think who look upon God as the soul
of the world, but over slaves--from all which _slavish_ reasoning, a
plain man who had not been informed it was concocted by Europe's pet
philosopher, would infallibly conclude some unfortunate lunatic had
given birth to it. That there is no creature now tenanting Bedlam who
would or could scribble purer nonsense about God than this of Newton's,
we are well convinced--for how could the most frenzied of brains imagine
anything more repugnant to every principle of good sense than a
self-existent, eternal, omnipotent, omnipresent Being, creator of all
the worlds, who acts the part of 'universal emperor,' and plays upon an
infinitely larger scale, the same sort of game as Nicholas of Russia, or
Mohammed of Egypt, plays upon a small scale. There cannot be slavery
where there is no tyranny, and to say, as Newton did, that we stand in
the name relation to a universal God, as a slave does to his earthly
master, is practically to accuse such God, at reason's bar of _tyranny_.
If the word God is relative, and relate itself with slaves, it
incontestably follows that all human beings are slaves, and Deity is by
such reasoners degraded into the character of universal slave-driver.
Really, theologians and others who declaim so bitterly against
'blasphemers,' and take such very stringent measures to punish
'infidels', who speaks or write of their God, should seriously consider
whether the worst, that is, the least superstitious of infidel writers,
ever penned a paragraph so disparaging to the character of that God they
effect to adore, as the last quoted paragraph of Newton's.

If even it could be demonstrated that there is a super-human Being, it
cannot be proper to clothe Him in the noblest human attributes--still
less can it be justifiable in pigmies, such as we are, to invest Him
with odious attributes belonging only to despots ruling over slaves.
Besides, how can we imagine a God, who is 'totally destitute of body and
of corporeal figure,' to have any kind of substance? Earthly emperors we
know to be substantial and common-place sort of beings enough, but is it
not sheer abuse of reason to argue as though the character of God were
at all analogous to theirs; or rather, is it not shocking abuse of our
reasoning facilities to employ them at all about a Being whose
existence, if we really have an existence, is perfectly enigmatical, and
allowed to be so by those very men who pretend to explain its character
and attributes? We find no less a sage than Newton explicitly declaring
as incontestible truth, that God exists necessarily--that the same
necessity obliges him to exist always and everywhere--that he is all
eyes, all ears, all brains, all arms, all feeling, all intelligence, all
action--that he exists in a mode by no means corporeal, an yet this same
sage, in the self-same paragraph, acknowledges God is _totally unknown
to us_.

Now, we should like to be informed by what _reasonable_ right Newton
could pen a long string of 'incontestible truths,' such as are here
selected from his writings, with respect to a Being of whom, by his own
confession, he had not a particle of knowledge. Surely it is not the
part of a wise man to write about that which is 'totally unknown' to
him, and yet that is precisely what Newton did, when he wrote concerning
God.

So much for the Theism of Europe's chief religious philosopher. Turn we
now to the Theism of Dr. Samuel Clarke.

These paschal dues, the order further informs us, had long been
farmed by the vicar for 40s. yearly. But now the yield of a penny from
each communicant was "thought a thing so profitable and beneficiall,"
that only as a special mark of favor was the vicar to continue to farm
it, but at £4 thenceforth instead of at 40s.[278] "_Easter money_,"
an expression found not infrequently in the accounts, may have referred
to the same payment, or it may have designated the offering
which generally followed the celebration of communion,[279] taken up,
doubtless, from all those present, whether communicating or not, the
proceeds of which might go to the minister or to the parish according
to agreement or custom.

Though the Second Edwardine Prayer Book (1552) provided that the elements
were to be found by the curate and the wardens at the expense of
the parish, which was then to be discharged of fees, or levies on
each household, nevertheless, we meet with _Communion Fees_ or with
house-to-house levies to defray the cost of bread and wine in many
parishes during Elizabeth's reign.[280] In order to ensure payment
of the communion fee, tokens (or as we would say today, tickets)
were provided in some parishes which were first to be handed in
before the ministrant admitted the applicant to reception.[281]
In a number of parishes a fine wine such as muscatel or malmsey was
provided for the better sort, or the masters and mistresses, while
the servants, or poorer folk, were served with claret.[282] Indeed
where all were compelled to communicate thrice yearly the cost of
wine was a very serious item.

_Collections for the Holy Loaf_, that is, blessed but not consecrated
bread, which went to defray the costs of administering the Eucharist,
occur in some of the earlier Elizabethan accounts.[283] Surplus
communion fee money, or communion offerings were devoted to the
care of the poor and other expenses.[284]
The heading _Clerk's Wages_, which is so often met with in the
wardens' receipt items, frequently serves (as do several other
special headings) as a mere peg on which to hang a collection for
various or even for general parish expenses.[285]
_Pews_ and _Seats in Church_ were often made a source of revenue.

Thus at St. Mary's, Reading, it was agreed in 1581 by the chief men
of the parish, in order to augment the parish stock and to maintain
the church, because "the rentes ar very smale," that those sitting in
front seats in the church should pay 8d., those behind them 6d.,
the third row 4d., and so on.[286]
At St. Dunstan's, Stepney parish, London, a book was made by the
wardens "whearein was expressed the pewes in the whole Church,"
distinguished by numbers. "Also there was noted against everie pewe the
price that was thought reasonable it shoulde yeeld by the yeare....
The w[hi]ch rates by this vestrie is allowed and confirmed to be imploied
to the use of the parish Church." When a few months later it was determined
to build a gallery because the congregation needed more seats, it was
also settled that the cost should be met by a year's pew rent in one
payment down, over and besides the usual quarterly payments for seats.[287]
Sometimes the seats were sold outright and for life only.[288]
_Mortuary Fees_ were a source of revenue in almost all parishes, and
sometimes an important one.[289] Consequently tariffs of fees were drawn
up in various places. So much is charged for interment within,
so much for burial without the church; so much for a knell according
to duration and according to size of the bell; so much for the
herse--a sort of catafalque--so much for the pall, the fee varying
from that charged for "the best" to that charged for "the worst
cloth"; so much if the body is coffined or uncoffined, most of the dead
being buried in winding sheets only, though the parish provided a
coffin for the body to lie in during service in church and for
removal to the graveside.[290] So, too, one fee was charged for interring
a " great corse," another for a "chrisom child."[291] All, in
fact, is tabulated with minute precision, the minister getting certain
fees for himself alone, and sharing others with the parish; and
so of the clerk and of the sexton, if any.

Among other reasons alleged by the vestry of Stepney parish for
dismissing their sexton in 1601 was because he made "composic[i]on
with diu[er]s & sundry p[ar]ishoners for the duties of the church
to the hinderannce & great damage of the bennefitt of the church &
p[ar]ishoners."[292]
_Fees_ for _Weddings, Christenings_ and _Churchings_, and for the ringing
of the bells (at marriages), together with the _Offerings_ taken up
on these occasions, might form a source of revenue to the parish,
either going directly into the parish coffers, or being paid in whole or
in part to minister, clerk or sexton, who, after all, had to be supported
by the parish (or otherwise), being essential officers or servants.[293]

The parish poor and the parish church derived an uncertain, but by
no means negligible, income from the product of _Fines for various
Delinquencies_.

In the previous chapter fines for non-attendance at church have been
alluded to.[294] A contemporary, writing in 1597, refers to these
as an important fund for the support of the poor if duly levied. He
writes: "Whereunto [he is speaking of various means to alleviate poverty]
if we adde the forfaiture of 12 pence for euerie householders
absence from Church (man and woman) forenoone and after, Sunday and
holiday (according to the statute without sufficient cause alledged)
to be duely collected by Churchwardens and other appointed to that
end, with the like regard for Wednesday suppers: there would be
sufficient releefe for the poore in all places

...."[295]
Ecclesiastical courts sometimes condemned offenders to pay a fine for the
use of the poor.[296] Sometimes they commuted a penance for money
to go to church-repair or to the parish poor.[297] The churchwardens
or overseers of the poor accounts also mention fines received for
profanation of the Sabbath and for offences during service time.[298]
The Star Chamber often condemned offenders, especially enclosers
of cottage land and engrossers of corn, to fines for the benefit
of the poor.[299] Finally, most parishes derived some income from
fining men various sums for refusing parish offices; for neglect
of duty when in office; and for not attending duly called vestry
meetings.

Sometimes a parishioner would pay down a large lump sum for exemption
forever from all offices served by the parishioners.[300]
Yet another irregular but appreciable means of revenue might
be classed under the heading of _Miscellaneous Receipts_.

As the parishioners were always eager to turn an honest penny for their
own benefit, no possible source of receipts was neglected. If, for
instance, any part of the church or the church premises might, temporarily
or permanently, be rented out without drawing upon the community
the censure of the ordinary, the parishioners were happy to do so. Owners
of structures of any kind encroaching upon the churchyard, or other church
land, were promptly made to pay for the privilege.[301] Occasionally
parishes derived more or less large sums from the sale of parish
valuables. The sale of costly vestments, embroideries, hangings, images,
chalices, pyxes and other church furnishings and ornaments condemned
as superstitious by the Anglican church, brought some income to
the wardens of most parishes during the first years of Elizabeth.

Examples will be found in all the accounts.
Now and then, too, a parish would make a large sum from the sale of the
wood or other products of parish lands.[302] A fairly common item in city
parishes especially were fees paid for licences to eat flesh during Lent
and on other legal fast days.[303]
When an Elizabethan parish undertook some work on a great scale,
such as the rebuilding of its church, or of the church steeple; or,
again, when it had suffered great losses by fire or flood, it
solicited through _Begging Proctors_ the _Contributions of Outsiders_,
sometimes from all parts of England.[304]
To terminate our enumeration of means of raising money, or of
contributions of all sorts on which the wardens could count (as
apart from rates, properly so-called), we might mention _Fixed
Contributions_, of money or of labor, issuing out of certain
tenements; and _Annual Payments to Mother Churches_.

Certain lands or houses, generally abutting on the church grounds,
had fixed upon them the obligation to repair a certain portion of the
churchyard enclosure, Tenement X, so many feet of fence, Tenement
Y, such a portion of brick or stone wall, and so forth.[305]
Sometimes also certain houses or lands are spoken of as yielding so much
a year for the repair of the church and the support of the
poor.[306] Incidentally we might mention--though hardly connected with
parish finance--certain payments for church repair, etc., claimed
of old by some cathedral churches from the parishes of the diocese.
Originally a tax varying from a farthing to a penny for each household
(hence the names "smoke farthings," "hearth penny," "smoke silver"),
the payments were commuted for a small lump sum exacted yearly.

Thus we find in the Elizabethan accounts mention of "St. Swithin
farthings;"[307] of "Ely farthings;"[308] of "Lincoln farthings,"[309]
etc., according to the _name_ of the cathedral to which they were paid;
or, again, of "Whitsun farthings;" of "Pentecost farthings," etc.,
according to the _time_ of the year at which the payments were made.[310]
These payments must not be confused with "Peter's pence," which had
before the Reformation been paid by English parishes to Rome.[311]
Lastly the mother parish church, in large parishes requiring chapels
of ease, would exact (when it could) contributions from those
congregations who frequented for ordinary divine worship these chapels
of ease within the parish. And these exactions would be made irrespective
of the fact that these congregations were bound to repair their
own chapels and possessed their own churchwardens.[312]
When the means or expedients we have hitherto set forth were found
insufficient, or impracticable, or too tardy for an emergency, the
parish was compelled to resort to _Rates_ or _Assessments_.

Assessments were levied in all sorts of ways and for all sorts of purposes.
In an emergency, or if the sum to be raised was not large,
a levy might be made by the principal men of the parish upon
themselves only.[313] A "rate" might, however, be made to collect
a very small sum, as well as a very large one.[314] All kinds of
units or rules of assessment were resorted to from parish to parish,
and (apparently) sometimes no fixed unit at all was taken, men's
ability to pay being roughly gauged, or a man being permitted to
rate himself,[315] or give his "benevolence."

In the wardens' accounts are frequently seen long lists of
names, each being taxed at a sum varying from 1/2d. to three or four
shillings.
Such lists may represent an attempt to tax each man at 1/2d. or 1d.
in the pound, or, likely as not, it may merely mean a crude sizing up
of the ability of each to contribute.

Furthermore, a "rate" might consist in a fixed sum, the same for all,
and levied by polls or by households,[316] say 1d. or 2d. each. Or, again,
it might be levied by pews at varying sums.[317] Assessments to pay the
parish clerk or sexton might sometimes be made in kind, and issue from
households, from cottages, or from ploughlands: so much corn at Easter,
so much bread, so many eggs.[318]
When it came to the more accurate basing of rates upon lands, or goods
at a valuation, the inhabitants of the various communities observed
no uniform ratio of taxation from parish to parish, nor even in
the same parish, and disputes were always recurring.[319]
It must be borne in mind that parish financiering was largely of
the hand-to-mouth variety.

Indeed, it was difficult it should be otherwise, for the exigencies
of the civil or the ecclesiastical authorities were constantly shifting,
now a petty lump sum being required (and to be spent as soon as raised),
now a great one to be disbursed in the same manner.

In conclusion, a few observations on the parish as a financial
unit in connection with county government may be made. There seems to
have been no general treasury at the disposal of the hundred or
of the county, but merely certain treasurers charged with the disbursement
of this or that special collection for this or that special purpose.
A collection is made by order of the justices, for instance, in
certain hundreds, or throughout the shire, for the support of the
prisoners in the county gaol, and a treasurer for the fund is
appointed.

Or it may be that this treasurer is a more or less permanent official. And
so with collections for hospitals, for houses of correction, for great
bridges, etc. If the constables levied more than was sufficient for a
parish, or if the contemplated disbursement turned out to be less
than originally estimated, the surplus, if the justices had no
immediate use for it, might be returned to that parish to go back into
the pockets of the rate payers.[320] Furthermore, it seems scarcely
accurate in Elizabethan times to speak of any _county rate_,[321] for
there was no recognized basis of assessment common to all parishes,
unless it were at any given time the then prevailing subsidy rate, and a
rating according to the subsidy books by the justices would fail to reach
many whom a parish rating might attain. As a matter of fact the
justices, when they had a large sum to levy on the county at large, almost
always apportioned it in lump sums among the hundreds, or among the
parishes of their respective divisions, according to "the bygnes
or smallnes of their parishes

."[322] It comes, then, to all practical intents and purposes to
this: that each parish is left to produce according to its own local
methods, or rating, the wherewithal for carrying on county
government.

While in local government itself the parishioners have practically
no voice, the large measure of freedom they enjoy for the devising
of ways and means to meet the demands made upon them (though they have
no option whatever in granting or withholding supplies) gives to the
parish a vigorous entity and a certain autonomous life of its own, which
otherwise it never could have possessed over against the all-regulating
and inquisitorial Tudor machinery of Church and State.

As the reign advanced the parish developed a selfish, jealous and exclusive
gild life of its own, especially under the operation of the poor
laws.

Non-parishioners, or "foreigners," were viewed with the strongest suspicion.
Generally they were discriminated against if they happened to have
dealings with the parish.

Wedding or funeral fees were doubled in their cases.[323] If the parishioners
could have had their will no alien poor could have gained a settlement
amongst them--no, not even after twenty years' residence. In 1598
the West Riding, Yorkshire, justices were compelled to interfere
in favor of divers poor persons in various parishes, where officers were
seeking to expel them as vagrants born elsewhere, though they had been
domiciled in their adopted communities for twenty years and upwards.[324]

Already that "organized hypocrisy," so characteristic of parish life in
later reigns, shows itself in the many presentments of, and petitions
against, persons supposedly immoral--especially single women. Not zeal
for morality prompts these indictments, but fear that the community may
have to support illegitimate children.[325] Quite typical of the times
is the language held by the inhabitants of Castle Combe in appealing
to the Wiltshire justices against a townwoman in 1606. They are apprehensive,
they say, lest "by this licentious life of hers not only God's wrath may
be powered downe uppon us ... but also hir evill example may so greatly
corrupt others than great and extraordinary charge ... may be imposed
uppon us
But the Universalist, because he finds it impossible to explain the
action of matter, because unable to state why it exhibits such vast and
various energies as it is seen to exhibit, is none the less assured it
_naturally_ and therefore _necessarily_ acts thus energetically. No
Universalist pretends to understand how bread nourishes his frame, but
of the _fact_ that bread does nourish it he is well assured. He
understands not how or why two beings should, by conjunction, give
vitality to a third being more or less analogous to themselves, but the
_fact_ stares him in the face.

Our 'sophists in surplices,' who can no otherwise bolster up their
supernatural system than by outraging all such rules of philosophising
as forbid us to choose the greater of two difficulties, or to multiply
causes without necessity, are precisely the men to explain everything.
But unfortunately their explanations do, for the most part, stand more
in need of explanation than the thing explained. Thus, they explain the
origin of matter by reference to an occult, immense, and immensely
mysterious phantasm without body, parts or passions, who sees though not
to be seen, hears though not to be heard, feels though not to be felt,
moves though not to be moved, knows though not to be known, and, in
short, does everything, though not to be _done_ by anything. Well might
Godwin say _the rage of accounting for what is obviously unaccountable,
so common among philosophers of this stamp, has brought philosophy
itself into discredit_.

There is an argument against the notion of a Supernatural Causer which
the author does not remember to have met with, but which he considers an
argument of great force--it is this. Cause means change, and as there
manifestly could not be change before there was anything to change, to
conceive the universe caused is impossible.

That the sense here attached to the word cause is not a novel one every
reader knows who has seen an elaborate and ably written article by Mr.
G.H. Lewes, on 'Spinoza's Life and Works,' where effect is defined as
cause realised; the _natura naturans_ conceived as _natura naturata_;
and cause or causation is define as simply change. When, says Mr. Lewes,
the change is completed, we name the result effect. It is only a matter
of naming.

These definitions conceded accurate, the conclusion that neither cause
nor effect _exist_, seems inevitable, for change of being is not being
itself any more than attraction is the thing attracted. One might as
philosophically erect attraction into reality and fall down and worship
_it_ as change which is in very truth a mere "matter of naming." Not so
the things changing or changed; _they_ are real, the prolific parent of
all appearance we behold, of all sensation we experience, of all ideas
we receive, in short, of all causes and of all effects, which causes and
effects, as shown by Mr. Lewis, are merely notional, for "we call the
antecedent cause, and the sequent effect; but these are merely relative
conceptions; the sequence itself is antecedent to some subsequent
change, and the former antecedent was once only a sequent to its cause,
and so on."

Ancient Simonides, when asked by Dionysius to explain the nature of
Deity, demanded a day to "see about it," then an additional two days,
and then four days more, thus wisely intimating to his silly pupil, that
the more men think about Gods, the less competent they are to give any
rational account of them.

Cicero was sensible and candid enough to acknowledge that he found it
much easier to say what God was not, than what he was. Like Simonides,
he was _mere_ Pagan, and like him, arguing from the known course of
nature, was unable, with all his mastery of talk, to convey positive
ideas of Deity. But how should he convey to others what he did not,
could not, himself possess? To him no revolution had been vouchsafed,
and though my Lord Brougham is quite sure, without the proof of natural
Theology, revelation has no other basis than mere tradition; we have
even better authority than his Lordship's for the staggering fact that
natural Theology, without the prop of revelation, is a 'rhapsody of
words,' mere jargon, analogous to the tale told by an idiot, so happily
described by our great poet as 'full of sound and fury, signifying
nothing.' We have a Rev. Hugh M'Neil 'convinced that, from external
creation, no right conclusion can be drawn concerning the _moral_
character of God,' and that 'creation is too deeply and disastrously
blotted in consequence of man's sin, to admit of any satisfactory result
from an adequate contemplation of nature.' [42:1] We have a Gillespie
setting aside the Design Argument, on the ground that the reasonings by
which it is supported are 'inapt' to show such attributes as infinity,
omnipresence, free agency, omnipotency, eternality, or unity,' belong in
any way to God. On this latter attribute he specially enlarges, and
after allowing the contrivances we observe in nature, may establish a
unity of _counsel_, desires to be told how they can establish a unity of
_substance_. [42:2] We have Dr. Chalmors and Bishop Watson, whose
capacities were not the meanest, contending that there is no natural
proof of a God, and that we must trust solely to revelation. [42:3] We
have the Rev. Mr. Faber in his 'Difficulties of Infidelity' boldly
affirming that no one ever did, or ever will 'prove without the aid of
revelation, that the universe was designed by a _single_ designer.'
Obviously, then, there is a division in the religious camp with respect
to the sufficiency of natural Theology, unhelped by revelation. By three
of the four Christian authors just quoted, the design argument is
treated with contempt. Faber says, 'evident design must needs imply a
designer,' and that 'evident design shines out in every part of the
universe.' But he also tells us 'we reason exclusively, if with the
Deist we thence infer the existence of one and only one Supreme
Designer.' By Gillespie and M'Neil, the same truth is told in other
words. By Chalmers and Watson we are assured that, natural proof of a
God there is none, and our trust must be placed solely in revelation;
while Brougham, another Immense Being worshipper, declares that
revelation derives its chief support from natural Theology, without
which it has 'no other basis than vague tradition.'

Now, Universalists agree with Lord Brougham as to the traditionary basis
of Scripture; and as they also agree with Chalmers and Watson with
respect to there being no natural proof of a God, they stand acquitted
to their own consciences of 'wilful deafness' and 'obstinate blindness,'
in rejecting as inadequate the evidence that 'God is,' drawn either from
Nature, Revelation, or both.

It was long a Protestant custom to taunt Roman Catholics with being
divided among themselves as regards topics vitally important, and to
draw from the fact of such division an argument for making Scripture the
only 'rule of faith and manners.' Chillingworth said, _there are Popes
against Popes, councils against councils, some fathers against others,
the same fathers against themselves--a consent of fathers of one age
against a consent of fathers of another age, the church of one age
against the church of another age. Traditive interpretations of
Scripture are pretended, but there are few or none to be found. No
tradition but only of Scripture can derive itself from the fountain, but
may be plainly proved, either to have been brought in in such an age
after Christ, or that in such an age it was not in. In a word, there is
no sufficient certainty but of Scripture only for any considering man to
build on_. [43:1] And after reading this should 'any considering man'
be anxious to know something about the Scripture on which alone he is to
build, he cannot do better than dip into Dr. Watt's book on the right
use of Reason, where we are told _every learned (Scripture) critic has
his own hypothesis, and if the common text be not favourable to his
views a various lection shall be made authentic. The text must be
supposed to be defective or redundant, and the sense of it shall be
literal or metaphorical according as it best supports his own scheme.
Whole chapters or books shall be added or left out of the sacred canon,
or be turned into parables by this influence. Luther knew not well how
to reconcile the epistle of St. James to the doctrine of justification
by faith alone, and so he could not allow it to be divine. The Papists
bring all their Apocrypha into their Bible, and stamp divinity upon it,
for they can fancy purgatory is there, and they find prayers for the
dead. But they leave out the second commandment because it forbids the
worship of images. Others suppose the Mosaic history of the creation,
and the full of man, to be oriental ornaments, or a mere allegory,
because the literal sense of those three chapters of Genesis do not
agree with their theories._

These remarks are certainly not calculated to make 'considering men' put
their trust in Scripture. Coming from a Protestant Divine of such high
talent and learning, they may rather be expected to breed in
'considering men' very unorthodox opinions as well of the authenticity
as the genuineness of _both_ Testaments, and a strong suspicion that
Chillingworth was joking when he talked about their "sufficient
certainty." The author has searched Scripture in vain for 'sufficient
certainty,' with respect to the long catalogue of religious beliefs
which agitate and distract society. Laying claim to the character of a
'considering man,' he requires that Scripture to be proved the word of a
God before appealed to, as His Revelation; a feat no man has yet
accomplished. Priests, the cleverest, most industrious, and least
scrupulous, have tried their hands at the pious work, but all have
failed. Notwithstanding the mighty labours of our Lardner's and
Tillemont's and Mosheim's, no case is made out for the divinity of
either the Old or New Testament. 'Infidels' have shown the monstrous
absurdity of supposing that any one book has an atom more divinity about
it than any other book. These 'brutes' have completely succeeded in
proving that Christianity is a superstition no less absurd than
Mohammedanism, and to the full as mischievous.

Christian practice is after all, the best answer to Christian theory.
Men who think wisely, do not, it is true, always act wisely; but
generally speaking, the moral, like the physical tree, is known by its
fruit, and bitter, most bitter, is the fruit of that moral tree, the
followers of Jesus planted. Notwithstanding their talk about the pure
and benign influence of their religion, an opinion is fast gaining
ground, that Bishop Kidder was right, when he said, _were a wise man to
judge of religion by the lives of its professors, perhaps, Christianity
is the last he would choose_.

He who agrees with Milton that

          To know what every day before us lies
          Is the prime wisdom,

will in all likelihood not object to cast his eyes around and about him,
where proofs of modern priestly selfishness are in wonderful abundance.
By way of example may be cited the cases of those right reverend Fathers
in God the Bishops of London and Chester, prelates high in the church;
disposers of enormous wealth with influence almost incalculable; the
former more especially. And how stand they affected towards the poor? By
reference to the _Times_ newspaper of September 27th, 1845, it will be
seen that those very influential and wealthy Bishops are supporters _en
chef_ of a Reformed Poor Law,' the virtual principle of which is 'to
reduce the condition of those whose necessities oblige them to apply for
relief, below that of the labourer of the _lowest class_.' A Reformed
Poor Law, having for its 'object,' yes reader, its object, the
restoration of the pauper to a position below that of the independent
labourer.' This is their 'standard' of reference, by rigid attention to
which they hope to fully carry out their 'vital principle,' and thus
bring to a satisfactory conclusion the great work of placing 'the pauper
in a worse condition than the 'independent labourer.' It appears, from
the same journal, that in reply to complaints against their dietary, the
Commissioners appointed to work the Reformed Poor Law, consider that
twenty-one ounces of food daily 'is more than the hard working labourer
with a family could accomplish for himself by his own exertions.' This,
observes a writer in the _Times_, being the Commissioners' reading of
their own 'standard,' it may be considered superfluous to refer to any
other authority; but, as the Royal Agricultural Society of England have
clubbed their general information on this subject in a compilation from
a selection of essays submitted to them, we are bound to refer to such
witnesses who give the most precise information on the actual condition
of the _independent labourer_, with minute instructions for his general
guidance, and the economical expenditure of his income. 'He should,'
they say, 'toil early and late' to make himself 'perfect' in his
calling. 'He should _pinch and screw_ the family, even in the _commonest
necessaries_,' until he gets 'a week's wages to the fore.' He should
drink in his work 'water mixed with some powdered ginger,' which warms
the stomach, and is 'extremely cheap.' He should remember that 'from
three to four pounds of potatoes are equal in point of nourishment to a
pound of the best wheaten bread, besides having the great advantage of
_filling_ the stomach. Sometimes well-to-do parishioners with good credit
would themselves borrow parish money, returning ten per cent.
for its use.[243] Usually, however, parish money was loaned gratis,
the parish taking sureties for its repayment and sometimes articles of
value, being, apparently, not always above doing a little pawnbroking
business.[244] On the other hand, when the parish itself had occasion
to borrow money it would occasionally give its own valuables as security.
Thus the Mere, Wiltshire, wardens record in 1556 that they have redeemed
on the repayment of 40s. to one Cowherd, "borowed of hym to thuse
of the Churche," "certeyn sylver Spones of the Churche stocke

."[245] Finally, parishes would now and then make some cautious speculation
in real estate, such as the buying of a local market or fair with
a view to profit.[246]
Leaving the subject of endowments we shall now take up in order
the measures which may be called _Parish Expedients for raising
money_.

Of all means ever devised for obtaining large sums of money for parish
uses, the most popular, as certainly the most efficacious, was the
_Church-ale_. Widespread during the first years of Elizabeth's reign,
church-ales, for reasons hereafter to be mentioned, ceased to be held
in many parishes towards the end of the reign. They constitute, nevertheless,
at all times during the 16th century an important chapter in the history
of parochial finance.

In some wardens' accounts the proceeds of these ales form a yearly recurring
and an ordinary receipt item; in others ales were resorted to when
some unusually large sum had to be raised, or some heavy expense was to
be met, such as the rebuilding of the church tower, the recasting of the
bells, the raising of a stock to set the poor to work, or the
buying of a silver communion cup.[247] Frequently, also, funds were
raised by means of ales called clerk-ales, sexton-ales, etc., to
pay the wages of clerks, sextons and other servants of the parish.

"For in poore Countrey Parishes," writes an early 17th century bishop,
"where the wages of the Clerke is very small, the people ... were wont
to send him in Provision, and then feast with him, and give him
more liberality then their quarterly payments [or offerings] would
amount unto in many years." Indeed, he continues, since these ales have
been abolished "some ministers have complained unto me, that
they are afrayd they shall have no Parish Clerks for want of
maintenance for them

."[248]
Church-ales were usually held at or near Whitsuntide, hence they
were also called Whitsun-ales or May-ales in the accounts. If the occasion
were an extraordinary one, and it was sought to realize a large sum,
notices were sent to the surrounding parishes, say to ten, fifteen, or
more, to be read aloud from the pulpits of their respective churches
after service, which notices contained invitations to any and all
to come and spend their money in feasting and drinking for the benefit
of the parish giving the ale. As the day approached for the opening
of the ale, which, if it were a great one, would be kept for four or
five days or more, all was bustle in the parish to prepare for
a feasting which often assumed truly Gargantuan proportions.
The mighty genius of Bacon was not proof
against then, and he who deserves to occupy a place among 'the wisest
and greatest' has been 'damned to eternal fame' as the 'meanest of
mankind.'

Nor are avarice and lust of power the only base passions under the
influence of which men, great in intellect, have given the lie to their
own convictions, by calling that religion which they knew to be rank
superstition. Fear of punishment for writing truth is the grand cause
why their books contain so little of it. If Bacon had openly treated
Christianity as mere superstition, will any one say that his life would
have been worth twenty-four hours' purchase?

There is an old story about a certain lady who said to her physician,
'Doctor, what is your religion?' My religion, madame, replied the
Doctor, 'is the religion of all sensible men.' 'What kind of religion is
that?' said the lady. 'The religion, madame,' quoth the Doctor, 'that no
sensible man will tell.'

This doctor may be given as a type of the class of shrewd people who
despise superstition, but will say nothing about it, lest by so doing
they give a shock to prejudice, and thus put in peril certain
professional or other emoluments. Too sensible to be pious, and too
cautious to be honest, they must be extremely well paid ere they will
incur the risk attendant upon a confession of anti-superstitious faith.

Animated by a vile spirit of accommodation, their whole sum of practical
wisdom can be told in four words--BE SILENT AND SAFE. They are amazed at
the 'folly' of these who make sacrifices at the shrine of sincerity; and
while sagacious enough to perceive that superstition is a clumsy
political contrivance, are not wanting in the prudence which dictates at
least a _seeming_ conformity to prevailing prejudices.

None have done more to perpetrate error than these time-serving 'men of
the world,' for instead of boldly attacking it, they preserve a prudent
silence which bigots do not fail to interpret as consent. Mosheim says,
[47:1] 'The simplicity and ignorance of the generality in those times
(fifth century) furnished the most favourable occasion for the exercise
of fraud; and the impudence of impostors, in contriving false miracles,
was artfully proportioned to the credulity of the vulgar, while the
sagacious and the wise, who perceived these cheats, were overawed into
silence by the dangers that threatened their lives and fortunes, if they
should expose the artifice. When the Ealing wardens were "detected"
to the chancellor of the bishop of London because they had no pulpit-cloth,
no poor-box, nor the Paraphrases of Erasmus, they appeared and
declared in court that they had not provided these things "nor can
do it, for that there is no churche stock wherewith to do it."

Hereupon they were admonished that the judge's pleasure was that they
should procure Mr. Fleetwood and Mr. Knight (evidently two prominent
parishioners) to make an assessment on the parish in order to
purchase these articles, and further that they (the wardens) should
certify to the court at a later day fixed that the rate had been laid
and the missing requisites bought, unless, indeed, some refused
to pay, in which case their names should be handed into court.[81] So,
again, when rector and wardens of Sutton were presented in the same
court for letting their church go to ruin, they protested that the
reason was that £40 "will skant repayre it, and that so mutch
cannot be levied of all the land in the p[ar]ishe." But this excuse
was not for a moment admitted, and they were warned to appear in
the next consistory court to take out a warrant for the assessment of
the lands.[82]
Though the wardens did not themselves in practice always make the rate
directed by the archdeacon, yet they were held responsible for its
making.

So true was this that if, after a duly called parish meeting for the
purpose of laying the rate in obedience to the archdeacon's orders, no
parishioners appear, then, in the words of the archdeacon's official
to the wardens of Ramsden Bellhouse (Essex): "if the inhabitants of the
said p[ar]ish will not join with the said church wardens &c., that
then the said churchwardens shall themselves make a rate for the
leveinge of the said charges [etcMen who dare not be 'mentally faithful' to
themselves may obstruct, but cannot advance, the interests of truth. In
legislation, in law, in all the relations of life, we want honesty _not_
piety. There is plenty of piety, and to spare, but of honesty--sterling,
bold, uncompromising honesty--even the best regulated societies can
boast a very small stock. The men best qualified to raise the veil under
which truth lies concealed from vulgar gaze, are precisely the men who
fear to do it. Examples taken promiscuously from the wardens accounts
of the day are: "paid for three prayer books for the good successe
of the French Kinge;" "paid for a prayer of thankes gevinge for ye
over throwe of the Rebelles in the North." In many accounts occur
items for books of prayers "for the Earthquake," or "against the
Turke," or "Omelies against the rebells," or "in plague tyme," etc

          .

[161] A number of ballads dating from the reigns of Elizabeth and
James have been very recently (Oxon. 1907) published by Mr.



[8:1] 'Essay on Providence and a Future State.'

[9:1] Essay of the Academical or Sceptical Philosophy. [9:2] Critical
remarks on Lord Brougham's 'Lives of Men of Letters and Science, who
flourished in the time of George III.'--The _Times_, Wednesday, October
1, 1845.

[10:1] History of American Savages.

[11:1] Appendix the Second to 'Plutarchus and Theophrastus on
Superstition.'

[11:2] Philosophy of History.

[12:1] See a Notice of Lord Brougham's Political Philosophy, in the
number for April, 1845Incumbents, wardens and sidemen were almost always in attendance.

Schoolmasters usually so when there were such.

Delinquent parishioners were of course cited in person, or remanded to
appear at the next court day holden elsewhere.

Upon non-appearance the formula usually entered by the registrar or scribe
in the act-book was "_et omnes et singulos hujusmodi non comparentes
[judex] pronuntiavit contumaces et eos excommunicavit in scriptis_."

At Alnwick in 1578 fifteen persons were excommunicated for
non-attendance.

J.K. Smith.

[31:1] 'An Address on Cerebral Physiology and Materialism,' delivered to
the Phrenological Association In London, June 20, 1842.

[33:1] Principia Mathematica, p. 528, Lond. edit., 1720.

[38:1] Lessing.

[42:1] Lecture by the Rev. .

[247] As late as 1633 the bishop of Bath and Wells could write to
Archbishop Laud: "I finde that by Church-ales hertofore many poore
Parishes have cast their Bells, repaired their Towers, beautified
their Churches, and raised stocks for the poore."



[42:3] Page 106 of a Discussion on the Existence of God, between Origen
Batchelor and R.D. Owen.

[43:1] Quoted by Dr. Samuel Clarke, in his introduction to the Scripture
Doctrine of the Trinity.

[47:1] Ecclesiastical History, vol. ii, page 11.

[48:1] Manicheisme, tome ii, p. 568.