Produced by Vital Debroey, Charles Aldarondo
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


[Frontispice illustration: "Come on, Smoke, we've gotter go now."]


       THAT PRINTER OF UDELL'S


      A STORY OF THE MIDDLE WEST


       BY HAROLD BELL WRIGHT


           DEDICATION

  TO THAT FRIEND WHOSE LIFE HAS TAUGHT ME
  MANY BEAUTIFUL TRUTHS; WHOSE WORDS
  HAVE STRENGTHENED AND ENCOURAGED ME
  TO LIVE MORE TRUE TO MY GOD, MY FELLOWS
  AND MYSELF; WHO HOPED FOR ME WHEN
  OTHERS LOST HOPE; WHO BELIEVED IN ME
  WHEN OTHERS COULD NOT; WHO SAW GOOD
  WHEN OTHERS LOOKED FOR EVIL; TO THAT
  FRIEND, WHOEVER HE IS, WHEREVER HE MAY
  BE, I AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATE THIS STORY.

                   H. B. W.


  "And the King shall answer and say unto
  them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch
  as ye did it unto one of these my brethren,
  even these least, ye did it unto me."


CHAPTER I


"O God, take ker' o' Dick!--He'll sure have a tough time when I'm
gone,--an' I'm er' goin'--mighty fast I reckon.--I know I aint done
much ter brag on,--Lord,--but I aint had nary show.After she was
released from slavery Matilda came with her parents to the Monticello
section, where the Knoxes became paid house servants. The parents took
an active part in politics in the section, and Matilda was sent to
school.--But Dick,
he aint no ways ter blame--fer what his dad an' mammy is,--an' I ax
ye--fair,--o Lord,--take ker o' him--fer--Jesus' sake--Amen."

"Dick!--O Dick,--whar are ye honey?"

A hollow-cheeked wisp of a boy arose from the dark corner where he had
been crouching like a frightened animal, and with cautious steps drew
near the bed. Timidly he touched the wasted hand that lay upon the
dirty coverlid.

"What ye want, maw?"

The woman hushed her moaning and turned her face, upon which the shadow
was already fallen, toward the boy. "I'm er goin'--mighty fast,--Dicky,"
she said, in a voice that was scarcely audible. "Whar's yer paw?"

Bending closer to the face upon the pillow, the lad pointed with
trembling finger toward the other end of the cabin and whispered, while
his eyes grew big with fear, "Sh--, he's full ergin. Bin down ter th'
stillhouse all evenin'--Don't stir him, maw, er we'll git licked some
more. Tell me what ye want."

But his only answer was that broken prayer as the sufferer turned to
the wail again. "O Lord, take ker o'--"

A stick of wood in the fire-place burned in two and fell with a soft
thud on the ashes; a lean hound crept stealthily to the boy's side and
thrust a cold muzzle against his ragged jacket; in the cupboard a mouse
rustled over the rude dishes and among the scanty handful of provisions.

Then, cursing foully in his sleep, the drunkard stirred uneasily and
the dog slunk beneath the bed, while the boy stood shaking with fear
until all was still again. Reaching out, he touched once more that
clammy hand upon the dirty coverlid. No movement answered to his touch.
Reaching farther, he cautiously laid his fingers upon the ashy-colored
temple, awkwardly brushing back a thin lock of the tangled hair. The
face, like the hand, was cold. With a look of awe and horror in his
eyes, the child caught his parent by the shoulder and shook the lifeless
form while he tried again and again to make her hear his whispered
words.

"Maw! Maw! Wake up; hit'l be day purty soon an' we can go and git some
greens; an' I'll take the gig an' kill some fish fer you; the's a big
channel cat in the hole jes' above the riffles; I seed 'im ter day
when I crost in the john boat. Say Maw, I done set a dead fall
yester'd', d' reckon I'll ketch anythin'? Wish't it 'ud be a coon,
don't you?--Maw! O Maw, the meal's most gone. I only made a little
pone las' night; thar's some left fer you. Shant I fix ye some 'fore
dad wakes up?"

But there was no answer to his pleading, and, ceasing his efforts, the
lad sank on his knees by the rude bed, not daring even to give open
expression to his grief lest he arouse the drunken sleeper by the
fireplace. For a long time he knelt there, clasping the cold hand of
his lifeless mother, until the lean hound crept again to his side, and
thrusting that cold muzzle against his cheek, licked the salt tears,
that fell so hot.

At last, just as the first flush of day stained the eastern sky, and
the light tipped the old pine tree on the hill with glory, the boy
rose to his feet. Placing his hand on the head of his only comforter,
he whispered, "Come on, Smoke, we've gotter go now." And together boy
and dog crept softly across the room and stole out of the cabin
door--out of the cabin door, into the beautiful light of the new day.
And the drunken brute still slept on the floor by the open fire-place,
but the fire was dead upon the hearth.

"He can't hurt maw any more, Smoke," said the lad, when the two were
at a safe distance. "No, he sure can't lick her agin, an' me an' you
kin rustle fer ourselves, I reckon."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sixteen years later, in the early gray of another morning, a young man
crawled from beneath a stack of straw on the outskirts of Boyd City,
a busy, bustling mining town of some fifteen thousand people, in one
of the middle western states, many miles from the rude cabin that stood
beneath the hill.

The night before, he had approached the town from the east, along the
road that leads past Mount Olive, and hungry, cold and weary, had
sought shelter of the friendly stack, much preferring a bed of straw
and the companionship of cattle to any lodging place he might find in
the city, less clean and among a ruder company.

It was early March and the smoke from a nearby block of smelters was
lost in a chilling mist, while a raw wind made the young man shiver
as he stood picking the bits of straw from his clothing. When he had
brushed his garments as best he could and had stretched his numb and
stiffened limbs, he looked long and thoughtfully at the city lying
half hidden in its shroud of gray.

"I wonder"--he began, talking to himself and thinking grimly of the
fifteen cents in his right-hand pants pocket--"I wonder if--"

"Mornin' pard," said a voice at his elbow. "Ruther late when ye got
in las' night, warn't it?"

The young man jumped, and turning faced a genuine specimen of the genus
hobo. "Did you sleep in this straw-stack last night?" he ejaculated,
after carefully taking the ragged fellow's measure with a practiced
eye.

"Sure; this here's the hotel whar I put up--slept in the room jes'
acrost the hall from your'n.--Whar ye goin' ter eat?"--with a hungry
look.

"Don't know. Did you have any supper last night?"

"Nope, supper was done et when I got in."

"Same here."

"I didn't have nothin' fer dinner neither," continued the tramp, "an'
I'm er gettin' powerful weak."

The other thought of his fifteen cents. "Where are you going?" he said
shortly.

The ragged one jerked his thumb toward the city. "Hear'd as how thar's
a right smart o' work yonder and I'm on the hunt fer a job."

"What do you do?"

"Tendin' mason's my strong-holt. I've done most ever'thing though;
used ter work on a farm, and puttered round a saw-mill some in the
Arkansaw pineries. Aim ter strike a job at somethin' and go back thar
where I know folks. Nobody won't give a feller nuthin' in this yer
God-fer-saken country; haint asked me ter set down fer a month. Back
home they're allus glad ter have a man eat with 'em. Snellings, the
master's wife.

Mack being quite young did not have any particular duties assigned to
him, but stayed around the Snellings mansion and played.

Sometimes "marster" Snellings would take him on his knee and talk to
him. Mack remembers that he often told him that some day he was going
to be a noble man. He said that he was going to make him the
head overseer. He would often give him candy and money and take him
in his buggy for a ride.

"Come on," he said at last, "I've got fifteen cents; I reckon we can
find something to eat." And the two set out toward the city together.

Passing a deserted mining shaft and crossing the railroad, they entered
the southern portion of the town, and continued west until they reached
the main street, where they stopped at a little grocery store on the
corner. The one with the fifteen cents invested two-thirds of his
capital in crackers and cheese, his companion reminding the grocer
meanwhile that he might throw in a little extra, "seein' as how they
were the first customers that mornin'." The merchant, good-naturedly
did so, and then turned to answer the other's question about work.

"What can you do?"

"I'm a printer by trade, but will do anything."

"How does it happen you are out of work?"

"I was thrown out by the Kansas City strike and have been unable to
find a place since."

"Is he looking for work too?" with a glance that made his customer's
face flush, and a nod toward the fellow from Arkansas, who sat on a
box near the stove rapidly making away with more than his half of the
breakfast.

The other shrugged his shoulders, "We woke up in the same straw-stack
this morning and he was hungry, that's all."

"Well," returned the store-keeper, as he dropped the lid of the cracker
box with a bang, "You'll not be bothered with him long if you are
really hunting a job."

"You put me on the track of a job and I'll show you whether I mean
business or not," was the quick reply. To which the grocer made answer
as he turned to his task of dusting the shelves: "There's lots of work
in Boyd City and lots of men to do it."

The stranger had walked but a little way down the street when a voice
close behind him said, "I'm erbliged ter ye for the feed, pard; reckon
I'll shove erlong now."

He stopped and the other continued: "Don't much like the looks of this
yer' place no how, an' a feller w'at jes' come by, he said as how thar
war heaps o' work in Jonesville, forty miles below. Reckon I'll shove
erlong. Aint got the price of er drink hev' ye? Can't ye set 'em up
jest fer old times' sake ye know?" and a cunning gleam crept into the
bloodshot eyes of the vagabond.

The other started as he looked keenly at the bloated features of the
creature before him, and there was a note of mingled fear and defiance
in his voice as he said, "What do you mean? What do you know about old
times?"

The tramp shuffled uneasily, but replied with a knowing leer,
"Aint ye Dicky Falkner what used ter live cross the river from
Jimpson's still-house?"

"Well, what of it?" The note of defiance was stronger.

"Oh nuthin, only I'm Jake Tompkins, that used ter work fer Jimpson at
the still. Me 'n yer daddy war pards; I used ter set 'em up ter him
heap o' times."

"Yes," replied Dick bitterly, "I know you now. You gave my father
whiskey and then laughed when he went home drunk and drove my mother
from the cabin to spend the night in the brush. You know it killed
her."

"Yer maw allus was weakly-like," faltered the other; "she'd no call
ter hitch up with Bill Falkner no how; she ort ter took a man with
book larnin' like her daddy, ole Jedge White. It allus made yer paw
mad 'cause she knowed more'n him. But Bill lowed he'd tame her an' he
shor' tried hit on. Too bad she went an' died, but she ort ter knowed
a man o' Bill's spirit would a took his licker when he wanted hit. I
recollect ye used ter take a right smart lot yerself fer a kid."

The defiance in the young man's voice gave way to a note of hopeless
despair. "Yes," he said, "you and dad made me drink the stuff before
I was old enough to know what it would do for me." Then, with a bitter
oath, he continued, half to himself, "What difference does it make
anyway. Every time I try to break loose something reaches out and pulls
me down again. I thought I was free this time sure and here comes this
thing. I might as well go to the devil and done with it. Why shouldn't
I drink if I want to; whose business is it but my own?" He looked
around for the familiar sign of a saloon.

"That's the talk," exclaimed the other with a swagger. "That's how yer
paw used ter put it. Your maw warn't much good no how, with her finicky
notions 'bout eddicati'n an' sech. A little pone and baken with plenty
good ol' red eye's good 'nough fer us. Yer maw she--"

But he never finished, for Dick caught him by the throat with his left
hand, the other clenched ready to strike. The tramp shrank back in a
frightened, cowering heap.

"You beast," cried the young man with another oath. "If you dare to
take my mother's name in your foul mouth again I'll kill you with my
bare hands."

"I didn't go fer to do hit. 'Fore God I didn't go ter. Lemme go Dicky;
me'n yer daddy war pards. Lemme go. Yer paw an' me won't bother ye no
more Dicky; he can't; he's dead."

"Dead!" Dick released his grasp and the other sprang to a safe
distance.--"Dead!" He gazed at the quaking wretch before him in
amazement.

The tramp nodded sullenly, feeling at his throat. "Yep, dead," he said
hoarsely. "Me an' him war bummin' a freight out o' St. Louie, an' he
slipped. I know he war killed 'cause I saw 'em pick him up; six cars
went over him an' they kept me in hock fer two months."

Dick sat down on the curbing and buried his face in his hands.
"Dead--Dead"--he softly repeated to himself. "Dad is dead--killed by
the cars in St. Louis.--Dead--Dead--"

Then all the past life came back to him with a rush: the cabin home
across the river from the distillery; the still-house itself, with the
rough men who gathered there; the neighboring shanties with their
sickly, sad-faced women, and dirty, quarreling children; the store and
blacksmith shop at the crossroads in the pinery seven miles away. He
saw the river flowing sluggishly at times between banks of drooping
willows and tall marsh grass, as though smitten with the fatal spirit
of the place, then breaking into hurried movement over pebbly shoals
as though trying to escape to some healthier climate; the hill where
stood the old pine tree; the cave beneath the great rock by the spring;
and the persimmon grove in the bottoms. Then once more he suffered
with his mother, from his drunken father's rage and every detail of
that awful night in the brush, with the long days and nights of sickness
that followed before her death, came back so vividly that he wept again
with his face in his hands as he had cried by the rude bedside in the
cabin sixteen years ago. Then came the years when he had wandered from
his early home and had learned to know life in the great cities. What
a life he had found it. He shuddered as it all came back to him now.
The many times when inspired by the memory of his mother, he had tried
to break away from the evil, degrading things that were in and about
him, and the many times he had been dragged back by the training and
memory of his father; the gambling, the fighting, the drinking, the
periods of hard work, the struggle to master his trade, and the reckless
wasting of wages in times of wild despair again. And now his father
was dead--dead--he shuddered. There was nothing to bind him to the
past now; he was free.

"Can't ye give me that drink, Dicky? Jest one little horn. It'll do
us both good, an' then I'll shove erlong; jes fer old times' sake, ye
know."

The voice of the tramp broke in upon his thoughts. For a moment longer
he sat there; then started to his feet, a new light in his eye; a new
ring in his voice.

