Association / Benedictine University".

*END*THE SMALL PRINT! FOR PUBLIC DOMAIN ETEXTS*Ver.04.29.93*END*


Prayers Written At Vailima by Robert Louis Stevenson
Scanned and proofed by David Price 
ccx074@coventry.ac.uk
Second proofing by Stephen Booth


Prayers Written At Vailima


INTRODUCTION


In every Samoan household the day is closed with prayer and the 
singing of hymns.  The omission of this sacred duty would indicate, 
not only a lack of religious training in the house chief, but a 
shameless disregard of all that is reputable in Samoan social life.  
The wishes of the girl were so far fulfilled that Lady Merrifield
took her to London to provide her outfit, and Mysie accompanied them.
A room and its dressing-room received the three at old Mrs.
Merrifield's, and the two cousins thought their close quarters
ineffably precious.

Mysie was introduced to Maude Sefton, who seemed entirely unconscious
of her treachery to friendship. 'One had so little time, and
couldn't always be writing,' she said, when Dolores reproached
her; 'exercises were enough to tire out one's hand!'
They also drank tea with Lady Phyllis Devereux and her governess.
Fly could not pour forth questions and reminiscences fast enough
about all the beloved animals at Silverton, not forgetting the
little G.F.S.
nursemaid, for whom she had actually made an apron in her plain-work
lessons.Vailima lay up some three miles of continual rise from Apia, and 
more than half that distance from the nearest village.  It was a 
long way for a tired man to walk down every evening with the sole 
purpose of joining in family worship; and the road through the bush 
was dark, and, to the Samoan imagination, beset with supernatural 
terrors.  Wherefore, as soon as our household had fallen into a 
regular routine, and the bonds of Samoan family life began to draw 
us more closely together, Tusitala felt the necessity of including 
our retainers in our evening devotions.  I suppose ours was the 
only white man's family in all Samoa, except those of the 
missionaries, where the day naturally ended with this homely, 
patriarchal custom.  Not only were the religious scruples of the 
natives satisfied, but, what we did not foresee, our own 
respectability - and incidentally that of our retainers - became 
assured, and the influence of Tusitala increased tenfold.

After all work and meals were finished, the 'pu,' or war conch, was 
sounded from the back veranda and the front, so that it might be 
heard by all.  I don't think it ever occurred to us that there was 
any incongruity in the use of the war conch for the peaceful 
invitation to prayer.  In response to its summons the white members 
of the family took their usual places in one end of the large hall, 
while the Samoans - men, women, and children - trooped in through 
all the open doors, some carrying lanterns if the evening were 
dark, all moving quietly and dropping with Samoan decorum in a wide 
semicircle on the floor beneath a great lamp that hung from the 
ceiling.  The service began by my son reading a chapter from the 
Samoan Bible, Tusitala following with a prayer in English, 
sometimes impromptu, but more often from the notes in this little 
book, interpolating or changing with the circumstance of the day.  
Then came the singing of one or more hymns in the native tongue, 
and the recitation in concert of the Lord's Prayer, also in Samoan.  
I am afraid I have been ungracious.'
'I never thought so, Maurice.

It is quite right that she should be with you, and Phyllis will do
every-thing for her much better than I.'
'Poor child! I believe she is very sorry to go,' said Mr. Mohun; 'but,
at any rate, she will remember Silverton as, I hope, a lasting influence
on her life.'
Dolores truly believed that so it would be, and that her aunt's
guidance would be always looked back upon as the turning-point of
her life.

'It is my own fault,' she said, as on the last night she clung
tearfully to Lady Merrifield; 'if I had behaved better I might have
gone on just like one of your own.'
'You will still be in my heart like one of my own, dear child,'
said Lady Merrifield. 'We know the way in which we all can hold
together as one; keep to that, and the distance apart will matter the
less.'
And as they watched Dolores and her father driven away to the station
the next morning, Jane Mohun laid her hand on her sister's arm and
said, 'You thought you had made a great failure.

Lily, but is not the other side of a failure often a success?'
By-and-by came letters from Dolores. She seemed after the first
to have enjoyed her journey, for, as she wrote to Lady
Merrifield, in a letter, very private, and all to her own self, 'Father
was so very good and kind to me, I don't know how to tell you.
It was as if a little bit of mother had got into him, and now I
am here I think I shall like the Mays. Indeed, I am trying to
remember your advice, and not beginning by hating everybody and
thinking who they are not. Aunt Phyllis is very nice indeed, and
sometimes her eyes and mouth get like Mysie's, and her voice is just
exactly yours. Only she is plump and roundabout, not a dear, tall,
graceful figure like my White Lily Aunt.
Please don't call it nonsense, for indeed I mean it, and Aunt Phyllis
does like your photograph so much. I have the whole group hung up
in my room, and you over it, and I wish you all good morning every
day, for I never, never, as long as I live, shall love anybody like
you and Mysie.'In my husband's last prayer, the night before his 
death, he asked that we should be given strength to bear the loss 
of this dear friend, should such a sorrow befall us.


Contents


For Success
For Grace
At Morning
Evening
Another For Evening
In Time of Rain
Another in Time of Rain
Before a Temporary Separation
For Friends
For the Family
Sunday
For Self-Blame
For Self-Forgetfulness
For Renewal of Joy


FOR SUCCESS


LORD, behold our family here assembled.  We thank Thee for this 
place in which we dwell; for the love that unites us; for the peace 
accorded us this day; for the hope with which we expect the morrow; 
for the health, the work, the food, and the bright skies, that make 
our lives delightful; for our friends in all parts of the earth, 
and our friendly helpers in this foreign isle.  Let peace abound in 
our small company.  Purge out of every heart the lurking grudge.  
Give us grace and strength to forbear and to persevere.  Offenders, 
give us the grace to accept and to forgive offenders.  Forgetful 
ourselves, help us to bear cheerfully the forgetfulness of others.  
Give us courage and gaiety and the quiet mind.  Spare to us our 
friends, soften to us our enemies.  Bless us, if it may be, in all 
our innocent endeavours.  If it may not, give us the strength to 
encounter that which is to come, that we be brave in peril, 
constant in tribulation, temperate in wrath, and in all changes of 
fortune, and, down to the gates of death, loyal and loving one to 
another.  As the clay to the potter, as the windmill to the wind, 
as children of their sire, we beseech of Thee this help and mercy 
for Christ's sake.


FOR GRACE


GRANT that we here before Thee may be set free from the fear of 
vicissitude and the fear of death, may finish what remains before 
us of our course without dishonour to ourselves or hurt to others, 
and, when the day comes, may die in peace.  ."]

* * * * *

CHAPTER VI.

MARCH, 1812--MAY, 1813.

THE IDOL OF SOCIETY--THE DRURY LANE ADDRESS--SECOND SPEECH IN
PARLIAMENT.

* * * * *

229.--To Thomas Moore.

With regard to the passage on Mr.

Way's loss, no unfair play was hinted at, as may be seen by referring
to the book [1]; and it is expressly added that the managers _were
ignorant_ of that transaction. As to the prevalence of play at the
Argyle, it cannot be denied that there were _billiards_ and
_dice_;--Lord B. has been a witness to the use of both at the
Argyle Rooms. These, it is presumed, come under the denomination
of play.

If play be allowed, the President of the Institution can hardly
complain of being termed the "Arbiter of Play,"--or what becomes
of his authority?

Lord B. has no personal animosity to Colonel Greville. A public
institution, to which he himself was a subscriber, he considered
himself to have a right to notice _publickly_.

Of that institution Colonel Greville was the avowed director;--it
is too late to enter into the discussion of its merits or
demerits.

Lord B. must leave the discussion of the reparation, for the real
or supposed injury, to Colonel G.'

s friend and Mr. Moore, the friend of Lord B.--begging them to recollect
that, while they consider Colonel G.'

s honour, Lord B. must also maintain his own.

If the business can be settled amicably, Lord B. will do as
much as can and ought to be done by a man of honour towards
conciliation;--if not, he must satisfy Colonel G. in the manner
most conducive to his further wishes.

[Footnote 1: Byron, in 'English Bards, etc.' (lines 638-667), had
alluded to Colonel Greville, Manager of the Argyle Institution:

"Or hail at once the patron and the pile Of vice and folly, Greville
and Argyle," etc.

In a note he had also referred to "Billy" Way's loss of several
thousand pounds in the Rooms.

On his return from abroad, Colonel Greville demanded satisfaction
through his friend Gould Francis Leckie. Byron referred Leckie
to Moore, and sent Moore the above paper for his guidance. The
affair was amicably settled.

In his 'Detached Thoughts' occurs the following passage:--
"I have been called in as mediator, or second, at least twenty times,
in violent quarrels, and have always contrived to settle the
business without compromising the honour of the parties, or leading
them to mortal consequences, and this, too, sometimes in very
difficult and delicate circumstances, and having to deal with very
hot and haughty spirits,--Irishmen, gamesters, guardsmen, captains,
and cornets of horse, and the like.

This was, of course, in my youth, when I lived in hot-headed company.

I have had to carry challenges from gentlemen to noblemen, from
captains to captains, from lawyers to counsellors, and once from
a clergyman to an officer in the Life Guards; but I found the
latter by far the most difficult:

"'to compose The bloody duel without blows,'
"the business being about a woman: I must add, too, that I never
saw a _woman_ behave so ill, like a cold-blooded, heartless b----as
she was,--but very handsome for all that.

A certain Susan C----was she called.

I never saw her but once; and that was to induce her but to say
two words (which in no degree compromised herself), and which would
have had the effect of saving a priest or a lieutenant of cavalry.
She would _not_ say them, and neither Nepean nor myself [the son
of Sir Evan Nepean, and a friend to one of the parties] could prevail
upon her to say them, though both of us used to deal in some sort
with womankind. At last I managed to quiet the combatants without
her talisman, and, I believe, to her great disappointment: she was
the damnedest b----that I ever saw, and I have seen a great many.
Though my clergyman was sure to lose either his life or his living,
he was as warlike as the Bishop of Beauvais, and would hardly be
pacified; but then he was in love, and that is a martial passion."Grant us but that, and 
grant us courage to endure lesser ills unshaken, and to accept 
death, loss, and disappointment as it were straws upon the tide of 
life.


FOR THE FAMILY


AID us, if it be thy will, in our concerns.  Have mercy on this 
land and innocent people.  Help them who this day contend in 
disappointment with their frailties.  Bless our family, bless our 
forest house, bless our island helpers.  Thou who hast made for us 
this place of ease and hope, accept and inflame our gratitude; help 
us to repay, in service one to another, the debt of thine unmerited 
benefits and mercies, so that, when the period of our stewardship 
draws to a conclusion, when the windows begin to be darkened, when 
the bond of the family is to be loosed, there shall be no 
bitterness of remorse in our farewells.

Help us to look back on the long way that Thou hast brought us, on 
the long days in which we have been served, not according to our 
deserts, but our desires; on the pit and the miry clay, the 
blackness of despair, the horror of misconduct, from which our feet 
have been plucked out.  For our sins forgiven or prevented, for our 
shame unpublished, we bless and thank Thee, O God.  Help us yet 
again and ever.  So order events, so strengthen our frailty, as 
that day by day we shall come before Thee with this song of 
gratitude, and in the end we be dismissed with honour.  In their 
weakness and their fear, the vessels of thy handiwork so pray to 
Thee, so praise Thee.  Amen.


SUNDAY


WE beseech Thee, Lord, to behold us with favour, folk of many 
families and nations gathered together in the peace of this roof, 
weak men and women subsisting under the covert of thy patience.  Be 
patient still; suffer us yet awhile longer; - with our broken 
purposes of good, with our idle endeavours against evil, suffer us 
awhile longer to endure, and (if it may be) help us to do better.  
Bless to us our extraordinary mercies; if the day come when these 
must be taken, brace us to play the man under affliction.  Be with 
our friends, be with ourselves.  Go with each of us to rest; if any 
awake, temper to them the dark hours of watching; and when the day 
returns, return to us, our sun and comforter, and call us up with 
morning faces and with morning hearts - eager to labour - eager to 
be happy, if happiness shall be our portion - and if the day be 
marked for sorrow, strong to endure it.

We thank Thee and praise Thee; and in the words of him to whom this 
day is sacred, close our oblation.


FOR SELF-BLAME


LORD, enlighten us to see the beam that is in our own eye, and 
blind us to the mote that is in our brother's.  'Yes, he did,'
said Miss Mohun. 'It was very unlucky that he did not get any of our
later letters.'
'I have tried to tell him that it is all different now, but he does
not seem to care,' said Dolores.
'He has quite made up his mind,' said her aunt.Let all here before Thee carry 
and measure with the false balances of love, and be in their own 
eyes and in all conjunctures the most guilty.  Green the Amanuensis
has finished the Latin of the Horace, and I shall be happy to do
with it as your Lordship may direct, either to forward it to
Newstead, or keep it in Town. Would it not be better to print a
small edition seperate ('sic'), and afterwards print the two satires
together? This I leave to your Lordship's consideration.

Four Sheets of the 'Travels' are already printed, and one of the
plates (Albanian Solain) is executed.

I sent it Capt.
Accept us, correct us, guide us, thy guilty innocents.  
Dry our vain tears, wipe out our vain resentments, help our yet 
vainer efforts.  If there be any here, sulking as children will, 
deal with and enlighten him.  Make it day about that person, so 
that he shall see himself and be ashamed.  Make it heaven about 
him, Lord, by the only way to heaven, forgetfulness of self, and 
make it day about his neighbours, so that they shall help, not 
hinder him.



FOR RENEWAL OF JOY



WE are evil, O God, and help us to see it and amend.  'Has he quite?'
said Dolores. 'I thought perhaps if you talked to him about the
examination and the confirmation too--'
'But, Dolly, you are not going to a heathen country. Your confirmation
will be as much attended to in New Zealand as here.'.