   "DEAR MISS GORDON,--It is most kind and good of you to give me this
   precious Bible, and I only hope that you are not depriving yourself
   and family of such a treasure, if you have no other.  May I ask you,
   during how many years your dear, heroic brother had it with him?  I
   shall have a case made for it with an inscription, and place it in the
   library here, with your letter and the touching extract from his last
   to you.  I have ordered, as you know, a Marble Bust of your Dear
   Brother to be placed in the corridor here, where so many busts and
   pictures of our greatest Generals, and Statesmen are, and hope that
   you will see it before it is finished, to give your opinion as to the
   likeness.--Believe me always yours very sincerely,

   "VICTORIA R.I."

A most touching and I think true epitaph has been written in Greek and
translated by Professor Jebb, of the University of Glasgow touching the
death of General Gordon:--

   "Leaving a perpetual remembrance, thou art gone; in thy death thou
   wert even such as in thy life; wealth to the poor, hope to the
   desponding, support to the weak.  Thou couldst meet desperate troubles
   with a spirit that knew not despair, and breathe might into the
   trembling.  The Lord of China owes thee thanks for thy benefits; the
   throne of his ancient kingdom hath not been cast down.  And where the
   Nile unites the divided strength of his streams, a city saw thee long-
   suffering.  A multitude dwelt therein, but thine alone was the valour
   that guarded it through all that year, when by day and by night thou
   didst keep watch against the host of the Arabians, who went around it
   to devour it, with spears thirsting for blood.  Thy death was not
   wrought by the God of war, but by the frailties of thy friends.  But
   this last statement I give with some reserve, as it does not correspond
   with the report furnished by AUGUSTUS himself.
   
   _Friday._--AUGUSTUS at his worst. In the morning he alarmed his
mother by a passionate burst of weeping.Should he have been spared to return to our land--

   "We had the laurels ready
   That patient brow to crown,
   But the traitors steel was swift and sharp
   To strike our honours down.
   God His own victor crowneth,
   He counts not gain nor loss,
   For the dauntless heart that battles
   'Neath the shadow of the Cross.
   Rest for the gallant soldier,
   Where'er he lieth low,
   His rest is still and deep to-day,
   'Mid clash of friend and foe.
   He stands amid the light he loved,
   Whence all the clouds depart,
   But there's a gap within our ranks,
   And a void within our hearts."

Great men are usually measured by their character, not by their
successes; but measured by either standard Gordon must be considered a
_great_ man.  In him were incarnated all the highest characteristics of
the heroes of our land, and other lands, and of the illustrious servants
of God in all ages.  His life was swayed by a noble purpose, and by this
he was borne onward and upward in a career of noble doing and daring.  He
had courage of the very highest quality, and by this he carved his way
into the very front rank of our heroes, and won remarkable distinctions
in life's fiercest battles.  His crowning characteristics were, I think,
his genuineness, and unfailing trust in God.  These, especially the
latter, were the inspiration of his life; and these alone offer the
truest explanation of his heroic deeds.  Even in Spain his name had a
fragrance that was attractive and beautiful.  One of the papers _The El
Dia_, of Madrid, wrote: "Where even the greatest events which occur
abroad hardly attract the attention of the general public, the daring
enterprises of General Gordon had excited the greatest interest.