"You told Mr. Packer to ask me to wait," she said.

"Did I? Oh, yes, so I did. If you please, take off your hat and
veil, Miss Malone?"

She gave him a startled look; then, without a word, slowly
obeyed.

"Ah, yes," he said a moment later. "We'll find something else
for Miss Lyston when she recovers. You will keep the part."


V


When Canby (with his hair smoothed) descended to the basement
dining room of his Madison Avenue boarding-house that evening,
his table comrades gave him an effective entrance; they rose,
waving napkins and cheering, and there were cries of "Author!
Author!" "Speech!" and "Cher maitre!"

The recipient of these honours bore them with an uneasiness
attributed to modesty, and making inadequate response, sat down
to his soup with no importunate appetite.

"Seriously, though," said a bearded man opposite, who always
broke into everything with "seriously though," or else, "all
joking aside," and had thereby gained a reputation for
conservatism and soundness--"seriously, though, it must have
been a great experience to take charge of the rehearsal of such
a company as Talbot Potter's."

"Tell us how it felt, Canby, old boy," said another. "How does
it feel to sit up there like a king makin' everybody step around
to suit you?"

Other neighbors took it up.

"Any pretty girls in the company, Can?"

"How does it feel to be a great dramatist, old man?"

"When you goin' to hire a valet-chauffeur?"

"Better ask him when he's goin' to take us to rehearsal, to see
him in his glory."

"Gentlemen, gentlemen," said the hostess deprecatingly, "Miss
Cornish is trying to speak to Mr. Canby."

Miss Cornish, a middle-aged lady in black lace, sat at her
right, at the head of the largest table, being the most paying
of these paying guests, by which virtue she held also the
ingleside premiership of the parlour overhead. It is very fortunate
for us that something else is needed. We shall try to find out
what it is.

Watch while I hold these strips of paper over this lighted gas
stove high enough to be out of reach of the flame. What happened
to them?

They burst into a flame. What did the paper that I held receive
that it did not get when it was lying on the table?

Heat. We shall try a match in the same way, also some thin shavings.
They also burn when they receive heat from the fire.
Then what is another requisite for a fire?

_Heat._ Name all of the requisites for a kitchen fire.

_Fuel_, _stove_, _oxygen_, and _heat_.

NOTE.--Just here it is a good thing to impress the care that is
necessary in regard to gasolene, coal-oil, benzine, etc., or any
substance that burns at a low temperature.Canby," she began,
"that I had a suggestion to make which may not only interest you,
but certain others of us who do not enjoy equal opportunities in
some matters--as--as others of us who do. Indeed, I believe it will
interest all of us without regard to--to--to this. What I was about
to suggest was that since today you have had a very interesting
experience, not only interesting because you have entered into a
professional as well as personal friendship with one of our foremost
artists--an artist whose work is cultivated always--but also
interesting because there are some of us here whose more practical
occupations and walk in life must necessarily withhold them
from--from this. What I meant to suggest was that, as this prevents
them from--from this--would it not be a favourable opportunity for
them to--to glean some commentary upon the actual methods of a field
of art? Personally, it happens that whenever opportunities and
invitations have been--have been urged, other duties intervened, but
though, on that account never having been actually present, I am
familiar, of course, through conversation with great artists and
memoirs and--and other sources of literature--with the procedure and
etiquette of rehearsal. But others among us, no doubt through lack
of leisure, are perhaps less so than--than this. What I wished to
suggest was that, not now, but after dinner, we all assemble
quietly, in the large parlour upstairs, of which Mrs. Reibold has
kindly consented to allow us the use for the evening, for this
purpose, and that you, Mr. Canby, would then give us an informal
talk--" (She was momentarily interrupted by a deferential murmur of
"Hear! Hear!" from everybody.) "What I meant to suggest," she
resumed, smiling graciously as from a platform, "was a sort of
descriptive lecture, of course wholly informal--not so much upon
your little play itself, Mr. Canby, for I believe we are all
familiar with its subject-matter, but what would perhaps be more
improving in artistic ways would be that you give us your
impressions of this little experience of yours to-day while it is
fresh in your mind. I would suggest that you tell us, simply, and in
your own way, exactly what was the form of procedure at rehearsal,
so that those of us not so fortunate as to be already en rapport
with such matters may form a helpful and artistic idea of--of this.
I would suggest that you go into some details of this, perhaps
adding whatever anecdotes or incidents of--of--of the day--you think
would give additional value to this. I would suggest that you tell
us, for instance, how you were received upon your arrival, who took
you to the most favourable position for observing the performance,
and what was said. We should be glad to hear also, I am sure, and
artistic thoughts or--or knowledge--Mr. Bring back a dry cloth and
thoroughly dry the aluminium strip.

7. Put away the dry cloth and basin.

SINK CLEANING
1. Let the other housekeepers get the water they need.
2. Get a sink pan, a scrub cloth, and a brush. Put warm water in
the pan.

3.Also, does he
leave entire freedom to his company in the creation of their own
roles, or does he aid them? Many questions, no doubt, occur to all
of us. For instance: Did Mr. Potter offer you any suggestions for
changes and alterations that might aid to develop the literary and
artistic value of the pl--"

The placid voice, flowing on in gentle great content of itself
(while all the boarders gallantly refrained from eating), was
checked by an interruption which united into one shattering
impact the effects of lese-majeste and of violence.

"Couldn't! No! No parlour! Horrib--"

The words mingled in the throat of the playwright, producing an
explosion somewhere between choke and bellow, as he got upon his
feet, overturning his chair and coincidentally dislodging
several articles of china and glassware. He stood among the
ruins for one moment, publicly wiping his brow with a napkin,
then plunged, murmuring, out of the room and up the stairway;
and, before any of the company had recovered speech, the front
door was heard to slam tumultuously, its reverberations being
simultaneous with the sound of footsteps running down the stoop.

Turning northward upon the pavement, the fugitive hurriedly
passed the two lighted windows of the dining-room; they rattled
with a concussion--the outburst of suddenly released voices
beginning what was to be a protracted wake over the remains of
his reputation as a gentleman. He fled, flinging on his overcoat
as he went. In his pockets were portions of the manuscript of
his play, already distorted since rehearsal to suit the new
nobleness of "Roderick Hanscom," and among these inky sheets was
a note from Talbot Potter, received just before dinner:

Dear Mr. In some lessons, individual work with normal quantities may be
obtained by allowing the pupils to bring the main ingredients from
home; for example, fruit for a canning lesson.

The finished product is then the property of the pupil who has
made it.

Hastily y'rs,

Tal't Potter.


VI


Canby walked fast, the clamorous dining-room seeming to pursue
him, and the thought of what figure he had cut there filling him
with horror of himself, though he found a little consolation in
wondering if he hadn't insulted Miss Cornish because he was a
genius and couldn't help doing queer things. That solace was
slight, indeed; Canby was only twenty-seven, but he was
frightened.

The night before he had been as eagerly happy as a boy at
Christmas Eve. He had finished his last day at the office, and
after initiating the youth who was to take his desk, had parted
with his employer genially, but to the undeniable satisfaction
of both. The new career, opening so gloriously, a month earlier,
with Talbot Potter's acceptance of the play, was thus definitely
adopted, and no old one left to fall back upon. And Madison
Avenue, after dark, shows little to reassure a new playwright
who carries in his pocket a note ending with the words, "before
deciding to put on another play I have been considering." It was
Bleak Street, that night, for young Stewart Canby, and a bleak,
bleak walk he took therein.

Desperate alterations were already scratched into the
manuscript; plans for more and more ran overlapping one another
in his mind, accompanied by phrases--echoes and fragments of
Talbot Potter: "Punch! What this play needs is Punch!" "Big love
scenes!" "Big scene with a man!" "Great sacrifice for a woman!"
"Big-hearted, lovable fellow!" "You dog! So on, so on!" "Zowie!"
He must get all this into the play and yet preserve his "third
act situation," leniently admitted to be "quite a fair" one.
Slacking his gait somewhat, the tormented young man lifted his
hat in order to run his hand viciously through his hair, which
he seemed to blame for everything. Then he muttered, under his
breath, indignantly: "Darn you, let me alone!"

Curious bedevilment! It was not Talbot Potter whom he thus
adjured: it was Wanda Malone. And yet, during the rehearsal, he
had not once thought consciously of the understudy; and he had
come away from the theatre occupied--exclusively, he would have
sworn--with the predicament in which he found himself and his
play. Surely that was enough to fill and overflow any new
playwright's mind, but, about half an hour after he had reached
his room and set to work upon the manuscript of the second act,
he discovered that he had retained, unawares, a singularly clear
impression of Miss Malone.

Then, presently, he realized that distinct pictures of her kept
coming between him and his work, and that her voice rang softly
and persistently in his ear. Over and over in that voice's
slender music--plaintive, laughing, reaching everywhere so
clearly--he heard the detested "line": "What are you two good
people conspiring about?" Over and over he saw the slow,
comprehending movement with which she removed her hat and veil
to let Talbot Potter judge her. And as she stood, with that
critic's eye searching her, Canby remembered that through some
untraceable association of ideas he had inexplicably thought of
a drawing of "Florence Dombey" in an old set of Dickens
engravings he had seen at his grandfather's in his boyhood--and
had not seen since. And he remembered the lilac bushes in bloom
on a May morning at his grandfather's. Somehow she made him
think of them, too.

And as he sat at his desk, striving to concentrate upon the
manuscript, the clearness with which Wanda Malone came before
him increased; she became more and more vivid to him, and she
would not be dismissed; she persisted and insisted, becoming
first an annoyance, and then, as he fought the witchery, a
serious detriment to his writing. She became part of every
thought about his play, and of every other thought. Home-nursing.--The
ideal sick-room, care of the patient's bed, and diet.

CHAPTER III
FORM III: JUNIOR GRADE

The pupils of Form III, Junior, are generally too small to
use the tables and stoves provided for the other classes and too
young to be intrusted with fires, hot water, etc.; but they
may be taught the simpler facts of Household Management by the
special teacher of the subject, or by the regular teacher in
correlation with the other subjects.

In either case a special room is not necessary.

If the latter plan be adopted, the following correlations are
suggested:

CORRELATIONS
Arithmetic.--1. Bills of household supplies, such as furniture,
fuel, meat, groceries, bed and table linen, material for clothing.It had followed his
happening to see an intoxicated truck-driver lying beneath an
overturned wagon. "Easy, boys! Don' mangle me!" the man kept
begging his rescuers. And Canby recalled how "Easy, boys! Don'
mangle me!" sounded plaintively in his ears for days, bothering
him in his work at the office. Remembering it now, he felt a
spiteful satisfaction in classing that obsession with this one.
It seemed at least a step toward teaching Miss Wanda Malone to
know her place.

But he got no respite from the siege, and was still incessantly
beleaguered when he encountered the marble severities of the
Pantheon Apartments' entrance hall and those of its field-marshal,
who paraded him stonily to the elevator. Mr. Potter's apartment was
upon the twelfth floor, a facet stated in a monosyllable by the
field-marshal, and confirmed, upon the opening of the cage at that
height, by Mr. Potter's voice melodiously belling a flourish of
laughter on the other side of a closed door bearing his card. It was
rich laughter, cadenced and deep and loud, but so musically
modulated that, though it might never seem impromptu, even old
Carson Tinker had once declared that he liked to listen to it almost
as much as Potter did.

Old Carson Tinker was listening to it now, as Canby discovered,
after a lisping Japanese had announced him at the doorway of a
cream-coloured Louis Sixteenth salon: an exquisite apartment,
delicately personalized here and there by luxurious fragilities
which would have done charmingly, on the stage, for a marquise's
boudoir. Old Tinker, in evening dress, sat uncomfortably,
sideways, upon the edge of a wicker and brocade "chaise lounge,"
finishing a tiny glass of chartreuse, while Talbot Potter, in
the middle of the room, took leave of a second guest who had
been dining with him.

Potter was concluding the rendition of hilarity which had
penetrated to the outer hall, and, merely waving the playwright
toward Tinker, swept the same gesture upward to complete it by
resting a cordial hand upon the departing guest's shoulder. This
personage, a wasp-figured, languorous youth, with pale
plastered hair over a talcum face, flicked his host lightly upon
the breast with a pair of white gloves.

