Produced by David Garcia and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Kentuckiana Digital Library)


A Pioneer Railway of the West

By Maude Ward Lafferty

[Illustration]


  This restoration of a portion of the original track of the
  Lexington and Ohio (now Louisville and Nashville) Railroad
    laid at Lexington in 1831, is dedicated to those men of
     forethought and courage who were pioneers in railroad
                   development in America.

                     Erected Anno Domini
                           MCMXVI.

                    Dedication Exercises
                          10 A. M.
                       May 30, 1916

        College of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering
                   University of Kentucky


During the month of July, 1915, there appeared in a local newspaper an
account of the finding of "Old Rail Stones" and "Old Strap Iron Rails"
which had been used in the construction of the railroad generally known
as "the old Lexington and Frankfort Road," though it was incorporated
under the name of the "Lexington and Ohio Rail Road." It is believed by
many to have been the first railroad west of the Alleghany Mountains.
Be that as it may, the quaint and interesting relics had just been dug
up that week by the workmen who were reconstructing the freight yards
of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. The workmen were moving more
recently laid tracks back to _the old original road bed of the pioneer
railroad_, and in doing so they unearthed those curious relics of 1831.

Although just starting that very day for a summer vacation, I hurried
down town a little before train time, and went to the Main Street
offices of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad where the interesting
relics were on display.

As I stood gazing at that worn and rusty bar of iron with its single
bent and rusty spike, I was whisked back across the years by some
strange trick of memory and I saw, instead, a dimly lighted sick room,
on a hot summer night--myself a little sufferer, and sitting beside me,
fanning my fevered brow, my beloved father, who, notwithstanding the
fatigue of a heavy and exacting practice sat thus night after night,
soothing me to sleep by telling me entertaining stories of his youth,
and as he was born one hundred and one years ago, the strange
experiences of his boyhood were thrilling indeed to his youthful adorer.

And so, I saw in my mind's eye that familiar room of my childhood--the
open window, the breezes blowing the curtains to and fro, the moonlight
casting strange shadows on the terrace outside, and I heard again that
voice which has meant so much to me telling how "when the first railroad
started" and all the people had gathered from far and near "to witness
its departure," he and a group of fellow students from Transylvania
University, mounted on fast horses, galloped ahead "to see if the
Wonderful Thing could round the curve without running off the track";
and how "it came in sight, thundering along, puffing out clouds of black
smoke, the engineer adding to the confusion by incessantly blowing his
shrill whistle," all of which so terrified his horse, he had great
difficulty in keeping his seat, but yet, how tremendously impressed he
was by the "gallant way in which the gentlemen seated in the coach
raised their stovepipe hats in greeting as they passed by like a streak
of lightning."

He said the locomotive had been invented by his old friend Tom Barlow,
in whose honor he had named our Tom Barlow, his favorite race horse.

He also said the old locomotive looked like a "thresher engine mounted
on a flat car," and that the coach was for all the world like an
"omnibus with seats on top as well as inside," and furthermore, he
added, when it had been proved safe he rode upon it himself, and then
"rode home on horseback" (a distance of thirty miles) to tell his mother
all about it.

And this was all that was left of that Wonderful Thing, this bit of
scrap iron and a few stone sills!

Finding myself gazing vacantly at that relic of the Past, and that
people were noting my abstraction, I hastily gathered myself together
and crossing the street to our beautiful Union Station, I started
on my journey. In a magnificent chair car, luxuriously furnished and
upholstered, a liveried porter raised the windows and adjusted screens,
turned on an electric fan, offered me the latest magazines and papers
fresh from the press, placed a footstool at my feet and a cushion at
my back. My safety was provided for by double tracking and unseen but
perfectly trained employees, but neither the reading matter in my lap,
the comfort of my surroundings, nor the always charming scenery from the
car window, could drive from my thoughts the quaint old railroad; and
when I came back to Lexington in the fall, in my eager desire to know
more about it, I immediately began my research which has grown into this
history of

  "A Pioneer Railway of the West."

        MAUDE WARD LAFFERTY.


The first locomotive engine in the world was built just one hundred
years ago by George Stephenson and used at Newcastle, England, at the
Killingworth Colliery.

Fever and other diseases break out among them, and they often arrive at
Quebec with sixty or seventy people who are carried to the hospital
independently of those who have died and been thrown overboard.

Sometimes their provisions do not last out the voyage, and they are obliged
to purchase of the captain or others on board, (who have prepared for
the exigence,) and thus their little savings to recommence life with, are
all swallowed up to support existence. I believe that what they suffer
is dreadful; and if ever there was a case which would call forth patriotism
and sympathy, it is the hardships of these poor people. Allowing emigration
not to be a national question, still it is a question for national
humanity, and all this suffering might be alleviated at comparatively
a very trifling expense.

If two or three of our smaller line-of-battle ships now lying at
their moorings, were to be jury-rigged, without any guns on board,
and manned with a sloop's ship's company, they would not decay
faster by running between Quebec and this country than if they
remained in harbour.

One of those vessels would carry out 2,500 men, women, and children.

Let the emigrants take their provisions on board, and should
their provisions fail them, let there be a surplus for their supply at
the cost price. Under this arrangement, you would have that order,
cleanliness, and ventilation which would insure them against disease,
and proper medical attendance if it should be required; you
would save thousands of lives, and the emigrant, as he left the
ship, would feel grateful for the benefit conferred.

But the assistance of government must not end here: the emigrant, on
his arrival, is adrift; he knows not where to go; he has no
resting-place; he is a perfect stranger to the country and to every
thing; he exhausts his means before he can find employment or
settle: other arrangements are therefore necessary, if the work of
charity is to be completed.

Indeed, the want of these arrangements is the cause of a very large
proportion of the Canadian emigrants leaving our provinces and
settling in the United States, where they can immediately find
employment; and Americans, agents of the land speculators, are
continually on the look-out in Canada, persuading the emigrants,
by all sorts of promises and inducements, to leave the provinces
and to take lands in the States, belonging to their employers.

Every emigrant lost to us is a gain to America; and upon the increase of
the English population depends the prosperity of the Canadas, and our
best chance of retaining them in our possession.

Both Upper and Lower Canada have one great advantage over most of the
other territories of the United States, which is, that they are
so very healthy; the winters in both provinces are dry, and, in Upper
Canada, they are not severe; and the summers are cool, compared with
those of the United States. Indeed, in point of climate, they cannot
be surpassed; and I rather think, independently of its fine soil, which
enables it to grow every thing (for even tobacco grows well in Upper
Canada), that in mineral richness it is not to be exceeded. It abounds
in water-power, and has several splendid rivers. As soon as the
roads are made (for that is the present desideratum in the Upper Province),
I have no hesitation in asserting, that it will be, of all others,
the most favourable spot for emigration. It is a man's own fault if,
with common industry, he does not, in a few years, secure competence
and the happiness arising from independence, when it is accompanied
by that greatest of all blessings--health.

There has been so strange and continued a system of misrule on the
part of the mother-country with respect to these provinces, that I
am not surprised at any thing which takes place; but it is certain
that the emigration to the Canadas has been very much checked by the
Government itself.

The price of land in the United States is fixed at a dollar and a
quarter per acre; be it of the best quality, full of minerals, or
with any other important advantages, the price is still the same.

       The set-up price in Canada is two dollars per acre.

If no more is offered it is sold at that sum, but at no less. Now,
whatever the Government may imagine, I can assure them that this
difference in the price is considered very important by those who emigrate,
and that thousands who would have settled in Canada, have, in consequence,
repaired to the United States, much to our disadvantage; and this
appears so contradictory, as the Government have very unwisely
parted with enormous tracts of the best land, selling them to a
Company at a price which, with facilities for payment, reduces the
price paid per acre by this Company, to, I think, about one shilling
and three-pence, and for which the Company now charge the same price
as the Government; thus giving a bonus to speculators which they
refuse to those who wish to become _bona fide_ settlers.

I never could comprehend the grounds upon which they were persuaded to
so unwise an act as that. The lands were sold to the Company before
the present Government were in power, but why the price of the
land still in possession of the Crown should be raised higher than
in the United States I cannot imagine.

       Sound policy would reduce it lower, for the increase of wealth in
the province must ever consist in the increase of its population.

There are in Upper Canada several villages of free negroes, who have
escaped from the United States, and should it be considered at any time
advisable to remove any of the West Indian population, it would be very
wise to give them land on the Upper Canada frontiers. The negroes
thrive there uncommonly well, and have acquired habits of industry;
and, as may be supposed, are most inveterate against the
Americans, as was proved in the late disturbances, when they could
hardly be controlled.

They imagine (and very truly) that if the Americans were to obtain
possession of Canada, that they would return to slavery, and it is
certain that they are not only brave, but would die rather than be
taken prisoners. This is a question worth consideration, as out of
an idle and useless race in the West Indies may be formed, at
very little expense, a most valuable frontier population to these
provinces.

       I am happy to perceive that, in the Report of Lord Durham, the
importance of these provinces to the mother country is fully
acknowledged.

"These interests are indeed of great magnitude; and on the course
which your Majesty and your Parliament may adopt, with respect to the
North American colonies, will depend the future destinies, not only
of the million and a half of your Majesty's subjects who at present
inhabit those provinces, but of that vast population which those ample
and fertile territories are fit and destined hereafter to support. No
portion of the American continent possesses greater natural resources
for the maintenance of large and flourishing communities.

An almost boundless range of the richest soil still remains unsettled,
and may be rendered available for the purposes of agriculture.

The wealth of inexhaustible forests of the best timber in America, and
of extensive regions of the most valuable minerals, have as yet been
scarcely touched. Along the whole line of sea-coast, around each island,
and in every river, are to be found the greatest and richest fisheries
in the world. The best fuel and the most abundant water-power are
available for the coarser manufactures, for which an easy and certain
market will be found. Trade with other continents is favoured by the
possession of a large number of safe and spacious harbours; long, deep,
and numerous rivers, and vast inland seas, supply the means of
easy intercourse; and the structure of the country generally affords
the utmost facility for every species of communication by land.

Unbounded materials of agricultural, commercial and manufacturing industry
are there; it depends upon the present decision of the Imperial
Legislature to determine for whose benefit they are to be rendered
available.

The country which has founded and maintained these colonies at a
vast expense of blood and treasure, may justly expect its compensation
in turning their unappropriated resources to the account of its own
redundant population: they are the rightful patrimony of the English
people, the ample appanage which God and Nature have set aside in
the New World for those whose lot has assigned them but insufficient
portion in the Old.

Under wise and free institutions, these great advantages may yet be
secured to your Majesty's subjects; and a connexion, secured by
the link of kindred origin and mutual benefits, may continue to
bind to the British Empire the ample territories of its North
American provinces, and the large and flourishing population by
which they will assuredly be filled."

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Note 1.

The building of this Church was undertaken by the inhabitants of
Peterborough and its vicinity, belonging to the church of England.
In 1835 it was commenced, and, by great exertions, opened for Divine
worship in December 1836, though not altogether finished. Nine hundred
pounds was raised by voluntary contributions, not one farthing
having been given by any public body to it.

The gentlemen composing the building committee are responsible for
the remainder due, being five hundred pounds.

An advertisement for subscriptions to liquidate this debt has been for
some weeks past inserted in a London newspaper.

VOLUME THREE, CHAPTER FOUR.

THE CANADAS, CONTINUED.

Previous to my entering into a further examination of the Canada question,
it will perhaps be better to recapitulate, in as few words as possible,
what has already occurred, and the principal causes of the late
insurrection.

When the Canadian provinces were reduced by the British arms, the
inhabitants, being entirely French, were permitted to retain their
own laws, their own language in Courts and public offices, and all
their vested rights which had been granted to them by the French
government.
It was a generous, but, as it has been proved, an unwise policy. The
form of government, as an English colony, was proposed, and acceded to
by the French population, who, gratified by the liberality of their
new rulers, cheerfully took the oath of allegiance. For many years,
indeed it may be said until the close of the war of 1814, the
population remained almost entirely French. England had been so long
engaged in war, and the annual expenditure of life in her armies and her
navies was so great, that she could not permit, much less encourage,
emigration.

At the close of the war of 1814, the census of the population in the two
Canadian provinces was as follows:--In Lower Canada, between three
and four hundred thousand; in Upper Canada, from thirty to forty
thousand, of which nineteen-twentieths were of French extraction. But
the emigration during the last twenty-five years of peace has made a
considerable change. The population of Lower Canada has increased to
six hundred thousand, and that of Upper Canada now amounts to upwards
of four hundred thousand. As the emigration has been almost wholly
from the British dominions, it may be now fairly assumed that, taking
the two provinces together, the English and French population are now on
a par as to numbers; the English preponderate in the Upper province
as much as the French do in the Lower. But if we are to consider the two
nations of settlers as to their respective value as emigrants to the
provinces, on the point of capital, industry, and enterprise, the
scale will descend immediately in favour of the English population. The
French are inactive, adverse to speculation, or even improvement.
Every _habitant_ is content with his farm as handed down to him by
his progenitor, and the higher classes who hold the seigneuries
are satisfied with their seignorial rights and the means of exaction
which they afford to them.

       The privileges of these seigneurs, or lords of the manor, in Lower
Canada, are very extensive, and a bar to all improvement or advance.

They hold the exclusive right of hunting and fishing; all the water
privileges, such as the erection of saw-mills, etcetera, are insured
to them. The _habitant_ is even compelled to send his flour to
be ground at the mill of the lord of the manor. At the sale of every
property, the lord of the manor receives one-twelfth of the proceeds.
Thus, if a farm worth a few hundred pounds was to fall into the
hands of an enterprising man, and he was to raise it to the value of
thousands, more than the prime-cost would be deducted for the lord
of the manor if he were compelled to part with it. This, with the other
impediments to enterprise, has left Lower Canada in a state of
quiescence, and the emigrants who have gone over have passed it by
that they might settle on the more fertile and free province of
Upper Canada.

       One of the writers in the daily press of New York has very truly
remarked:--
"When the British first obtained the Canadas, its commerce consisted
of a few peltries, conveyed to France by the vessels which brought
out the troops and carried back the disbanded regiments.

The lumber trade was unknown. The importations were a nonentity. While
at present many hundreds of vessels are engaged in the direct timber
trade, and more than one hundred and fifty vessels have been frequently
counted on the river St Lawrence. These, it must be remembered, are almost
exclusively owned by British merchants; while the French Canadians own
the land in the same proportion as the English do the trade."
It was the knowledge of these facts, and that the English were every year
rising in importance, (for they had not only secured the whole trade,
but were gradually occupying the more fertile land of the Upper
province,) which has created the jealousy and ill-will, and has been
such a source of irritation to the French inhabitants of the Lower
province. I have dwelt upon these facts because there is a very general
opinion (which has most unfortunately been acted upon by our Government),
that the legislature of the province should be guided by the interests
of the majority, and this they have considered to be in favour of the
French population; whereas in numbers they are about equal, and in
point of wealth and importance, the English population are most
decidedly in the advance; besides that, the former population would
willingly separate themselves from the mother-country, and therefore
deserve but little favour, while the latter are loyal and attached to
it. The French having the ascendancy of five to one in the Lower
province, have done all they can to check improvement.

       Public works which have cost large sums, have remained uncompleted,
because the House of Assembly in the Lower province has refused to
allow them to be carried on.

Indeed, had the Lower province been allowed to continue in her career
of opposition, she would have eventually rendered difficult all
communication between the Upper province and the mother-country.

This is acknowledged in Lord Durham's report, which says:--
"Without going so far as to accuse the Assembly of a deliberate
design to check the settlement and improvement of Lower Canada, it
cannot be denied that they looked with considerable jealousy and
dislike on the increase and prosperity of what they regarded as a
foreign and hostile race; they looked on the province as the patrimony
of their own race; they viewed it not as a country to be settled,
but as one already settled; and instead of legislating in the
American spirit, and first providing for the future population of
the province, their primary care was, in the spirit of legislation
which prevails in the old world, to guard the interests and feelings
of the present race of inhabitants, to whom they considered the
newcomers as subordinate; they refused to increase the burthens of
the country by imposing taxes to meet the expenditure required for
improvement, and they also refused to direct to that object any of
the funds previously devoted to other purposes.

The improvement of the harbour of Montreal was suspended, from a political
antipathy to a leading English merchant who had been the most active
of the commissioners, and by whom it had been conducted with
the most admirable success.

It is but just to say, that some of the works which the Assembly authorised
and encouraged, were undertaken on a scale of due moderation, and
satisfactorily perfected and brought into operation.

Others, especially the great communications which I have mentioned above,
the Assembly showed a great reluctance to promote or even to permit.

It is true that there was considerable foundation for their objections
to the plan on which the Legislature of Upper Canada had commenced
some of these works, and to the mode in which it had carried them
on; but the English complained that, instead of profiting by the
experience which they might have derived from this source, the
Assembly seemed only to make its objections a pretext for doing
nothing.

The applications for banks, railroads, and canals were laid on one side
until some general measures could be adopted with regard to such
undertakings; but the general measures thus promised were never
passed, and the particular enterprises in question were prevented.

The adoption of a registry was refused, on the alleged ground of its
inconsistency with the French institutions of the province, and no measure
to attain this desirable end in a less obnoxious mode, was prepared
by the leaders of the Assembly. The feudal tenure was supported, as a
mild and just provision for the settlement of a new country; a kind of
assurance given by a committee of the Assembly, that some steps
should be taken to remove the most injurious incidents of the
seignorial tenure, produced no practical results; and the enterprises
of the English were still thwarted by the obnoxious laws of the
country.

       In all these decisions of the Assembly, in its discussions, and in
the apparent motives of its conduct, the English population perceived
traces of a desire to repress the influx and the success of their
race.

Contractors and Pioneers with their implements of Labor.

  State Board of Internal Improvement.

  President, Engineers and Directors of Lexington and Maysville
  Turnpike Road.

  Mayor and Aldermen of Louisville (who did not come).

  Capt. Neet's Rifle Guards--in Platoons.

  Military Band of Music.

  Trustees of the Town of Lexington and Clerk.

  Justices of Fayette County Court and Clerk.

  Trustees and Professors of Transylvania University.

  Reverend Clergy.

  Surgeons and Physicians.

  Members of the Bar and Officers of Fayette County Court.

  Union Philosophical Society of Transylvania University.

  Medical and Law Students.

  Tutors and Students of Transylvania University.

  Principal of Preparatory Department and Pupils.

  Principal and Pupils of Wentworth Seminary.

  Principal and Tutors of Shelby Female Academy and Pupils.

  Principal and Professors of Eclectic Institute and Pupils.

  STRANGERS.

  Stockholders of Lexington and Ohio R. R. Co.

  Capt. Postlethwaite's Light Infantry Company--in Platoons.

  Lieut.-Col. A. Stevens--Ass't. Marshal.

  CITIZENS ON FOOT.

       *       *       *       *       *

"For many years we have not witnessed so imposing a pageant and never
one more interesting. A Federal Salute was fired by Capt. Hunt's
Artillery at sunrise and seven guns when the first stone sill was laid,
indicating the seven sections of the road under contract. The procession
first moved in a circle around the lawn where it was formed at which
time the bells in the various churches in town commenced a merry peal
which continued until the procession reached the place where the
ceremony was performed. The Military Escort then formed a hollow square
within which the whole civic procession was enclosed. Thousands of
delighted and anxious spectators were on the outside, among whom we were
gratified to see a large concourse of ladies for whose accommodation the
Marshal had directed the adjacent Market House to be appropriated.

A blessing on the stupendous undertaking was then invoked by the
officiating clergyman, after which E. I. Winter, Esq., President of the
Company, handed a hammer to the Governor of the State, who drove the
nail attaching the first iron rail to the beginning stone sill. The
music struck up "Hail Columbia" and afterwards "Yankee Doodle," which
was played until the Artillery ceased firing.

Prof. Caldwell then delivered a highly interesting and appropriate
address. The procession then returned to the University lawn after which
the Military marched to the Arsenal and were dismissed, having received
the thanks of the Directors and President of the Rail Road and the
compliments of the Marshal for their excellent marching and exemplary
good order on the occasion.

The arrangements for this interesting ceremony were hurried perhaps by
the zeal of those immediately concerned and a desire to proceed without
further delay with the work. A little more time and a little more
preparation would have been better but the whole proceeding was
conducted very handsomely. The procession was very numerous. The streets
through which the long line marched were crowded with spectators and
every window and every balcony were filled with ladies. The Military
looked uncommonly well. The pupils of the various institutions wore
appropriate badges. The ceremonies at the place of laying the corner
stone were not tedious. The omission to prepare a rostrum for the
Orator was a grievous oversight--thousands were unable to hear the
speech, but those who were more fortunate pronounced it appropriate
and eloquent and considering the very short notice upon which it was
prepared, the effort was worthy of the distinguished orator, which
alone, is saying enough in praise.

The prayer of the Rev. Mr. Hall, by which the occasion was preceded,
awakened the best feelings of the human heart. The Governor and the
President of the Company quickly dispatched the duty assigned them and
the procession moved from the ground in good order, nothing having
occurred in the slightest degree unpleasant. All were happy that the
good work was now in progress and delighted at the bright prospects
now dawning upon the towns and country through which the road is to
pass. Owing to the short notice the expected guests from Maysville and
Louisville did not attend but the Company was honored with the presence
of the Governor and several distinguished members of Congress and two
of the Judges of the Court of Appeals. These with other notable guests
dined with the President, Directors and Stockholders at Postlewaite's
Inn and during the even the Governor visited the Theater where he was
received with many rounds of applause."

       *       *       *       *       *

Down in our hearts we are truly thankful for the present century and all
its benefits and we would rather be plain Kentucky people living today
than any royalty in history. And yet when we read a great thrilling tale
like this we cannot overcome a strange sense of loss, a feeling of
regret that we too, could not have been there to see that wonderful
pageant pass by. The Military with its pomp and music; the professors
and their students; the officials and the rank and file; the lawyers,
and the doctors and the ministers; the contractors and "Pioneers and
their implements of Labor"; the old, the young, the great, the
small--all banded together in one great masterly pull for Lexington!
What a picture! What a privilege! What an inspiration! What would we not
give to have seen it with our own eyes, to have applauded it with our
own hands.

And yet, perhaps that is what we are doing now, applauding and giving
praise and credit to those splendid citizens whose generosity,
foresight, energy and progressive public spirit made Lexington a leading
city of its day!

But to return to our subject, the newspapers kept the people advised as
to the progress of the work and the Observer of February 3rd, 1832,
says:

"Those who feel an interest in this great work will be pleased to learn
that the grading of the first six miles put under contract last fall is
already in a state of much forwardness. The stones for the Rail Sills
are excavated from a quarry a short distance below the city. The ease
with which they are split out and fashioned into sills is truly
surprising. They are about twelve inches wide and many of them are
twenty or twenty-five feet in length."

       *       *       *       *       *

And again on May 24th, 1832--

"The grading of the first division of six miles is nearly completed.
Part of the Iron Rails for the first division have arrived at Louisville
from Liverpool by way of New Orleans, and the laying of the stone sills
will be forthwith commenced."

       *       *       *       *       *

The work progressed steadily in spite of many obstacles--chief of which
seems to have been the indifference of Louisville and lack of ready
money, and so in the Observer for March 16th, 1832, there is an
interesting and eloquent appeal:

"To the Citizens of Lexington and Fayette County--

"Now is the time for every man, who is a man and will act like one, to
come forward and put his shoulder to the wheel. The Lexington and Ohio
Rail Road can be finished to Frankfort before the 1st of November, 1832,
if those who are able will do their duty and take stock, or increase
their present subscriptions. Not one should hang back and let his
neighbors do for him what he ought to do for himself. If he loves money,
this is the way to improve his fortune; if he loves his country, this is
the sure way to advance her power and glory.

The work can be done and will be done in the time I have named if you
are true to your best interests and will act promptly on this occasion.
No time is to be lost--Come all--Come quickly. Let us have no more
theorizing but in its stead, efficient action."

       *       *       *       *       *

And again in the same month the Directors authorized the President, Mr.
Elisha I. Winter, to let the grading of the twenty-three sections of the
"Second Division."

The Observer and Reporter, June 28th, 1832, says:

"Laying the stone sills is rather a tedious operation. Messrs. Holburn
and Benson, who are the contractors for this branch of the work deserve
great praise for executing their contract not only faithfully but in
a style of beauty and elegance of workmanship which has excited the
admiration of all who have examined it. They are now putting in the Iron
Rails and we hope it will not be long before the Directors will have it
in their power to gratify the universal anxiety which daily increases in
intensity to behold the novel spectacle of a Rail Road Carriage in rapid
motion."

This desire was soon gratified according to an article in the Lexington
Observer dated August 9th, 1832, and entitled "Our Rail Road." It says:

"A splendid car (the Lexington and Ohio) was placed on the Rail Road on
Thursday last. It made two trips, the distance the road is finished,
having inside and outside about sixty passengers each trip. The crowd to
witness the experiment was very great and we never saw spectators more
delighted. The opening of the Rail Road from Lexington to the Ohio River
will be the commencement of a new era in the history of Kentucky. Let
unbelievers in the utility of Rail Roads witness but one experiment and
their scepticism will soon vanish.

"On Tuesday the 14th the road we understand will be formally opened and
the car afterwards kept constantly running for the accommodation of
passengers. The Governor of the State and the Mayor and Council of the
City of Louisville have been invited to be present on this occasion."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Observer and Reporter of August 16th, 1832, tells how "The Lexington
and Ohio Rail Road was formally opened on yesterday. Among the persons
present was Gov. Metcalf. At twelve o'clock precisely the Car left its
moorings at the upper end of the lower Market in fine style, having on
board about 40 passengers. The Road is completed entirely only about one
mile and a half from its termination in this city. Other portions are in
a state of great forwardness and will be ready for the Car in a few days
which will make the whole distance completed about 3 miles. The Car
travels at the rate of about 10 miles an hour."

       *       *       *       *       *

How eagerly they longed for its completion, using it for pleasure trips
when only a mile and a half was finished! And how quaintly they spoke of
it leaving "its moorings" as though they were still thinking in terms of
rivers and flat boats and steam boats, and could only describe it in
river terms! And how they dignified it with capitals, it was always the
Rail Road and the Car--as if the very immensity of the undertaking
demanded capital letters. To them the "Rail Road started" or "returned,"
or was "kept running," as in the article in the Observer of August 25th,
1832, which says:

"Two miles of the Lexington and Ohio Rail Road are now completed, and
the splendid car, "Lexington and Ohio," is kept constantly running this
distance to gratify those who feel an interest in Rail Roads, and are
desirous of testing their utility. The Car is sufficiently large to
accommodate 60 passengers and this number is drawn by one horse, with
apparently as much ease and rapidity as the same animal would draw a
light gig. The delight experienced at the sight of a car loaded by sixty
passengers and drawn by one horse at the rate of ten miles an hour
through a country where heretofore five miles per hour with one
passenger to a horse has been thought good speed, is sufficient of
itself to repay the beholder for the trouble of a journey of fifty
miles. We understand a locomotive steam engine is now being constructed
to be placed upon the road as soon as the distance is opened on the
whole of the First Division."

       *       *       *       *       *

Having always heard the Old Lexington and Ohio Road referred to as "the
first rail road built West of the Alleghany Mountains," I was greatly
surprised at this juncture to see how close the question of priority
between it and the old Pontchartrain Railway really was and being unable
to decide the question myself, I beg leave to lay the evidence before my
readers and let them decide the matter according to their own judgment.

Mr. J. H. Ellis, Secretary of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, at
a banquet in Louisville in 1914, when speaking of the oldest railroads
built West of the Alleghanies and South of the Ohio River, said: "It is
commonly believed that the oldest road is the Lexington and Ohio, so it
may surprise you to know that in point of antiquity it is beaten by that
little old Pontchartrain Railroad, Charles Marshall's darling, but by
a remarkable coincidence, by only a week. For while the Pontchartrain
Railroad Company received its charter on January 20th, 1830, that of the
Lexington and Ohio Railroad Company is dated January 27th, 1830. And in
point of construction the latter likewise followed the Pontchartrain."

An article published in the Lexington Observer of October 4th, 1832,
taken from the New Orleans Emporium of September 15th, 1832, says:

"The beautiful locomotive Pontchartrain recently received from England
came up to the city this morning from the lake in a manner highly
gratifying to the directors of the company, who were present and a large
concourse of our citizens. It commences running Monday next at 12
o'clock. The Mayor and City Council are to be present and no doubt
hundreds of our citizens will fill the train which will accommodate
between three and four hundred people. This locomotive is said to be the
most perfect and elegant in the Union and that there are only two in
England equal to it. The display will be at once beautiful and imposing
and will no doubt attract thousands."

At this time _our_ first locomotive was "in course of construction," as
the Observer and Reporter of December 6th, 1832, says in an editorial:
"We yesterday had the pleasure of examining--at the machine shop of Mr.
Bruen--a new Locomotive Engine constructed for the Lexington and Ohio
Rail Road Company. We understand the Engine will be in readiness for an
experiment on the Rail Road sometime next week."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is evident therefore that the Charter for the Pontchartrain Railroad
was one week older than the Charter of the Lexington and Ohio Railroad.
It is also evident that the Lexington and Ohio Railroad was "formally
opened August 15th, 1832," while the formal opening of the Pontchartrain
Road did not occur until September 15th, 1832, one month later than
ours.

It is true the Pontchartrain opened with a real locomotive while the
Lexington and Ohio road first used horse power. But it must also be
remembered that the locomotive of the Pontchartrain Railroad was built
in Stourbridge, England, while the first locomotive for the Lexington
and Ohio road was invented and built in Lexington by two Lexington men,
Thomas Barlow and Joseph Bruen; that it was in course of construction at
the time of the opening, and that it made its trial run March 2nd, 1833,
"from Lexington towards Frankfort."--

So far as I have been able to learn our locomotive was the first one
built in the United States unless we except that of Peter Cooper, which
is said never to have given satisfaction.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the first of January, 1833, the first railroad advertisement appeared
headed:


                    "TRAVELING"

                      On The

            Lexington and Ohio Rail Road

  The First Six Miles of the Road Being Completed a
   Passenger Car will Daily Leave the Lower Market
       House for the end of the First Division
          at 9-1/2 O'clock A. M. and 2-1/2
                   O'clock P.M.

   Returning will leave the end of the Division for
       Lexington at 10 O'clock A. M. and 3-1/2
                   O'clock P.M.

  Companies of 12 or more can be accommodated with
      a Private Car by giving one hour's notice.

          Office L. & O. Rail Road Company

                 January 1st, 1833


And so the Rail Road became a popular diversion, and the work was
rapidly progressing all along the road toward Frankfort. Judging from an
advertisement in the Observer and Reporter of February 21st, 1833, some
change in construction must have been contemplated for it states "Sealed
Proposals will be received at the Company's Office until the 15th of
April next for laying 13 miles of the Second Division of the Lexington
and Ohio Rail Road with Stone Sills, and 9 miles with Sleepers and
Strong-pieces of wood.

  (Signed by) H. J. RANNEY, Chief Engineer."

       *       *       *       *       *

Professor Muncey says: "In the 'Second Division' of the Road wood
sills--red cedar in most cases--were used in some places."

It is interesting to note here that the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad
advised our promoters in the first place to use the wooden sills.

Quoting from the Observer and Reporter of March 2nd, 1833, "The first
six miles of the Rail Road is now in successful operation. The Car for
some time past has run regularly three times a day and is usually filled
with passengers. It expedites the progress of mail about one hour each
trip."

Time was become a matter to be reckoned with you see.

       *       *       *       *       *

And in the same paper appeared the following modest announcement for
which I had searched for days:

"We are happy to learn that the steam locomotive constructed by our
ingenious townsmen, Mr. Bruen, is hereafter to make regular trips on
this road."

The car driver was allowed a salary of $22.50 a month. He and his
assistant were to handle the car and the horses, take up fares, handle
baggage and carry the United States mail.

       Erard exclaimed that she must "abjure" or be burnt at once.

At last he began to read her sentence of condemnation. Then, though she
was conscious of no evil, she at last said, "I submit myself to the
Church." They hastened to read over the twelve articles of accusation
already given, and the poor girl agreed to them, promising never to
sin again and to submit herself to the justice of the Church. Massieu
read to her a formula "of some eight lines," according to his testimony
afterwards.The cholera scourge of 1833 had halted its progress,
difficulties had arisen through bad calculations of its engineers, and
money was often sorely needed. Louisville seemed indifferent to its
construction, being comfortably "seated" on the much coveted "water
course." So the railroad stopped to rest at Frankfort and stopped
so long it became known as the "Lexington and Frankfort Rail Road."
Its arrival in Frankfort was celebrated by a grand ball at Brennan's
(or Postlethwaite's) which is glitteringly described in the Gazette on
January 31st, 1834, as follows:

"The fete given last night at Brennan's Hotel to the members of the
Legislature and to celebrate the opening of the Rail Road from here to
Frankfort was truly a most brilliant affair. The company bestowed just
praises on the taste and munificence of Mr. Brennan, for the splendor
and profusion of the supper and refreshments, which appeared as if
"earth and sky and sea" had been plundered of their sweets. The company
must have numbered from four to five hundred persons who were
distributed in the various rooms of the basement story where dancing
parties were kept up till two o'clock. Like the Brussells Ball, we too
had gathered from the Capital--

  'Her beauty and her chivalry, and bright
  The lamps shone over fair women and brave men,
  A thousand hearts beat happily; and when
  Music arose with its voluptuous swell
  Soft eyes looked love to eyes which spake again
  And all went merry as a marriage bell.'


A majority of the members of both branches of the Legislature were
present on the occasion it is said, together with the Mayor and Council
of Lexington. For ourselves we did not play a part in the mazy dance but
was content to look on others--

  'Steer with care through all that glittering sea
  Of gems and plumes and pearls and silks to where
  He deems it is his proper place to be
  Dissolving in the waltz to some soft air
  Or proudlier prancing with Mercurial skill
  Where science marshalls forth her own quadrille.'"


And there was Harold the earl, and would work their reconciliation if he
might, but he could not: but all his earldom him unanimously forsook
and outlawed, and all who with him lawlessness upheld, because he
robbed God first, and all those bereaved over whom he had power of
life and of land.

And they then took to themselves Morkar for earl; and Tosty went
then over sea, and his wife with him, to Baldwin's land, and they
took up their winter residence at St.

Omer's.))
A.D. 1066. This year came King Harold from York to Westminster, on the
Easter succeeding the midwinter when the king (Edward) died. Easter
was then on the sixteenth day before the calends of May. Then was over
all England such a token seen as no man ever saw before. Some men
said that it was the comet-star, which others denominate the long-hair'd
star. It appeared first on the eve called "Litania major", that is,
on the eighth before the calends off May; and so shone all the week.
Soon after this came in Earl Tosty from beyond sea into the Isle of
Wight, with as large a fleet as he could get; and he was there
supplied with money and provisions. Thence he proceeded, and committed
outrages everywhere by the sea-coast where he could land, until
he came to Sandwich.

When it was told King Harold, who was in London, that his brother Tosty
was come to Sandwich, he gathered so large a force, naval and
military, as no king before collected in this land; for it was
credibly reported that Earl William from Normandy, King Edward's
cousin, would come hither and gain this land; just as it afterwards
happened.

       When Tosty understood that King Harold was on the way to Sandwich,
he departed thence, and took some of the boatmen with him, willing
and unwilling, and went north into the Humber with sixty skips;
whence he plundered in Lindsey, and there slew many good men.

When the Earls Edwin and Morkar understood that, they came hither, and
drove him from the land. And the boatmen forsook him. Then he went to
Scotland with twelve smacks; and the king of the Scots entertained
him, and aided him with provisions; and he abode there all the summer.

There met him Harold, King of Norway, with three hundred ships.
And Tosty submitted to him, and became his man. (87) Then came King
Harold (88) to Sandwich, where he awaited his fleet; for it was
long ere it could be collected: but when it was assembled, he went
into the Isle of Wight, and there lay all the summer and the autumn.

       There was also a land-force every where by the sea, though it availed
nought in the end.

It was now the nativity of St.

Mary, when the provisioning of the men began; and no man could
keep them there any longer. They therefore had leave to go home:
and the king rode up, and the ships were driven to London; but many
perished ere they came thither. When the ships were come home, then came
Harald, King of Norway, north into the Tine, unawares, with a very great
sea-force--no small one; that might be, with three hundred ships or
more; and Earl Tosty came to him with all those that he had got; just
as they had before said: and they both then went up with all the fleet
along the Ouse toward York. (89) When it was told King Harold in the
south, after he had come from the ships, that Harald, King of Norway,
and Earl Tosty were come up near York, then went he northward by
day and night, as soon as he could collect his army.

       But, ere King Harold could come thither, the Earls Edwin and Morkar
had gathered from their earldoms as great a force as they could
get, and fought with the enemy. (90) They made a great slaughter
too; but there was a good number of the English people slain, and
drowned, and put to flight: and the Northmen had possession of the
field of battle.

It was then told Harold, king of the English, that this had thus happened.
And this fight was on the eve of St. Matthew the apostle, which was
Wednesday.

No possible blame can attach to the Engineer as he
stopped the moment he saw the boy fall, but was too late.

He then came up slowly to the depot, both sides of the road being lined
by hundreds of anxious spectators, and attached the Locomotive to two
burden Cars and the large Passenger Coach, before mentioned, altogether
containing, we suppose, over 150 persons, in the following order:

1st--The Engine and tender. 2nd--A common Burden Car with temporary
benches to sit on but no side on front or rear railing to protect the
passengers from falling or being pushed off; fastened with common trace
chains by means of the centre beams to which the shafts are used fixed
to the Locomotive. 3rd--Another common Burthen Car attached to the
second as it was to the first giving 10 to 12 inches loose play forward
and back but with only a single bench running through the centre from
front to rear. No railing or other protection to the passengers, who
were obliged to stand up, except a few standards along the sides for the
purpose of hauling wood. 4th--The large Passenger Coach attached to the
third as it was to the second. Before starting, more than one gentleman
who noticed the manner of attaching the cars, and the consequent jars
which they would inevitably receive, made remarks as to the dangerous
situation of the individuals crowded on the burden cars, but we made the
trip down safely in 24 minutes.

After remaining to Wood and Water we started back with position
reversed, the large Passenger Coach in front, then the two burthen cars
following each other, and lastly the Locomotive, each pushing forward
the one in front of it, by pressing the end of the centre beams, some
six inches square against each other, loosely attached as before
described, by common trace chains. We had proceeded in this manner about
a mile at a moderate pace when in passing a curve, the beam of the front
burthen Car was seen to pass to the right of the rear beam of the
Passenger Car, which jerked the wheels off the track and caused a
considerable shock and great alarm. Some of the passengers on the two
burthen Cars attempted to jump off, the ground being nearly on a level
with the road at that place; others, especially those standing in the
forward burthen Car were thrown backwards and knocked off, those near
the edge of it under the wheels of the other; some attempted to leap on
the bank, fell and rolled down, and thus all the mischief was done.
Lewis Lankard and Leonard Taylor, of Lexington, Ky.; William A. Cocke
and Joseph Holt, of Louisville; F. W. Trapnall, of Springfield, and
Daniel Green, of Fayette County, were in this way thrown off the forward
burthen Car and under the wheels of the other. Lankard was instantly
killed; Taylor and Green had each a leg broken; Messrs. Trapnall and
Holt had severe bruises and were probably saved by Lankard's falling
before them and in some measure stopping the car. Mr. Cocke had his
right foot firmly fastened in the forward wheel of the hindmost car and
was much injured and but for the presence of mind and promptness of the
Engineer in stopping at the moment must have lost his leg and most
probably his life; another quarter turn of the wheel would have been
fatal. He could only be released by taking that part of the Car to
pieces. Several other gentlemen were bruised and slightly injured. It
was, however, only a _threat_, never being put in execution; but upon
the strength of this threat, application was made to the Governor in
the State of Vermont, requesting that the arms in the American arsenals
might be supplied to the citizens for their protection.Although under
considerable headway he stopped almost instantly and much sooner than
a stage with horses could have been halted. May we now be permitted to
make a single suggestion or two to the Manager of the Rail Road?

1st--The number of passengers to go in each Car should be limited.
As I have before observed, when Mr Adams was President, a Mr B
Walker was thrown into prison for being a defaulter to the extent
of eighteen thousand dollars.

Why are none of these defaulters to the amount of upwards a million of
dollars punished?
In conclusion we hope that the feeling of our citizens will not be again
excited by the occurrence of such a painful and heart-rending accident
as the one over which a number have been called to mourn, as we are
confident that by proper management and strict attention it may be
easily avoided."

       *       *       *       *       *

Now let us consider this first locomotive engine ever used on the
Lexington and Ohio Railroad. This locomotive was invented by Thomas
Harris Barlow (who afterward became world-famous as the inventor of
the Planetarium) and was constructed by Joseph Bruen at his machine
shops which stood near the corner of Water and Spring Streets.

That wonderful little locomotive is described by one who saw it with his
own eyes, who rode behind it often, and who knew the men who invented
and constructed it quite intimately. The old gentleman I refer to was
Samuel D. McCullough, who was born in 1803 and who wrote his diary,
which is now in the Lexington Public Library, in 1871.

"Mr. Thomas Harris Barlow was born in Nicholas County, Kentucky, (says
his son, Milton, in a letter to me) August 5th, 1789, and resided in the
State of his birth till the last year or two of his life and died in
Cincinnati June, 1865."

I shall condense Mr. Milton Barlow's short biography of his father,
which states that he had but a common school education. They soon
found a ready instrument in Pierre Cauchon, who had been made Bishop
of Beauvais by the Duke of Burgundy, was chased out of it by the party
of Charles VII., and now expected to get the Archbishopric of Rouen by
the help of the English. It was he who bore the King of England's request
to John of Luxemburg that he would give up Jeanne d'Arc for ten thousand
pieces of gold to the Church to be judged. Neither Charles VII. nor
any French ecclesiastic (save the Archbishop of Reims) made any movement,
so she was surrendered at the price of an army.

After being taken to Beaurevoir, to Arras, and to Crotoy, she was
moved by way of St.

Valery, Eu, and Dieppe to Rouen. She entered the town by the valley of
Bihorel, past the spot where the Gare du Havre now stands, and by way
of the Rue Verte was led to the castle of Philip Augustus and
placed in an iron cage, so that the smirched authority of English
rule might be re-established by proving her, in the formal processes
of law, a witch.

Of the castle itself the only tower that now stands still bears her
name. Almost the last scene of her imprisonment took place within
the walls that you may visit here, though originally she was not placed
in this donjon itself. For the original castle, built by Philip
Augustus in 1205 to consolidate his rule over John Lackland's fresh-won
province, had consisted of an almost circular building, with six
towers, a demi-tower, and this donjon which was built upon two thick
curtain-walls and entirely interrupted the guards' "chemin de ronde," on
to which no door opened from its massive circular walls. The Castle of
Arques (1038), and of Château Guillard (1195), are indeed older
than this of Rouen, but the ruins of their donjon-keeps do not show
anything like the character of the Tour Jeanne d'Arc, which is itself
earlier in date than either Coucy (1228) or Pierrefonds (1390). More
than this, a document of 1202 preserves the most interesting fact that
this tower was planned after the dimensions and shape of the famous
Tour du Louvre, of which Paris now possesses only a circle of white
marble to mark the site of the royal tower that once stood where
the south-west corner of the Louvre courtyard is now.

The walls of Rouen's donjon are 4 metres 20 thick, 46 metres in circumference
at the base, and 30 metres high. These last two measurements show a
difference of only two metres from those of the vanished Tour du
Louvre. Before this chapter closes I shall be able to explain how
it is that you are able to see in Rouen the most perfect presentment
of a thirteenth-century donjon in France, with two-thirds of the present
building in its original masonry. Within it took place most of the
stirring events of history after a change in dynasty had left the
castle of the Norman dukes to develop gradually into a commercial instead
of a royal or military centre. One of these, the arrest of Charles le
Mauvais, and the execution of his four friends by King Jean le Bon,
I have spoken of in earlier chapters.
I remember again, that the model engine of Mr. Barlow and Mr. Bruen was
run on the miniature Rail Road _three or four years before_ the first
rail was laid on the track which was a flat iron rail on a stone sill.
The great danger occurring continually from the ends of the flat rails
turning upwards causing what was then called 'snake heads,' and the
disintegration of the stone sills induced the directors to change both
sills and rails to their present form.

I recollect the old horse car running from here to Frankfort and back to
Lexington.

It was in 1835, in company with my deceased friend, John J. Crittenden,
who with myself was watching a splendid comet in the North West during
our ride, the horse cars were four hours in running the distance of
twenty-four miles, or six miles an hour. Upon arriving upon the hill
near Frankfort the passenger trains were sent down an inclined plane
drawn by horses. Several accidents occurred which afterwards induced the
Directors to change the route to a more circuitous and safer place, the
road now in constant use. At Frankfort the passengers for Louisville
took seats in five and six four-horse coaches, eighteen to twenty-four
passengers each. The necessities of travel and commerce finally
culminated in finishing the Rail Road to Louisville. Lexington and
Frankfort with the counties of Fayette, Woodford and Franklin did their
parts nobly, and Louisville with that symptom of haggling so usual with
her, finally was induced to help finish the road to that city.

Whilst upon the subject of inventors, inventions and Rail Roads, I may
tell you that the two-horse-car ran from this City to Frankfort over the
'flat iron' rail until 18-- when a little steam locomotive called the
Nottaway made one trip to Frankfort and back the same day. It drew one
passenger coach built by Mr. Ashton, the venerable coach builder of this
city. The inside would accommodate about as many as a modern omnibus
and seats on the top with an iron railing all around would seat as many
more. I have an indistinct recollection where the baggage and mail
matter were stored but I think they were given in charge of the
engineer, who also in that capacity was baggage master and mail agent.

I recollect distinctly the little locomotives, Nottaway and Logan.
More than two-score times have I and other able bodied men gotten out of
the passenger car when the locomotive was not able to pull the load over
some slight elevation in the road and pushed passenger car and engine up
the inclined plane of less than one degree inclination. When we arrived
at the summit of the inclination, which was about nine miles from
Lexington in what was called the 'deep cut,' the engineer in the
meantime having raised steam enough to carry passengers to the next
slight ascension in the road, cried 'all aboard' and away we went.
'All out' was the engineer's next cry when he came to some slight
ascension in the road. Out we came and our shoulders were again applied
to help the little locomotive out of its terrible difficulty. The monks
then chose for abbot Provost Brand, because he was a very good man,
and very wise; and sent him to Edgar Etheling, for that the land-folk
supposed that he should be king: and the etheling received him gladly.
When King William heard say that, he was very wroth, and said that
the abbot had renounced him: but good men went between them, and
reconciled them; because the abbot was a good man. He gave the king
forty marks of gold for his reconciliation; and he lived but a little
while after--only three years. Afterwards came all wretchedness and
all evil to the minster. God have mercy on it!

((A.D. 1066. This year died King Edward, and Harold the earl succeeded
to the kingdom, and held it forty weeks and one day.."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Andy Shepherd in an interview said he remembered the old locomotives
Daniel Boone, Logan and Joe Davis.

He said the passenger coach was painted yellow. He described the first
locomotive as having a tall smoke stack, a single wheel, and a crank
axle, with no cab, the engineer standing unprotected through wind and
weather. He said it required a cord of two-foot wood to make the trip
from Lexington to Frankfort and return, that the engineer stopped at
Villa Grove and at Duckers "to wood and water." It takes its name from
the Maison du Haulage, where the merchants paid town dues upon their
goods, and a few steps further in the Rue des Tapissiers will bring
you to the Halles themselves, to which you enter through a huge black
archway that gapes upon the Place de la Basse Vieille Tour. Upon the left
are some of those old "avant soliers" which you have seen in
Jacques Lelieur's drawing of the Place du Vieux Marché, the covered
causeways formed by projecting walls propped up by heavy timbers.

There is much hideously vulgar modern decoration to spoil the full
effect, but the main outlines of the old building are all there, and
you may imagine what it looked like for yourself.

       

Hardly a paper comes to hand but contains accounts of
meetings held for the purpose of projecting one through some part or
another."

       *       *       *       *       *

And on January 9th, 1836:

"The Mayor has called a meeting of the citizens of Lex. and Fayette Co.
on Monday next at 12 o'clock to take into consideration measures
relative to the contemplated Railroad from Charleston, S. C., to the
Ohio River. The meeting will take place in a Court House."

       *       *       *       *       *

On January 23rd, 1836:

We learn that "the Directors of the R. R. Co. have declined bringing
more fire wood to this city but have offered to the agents for procuring
fuel the use of their road and wood cars free of expense for the
transport of that article. The great quantity of freight at the depots
rendering this course necessary on the part of the Company."

       *       *       *       *       *

On December 12th, 1835, was an interesting article headed:


RAIL ROAD STOCK.

"Four shares of Lex. and Ohio R. R. And they gave him hostages and took
oaths: and he promised them that he would be a faithful lord to them;
though in the midst of this they plundered wherever they went. Then
on midwinter's day Archbishop Aldred hallowed him to king at Westminster,
and gave him possession with the books of Christ, and also swore him, ere
that he would set the crown on his head, that he would so well govern
this nation as any before him best did, if they would be faithful to
him.

       Neverrhetess he laid very heavy tribute on men, and in Lent went
over sea to Normandy, taking with him Archbishop Stigand, and Abbot
Aylnoth of Glastonbury, and the child Edgar, and the Earls Edwin,
Morkar, and Waltheof, and many other good men of England.

Clatterbuck, on the R. R., six miles from
Lex., was destroyed by fire on the night of Monday last together with
most of the furniture, liquors and a considerable sum of money. This
misfortune will be seriously felt not only by Mr. C----, but by the
travellers on the R. R., who were always sure of a kind reception and
the solace of a cup of hot sparkling coffee at daylight after making the
first stop from Lex. The benevolent we are sure will not be appealed to
in vain to contribute something towards enabling Mr. Clatterbuck again
to commence business. His loss in cash was about $700."

       *       *       *       *       *

And now I have told you all that I have been able to find concerning
this old Lexington and Ohio Railroad. The barbarism of granting that as
a privilege to the extremely wealthy, to which money bears no relation
whatever, and in which all married persons whatever have an equal
interest, needs no exposure beyond the mere statement of the fact.

.