"Pull the second lever," he said, and Alfred did as directed.

"Reverse!" demanded the captain.

"The lever below," said the officer.

A mile away was a small, speedy craft, sailing around the submarine. It
seemed fairly to skim over the surface of the water, and cast the spray
astern like a mist. It had come up unnoticed by the captain.

"Look at the little boat," shouted Ralph, who had now recovered and had
moved to the open door.

The captain turned quickly toward the stern, waving the white flag in a
frenzy. It must have been regarded as a remarkable thing to those on
board the little cutter to see a German submarine hoisting a surrender
flag. It seemed too good to be true. They evidently supposed the white
flag was a ruse of some kind, for they did not venture nearer.

Meanwhile, the cruiser, which had fired the two shots, came up behind
the little craft, and the latter cautiously steamed up. The small vessel
was one of the speedy torpedo boat chasers, carrying two three-inch
guns, and drawing less than six feet of water. The safety of these boats
lies in their great speed and in the shallow draft, which prevents the
submarine from reaching them with their torpedoes.

Once abreast the commander called out: "I am sending a boat for your
officers."

"I have only one here, that we can get at, at present," shouted the
captain.

"What is that?" asked the commander of the chaser.

"I have one of the chief officers in the conning tower, and the others
are below," said the captain.

"Who are you?" asked the commander.

"Captain Leclere, of the French service," replied the captain.

"Captain Leclere!" almost shouted the German officer in the conning
tower.

"That's the man," said Alfred.

"Then I am not surprised," said the officer in a low voice.

"Surprised?" said Ralph. "Did you say 'surprised?'"

The officer sighed, turned his head away, and was silent.

A lieutenant and four seamen reached the side of the submarine, and were
drawn aboard.

"Ah! it was your ship that went down in the bay last Wednesday," said
the chaser's lieutenant.

"Yes; we were picked up by the submarine, together with my two young
friends here," said the captain.

"And how does it happen that you are in command of this vessel?" he
asked in surprise.

"We captured it about a half an hour ago, and have the chief officer and
the crew below," replied the captain.

"That is certainly a remarkable exploit," replied the lieutenant. "I
suppose you will be glad to meet the commander of _l'Orient_?" said the
lieutenant.

"Ah! Captain Tournai, you mean! I recognized the French colors. But I
supposed he was in the Mediterranean; it will be quite a pleasure,
indeed. Do me the honor to signal him," said the captain.

The lieutenant gave the necessary instructions, and the flags wig-wagged
from the bridge of the little vessel.

The sub-lieutenant was called out of the conning tower, and Alfred
directed to unloosen the cords.

"I suppose you will take charge of the prisoners," said the captain.

"I should be glad to do so, with your permission, although you have a
right, of course, to turn them over to _l'Orient_," said the lieutenant.

"No; it is sufficient gratification to know that we have the vessel,"
said the captain, "and I shall be glad to leave to you the disposition
of the men and the vessel."

"What procedure would you suggest?" asked the lieutenant.

"I shall give an order to the sub-lieutenant directing the men to come
out of the hold," said the captain. Then, turning to the sub-lieutenant,
he said:

"You will inform the men below that they are to present themselves at
the hatch."

The officer bowed, and entered the conning tower He immediately
descended. Before he had, reached the bottom the captain said:

"Halt! Notify them from where you are. I shall not permit you to go any
farther."

All the men were found to be stationed near the hatchway steps. One by
one they appeared, and were escorted out, a dozen marines in the
meantime having appeared in two boats. As they emerged from the door
they were escorted to the side and directed to take their places in the
ship's boats.

"That makes twenty-one," said Alfred.


CHAPTER X

THE SECRET KEY TO THE BOMB FUSE


"Shall I go down and assist in bringing up the lieutenant?" said the
sub-lieutenant, as the doctor of the submarine passed out.

"No; I have decided that he shall not be removed until this evening,"
said the captain. "In the meantime the doctor may return, and give him
such aid as is necessary."

The sub-lieutenant's face turned pale, and he trembled. This was the
first show of weakness that he exhibited. The boys looked at the
captain, and turned their glances toward the officer of the chaser. They
could not understand it. The captain continued:

"I believe the chief machinist is also injured, as well as two of the
machine tenders. They may also remain until after the lieutenant is
brought up."

All present noticed the wrought-up condition of the sub-lieutenant, and
the latter soon exhibited evidence that he was breaking down. At last he
remarked with trembling voice:

"At what time can they be brought up?"

"I cannot tell at this time; possibly not until tomorrow," said the
captain, directing a searching glance at the officer.

"He is very ill," said the doctor.

"I have no doubt of it," replied the captain. "The length of their stay
in the submarine will depend on the length of the fuse attached to the
time explosive in the hold."

The sub-lieutenant almost dropped as the captain uttered these words,
and the boys exchanged significant glances, while the lieutenant of the
chaser smiled.

"You did not think," continued the captain, "that I would be so lax in
my duty as to permit you to plant a mine under our feet?"

The sub-lieutenant dropped his eyes without answering. The captain gazed
at him intently, as he continued: "For the present you will be detained,
and the time of the removal of the lieutenant with his companions will
be decided within the next two hours."

With this decision the sub-lieutenant was put in charge of the marines,
while he descended to enter the boat. As he was about to step aboard, he
turned to the captain and said: "It will be too late if you defer the
decision for two hours."

"Ah!" said the captain with a faint smile, "you have thought better of
it. Will the fuse last an hour?"

The sub-lieutenant nodded. The captain waved his arms and directed the
officer to proceed. The latter unceremoniously pushed the sub-lieutenant
into the boat.

"I will see to it that the fuses are taken out," said the
sub-lieutenant, recovering from his sullen attitude.

The captain paid no attention to the remarks of the officer. As soon as
the sub-lieutenant was well out of hearing, the captain turned to the
boys and said: "It may be a difficult and trying duty to you to perform,
but it is the only safe thing to do. As you know almost every part of
the submarine from the investigation you have made, I would ask you to
follow me, and I will tell you what to do."

The boys nodded their heads, and entered the conning tower with the
captain. The latter turned, before descending, and said:

"You will have observed, no doubt, that the scheme was to turn over the
submarine to us as soon as possible, leaving a time fuse, which, within
a specified time, would have blown the ship to atoms. By so doing they
would accomplish two purposes, namely, destroy the ship, and save their
own lives. We must not put confidence in any statement they may make."

"But wouldn't it be a good idea to let the sub-lieutenant remove the
fuses, as he said he would do?" asked Ralph.

"Would you be willing to rely on that?"

"Well, I wouldn't," replied Alfred. "I could tell by the way the
sub-lieutenant acted that he would play a trick if he could."

"That is just why I want you to assist me in check-mating," said the
captain.

"Tell us just what to do, and you may depend on us," replied Ralph.

"As you know many of the dark places below I want you to go down with me
and find several where you can secrete yourselves. I will then send the
sub-lieutenant down, and order him to remove the fuses. I want you to be
particular to observe every step he takes, and, as far as possible, note
what he does at each place; do you understand?" said the captain.

"Perfectly," replied Ralph.

Together they descended. All were well aware that the lieutenant, the
doctor, and the three wounded men were still in the dining galley, the
door of which had been closed and locked by orders of the captain, after
the last of the submarine crew reached the upper deck.

"I know one good place where a fellow can hide and still see what is
going on," said Alfred.

"Where is that?" asked the captain.

"At that tank by the side of the dining galley," replied Alfred.

"That would be a good vantage point," answered the captain. "It is the
aft trimming tank, and if you can find a place of concealment it would,
at the same time, enable you to overhear any conversation that might
possibly take place, when the sub-lieutenant is performing his unwelcome
duty."

"Then maybe I ought to get somewhere forward of the main hatch?"
proposed Ralph.

"I suppose you have your revolvers with you?" said the captain.

"I know mine is all right," replied Ralph.

"So is mine, I think," said Alfred, "although I haven't had an
opportunity to try it so far."

"I hope there will be no necessity for anything of that kind," said the
captain. "However, we are dealing with men who are desperate, and who
have been taught that they must do desperate things to accomplish their
purposes, hence the safe rule, in all cases, in dealing with them, is to
do the very opposite of that which they wish you to do."

"Is that the reason why you refused to let him remove the fuse?" asked
Alfred.

The captain laughed quietly, as he replied: "He thinks I have refused to
let him do so, but he will be surprised to get the order to remove the
fuses, and be permitted to go down into the vessel unaccompanied."

"Then he is to come down here without you?" said Ralph in surprise.

"Why, certainly; and that is why I want some one here to watch
proceedings," said the captain.

"Oh! I understand now," replied Alfred. "That's a good idea. If anything
happens we'll find out what it is if any one can."

"I believe it," answered the captain. "And now select your places. I
will go up and send him down within the next fifteen minutes."

Alfred took up his station at one side of the aft trimming tank, and
Ralph, after some investigation, upturned one of the boxes which was
still lying in the passageway directly to one side of the steps leading
to the conning tower, and after a little search, found two more, which
were drawn together, thus forming a retreat which enabled him to observe
the movements of any one on three sides.

All this was done in silence, and all preparation having been made, the
captain ascended. After reaching the deck-house of the chaser, he
requested the sub-lieutenant's presence. As he approached, between the
two guards, the captain said: "I have concluded that you may go down and
remove the fuses, and I shall depend on your honor to do it
effectually."

The sub-lieutenant bowed stiffly, and was led to the boat, followed by
the captain. As they reached the conning tower, the captain continued:
"I will remain here. I shall give you ten minutes' time to do the work."

The sub-lieutenant descended, and was somewhat surprised to find himself
alone in the interior. The electric lights were burning brightly. Ralph
was the first to view his movements. The officer first moved to a point
directly opposite, and with a key opened a door, which Ralph had never
theretofore noticed. In a moment the door was again closed and Ralph saw
a short section of a fuse, which the officer quickly pushed into a dark
recess below.

From that point he moved toward the stern, stopping at the motors; then
he quickly turned around and glanced about in a suspicious manner. As he
stooped down, Ralph made a slight noise on one of the boxes, and the
officer straightened up like a shot. The movement indicated a guilty
act, and Ralph divined that the purpose was to injure the motors.

The sub-lieutenant moved cautiously to the rear, and in a few moments
was abreast of the dining galley. Here he was within hearing of Alfred
behind the aft trimming tanks. He saw the officer go to the door, and
give three quick knocks. "Herr Schwoger!" he said in a subdued voice. In
another moment a voice within replied: "The fuses; you must not forget
them."

To this the sub-lieutenant answered: "I have been ordered to remove
them; what shall I do?"

"Take out all but the forward fuse, and report," said the voice. "Tell
us what has happened," continued the voice, which was now recognized as
the doctor's.

"They have complete command, and two warships are outside," was the
reply.

From this point the officer crossed over to the starboard side of the
vessel and at a large stand-pipe stooped down. Alfred tried to ascertain
what he was doing, but was unable to detect the nature of his work. The
sub-lieutenant then crossed back to the other side, and, working his way
quickly to the motors, stooped down. Ralph could no longer restrain
himself. He quickly and quietly moved toward the officer, as he saw him
with a long tool of some kind in his hand reach down to the base of the
motor.

"Hands up!" shouted Ralph.

The tool dropped from the hands of the officer with a click.

Alfred was at the side of the sub-lieutenant in an instant. "You may go
on deck," said Ralph.

The officer glanced at Alfred, whom he had seen emerge from the aft
hiding place, and then turned a look of contempt on Ralph.

"Move!" said Ralph, pointing to the gangway.

Alfred cocked his revolver and menacingly pointed it at him.

There was only one thing to do and he did it. He was met by the captain
at the head of the stairway.

The boys followed quickly. The captain looked on at the leveled
revolvers and appeared to be surprised.

"What does all this mean?" he asked.

"It means that he tried to destroy the motors, and we caught him at it
in time," said Ralph.

"That is not so," replied the officer.

"What is this for?" asked Alfred, as he held up the tool which the
officer had dropped.

"But you have removed all the fuses, of course?" said the captain,
apparently not heeding the tool referred to.

"I have," said the officer, straightening up.

"All but the one at the forward part of the vessel," replied Alfred.

The officer turned, with a look of surprise and chagrin on his face. "He
does not know what he is talking about," said the officer.

"Then you are lying to me as you are to the captain," said Alfred. "You
told the doctor in the galley that you had removed all but the forward
one. Did you lie to him?" asked Alfred.

A blush seemed to suffuse the officer's face, as the captain said:

"We will go down together. There may be some more work to do; come on,"
said the captain, as he indicated the way. "You may go first, Ralph, the
sub-lieutenant will follow."

There was no help for it. Once below the captain said: "You will save
yourself considerable trouble by removing the fuse from the forward
bomb, and that without further waste of words."

The officer knew that the manner in which the words were uttered meant
business. Without waiting for the second warning, he led the way, opened
another secret door, and removed the tell-tale fuse.

"Ah, ha! cut for two hours! Now, while we are about it you might as well
start the motor; we have some use for it," said the captain.

"I cannot do that," replied the officer.

"So you succeeded in injuring it," said the captain.

"No," was the reply.

The captain picked up the tool, which Alfred was so particular to carry
along. "And what was this used for?" he asked.

"Yes; I have disarranged the motor fields so that they are useless; and
I don't deny it," said the officer, straightening up and looking at the
captain defiantly.

"There; that is something like it; but you haven't deceived me in the
least. I have brought a very useful article with me," continued the
captain, drawing from his pocket a paper and presenting it to the
officer. "It contains instructions, which I expect you to follow, for
your own safety. I shall see to it that the fuses you removed are again
put into place and the mechanism set for one hour. Of course, I shall
hold the keys. Under those conditions you may remain locked below, and I
shall expect you to obey my signals, as we intend to navigate the vessel
to port, which will, as you know, occupy about fifty minutes of time. Do
you know where the fuse boxes are?" said the captain, turning to the
boys.

Ralph marched to the side wall and pointed to the place where the
sub-lieutenant opened the first box.

"Open it!" ordered the captain, turning to the sub-lieutenant.

The latter hesitated. The captain stared at him sternly and repeated the
order. As he made no motion, the captain continued: "Why do you
hesitate?"


CHAPTER XI

OPERATING THE SUBMARINE WITH A CAPTIVE CREW


The officer now saw that he was dealing with a man who understood the
motives of those aboard the submarine, and it was also evident that the
sympathy of the boys was turned from the young man. The latter had
played his part to the ultimate.

"You have now done all and more than is required of you," said the
captain, as he altered his tone of voice. "You have set the automatic
device, which, in due time, would have sent this vessel to the bottom. I
understand all these devices, and they will not avail you. I understand,
as well as you do, that to open that box will cause an explosion; but it
is necessary to make an example of you." Then, turning to the boys, he
said: "You may go on deck. As for you, Mr. Officer, I shall detain you
below a sufficient length of time to be sure that the automatic device
gets in its work. We really have no use for the submarine."

He turned and started up the stairway, when the sub-lieutenant, with
trembling voice, said: "I am powerless to prevent the explosion,----"

"Unless," interrupted the captain.

The officer nodded his head. "I supposed so!" continued the captain.
"The lieutenant in the galley has the key which controls the automatic
device. You may open the door and get the key, and from this time
forward, if I find that you deceive me in the slightest degree, or make
any attempt to injure the vessel, I will make it your grave without a
moment's hesitation, and without the least compunction."

The sub-lieutenant moved toward the galley, and opened the door. In a
moment he reappeared with the key and followed the captain to the
conning tower.

Below the switchboard was a tiny slot. Into this the key neatly fitted,
and upon giving a turn, a set of switches was exposed.

"These are the control circuits," he said.

"Turn them off and open the boxes below!" ordered the captain. This was
done.

"Who are the men that operate the trimming tanks?" asked the captain.

"The machinist Scholer and his assistant Bracher," was the reply.

"Lieutenant," said the captain, addressing the commander of the chaser;
"send those men on board."

When they appeared the captain continued: "You will go below with these
men, and obey my signals, as we take the vessel to port, and remember,
that if any part of the machinery is destroyed I will not guarantee to
deliver you safely on shore."

As they disappeared, the trap-door was closed, and the boys were free,
for the first time since the eventful morning, five days previous to
this time, when they stepped aboard the submarine.

They now realized, in a particularly pointed manner, that while the air
in a submarine seems to be fairly pure, it is filled with the most
noxious fumes, due to the petroleum and lubricants, as well as to the
odors due to cooking, all of which cannot be gotten rid of, however
constantly the air-circulating apparatus of the ship is in operation.

The greatest efforts have been made to automatically discharge these
odors, but the hundreds of dead corners within a hull of this character
make it impossible to effect a thorough discharge, and when the
trap-door finally closes down there is a peculiar feeling, not unlike
seasickness, which seemed to attack one.

"I understand your feelings," said the captain, as he noticed the pale
faces of the boys. "It is wonderful how you have been able to keep up,
and not exhibit symptoms before this. I will have two seamen come over
to assist me in the conning tower."

"I wish you wouldn't do that," said Alfred, as he placed his hand on his
temples. "I am sure we will get over this in time."

"No, no; we want to stay with you, if you don't mind," insisted Ralph.
"I am all right now," and he tried to smile, but it was not a very
successful effort.

"Then I suppose I shall have to accede; yes, lieutenant, we can take
care of the boat, but I shall expect you to act as our convoy," replied
the captain.

The lieutenant directed his men to pull for the chaser, and the captain
turned to the operating board. "Forward," the word was plain. The signal
was made by two distinct rings. The propellers turned. The captain, with
his hands on the wheel, turned to starboard and made a short turn. This
brought the vessel alongside the chaser. A slight turn to port, then
forward, and they glided alongside _l'Orient_.

The crew had been lined up on the port side, and the captain at the end
of the bridge raised his cap in salute as they passed by.

"Where are we going?" asked Ralph, as he saw the prow pointing to the
south. "Are we going to France?"

"What are those funny things bobbing up there for,--that whole line?"
asked Alfred.

"They are the floats for the torpedo nets," replied the captain. "We are
now on our way to go through the gates, and thus avoid the nets."

"Is that why we are following the torpedo chaser?" asked Ralph.

"Yes, and when once inside the lane, we will change our course and reach
the English base for craft of this kind," said the captain.

The submarine followed the wake of the chaser for fully a half hour,
when, for some reason, that boat stopped. As they neared it they noticed
the sailors and marines aboard on the port side, and intently engaged
in looking forward.

"What's up now, I wonder?" said Alfred, as he opened the door of the
conning tower and stepped on the deck.

"Look at the floats ahead," said the captain.

On investigation two of them were noticed moving back and forth, and
occasionally dipping in an unaccountable manner.

"Look at those fellows with the guns on the deck of the chaser," said
Ralph.

Alfred looked up. He saw the gun crews at their stations, with the
officers in charge of the guns standing at one side in attitudes of
expectancy.

"I know," said Alfred. "They have caught one of them."

"Yes; and they are making the same efforts to get away that we were
engaged in only a few hours ago," said the captain.

The chaser steamed back and forth in a quiet, determined way, the men
never for a moment relaxing their watch.

"What are they trying to do with that funny-looking, big, fat gun on the
side near the front end of the deck?" asked Ralph.

"That is a howitzer," answered the captain.

"What in the world do they want a howitzer for?" asked Alfred.

"To use it on the boat if it should get free from the net," replied the
captain.

"Why don't they use it now?" asked Ralph.

"Because they do not want to destroy the boat unless it is absolutely
necessary," answered the captain.

"But how will they know whether the boat gets away?" asked Alfred.

"By the condition of the floats," answered the captain. "You will notice
that the two floats within range of the submarine's action are being
dragged down. If the floats should be in a normal condition, or float on
their true water line, which you can readily observe by glasses, it is
evident that the submarine is free."

"And then that would be the time they would use the howitzers?"
suggested Alfred.

"But how could they reach the submarine?" asked Ralph. "Do they know
just where the vessel is now?"

"Yes, they can locate it within a hundred feet; but that would be near
enough for their purpose," replied the captain.

"Do you mean," asked Alfred, "that they would send the shell from the
howitzer anywhere near them, and that it would destroy the submarine
even though it didn't hit it?"

"Yes; the detonating or rupturing effect of the high explosive in the
shells is such that even though the explosion would take place a hundred
feet from the hull, it would put it out of commission at once, and, in
all probability, crush in the sides like an egg shell," said the
captain.

"Why are they signaling?" asked Ralph, as the wig-wagging began.

"I think that's _l'Orient_ in sight on the port side," replied the
captain, after gazing in the direction indicated.

"Then the cruiser will take the position of the chaser?" said Alfred.

"Quite likely," answered the captain.

"Look at the smoke; she's coming this way," shouted Ralph.

The captain waved his hand to the lieutenant on the chaser, as he
shouted: "They have responded to your signals."

As _l'Orient_ approached and took up position, the chaser, with a
parting salute, turned and started for its former course along the line
of buoys. The boys looked back and kept their eyes on the moving buoys
as far as they could see them.

"It will never get away," said the captain.

The chaser described a long curve, and changed its course due east, and,
following it, they were at the entrance which had been left free. Beyond
were several other small vessels, two of which dashed up and steamed
alongside. The crews cheered as the boys emerged from the conning tower
and waved their caps.

The lieutenant quickly informed the officers aboard the other boats of
the prize, which had been taken by those aboard of her, and the news
redoubled their noisy welcome. The tell-tale number on the side of the
conning tower, U-96, was sufficient to inform the crews of the passing
vessels that another of the dreaded boats was out of action.

Once within the lane, as the path between the two lines of buoyed nets
is called, they turned and steamed north. Vessels were passing and
repassing; transport and hospital ships; immense freight carriers, and
saucy little tugs drawing barge-like flat-boats; innumerable fast
launches and large war vessels, going to and fro between the shores of
England and France.

Within a half-hour they again approached the place where _l'Orient_ was
watching the struggles of the entangled submarine. The boys thought of
the trying hours when they, too, were thus imperilled, and could hardly
refrain from shuddering at the thought of the human beings in the narrow
prison house below the waves.

Evidently, something exciting was taking place, for the cruiser was
constantly manoeuvering, and the men at the howitzers were keenly alive.
Occasionally, there would be a lull in the movement of the buoys and it
was during those moments that the most intense activity was shown on
board the guarding vessel.

