Thereafter Sigurd brought forth a crown that he had had made hastily by
his craftsmen from two gold arm rings, and they set it on Havelok's
head, and hailed him as king indeed; and one by one the chiefs came and
swore all fealty to him, beginning with Sigurd, and ending with a boy of
some seventeen winters, who looked at the king he bent before as though
he was Thor himself.

Then they would have had Havelok forth to the people at once; but he
bade them hearken for a moment, and said, taking Goldberga by the hand,
"Were it not for this my wife, I do not think that I had been here
today, and without her I am nothing. Now I am king by your word, and I
think that I might bid you take her as queen. But I had rather that she
was made queen by your word also, that whither I live or fall in the
strife that is to come, you may fight for her."

At that there was a murmur of praise, and all agreed that she should be
crowned at once. So Havelok set the crown on her head while the chiefs
in one voice swore to uphold her through good and ill, as though she
were Havelok himself.

Then said Havelok, "Now have you taken her for queen for her own sake,
and I will tell you a thing that has not been heard here as yet. On this
throne sits the queen of two lands, and there shall come a day when you
and I shall set your lady on that other throne which is hers by right.
--Many of our readers will recollect the anecdote of the thrifty American
who asked Commodore _Hardy_, when he would attack _Stonington_ again?
so that he might have his cart ready to carry off the shot; and
also the accounts we have had of the mighty mass of metal collected
there and sold at New York, &c.

It seems, however, that the _iron mine_ is not yet exhausted, for
certain persons with a diving machine have raised no less than 11,209
lbs. of shot, which was thrown overboard from the _Pactolus_, when she
was in such a hurry to get away from the two guns of Stonington! They
have also picked up a quantity of copper.--Niles's _Weekly Register,
June 3, 1815._

NOTE 19, page 38.
Capt. Coote, of H. B.There was spoken the mind of all that company, and they were not
backward to say so. For in the heart of the Dane is ever the love of the
sea, and of the clash of arms on a far-off strand that comes after
battle with wind and wave.

Very bravely did Goldberga thank the chiefs for their love to her
husband and herself in a few words that were all that were needed to
bind the hearers to her, so well and truly were they chosen. And she
said that if the Anglian land was to be won it was for Havelok and not
for herself altogether, and she added, "Here we have spoken as if
already Hodulf was overthrown, and it is good that we are in such brave
heart. Yet this has been foretold to me, and I am sure that there will
be no mishap."

Then Sigurd said, "What gift do we give our queen, now that she has come
among us?"

But Goldberga replied, "If it is the custom that one shall be given, I
will mind you of the promise hereafter, when Anglia is won, and you and
I are Havelok's upholders on that throne. There is one thing that I will
ask then, that a wrong may be righted."

"Nay, but we will give you some gift now, and then you shall ask what
you will also."

"You have given me more than I dared hope," she said, "even the brave
hearts and hands that have hailed us here. I can ask no more. Only
promise to give me one boon when I need it, and I am happy."

Then they said, "What you will, and when you will, Goldberga, the queen.
There is naught that you will ask amiss."

Now they showed Havelok to the warriors as crowned king, and I need not
tell how he was greeted. And after that we all went back into the hall
to speak of the way in which we were to meet Hodulf.

Havelok would have a message sent to him, bidding him give up the land
in peace.

"It may be that thus we shall save the sadness of fighting our own
people, though, indeed, they love the playground of Hodulf. He is an
outlander, and perhaps he may think well to make terms with us."

Some said that it was of no use, but then Havelok answered that even so
it was good to send a challenge to him.

"For the sake of peace we will do this, though I would rather meet him
in open fight, for I have my father to avenge."

Now I rose up and said, "Let me go and speak with him, taking Withelm as
my counsellor. For I know all the story, and that will make him sure
that he has the right man to fight against. I will speak with him in
open hall, and more than he shall learn how he thought to slay Havelok."

All thought that this was good, and I was to go at once. It was but a
few hours' ride, as has been said, to his town, and the matter was as
well done with.

Col. Wm. Randall, of Stonington, commanding the 30th Regiment of State
Militia.

NOTE 16, page 31.

Too much praise can hardly be awarded to the volunteer firemen, who, during
the whole of the engagement, continued to patrol the streets, watching
the fall of every rocket and shell, and extinguishing fires as soon
as lighted. Two of this band may be named without injustice to others,
as having rendered efficient and constant service,--Capt.
CHARLES H. SMITH and FRANCIS AMY, Esq., both serjeants in Capt. Potter's
company. Capt. THOMAS SWAN was not less active or persevering. He remained
in the Borough, (except for an hour's visit to his family, placed in
safety at a farm house, a mile distant,) from the beginning of the
attack till the departure of the ships; serving, as necessity
required, with the volunteer firemen, and with the guard stationed
on the east side of the Point to prevent a landing of the enemy
from their boats.

NOTE 17, page 32.

See Capt. Palmer's letter to the Secretary of War, next following.

NOTE 18, page 36.

The anchor left by the _Dispatch_ brig, at Stonington, when she 'cut
and run,' has been got up and brought to New London. It weighs upwards
of 20 _cwt._--_Niles's Weekly Register, Sept. 10, 1814._
"Mr. Chalmers, late master of the _Terror_, bomb-vessel, employed
in the attack on Stonington, has been captured in a British barge
and sent to Providence. He says 170 bombs were discharged from that
ship in the attack on Stonington, which were found to weigh 80 lb.
each; the charge of powder for the mortar was 9 lbs.; adding to
this the wadding, that vessel must have disgorged eight tons weight."Yet all asked that
question; and more than once, when they heard the reply, there would be
a halt and a talk, and then the men would turn and cast in their lot
with the son of Gunnar, hastening to him with more eager steps than had
taken them to Hodulf.


    CHAPTER XXI. THE TOKEN OF SACK AND ANCHOR.

It seemed only the other day that I had passed over the well-known ways,
and I showed Withelm the hollow where Grim had met with the king and
taken his precious burden from him. Then we passed along the wild shore,
and the linnets were singing and the whinchats were calling as ever, and
the old mounds of the heroes of the bygone were awesome to me now as
long ago, when I looked at them standing lonesome along the shore with
only the wash of the waves to disturb them. And so we came to the town
at high noon, and already there was the bustle of a gathering host in
the place, for the news had fled before us.

They had built a new and greater hall in place of that which had been
burned; and there sat Hodulf with his chiefs, wondering and planning,
and maybe waiting for more certain news of what had happened. Not long
would they wait for that now.

We rode to the door, and one came to meet us with words of welcome,
thinking that we were men who came to the levy that was gathering; but
his words stayed when I asked to be taken to the presence of Hodulf, as
I came with a message from Havelok Gunnarsson the king.

The man, chamberlain or steward, or whatever he was, stared at me, and
said in a low voice, "It is true then?"

"True as I am Radbard Grimsson, who helped Havelok to fly from hence."

"Unwelcome will you be, for Hodulf is in no good mood," the man said. "I
hardly think it safe for you to trust yourself with him."

"Then," said I, "open the door of the hall, and I will go in with my
men, and see what he says."

"Well, that will be bad for me, but I have a mind to see Havelok."

So I told Withelm to come at my side, and bade half the courtmen follow
us closely, and when they were inside to see that the door was not
barred after us on any pretence. The rest would bide with the horses
outside.

Then we loosed the peace strings of our weapons, and in we went, quietly
and in order; and the chiefs turned to look at us, thinking us more of
themselves. Hodulf sat on his place on the dais, and there were
thirty-one others with him, sitting on the benches that were set along
the walls. Withelm counted them.

Then the door was closed, and the man with whom I had spoken set his
back against it, but it was not barred; and I went forward to the steps
of the high place, and stood before Hodulf.

"Well, what now?" he said, seeing that I was a stranger.

"First of all, I ask for safe conduct from this hall as a messenger from
king to king."

"That you have, of course," he answered. "What is your message?"

It did not seem that he thought of Havelok at all, but rather that I
came from some king to whom he had sent. There were two living not so
far off. I thought that there was no good in beating about the bush, for
such an errand as mine had better he told boldly. So I spoke out for all
to hear.

"This is the word of Havelok, son of Gunnar the king, to Hodulf of
Norway, who sits in his place. Home he has come to take his own, and now
he would tell you that the time has come that he is able to rule the
kingdom for himself."

"And what if he has?" said Hodulf, without the least change of face, as
if he had been expecting this, and nothing more or less.

But if he was quiet, the chiefs had heard my words in a very different
way. Some had leaped up, and others bent forward, to hear the answer to
my words the better. I heard one or two laugh; but there were some on
whose faces seemed to be written doubt and anxiety. I think that some
would have spoken, for Hodulf held up his hand for silence, and looked
to me for answer.

"It will be well for you to give up the throne to him, making such terms
as you may," I said.

"That is a fair offer," said Hodulf, quite unmoved, to all seeming, but
looking at me in a way that told me how his anger was held back by main
force, as it were; "but how am I to know that this one who sends so bold
a message is the real Havelok? I am not a fool that I should give up my
throne to the first who asks it. Doubtless you bring some token that you
come from the very son of Gunnar."

I've got a place for Allen."
During this somewhat remarkable speech Mr. Trevor, as it were, blew hot
and cold by turns. Although its delivery was inconsiderate, its
logic was undeniable, and the senator sat down again on the locker,
and was silent.At that the face of Hodulf became ashy grey beneath the tan of wind and
sea, and I saw that his hand clutched the hilt of his sword so that the
knuckles of his fingers grew white. He had never thought to hear of that
deed again, and he knew that he had to deal with the one whom he had
thought dead. Some of the young chiefs in the hall laughed at that
token, but he flashed a glance at them which stayed the laugh on their lips.

"I know not what you mean," he said, altogether staggered.

