But with Markham we enter that sad period which few islands of the
Pacific escaped, in which the scum of the white race carried on
their bloodstained trade in whaling products and sandalwood. They
terrorized the natives shamelessly, and when these, naturally enough,
often resorted to cruel modes of defence, they retaliated with deeds
still more frightful, and the bad reputation they themselves made
for the natives served them as a welcome excuse for a system of
extermination. The horrors of slave-trade were added to piracy, so
that in a few decades the native race of the New Hebrides and Banks
Islands was so weakened that in many places to-day its preservation
seems hopeless.

Thus, for the financial advantage of the worst of whites, and from
indolence and short-sighted national rivalry, a race was sacrificed
which in every respect would be worth preserving, and it is a shameful
fact that even to-day such atrocities are not impossible and very
little is done to save the islanders from destruction.

The only factor opposing these conditions was the Mission, which
obtained a foothold in the islands under Bishop John Williams. He
was killed in 1839 by the natives of Erromanga, but the Protestant
missionaries, especially the Presbyterians, would not be repulsed,
and slowly advanced northward, in spite of many losses. To-day the
Presbyterian mission occupies all the New Hebrides, with the exception
of Pentecoste, Aoba and Maevo. To the north lies the field of the
Anglican mission, extending up to the Solomon Islands.

In 1848 Roman Catholic missionaries settled in Aneityum, but soon
gave up the station; in 1887 they returned and spread all over the
archipelago, with the exception of the southern islands and the
Banks group.

Of late years several representatives of free Protestant sects have
come out, but, as a rule, these settle only where they can combine
a profitable trade with their mission work.

Owing to energetic agitation on the part of the Anglican and
Presbyterian Churches, especially of Bishop Patteson and the
Rev. J. G. Paton, men-of-war were ordered to the islands on police
duty, so as to watch the labour-trade. They could not suppress
kidnapping entirely, and the transportation of the natives to
Queensland continued until within the last ten years, when it was
suppressed by the Australian Government, so that to-day the natives
are at least not taken away from their own islands, except those
recruited by the French for New Caledonia.

Unhappily, England and France could not agree as to who should annex
the New Hebrides. Violent agitation in both camps resulted in neither
power being willing to leave the islands to the other, as numerical
superiority on the French side was counter-balanced by the absolute
economical dependence of the colonists upon Australia. All the light
short nights I lay awake, wondering what was going to become of
my life.

And Rachel? Was she mindful of the promise she had given me on that
night? Alas! no, my dears. She was absorbed in her Arthur. They went
here and there together; they were ever side by side, dreaming away
the time; seeming lost to every one else in their happiness. I
should have thought that Rachel had forgotten all her confession to
me, all that had passed between us on the subject, but for a piteous
look which she gave me now and again when no one was by.

At last an early day was fixed for the marriage, and a wonderful
trousseau came down from London for Rachel.

The pretty things were hardly looked at by her, and packed away out
of sight. Then I saw that two warring spirits were striving within
Rachel. The colour left her face, she grew thin, she started and
trembled at a sudden word or noise.

Sometimes in the middle of the summer nights, just as the earliest
birds were beginning to stir, she would come into my room and throw
herself weeping across my bed. But I dared not speak to her then.
She would not tolerate a word. And so she took her way.

One morning Arthur went off to explore some place alone--a most unusual
event.

    I was in my own room when Rachel came in to me,
    suddenly and quickly, and very
    pale.
    
    "Come," she said, "come now, I have
    got courage to go this
    moment, but I must not delay. Come, come!"

"Where are you going," I asked.

"You know well," she said impatiently; "to my mother.

See, I am taking nothing valuable with me."
She had on a calico morning dress, and plain straw hat. She had
taken the ear-rings out of her ears, the rings off her fingers.

I was ready in an instant, and we went off through the wood together.
I did not attempt to ask her what she meant to do; she was not in
a mood for answering questions. She took my hand as we walked,
and held it tightly, and we went along as children do when they are
going through the green wood in quest of May flowers, only our
steps were more fearful, and our faces paler than children's are
wont to be. We went on very silently and bravely, till we were about
half-way, deep in the wood, when a cheerful shout came across our
ears, and there was a swaying and crackling of bushes; and Arthur
Noble's handsome genial face and stalwart figure confronted us on the
path.

"Maids a-Maying!" he said. "A pretty picture, on my word. Whither be
you bound, fair ladies, and will you accept the services of a
true knight-errant?"
Rachel's hand had turned cold in mine. "We are going to the farm to
visit Mrs. Hollingford," I said stoutly, "and as you are not
acquainted with the lady you had better go home alone, and amuse
Mrs. Hill till we come back."

"Ah! but I do not like that arrangement at all," said Arthur. "Why
should the lady at the farm not receive me? Has anyone been giving me
a bad character? Speak, Rachel, may I not go with you?"
"I cannot go any further," said Rachel; "I am not well." And indeed
she looked ill.

"Rest a little," I said pitilessly, "and by and by you will be
able to go on."
But Arthur, all alarmed, looked at me with surprise and reproach,
drew Rachel's hand within his own, and began walking slowly
towards the Hall.
I followed, with no company but my reflections, which were odd
enough; and so ended this adventure.
And now what I think the most startling occurrence of my story has
got to be related, and, when it is told, all will be pretty nearly
finished.
It was arranged that the wedding should be very private. Sir Arthur,
although he had reluctantly withdrawn his opposition, had refused
to be present at the marriage, therefore, no other guests were
invited. The eve of the day arrived, and I had spent the forenoon
in decorating the little church with white flowers. Early in the
morning Rachel and Arthur, with Mr. and Mrs. Hill and myself, were
to proceed thither, and an hour later the husband and wife were to
depart on their life's adventure together.Rivers are found only on the larger islands, where there are volcanic
rocks. In the coral rocks the rain-water oozes rapidly away, so
that fresh-water springs are not frequently found, in spite of very
considerable rainfall.


Climate

The climate is not hot and very equable. The average temperature in
Efate in 1910 was 24.335° C.; the hottest month was February, with
an average of 27.295°, the coolest, July with 11.9° C. The lowest
absolute temperature was 11.9° C. in August, and the highest 35.6°
C. in March. The average yearly variation, therefore, was 5.48°,
and the absolute difference 23.7°.

The rainfall is very heavy. In December the maximum, 564 mm., was
reached, and in June the minimum, 22 mm. The total rainfall was 3.012
mm., giving a daily average of 8.3 mm.

These figures, taken from a table in the Neo-Hebridais, show that the
year is divided into a cool, dry season and a hot, damp one. From May
to October one enjoys agreeable summer days, bright and cool, with a
predominant south-east trade-wind, that rises and falls with the sun
and creates a fairly salubrious climate. From November to April the
atmosphere is heavy and damp, and one squall follows another. Often
there is no wind, or the wind changes quickly and comes in heavy gusts
from the north-west. This season is the time for cyclones, which occur
at least once a year; happily, their centre rarely touches the islands,
as they lie somewhat out of the regular cyclone track.

A similar climate, with but slightly higher temperature, prevails on
the Santa Cruz Islands.


Flora and Fauna

The vegetation of the New Hebrides is luxurious enough to make all
later visitors share Quiros' amazement. The possibilities for the
planter are nearly inexhaustible, and the greatest difficulty is
that of keeping the plantations from the constant encroachments of
the forest. Yet the flora is poorer in forms than that of Asiatic
regions, and in the southern islands it is said to be much like that
of New Caledonia.

As a rule, thick forest covers the islands; only rarely we find areas
covered with reed-grass. On Erromanga these are more frequent.

In the Santa Cruz Islands the flora seems richer than in the New
Hebrides.

Still more simple than the flora is the fauna. Of mammals there are
only the pig, dog, a flying-fox and the rat, of which the first two
have probably been imported by the natives. There are but few birds,
reptiles and amphibies, but the few species there are are very
prolific, so that we find swarms of lizards and snakes, the latter
all harmless Boidæ, but occasionally of considerable size.

Crocodiles are found only in the Santa Cruz Islands, and do not grow
so large there as in the Solomon Islands.

Animal life in the sea is very rich; turtles and many kinds of fish
and Cetaceæ are plentiful.


Native Population

The natives belong to the Melanesian race, which is a collective
name for the dark-skinned, curly-haired, bearded inhabitants of the
Pacific. The Melanesians are quite distinct from the Australians,
and still more so from the lank-haired, light-skinned Polynesians of
the eastern islands. Probably a mixture of Polynesians and Melanesians
are the Micronesians, who are light-skinned but curly-haired, and of
whom we find representatives in the New Hebrides. The island-nature
of the archipelago is very favourable to race-mixture; and as we know
that on some islands there were several settlements of Polynesians,
it is not surprising to find a very complex mingling of races, which
it is not an easy task to disentangle. It would seem, however, that
we have before us remnants of four races: a short, dark, curly-haired
and perhaps original race, a few varieties of the tall Melanesian
race, arrived in the islands in several migrations, an old Polynesian
element as a relic of its former migrations eastward, and a present
Polynesian element from the east.

Every traveller will notice that the lightest population is in the
south and north-east of the New Hebrides, while the darkest is in
the north-west, and the ethnological difference corresponds to this
division.

In the Banks Islands we find, probably owing to recent immigration,
more Polynesian blood than in the northern New Hebrides; in the Santa
Cruz group the process of mixing seems to be just going on.

The number of natives in the New Hebrides and Banks Islands
amounted, according to the approximate census of the British Resident
Commissioner in 1910, to 65,000. At a conservative estimate we may say
that before the coming of the whites, that is, a generation ago, it was
ten times that, i.e. 650,000. For to judge from present conditions,
the accounts of old men and the many ruined villages, it is evident
that the race must have decreased enormously.


Language

The languages belong to the Melanesian and Polynesian classes. They are
split up into numerous dialects, so widely different that natives of
different districts can hardly, if at all, understand each other. It
is evident that owing to the seclusion of the villages caused by the
general insecurity of former days, and the lack of any literature,
the language developed differently in every village.

On some islands things are so bad that one may easily walk in one day
through several districts, in each of which is spoken a language quite
unintelligible to the neighbours; there are even adjoining villages
whose natives have to learn each other's language; this makes them
fairly clever linguists. Where, by migrations, conditions have become
too complicated, the most important of the dialects has been adopted
as a kind of "lingua franca."

Under these circumstances I at once gave up the idea of learning a
native language, as I never stopped anywhere more than a few weeks; and
as the missionaries have done good work in the cause of philology, my
services were not needed. I was, therefore, dependent on interpreters
in "biche la mar," a language which contains hardly more than fifty
words, and which is spoken on the plantations, but is quite useless
for discussing any abstract subject. In nearly every village there
is some man who can speak biche la mar.


Colonization

As we have seen, colonization in the New Hebrides was begun by the
whalers, who had several stations in the southern islands. They had,
however, little intercourse with the natives, and their influence
may be considered fairly harmless.

More dangerous were the sandalwood traders, who worked chiefly in
Erromanga. They were not satisfied with buying the valuable wood
from the natives, but tried to get directly at the rich supplies
inland. Naturally, they came into conflict with the natives, and
fierce wars arose, in which the whites fought with all the weapons
unscrupulous cruelty can wield. As a result, the population of
Erromanga has decreased from between 5000 and 10,000 to 800.

Happily, the northern islands were not so rich in sandalwood, so that
contact with the whites came later, through the coprah-makers. Coprah
is dried cocoa-nut, which is used in manufacturing soap, and the
great wealth of cocoa-nut palms attracted coprah-makers as early
as the 'Seventies of the last century. They were nearly all ruined
adventurers, either escaped from the Nouméa penitentiary or otherwise
the scum of the white race. Such individuals would settle near
a good anchorage close to some large village, build a straw hut,
and barter coprah for European goods and liquor. They made a very
fair profit, but were constantly quarrelling with the natives, whom
they enraged by all sorts of brutalities. The frequent murders of
such traders were excusable, to say the least, and many later ones
were acts of justifiable revenge. The traders were kept in contact
with civilization through small sailing-vessels, which brought them
new goods and bought their coprah. This easy money-making attracted
more whites, so that along the coasts of the more peaceable islands
numerous Europeans settled, and at present there are so many of these
stations that the coprah-trade is no longer very profitable.

Naturally, many of these settlers started plantations, and thus grew
up the plantation centres of Mele, Port Havannah, Port Sandwich, Epi
and the Segond Channel. Many plantations were created by the "Société
Française des Nouvelles Hébrides," but owing to bad management these
have never yet brought any returns.

Thus, to the alcohol peril was added another danger to the
natives,--work on the plantations. They were kidnapped, overworked,
ill-fed; it was slavery in its worst shape, and the treatment of the
hands is best illustrated by the mortality which, in some places,
reached 44 per cent. per annum. In those days natives were plentiful
and labour easy to get, and nobody worried about the future; so the
ruin of the race began, and to-day their number hardly suffices for
the needs of the planters.

Then the slave-trade to Queensland, Fiji, even South America began,
so that the population, relatively small from the first, decreased
alarmingly, all the more so as they were decimated by dysentery,
measles, tuberculosis and other diseases.

Against all these harmful influences the missions, unsupported as they
were by any authority, could only fight by protests in the civilized
countries; these proved effectual at last, so that the missions deserve
great credit for having preserved the native race. Yet it cannot be
said that they have restored its vitality, except in Tanna. It seems
as if the system of imbibing the native with so much European culture,
and yet separating him from the whites and regulated labour, had been
noxious to the race, for nearly everywhere the Christianized natives
die out just as fast as the heathen population.

About ten years after the French, the English began planting, and
to-day nearly all arable land along the coast is cultivated. The
English suffer much less from lack of labour, which is doubtless owing
to their more humane and just treatment of the hands. In the first
place, they usually come from better stock than the French, and,
secondly, they are strictly controlled by the Government, whereas
the French Government does not even attempt to enforce its own laws.

There is now some question of importing Indian coolies; the great
expense this would entail would be a just punishment for the
short-sighted cruelty with which the most valuable product of the
islands--their population--has been destroyed. Only by compelling
each native to work for a definite period could a sufficient amount
of labour be produced to-day; but such a system, while extremely
beneficial to the race as a whole, stands but a poor chance of being
introduced.

The products of the islands are coprah, coffee, corn, cocoa and, of
late years, cotton. The chief item, however, is coprah, for the islands
seem specially suited for the growing of cocoa-nut palms. Rubber does
not seem to thrive.

In spite of the great number of officials, the Government does not
make itself much felt outside the larger settlements, at least on the
French side. There are not yet magistrates on each island, so that
the Government hears only so much about the crimes committed on the
islands as the planters care to tell, and naturally they do not tell
too much. The British Government is represented by two inspectors,
who frequently visit all the British plantations and look into labour
conditions; the activity of the French authorities is restricted to
occasional visits from the Resident.

Thus the natives have no means of complaining about the whites,
while they have to submit to any punishment they may get on the
accusation of a colonist. This would be a very one-sided affair;
happily, the missionaries represent the interests of the natives,
and the power of the Government does not reach far inland. There the
natives are quite independent, so that only a few hours away from the
coast cannibalism still flourishes. Formerly, expeditions from the
men-of-war frightened the natives; to-day they know that resistance
is easy. It is, therefore, not the merit of the Government or the
planters if the islands are fairly pacified, but only of the missions,
which work mostly through native teachers. Still, the missions have
had one bad effect: they have undermined the old native authorities
and thus created general anarchy to complete the destruction begun
by European civilization.

In the Santa Cruz Islands there is only one plantation, worked by boys
from the Solomon Islands, as the Santa Cruz natives are not yet used to
regular work. But to-day they frequently recruit for the plantations
on the Solomons, and there come into contact with civilization. There
the labour conditions are strictly watched by the British Government;
still, boys returning from there have sometimes imported diseases,
generally tuberculosis, which have reduced the population by half.


Commerce

Communications with Sydney, the commercial centre of the Western
Pacific, are established by means of a French and an English line
of steamers. A few small steamers and schooners ply at irregular
intervals between Nouméa and the New Hebrides.

The English steamers fly the flag of Burns, Philp & Company, the
great Australian firm which trades with numerous island groups of the
South Seas. Their steamers touch the Lord Howe and Norfolk Islands,
stop for a few days at Vila, then call in a four weeks' cruise at
nearly all the plantations in the islands. They carry the mail and
ply a profitable trade with the planters; they also do errands for
the colonists in Sydney, procuring anything from a needle to a horse
or a house. Being practically without serious competitors they can set
any price they please on commodities, so that they are a power in the
islands and control the trade of the group; all the more so as many
planters are dependent on them for large loans. To me, Burns, Philp &
Company were extremely useful, as on board their ships I could always
find money, provisions and articles for barter, send my collections
to Vila, and occasionally travel from one island to another.

The French line is run by the Messageries Maritimes, on quite a
different plan: it is merely for mail-service and does not do any
trading. Its handsome steamer travels in three weeks from Sydney
to Nouméa and Port Vila, visits about three plantations and leaves
the islands after one week. This line offers the shortest and most
comfortable connection with Sydney, taking eight days for the trip,
while the English steamers take eleven.

The port of entrance to the group is Port Vila, chosen for its
proximity to New Caledonia and Sydney; it is a good harbour, though
somewhat narrow.


CHAPTER I

NOUMÉA AND PORT VILA


On April 26, 1910, I arrived at Nouméa by the large and very old
mail-steamer of the Messageries Maritimes, plying between Marseilles
and Nouméa, which I had boarded at Sydney.

Nouméa impresses one very unfavourably. A time of rapid development has
been followed by a period of stagnation, increased by the suppression
of the penitentiary, the principal source of income to the town. The
latter has never grown to the size originally planned and laid out, and
its desolate squares and decayed houses are a depressing sight. Two or
three steamers and a few sailing-vessels are all the craft the harbour
contains; a few customs officers and discharged convicts loaf on the
pier, where some natives from the Loyalty Islands sleep or shout.

Parallel streets lead from the harbour to the hills that fence the
town to the landward. Under roofs of corrugated sheet-iron run the
sidewalks, along dark stores displaying unappetizing food, curios and
cheap millinery. At each corner is a dismal sailors' bar, smelling of
absinthe. Then we come to an empty, decayed square, where a crippled,
noseless "Gallia" stands on a fountain; some half-drunk coachmen
lounge dreaming on antediluvian cabs, and a few old convicts sprawl
on benches.

Along the hillside are the houses of the high officials and the better
class of people. There is a club, where fat officials gather to play
cards and drink absinthe and champagne; they go to the barber's, roll
cigarettes, drink some more absinthe and go to bed early, after having
visited a music-hall, in which monstrous dancing-girls from Sydney
display their charms and moving-picture shows present blood-curdling
dramas. P. 21, l. 7, one whose imployment for the Pageant was vtterly
spent, he being knowne to be Eldertons immediate heyre.]--An allusion
to Anthony Munday. During a long life he figured in various
capacities,--as a player, an apprentice to Allde the printer, a
retainer of the Earl of Oxford, a Messenger of her Majesty's Chamber,
Poet to the City, dramatist, writer in verse and prose, and draper.

He also excited considerable attention, and drew much trouble on himself,
by his efforts in detecting the treasonable practices of the
Jesuits. According to the inscription on his monument in the
church of St. Stephen, Coleman Street, he died in his 80th year,
August 10th 1633. (Stow's _Survey_, B.

iii. 61. ed. 1720.)
The rounded hills are covered with shrubs, and only in the
valleys are there a few trees; we are surprised by the strong colouring
of the distant mountains, shining purple through the violet atmosphere.

Seaward, we see the white line of the breakers, indicating the great
barrier-reef which surrounds the isle with an almost impenetrable belt;
a few channels only lead from the shore to the open ocean.

On the 1st of May the Pacific arrived at Nouméa, and her departure
for Vila, next day, ended a most tiresome stay.

It was a sad, rainy day when we left. Impatiently the passengers waited
till the freight was loaded,--houses, iron, horses, cases of tins,
etc. Of course we were six hours late, and all the whites were angry,
while the few natives did not care, but found a dry corner, rolled
themselves up in their blankets and dozed. When we finally left,
heavy squalls were rushing over the sea; in the darkness a fog came
on, so that we had soon to come to anchor. But next morning we had
passed the Loyalty Islands and were rolling in the heavy swell the
south-east trade raises on the endless surface of the Pacific.

Next day, through the light mist of a summer morning, the forms
of islands appeared, flat, bluish-grey lines, crowned with rounded
hills. Slowly finer points appeared, the ridge of mountains showed
details and we could recognize the tops of the giant banyan trees,
towering above the forest as a cathedral does over the houses of a
city. We saw the surf, breaking in the coral cliffs of flat shores,
found the entrance to the wide bay, noticed the palms with elegantly
curved trunks bending over the beach, and unexpectedly entered the
lagoon, that shone in the bright sun like a glittering sapphire.

We had passed the flat cliffs, covered only with iron-wood trees,
and now the water was bordered by high coral plateaux, from which a
luxuriant forest fell down in heavy cascades, in a thickness almost
alarming, like the eruption of a volcano, when one cloud pushes
the other before it and new ones are ever behind. Would she honestly
dismiss John, confessing that she had chosen her path? or would
she bravely destroy that which was unholy, and give her hand to
him before the world? Contemplating this possibility, I felt my heart
swell with something that was not selfishness; and I built a palace
in the air for John.

Having done so, I heard the garden door click again, and starting,
looked, expecting to see John coming in to take possession of his
palace on the instant. A man came in, but he was a stranger.It was
a vision of the most magnificent luxuriance, so different from the
view which the barren shores of eastern New Caledonia offer.

The bay became narrower and we approached the port proper. Small
islands appeared, between which we had glimpses of cool bays
across glassy, deep-green water, and before us lay a broken line of
light-coloured houses along the beach, while on the plateau behind
we could see the big court-house and some villas.

