Transcribed from the 1913 Thomas J. Wise pamphlet by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org


                              BROWN WILLIAM
                         THE POWER OF THE HARP
                                   AND
                              OTHER BALLADS


                                    BY
                              GEORGE BORROW

                                 LONDON:
                     PRINTED FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION

                                   1913

               _Copyright in the United States of America_
           _by Houghton_, _Mifflin & Co. for Clement Shorter_.


BROWN WILLIAM


_This ballad was written in consequence of the execution of William
Christian_, _generally called William Donn_, _or Brown William_, _from
the darkness of his complexion_, _who was shot at Hango Hill_, _near
Castletown_, _in the Isle of Man_, _shortly after the Restoration_, _for
alleged treason to the Derby family_, _who long possessed the sovereignty
of Man_. . . ._ The ballad of_ “_Brown William_,” _which gives an account
of the betrayal of the poor patriot_, _and the vengeance taken by the
hand of God upon his murderers_, _is the most popular of all the wild
songs of Ellan Vannin_.

Let no one in greatness too confident be,
Nor trust in his kindred, though high their degree;
For envy and rage will lay any man low:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

Thou wast the Receiver of Mona’s fair state,
Thy conduct was noble, thy wisdom was great,
And ne’er of thy rule did she weariness show:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

Thy right hand was Earley, and Theah thy right eye;
Thy state caused thy foemen with rage to swell high;
And envy and rage will lay any man low:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

How blest thy condition in fair Ronaldsway!
Thy mansion, how stately! thy garden, how gay!
But oh! what disasters from envy do flow:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

’Twas said at thy trial, by men void of faith,
The king, by a letter, demanded thy death;
The jury was frighten’d, and dared not say “No!”
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

The clan of wild Colcad could ne’er be at rest
Whilst the race of Christeen their own acres possess’d;
And envy and spite will bring any man low:
Thy murder Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

A band of adulterers, curst and unholy,
For Ronaldsway lust, as they did for Logh Molley;
Of Naboth, the tragedy’s played here anew:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

Not one of the band but received his just meed,
Who acted a part in that damnable deed;
To dwindle away the whole band was not slow:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

To Callaghyn-doo, and to Vannyster roam,
And call on the Colcad till hoarse ye become;
Gone, gone is the name so well known long ago:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

A cripple was Robin for many years long,
Who troubled and bullied the island when strong;
His own friends of tending him weary did grow:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

Sly Richard took ship with thy blood on his hand,
But God can avenge on the sea as on land;
The waves would not bear him, but whelm’d him, I trow:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

And now, if a few of the seed do remain,
They’re vile as the thistles and briars of the plain;
They ply for their neighbours the pick and the hoe:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

Should ye walk through all Man you’ll find no one, I reckon,
To mourn for the name that was once in Beemachan;
But thousands of poor who rejoice that ’tis low:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

Proceed to Creganyn, and Balla-logh green,
But where’s there a Colcad to bid ye walk in?
By strangers their homes and their lands are held now:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

Great Scarlett, in wealth who dwelt down by the bay,
Must toil now with paupers for sixpence a-day;
And oft, as I’ve heard, has no morsel to chew:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

The band by whose weapons the great Cæsar died
Were hunted by foes, and all peace were denied;
Not one died the death of kind Nature, O, no!
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

So it fared with the band by whom Willie did die,
Their lands are a waste, their names stink to the sky;
They melted like rime in the ruddy sun’s glow:
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

But comfort I take, for ’tis common report
There are shoots of dear Will who are sitting at court,
Who have punished his foes by king’s mandate, although
Thy murder, Brown William, fills Mona with woe.

O, ’tis pleasant to think, when one’s wither’d and grey,
There’s race of Brown William in fair Ronaldsway,
That his foemen are crush’d, and their faces can’t show,
While the clan of Christeen have no trouble or woe. {10}

To the counsellors false, both in church and in state,
Bear the public of Mona both loathing and hate,
Who set man against man, and the peace would break now,
As thy murder, Brown William, broke hearts long ago.

The lord of our island, Duke Athol the great,
They would gladly persuade, with their parle and their prate,
The corner-stones high of his house to lay low,
And to King, Duke and Mona are foemen, I trow.


THE POWER OF THE HARP


Sir Peter would forth from the castle ride,
Grieving and weeping did sit his young bride.
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

“Art grieving for saddle, or steed black or white,
Or because I have wed thee art thou in this plight?”
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

“I grieve not for saddle, or steed black or white,
Nor because thou hast wed me am I in this plight.”
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

“Dost sorrow because little wealth I have got,
Or dost sorrow because thine equal I’m not?”
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

Condillac, to explain the use of signs and the relation
of ideas, writes abridgments of arithmetic,
   algebra, mechanics and astronomy.[3109] Maupertuis, Condorcet and
Lalande are mathematicians, physicists and astronomers; d'Holbach,
Lamettrie and Cabanis are chemists, naturalists physiologists and
physicians.

--Prophets of a superior or inferior kind,
masters or pupils, specialists or simple amateurs,
   all draw directly or indirectly from the living source that has
just burst forth.

This is their basis when they begin to teach
about Man, what he is, from whence he came,
   where he is going, what he may become and what he should be.

A new point of departure leads to new points of
view; so that the idea, which was then
   entertained of the human being will become completely transformed.

II. Science Detached From Theology.

   Change of the point of view in the science of man.

--It is detached from theology and is united with
the natural sciences.
   

Let us suppose a mind thoroughly imbued with
these new truths, to be placed on the orbit of
   Saturn, and let him observe[3110].

Amidst this vast and overwhelming space and in
these boundless solar archipelagoes, how small
   is our own sphere, and the earth, what a grain of sand!

What multitudes of worlds beyond our own, and,
if life exists in them, what combinations are
   possible other than those of which we are the result!

What is life, what is organic substance in the monstrous
universe but an indifferent mass, a passing accident,
   the corruption of a few epidermic particles?

And if this be life, what is that humanity which
is so small a fragment of it?--Such is Man
   in nature, an atom, and an ephemeral particle; let this not be
lost sight of in our theories concerning his origin, his importance,
and his destiny.

"A mite that would consider itself as the center
of all things would be grotesque, and therefore
   it is essential that an insect almost infinitely small should not
show conceit almost infinitely great

."[3111]--
How slow has been the evolution of the globe itself!
   What myriads of ages between the first cooling of its mass and the
beginnings of life

!
_Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

The Merman rose from the depths of the sea,
And the fair young bride by the hand led he.
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

“Sir Peter, Sir Peter, thy playing give o’er,
Thy beautiful bride to thy arms I restore.”
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

“For my bonny bride only I will not give o’er,
Her five sisters also thou must restore.”
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

Anew ’gan Sir Peter so sweetly to play,
That the birds came down from their seat on the spray.
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

The Merman arose from the depth of the sea,
Five pretty maids by the hand led he.
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

“Sir Peter, Sir Peter, thy playing give o’er,
For in truth have I now no maidens more.”
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?

From her anguish now is the Lady free,
In the arm of Sir Peter each night sleeps she.
   _Belov’d of my heart_, _wherefore sorrowest thou so_?


THE UNFORTUNATE MARRIAGE


Hildebrand gave his sister away,
Causing her many a mournful day.

She was given away and evilly wed,
Joy from her bosom quickly fled.

On Sunday she was a graceful bride,
On Monday a prisoner sad she sigh’d.

“O what, my Lord, have I done to thee?”
“Woman, I had no gold with thee.

“This have I, Dame, to say to thee,
Thou brought’st no silver home to me.”

“Thou knowest I brought thee as my dower
Eight full coffers to thy bower.

“Two filled with silver, white to see,
And two with gold so ruddy of blee.

“Two filled with sable and mard skins rare,
And two with pelts of deer and of bear.

“Upon thy father I bestow’d
Gilded saddle and courser proud.

“Upon thy mother did I bestow
Scarlet to place her feet below.

“To thy brother a ship from off the wave,
To your sister gold from my breast I gave.

“All thy courtiers I have dight
With little shirts as ivory white.

“No serving lass in the house is there
But I gave her silk to snood her hair.

“With what, my Lord, canst me upbraid,
And why in durance am I laid?”

And in truth, as the lawyer, examining
his own mind, said to himself, it had been this fact which had
mainly prevented two or three little circumstances from pointing
his suspicions in the direction of the truth.

CHAPTER IX
Conclusion

Little more need be added to complete this
story of a great singer's Carnival engagement, and the consequences
that arose out of it.

The consternation, the talk, the moralizings,
of the little city may be readily imagined.

Of course the written statement
left by the unhappy Marchese made all further judicial inquiry
unnecessary.

When the hand of a mightier power than
that of any earthly judge struck him down before the eyes of all
that world whose good opinion he had valued so highly, in the manner
that has been related, the tribunal, of course, declared the business
before it to be suspended.

The result made it needless ever
to resume the sitting.

No retarded evidence against the Marchese
had been given in court--no record of any accusation against him
remained in the archives of it: and this was deemed to be a great
point among a people who do not, by any means, hold that the law
is the same "de non apparentibus et de non existentibus."

Of course there was no further obstacle
to the marriage, in due time, of Ludovico and Paolina.

A proper interval had, of course,
to be allowed to elapse before the knot was definitively tied; but
it was settled, and known to be settled by all Ravenna, and the
strange and moving circumstances which had attended the young
Marchese's fortunes had the effect of causing his marriage with the
Venetian artist to be accepted by the "Society" more tolerantly
than, perhaps, might otherwise have been the case.

There was a sort of feeling that
the whole affair was exceptional; that the higher powers had visibly
taken the management of it into their own hands; that it was destined
so to be, and must be, as such, accepted.

Too much of pity, of wonder, of congratulation,
and of condolence, were due from all his world to leave any space
for censure on account of his marriage.

And when to the midst of the Sound they came,
He in evil hour uttered Blacklille’s name.

Blacklille quickly swam to the land,
But down to the bottom sank Hildebrand.

On the Ting stood the damsel at break of day,
Then heard she afar off Blacklille neigh.

Blacklille ran towards the Ting in wrath,
Back scattered both women and men from his path.

Blacklille he kicked, the Raven he hewed,
With the blood of men was his beak embrued.

Black took on his back the fair young dame,
He went from the Ting and with her was tame.

And when they reached the yellow sand,
Upon it was standing Hildebrand.

“Welcome, sweet Kirsten, dear sister mine,
Why is so pallid that cheek of thine?”

“The reason my cheek so pale is seen,
Is because I’ve far from my dear home been.”

“Now let no honest man,” she said,
“Into foreign lands his daughter wed.

“Of gold perhaps he may get a store,
But her happiness goeth for evermore.”

Hildebrand kissed her o’er and o’er:
“My darling sister, pray sorrow no more.

“Kirsten, I pray thee, pardon me
For bringing thee into this misery.”

Then spake Blacklille as he stood:
“I’ve saved thee by shedding human blood.

“Give me, Kirsten, one little kiss,
And the Raven one on that beak of his.”

On their mouths she kissed them both with glee—
From hideous thrall were they both set free.

She kissed them both with good will, I ween,
They changed to her brothers who lost had been.

They all pressed her fondly to their breast,
From sorrow and woe she is now at rest.


THE WRESTLING-MATCH


As one day I wandered lonely, in extreme distress of mind,
I a pleasant garden entered, hoping comfort there to find.
Up and down I paced the garden till an open space I spied,
There I saw a crowd of people, and I heard a voice that cried:
“Come and see what Love is doing, here is Love performing more
Wondrous feats than e’er were witnessed at Olympian games of yore:
This he conquers, that he conquers, young and old before him lie,
Great and small alike he conquers, none with him a fall must try.

Hearing this at once I entered ’midst the crowd collected there,
Some of whom no doubt were eager like myself to banish care.
I would fain behold this being, this same wondrous lad survey,
Who ’twas said in each encounter bore with ease the prize away.
Quickly I the crowd divided, soon I pierced the multitude,
And this Love stood full before me, and what think you ’twas I view’d?
Why a boy, a little darling, full of captivating grace,
Rather roguish were his glances, but how lovely was his face!

Soon as I beheld this warrior gibings I began to throw
At the wretches who had suffered fell defeat from such a foe.
Then, to me his visage turning, of the conquered standing by
One replied, and in replying tears he shed abundantly:
“O, poor youth,” ’twas thus he answered, “little, little dost thou know
That in coming here thou comest not to joy, but bitter woe.
Tears, and pains, and wounds most ghastly, wounds for which there is no
cure,
Every kind of evil treatment such as no one can endure.”

When these words I heard him utter I was filled with bitter rage,
And forthwith made preparation with the warrior to engage.
“Hearken, Master Love,” I shouted, “from this spot stir not away,
You and I must have a battle, must engage in deadly fray;
That it may be known for certain which is strongest of us two.”
Then into the arena bounding there I stood in all men’s view,
In the midst of it expecting firm the onset of the foe,
Doubting not should he attack me him at once to overthrow.
Love he was not slow to follow with a blythe and joyous air,
Crying out, “My dearest fellow, for the fight yourself prepare!
Round the waist each other clasping now let’s strive like wrestlers true,
Do your best and I will show you what young Master Love can do.”

Then around the waist I clasped him, he his arms around me wound,
Long we hugged and hugged each other, each his match in t’other found.
Said at length the urchin to me: “Sadly tired, friend, am I,
Very much fatigued and weary, really friend just fit to die.
Therefore take from me, I prythee, what thou anxiously hast sought,
And for which in this arena with me gallantly hast fought.”

Then a blast of wild consuming fire he breathed into my breast,
Straight my breast it quick enkindled, all deprived was I of rest,
Then he ran away exulting to some other wretched wight,
Such a zest he has for conflict, in such fray is his delight.

As for me I fell half senseless on the fatal, fatal spot,
Fierce consuming fire within me, never sure was one so hot.
Rising up I followed shrieking, “Oh have mercy, Love, on me!
See my tears, my sad affliction, cure me of my misery!”

Then he cried, “Dost not remember all the boasts thy lips out-pour’d?
Know henceforth in every region Love is Conqueror and Lord.”

Thus he cried, and proudly left me, and wherever now I rove,
I reproach myself for thinking I could vanquish mighty Love.


THE WARRIOR
_From the Arabic_.


Thou lov’st to look on myrtles green,
   And the narcissus bright of hue;
I love the blaze of sabres keen,
   I love the dagger’s flash to view.

Thou, thou may’st drink the rosy wine
   From golden goblets sculptured o’er;
From foemen’s skulls the joy be mine
   To drink my foemen’s reeking gore.

                                * * * * *

                                  LONDON
               Printed for THOMAS J. WISE, Hampstead, N.W.
                   _Edition limited to Thirty Copies_.




Footnotes:


{10}  Here the old ballad—I speak of the original Manx—concludes.  The
two following stanzas are comparatively modern.