"The inhabitants of the country can distinguish each species of bird by
listening to his song; and the hermits, the wanderers, those who live
with society on a perpetual war footing, perceive sounds which would not
strike the ears of civilized people.

"Approximation is also one of the stones by whose aid we construct the
edifice of common sense.

"Concerning the calculations of probabilities, the application of
approximation will allow us to estimate the capacity or the probable
duration of things.

"We can not say positively whether a man will live a definite number of
years but we can affirm that he will never live until he is two hundred.

"There are, for approbation, certain known limits which serve as a basis
for the construction of reasoning, inspired by common sense.

"It can be affirmed, in a positive way, that, if the trunk of a tree were
floating easily, without sinking to the bottom of the water, it would not
float the same if thirty men were to ride astride of it.

"The initial weight of the tree permits it to maintain itself on the
surface; but if it be increased to an exaggerated total, we can, without
hesitation, calculate indirectly the moment when it will disappear,
dragging with it the imprudent men who trusted themselves to it.

"Everything in life is a question of approximation.

"The house which is built for a man will be far larger than the kennel,
destined to shelter a dog, because the proportions have been calculated,
by approximation, according to the relative difference between the
stature of the human and canine species.

"Clothing is also suited to the temperature.

"One naturally thinks that, below a certain degree of cold, it is
necessary to change light clothes for those made of thicker material.

"As with the majority of the constructive elements of common sense,
approximation is always based on experience.

"It draws its conclusions from the knowledge of known limitations, whose
affirmation serves as a basis for the argument which determines deduction
in a most exact manner.

"Experience itself depends on memory, which permits us to recall
facts and to draw our conclusions from them, on which facts reasoning
is based."

The Shogun does not fail to draw our attention to the difference between
experience and experimentation.

"This last," said he, "only serves to incite the manifestation of
the first.

"It consists of determining the production of a phenomenon whose
existence will aid us in establishing the underlying principles of an
observation which interprets the event.

"That is what is called experience.

"Comparison is a mental operation which permits us to bring things that
we desire to understand to a certain point.

"It is comparison which has divided time according to periods, which the
moon follows during its entire length.

"It is by comparing their different aspects and by calculating the
duration of their transformations, that men have been able to divide time
as they do in all the countries of the world.

"The science of numbers is also born of comparison, which has been
established between the quantities that they represent.

"This is the art of calculating the differences existing between each
thing, by determining the relativeness of their respective proportions.

"Comparison acts on the mind automatically, as a rule.

"It is indispensable to the cultivation of common sense, for it furnishes
the means of judging with full knowledge of all the circumstances.

"Analysis is an operation, which consists of separating each detail from
the whole and of examining these details separately, without losing sight
of their relationship to the central element.

"Analysis of the same object, while being scrupulously exact, can,
however, differ materially in its application, according to the way that
the object is related to this or that group of circumstances.

"There are, however, immutable things.

"For example: the letters of the alphabet, the elementary sounds, the
colors etc., etc.

"It suffices to quote only these three elements; one can easily
understand that the most elaborate manuscript is composed of only a
definite number of letters always repeating themselves, whose
juxtaposition forms phrases, then chapters, and finally the
complete work.

"Music is composed only of seven sounds whose different combinations
produce an infinite variety of melodies.

"Elementary colors are only three in number.

"All the others gravitate around them.

"Therefore, these same letters, these same notes, these same colors,
according to their amalgamation, can change in aspect and cooperate in
the production of different effects.

"The same letters can express, according to the order in which they are
placed, terror or confidence, joy or grief.

"The same is true of notes and colors.

"Common sense ought then, considering these rules, to know how to analyze
all the details and, having done this, to coordinate and to classify
them, in order to distinguish them easily.

"Coordination and classification form an integral part of common sense."

And Yoritomo, who delights in reducing the most complex questions to
examples of the rarest simplicity, says to us:

"I am supposing that one person says to another, I have just met a negro.
The interlocutor, as well as he who mechanically registers this fact,
without thinking, gives himself up to analysis and to coordination which
always precedes synthesis.

"Without being aware of this mental action, their minds will be occupied
first with the operations of perception then of classification.

"This negro was a man of a color which places him in a certain group of
the human race.

"It is always thus that common sense proceeds, its principal merit being
to know how to unite present perceptions with those previously cognized,
then to understand how to coordinate them so as to be able to group them
concretely, that is to say, to synthesize them.

"Destination is defined as the purpose or object, born of deduction and
of classification.

"Destination does not permit of losing sight of the end which is
proposed.

"It allows the consideration of the purpose to predominate always, and
directs all actions toward this purpose, these actions being absolutely
the demonstrations of this unique thought.

"Habits, acquired in view of certain realizations, ought to be dropt from
the moment the purpose is accomplished, or that it is weakened."

It is by absolutely perpetuating those habits, whose pretext has
disappeared, that one sees the achievement of certain actions which have
been roughly handled by common sense.

"There are," again says the philosopher, "certain customs, whose origin
it is impossible to remember; at the time of their birth, they were
engendered by necessity, but even tho their purpose be obliterated,
tradition has preserved them in spite of everything, and those who
observe them do not take into consideration their absurdity.

"People of common sense refrain from lending themselves to these useless
practises, or, if they consent to allow them a place in their thoughts it
is that they attribute to them some reason for existence, either
practical or sentimental."

The two pastors of your nation at Amoy (Messrs.

Doty and Talmage) have not a moment to spare from labor, for the holy
brethren there are many; and it is difficult for them to leave home.

"We, the brethren of the church at our market town, with united
heart pray, earnestly beseeching God again graciously to compassionate
us, and send a pastor from the Public Society of your nation, that
he may quickly come, and instruct us plainly in the Gospel.

"It is to be deplored-the brethren having heard the teacher William Burns
preach the Word for a few months, their spiritual nature only just
born again, not yet having obtained firmness in the faith, that
just at this time, in the seventh month, the pastor should be
separated from us.

"Day and night our tears flow; and with united heart we pray,
earnestly beseeching God graciously to grant that of the disciples
of the Lord Jesus a pastor hastily come, and preach to us the Gospel,
this food of grace with its savoriness of grace, in order to
strengthen the faith of us, little children.

Moreover, we pray God to influence the saints of your nation that they
may always keep us little children in remembrance. Therefore, on the
28th day of the seventh month (August 21, 1854) the brethren with
united heart have prayed earnestly beseeching God that this our
general letter may be conveyed to the great Public Society, that
you may certainly know these our affairs, and pray God, in behalf
of us, that this our request may be granted.

Please give our salutation to the brethren.

KONG-BIAU, TEK-IAM, TEK-EIAN, U-JU, SI_BU, JIT-SOM, KI-AN, LAM-SAN, KIM
KOA, "The disciples of Jesus at Peh-chui-ia.

"Presented to the Public Society that all the disciples may read
it."

Mr. Talmage concludes a letter speaking of the "times of refreshing"
in these words:

"This remarkable work may well fill our hearts with gratitude and
encouragement.

Heretofore, we have always been obliged to wait a long time before
we were permitted to see much fruit of our labor; and we were almost
led to the conclusion that such must always be the case, in carrying
the Gospel to a heathen people.

Now we see that such need not be the course of events.
"Secondly: Here is a giant tree.

"Thirdly: I'm going to take refuge there.

"Then it is that common sense demands that the state his three
propositions as follows:

"First: High summits attract lightning.

"Secondly: Here is a giant tree.

"Thirdly: I'm going to avoid its proximity because it will surely be
dangerous.

"If he acted otherwise; if, in spite of his knowledge of the danger, he
took shelter under the branches of the gigantic tree, exposing himself to
be struck by lightning, one could, in this case, only reproach him with
imprudence and lay the blame to the lack of common sense which allowed
him to perform the act that logic condemned."

Now the old Nippon speaks to us of the means to employ, that we may avoid
pronouncing too hasty judgments, which are always, of necessity, weakened
by a too great indulgence for ourselves and at the same time too great a
severity for others.

"I was walking one day," said he, "on the shores of a lake, when I
discovered a man sitting at the foot of a bamboo tree, in an attitude of
the greatest despair.

"Approaching him, I asked him the cause of his grief.

"'Alas!' said he to me, 'the gods are against me; everything which I
undertake fails, and all evils crush me.

"'After the one which has just befallen me only one course of action is
left to me, to throw myself in the lake. But I am young, and I am weeping
for myself before resolving to take such a step.'

"And he related to me how, after many attempts without success, he had at
last gained a certain sum of money, the loss of which he had just
experienced.

"In what way did you lose it?" I asked him.

"'I put it in this bag.'

"'Has some one stolen it?'

"'No, it has slipt through this rent.'

"And he showed me a bag, whose ragged condition confirmed, and at the
same time illustrated his statement.

"'Listen,' said I, sitting down beside him, 'you are simply devoid of
common sense, by invoking the hatred of the gods! You alone are the cause
of your present misery.

"'If you had simply reasoned before placing your money in this bag, this
would not have happened to you.'

"And as he opened his eyes wide:

"'You would have thought this,' I resumed:

"'The material, very much worn, is incapable of standing any weight
without tearing.

"'Now, the money which I possess is heavy, my bag is worn out.

"'I shall not, therefore, put my money in this bag or, at least, I shall
take care to line it beforehand with a solid piece of leather.

"'From this moment,' I proceeded, 'there only remains one thing for you
to do, always consult common sense before coming to any conclusion, and
you will always succeed.

"'As for your opinion concerning the hatred of the gods for you, if
you will once more call common sense to your assistance you will
reason as follows:

"'Gracious divinities protect only wise people.

"'Now, I have acted like a fool.

"'It is, therefore, natural that they should turn away from me.'

"How many useless imprecations would be avoided," adds the Shogun, "if it
were given to men to know how to employ the arguments which common sense
dictates, in order to distribute the weight of the mistakes committed
among those who deserve the burden, without, at the same time, forgetting
to assume our own share of the responsibility if we have erred.

"Nothing is more sterile than regrets or reproaches when they do not
carry with them the resolution never again to fall into the same error."

Afterward the philosopher demonstrates to us the necessity of abstracting
all personality from the exercises which combine for the attainment of
common sense.

"There is," said he, "an obstacle against which all stupid people
stumble; it is the act of reasoning under the influence of passion.

"Those who have not decided to renounce this method of arguing will never
be able to give a just decision.

"There are self-evident facts, which certain people refuse to admit,
because this statement of the truth offends their sympathies or impedes
their hatreds, and they force themselves to deny the evidence, hoping
thus to deceive others regarding it.

"But truth is always the strongest and they soon become the solitary
dupes of their own wilful blindness.

"The man of common sense knows how to recognize falsehood wherever he
meets it; he knows how vain it is to conceal a positive fact and also how
dangerous it is to deceive oneself, a peril which increases in power, in
proportion to the effort made to ignore it.

"He does not wish to imitate those pusillanimous people who prefer to
live in the agony of doubt rather than to look misfortunes in the
face. He who is determined to acquire common sense will use the
following argument:

"Doubt is a conflict between two conclusions.

"So long as it exists it is impossible to adopt either.

"Serenity is unknown to those whom doubt attacks.

"It seems to be thus in Amoy.

The conviction of deep sinfulness comes by meditating on the Gospel,
the work of Christ, etc.

"It is the doctrine of the cross of Christ, after all, which should
be the theme of our discourses."

March 18, 1851. To his brother, Goyn.

"They say in regard to preaching, that when a man has nothing more to
say he had better stop.

If this rule were carried out in conversation and letter-writing,
there would be much less said and written in the world, than is now
the case.

"You seem to think that we missionaries can sit down at any time
and write letters, always having enough matter that will be interesting
to you at home.

This is a good theory enough, but facts do not always bear it out.

Common sense admits a very subtle logic which is, at times, a
little complex.

Practical sense reasons, starting from one point only; viz., material
conveniences.

It is possible for this sense to be spoiled by egotism, if common sense
does not come to its assistance.

