Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Keren Vergon, Cori Samuel and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


PICTURES OF
JEWISH HOME-LIFE
FIFTY YEARS AGO

By
HANNAH TRAGER


Author of
_Stories of Child-Life in Palestine_
_Festival Stories of Child-Life in Palestine_
_Pioneers in Palestine_


WITH A PREFATORY LETTER BY LEO JUNG

WITH FOUR PLATES AND A GLOSSARY

NEW YORK
BLOCH PUBLISHING CO., Inc.


PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
THE STANHOPE PRESS, LTD.
ROCHESTER


               To
        MY BELOVED PARENTS
in reverence and gratitude for their
    beautiful and holy example


FOREWORD


My dear Mrs. Trager,

It gives me great pleasure to write a preface to your new book. I
consider it a real privilege, since it represents the fulfilment of a
hope expressed some five years ago. When you sent me the first article
for "The Sinaist" I told you that your pen would win the love and the
esteem not only of the child, but essentially also of the adult readers.

The simple joyousness of your style, the beauty and freshness of the
atmosphere, which you very well succeed in bringing to the pages of your
books, the strength of your faith, and the vividness of your
description, the love of Jew above the love of Palestine, all these
combine to render your volumes valuable additions to the small stock of
good Jewish literature in English. It is not only that you teach, while
talking so pleasantly; that you instruct while you interest and amuse;
that you have your own personality in the stories; that you convey the
charm of Eretz Israel, and the beauty of holiday spirit; but because
your stories help us to feel the depth of faith and the height of ideal
as the self-evident, normal factors of Jewish life.

For the children of our age, both young and old, should know that that
God-consciousness of the Jew, that wondrous sense of eternity in his
mission, is not a laboriously acquired conviction, not the result of
some spasmodic effort of grasping the innermost meaning of our history,
but the natural pervading spirit of Jewish life, the air which the Jew
breathes, when he lives with Torah as his guide and Mitzvah as his
ladder towards heaven.

They who read your stories conceive a deep love of Judaism, they find a
desire growing in them to live the life which produces such happiness
and goodness, they will want to study the Law and lore, of which that
life is an outward expression. I have given your tales to children in
various countries and all of them were enchanted with them, regretting
that "there were only two books by Mrs. Trager." I am glad indeed to
find that another one is coming out. And it is in the interest of our
youth that I hope you will give us every year some of these nourishing
and very palatable fruits of your pen.

You will thereby be doing an additional bit for our God and our people
whom you are serving so loyally. You reinterpret to the Jewish youth of
to-day the treasures they are so carelessly abandoning, you will shed
light and reawaken love and hope in the heart of many a Jew, who seemed
to feel that our glorious faith had no message for the child of to-day,
unless it were shorn by our 'religious' barbers, robbed of its native
beauty and reduced to some platform-commonplace. As a lamented London
Maggid told me, "There still live some real soldiers of God." Such are
those who use persuasion from the pulpit, such as shine through the
example of their own humane Jewishness and such as capture our hearts by
artless beautiful tales of Jewish life and lore.

I wish you every success in the world,

Yours very sincerely,

LEO JUNG


CONTENTS

THE ARRIVAL IN JERUSALEM
THE WELCOME
THE CELEBRATION OF PURIM
THE BAKING OF MATZOS
LAG B'OMER
THE SABBATH IN PALESTINE
THE SUCCAH
HOW CHARITY IS GIVEN
FATHER FROST IN JERUSALEM
ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING CEREMONIES
JUBILEE OF ZORACH BARNETT
GLOSSARY


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

THE FATHER TEACHING THE CHILD THE MEANING OF THE TSITSITH
CHADAR (SCHOOL)
YENSHVA (TALMUDICAL SCHOOL)
THE OLD LADY


THE ARRIVAL IN JERUSALEM


On a Friday afternoon everyone was very busy in Benjamin's home washing
and dressing to go to Shule. The mother was getting the living-room
clean and tidy for the Sabbath.


THE OFFENCE

The family lived in a few rooms off Commercial Road, in one of the many
back streets. The underground kitchen had to be used as the dining-and
sitting-room, for they had not been many years in England and it was a
hard struggle for Benjamin's parents to make ends meet and provide for a
large family.

The father and the elder boys were dressing as best they could in this
room. Just then the mother came in, very excited, and said to her
husband: "What will you say to this? I gave Benjamin his Sabbath clothes
and a clean tsitsith, and what do you think he did?"

"What?" asked the father, and stopped brushing his clothes.

"Why, he took the tsitsith and threw it on the floor, and said he would
never wear it again. I punished him, and told him to put it on again. So
you had better go to him and give him what he deserves."

"You are rather hasty, my dear wife," said the father; "for, before
punishing him, you should have asked him why he did such a thing."

"What!" exclaimed the mother, "do you think I have nothing else to do
but to stand and argue with him just before Sabbath, when I have so much
work? You are far too easy-going, Jacob--you should really be firmer
with the children."

"No, no!" said Jacob, who was a kindly man and understood human nature
better than his hasty, but well-meaning and loving, wife. The struggle
and constant hard work in keeping the home of a large family was telling
upon her, and any disobedience in the children irritated her very much.

"We must not be hasty with the children," continued Jacob, "especially
now-a-days, for they live under different circumstances from those we
knew when we were young. Instead of hastily scolding and punishing them,
let us rather quietly reason with them, when possible, and show them
where they are wrong."

"Perhaps you may be right," said Benjamin's mother; "so let us leave the
matter till you return from Shule and have had our Sabbath meal--then
you can quietly ask Benjamin why he acted as he did."


THE BOY BENJAMIN

An elder brother was sent to call Benjamin to go to Shule with his
father and brothers. Benjamin expected a scolding from his father
similar to that which he had had from his mother, so he came into the
room looking very sulky. As nothing was said to him on the subject when
he came into the room, he took his prayer-book, and followed his father
to Shule.

Benjamin was like many other boys of 13, not very clever, but blessed
with a good deal of common sense. His great ambition was to become a
teacher, and so he worked steadily at his lessons. His reason for
wishing to be a teacher was that he wanted to rule and to punish boys as
his master did. Whenever he had a caning from his headmaster he always
consoled himself with the thought that _his_ turn would come some
day--when he was a teacher--to do the same to other boys.

When they returned from Shule and nothing was said, even at the evening
meal, about the way Benjamin had annoyed his mother, he was rather
surprised. His mother, during the time they were at Shule, had made the
living-room, which was really the kitchen, look so clean and bright with
the five lighted candles placed on the snow-white table-cloth, and the
old stove so well polished, that it almost looked as bright as a looking
glass. What interested the young ones most was the saucepan which stood
on one side of the stove waiting for its contents to be put on the
table, and, oh, how they enjoyed the sweet savour which came from it!


FRIDAY EVE

They all gathered round the table to welcome the Princess Sabbath. The
father made kiddush, and the wine cup was handed round to all. Then they
washed their hands and said a prayer before sitting down to the evening
meal, which passed off very pleasantly, and zmires (or songs or psalms
of praise) were sung at intervals during the meal.

When the meal was ended, and the grace said by the father, they all
separated: one or two went out for a walk, while the other members of
the family took a newspaper or a book and quietly read.

When the table was cleared, the mother sat down to rest. Grateful,
indeed, was she for this Sabbath rest after her week's hard work. She
often said that, for such as herself, no blessing was as great as the
command: "Thou shalt not do any work on the Sabbath."


WORD OF LOVE

When all were quietly settled down, Benjamin's father took him between
his knees, and said: "My son, I wish to ask you something, and I want
you to answer my question frankly and truly. What made you throw the
tsitsith down on the floor this afternoon and say to your mother that
you would not wear it?"

The boy Benjamin dropped his head and was silent for a minute or two,
for to hear his father speak in a kindly way made Benjamin far more
ashamed of himself and his deed than if his father had scolded him and
given him a whipping--in fact, he felt so wretched that he longed to run
out of the room and hide himself from everybody. His father's knowledge
of human nature made him understand what was passing through Benjamin's
mind, and he said: "Do not fear to tell me, my son, why you acted in
such an unusual way, for there must be some reason for a Jewish boy to
act so."

With his head still down, Benjamin said: "When I go swimming in the
baths, my school-fellows see my tsitsith when I undress, and they make
fun of it and pull it about, and say all sorts of nasty things to me for
wearing it, and it makes me feel I cannot stand it any longer. I will
gladly put on my tsitsith at home in the morning when I say my prayers,
but, Father, do let me go to school without wearing it?"

"I expected something like this," said his father, looking at his wife.
"Listen to me, my child--instead of being ashamed, you should feel it a
privilege to wear tsitsith."

"But I can't see why," said Benjamin.

"Well," said his father, "I will tell you the idea of the tsitsith. When
you say the Shema twice a day, as every good Jew is expected to do, you
read in it that God commanded us, through Moses, to wear a fringe on our
garment--the tsitsith, a visible sign to remind us of His Commandments,
just in the same way as a table, spread ready for a meal, reminds us of
our meals. Our religion is not a thing to be kept only for the Sabbath
and the Holy Days, and left out of our minds on all other days. Our
religion must be a living influence, always with us, so the tsitsith is
a very simple kind of symbol to be ever worn to remind a Jew of his God,
his duty to Him and to his neighbour. It is not only we Jews who have
religious symbols; every other religion has them. Now imagine if you
were to go up to a Christian boy and mock him and say nasty words to
him for wearing a cross, or crucifix, he would turn round and fight you,
and he would be right in doing so, for no one has a right to insult
another for wearing or doing what he believes to be holy. Instead of
being ashamed when you were mocked and laughed at by Christian boys for
wearing your tsitsith, you should have asked them to hear you explain
the reason for wearing it. I am sure they would not have laughed at you
any more. They would respect you for trying to be true and to live up to
your convictions.

