 Then it would
merely revive a question that was already under discussion in middle
Victorian times, to create non-hereditary peerages in the three
kingdoms. The several Privy Councils might next be added to the three
national constituencies by which and from which the representative
peers were appointed, and then advisory boards might be called from the
various Universities and organized professions, and from authoritative
Colonial bodies to recommend men to be added to the voting peerage.
Life peers already exist. The law is represented by life peers. The
lords spiritual are representative life peers--they are the senior
bishops, and they are appointed to represent a corporation--the
Established Church. The reason often given is that the eye is fixed too
frequently and earnestly on immediate and large profits for self.
But no man ever yet made a failure who openly and honestly sought in
his business to be of service to God and his fellow men.
The Senate is not a body of varied and
fluctuating origins into which new elements can be quietly inserted. An
English writer cannot estimate how dear the sacred brace of Senators
for each State may or may not be to the American heart. But the
possibility of Congress delegating the power to appoint additional
Senators to certain non-political bodies, or to juries of a specific
constitution, is at least thinkable as the beginning of a movement that
would come at last into parallelism with that in the British Empire.]

When these issues of public honour and efficient democratic
administration have begun to move towards a definite solution, the
community will be in a position to extend the operation of the new
methods towards a profounder revolution, the control of private
property. "We are all Socialists nowadays," and it is needless,
therefore, to argue here at any length to establish the fact that
beyond quite personal belongings all Property is the creation of
society, and in reality no more than an administrative device. At
present, in spite of some quite hideous and mischievous local aspects,
the institution of Property, even in land and the shares of quasi-
public businesses, probably gives as efficient a method of control, and
even it may be a more efficient method of control than any that could
be devised to replace it under existing conditions. We have no public
bodies and no methods of check and control sufficiently trustworthy to
justify extensive expropriations. Even the municipalization of
industries needs to go slowly until municipal areas have been brought
more into conformity with the conditions of efficient administration.
Areas too cramped and areas that overlap spell waste and conflicting
authorities, and premature municipalization in such areas will lead
only to the final triumph of the private company. Political efficiency
must precede Socialism. [Footnote: See Appendix I. ] But there can be
no doubt that the spectacle of irresponsible property is a terribly
demoralizing force in the development of each generation. It is idle to
deny that Property, both in Great Britain and America, works out into a
practical repudiation of that equality, political democracy so
eloquently asserts. There is a fatalistic submission to inferiority on
the part of an overwhelming majority of those born poor, they hold
themselves cheap in countless ways, and they accept as natural the use
of wealth for wanton pleasure and purposes absolutely mischievous, they
despair of effort in the public service, and find their only hope in
gambling, sharp greedy trading, or in base acquiescences to the rich.
The good New Republican can only regard our present system of Property
as a terribly unsatisfactory expedient and seek with all his power to
develop a better order to replace it.

There are certain lines of action in this matter that cannot but be
beneficial, and it is upon these that the New Republican will, no
doubt, go. One excellent thing, for example, would be to insist that
beyond the limits of a reasonable amount of personal property, the
community is justified in demanding a much higher degree of efficiency
in the property-holder than in the case of the common citizen, to
require him or her to be not only sane but capable, equal mentally and
bodily to a great charge. The heir to a great property should possess a
satisfactory knowledge of social and economic science, and should have
studied with a view to his great responsibilities. The age of twenty-
one is scarcely high enough for the management of a great estate, and
to raise the age of free administration for the owners of great
properties, and to specify a superannuation age would be a wise and
justifiable measure. [Footnote: Something of the sort is already
secured in France by the power of the _Conseil de Famille_ to
expropriate a spendthrift.] There should also be a possibility of
intervention in the case of maladministration, and a code of offences--
habitual drunkenness, for example, assaults of various kinds--offences
that established the fact of unfitness and resulted in deposition,
might be drawn up. It might be found desirable in the case of certain
crimes and misdemeanours, to add to existing penalties the transfer of
all real or share properties to trustees. Vigorous confiscation is a
particularly logical punishment for the proven corruption of public
officers by any property owner or group of property owners. Rich men
who bribe are a danger to any state. Beyond the limits of lunacy it
might be possible to define a condition of malignancy or ruthlessness
that would justify confiscation, attempts to form corners in the
necessities of life, for example, could be taken as evidence of such a
condition. All such measures as this would be far more beneficial than
the immediate improvement they would effect in public management. They
would infect the whole social body with the sense that property was
saturated with responsibility and was in effect a trust, and that would
be a good influence upon rich and poor alike.

Moreover, as public bodies became more efficient and more trustworthy,
the principle already established in British social polity by Sir
William Vernon Harcourt's Death Duties, the principle of whittling
great properties at each transfer, might be very materially extended.
Every transfer of property might establish a state mortgage for some
fraction of the value of that property. The fraction might be small
when the recipient was a public institution, considerable in the case
of a son or daughter, and almost all for a distant relative or no
kindred at all. By such devices the evil influence of property acquired
by mere accidents would be reduced without any great discouragement of
energetic, enterprising, and inventive men. And a man ambitious to
found a family might still found one if he took care to marry wisely
and train and educate his children to the level of the position he
designed for them.

While the New Republican brings such expedients as this to bear upon
property from above, there will also be the expedients of the Minimum
Wage and the Minimum Standard of Life, already discussed in the third
of these papers, controlling it from below. Limited in this way,
property will resemble a river that once swamped a whole country-side,
but has now been banked within its channel. Even when these expedients
have been exhaustively worked out, they will fall far short of that
"abolition of property" which is the crude expression of Socialism.
There is a certain measure of property in a state which involves the
maximum of individual freedom. Either above or below that Optimum one
passes towards slavery. The New Republican is a New Republican, and he
tests all things by their effect upon the evolution of man; he is a
Socialist or an Individualist, a Free Trader or a Protectionist, a
Republican or a Democrat just so far, and only so far, as these various
principles of public policy subserve his greater end.

This crude sketch of a possible scheme of honour and privilege, and of
an approximation towards the socialization of property will, at any
rate, show that in this matter, as in the matter of political control,
the alternative of the British system or the American system does not
exhaust human possibilities. There is also the Twentieth Century
System, which we New Republicans have to discover and discuss and bring
to the test of experience. And for the sake of the education of our
children, which is the cardinal business of our lives, we must refuse
all convenient legal fictions and underhand ways, and see to it that
the system is as true to the reality of life and to right and justice
as we can, in our light and generation, make it. The child must learn
not only from preacher and parent and book, but from the whole frame
and order of life about it, that truth and sound living and service are
the only trustworthy ways to either honour or power, and that, save for
the unavoidable accidents of life, they are very certain ways. And then
he will have a fair chance to grow up neither a smart and hustling
cheat--for the American at his worst is no more and no less than that--
nor a sluggish disingenuous snob--as the Briton too often becomes--but
a proud, ambitious, clean-handed, and capable man.


VIII

THE CULTIVATION OF THE IMAGINATION


Sec. 1


In the closing years of the school period comes the dawn of the process
of adolescence, and the simple egotism, the egotistical affections of
the child begin to be troubled by new interests, new vague impulses,
and presently by a flood of as yet formless emotions. The race, the
species, is claiming the individual, endeavouring to secure the
individual for its greater ends. In the space of a few years the almost
sexless boy and girl have become consciously sexual, are troubled by
the still mysterious possibilities of love, are stirred to discontent
and adventure, are reaching out imaginatively or actively towards what
is at last the recommencement of things, the essential fact in the
perennial reshaping of the order of the world. This is indeed something
of a second birth. At its beginning the child we have known begins to
recede, the new individuality gathers itself together with a sort of
shy jealousy, and withdraws from the confident intimacy of childhood
into a secret seclusion; all parents know of that loss; at its end we
have an adult, formed and determinate, for whom indeed the drama and
conflict of life is still only beginning, but who is, nevertheless, in
a very serious sense finished and made. The quaint, lovable, larval
human being has passed then into the full imago, before whom there is
no further change in kind save age and decay.

This development of the sexual being, of personal dreams, and the adult
imagination is already commencing in the early teens. It goes on
through all the later phases of the educational process, and it ends,
or, rather, it is transformed by insensible degrees into the personal
realities of adult life.

Now this second birth within the body of the first differs in many
fundamental aspects from that first. The first birth and the body
abound in inevitable things; for example, features, gestures aptitudes,
complexions, and colours, are inherited beyond any power of perversion;
but the second birth is the unfolding not of shaped and settled things
but of possibilities, of extraordinarily plastic mental faculties. No
doubt there are in each developing individual dispositions towards this
or that--tendencies, a bias in the texture this way or that--but the
form of it all is extraordinarily a matter of suggestion and the
influence of deliberate and accidental moulding forces. The universal
Will to live is there, peeping out at first in little curiosities,
inquiries, sudden disgusts, sudden fancies, the stumbling, slow
realization that for this in a mysteriously predominant way we live,
and growing stronger, growing presently, in the great multitude of
cases, to passionate preferences and powerful desires. This flow of sex
comes like a great river athwart the plain of our personal and egoistic
schemes, a great river with its rapids, with its deep and silent
places, a river of uncertain droughts, a river of overwhelming floods,
a river no one who would escape drowning may afford to ignore.
Moreover, it is the very axis and creator of our world valley, the
source of all our power in life, and the irrigator of all things. In
the microcosm of each individual, as in the microcosm of the race, this
flood is a cardinal problem.

And from its very nature this is a discussion of especial difficulty,
because it touches all of us--except for a few peculiar souls--so
intimately and so disturbingly. I had purposed to call this paper "Sex
and the Imagination," and then I had a sudden vision of the thing that
happens. The vision presented a casual reader seated in a library,
turning over books and magazines and casting much excellent wisdom
aside, and then suddenly, as it were, waking up at that title,
arrested, displaying a furtive alertness, reading, flushed and eager,
nosing through the article. That in a vignette is the trouble in all
this discussion. Were we angels--! But we are not angels; we are all
involved. If we are young we are deep in it, whether we would have it
so or not; if we are old, even if we are quite old, our memories still
stretch out, living sensitive threads from our tender vanity to the
great trouble. Detachment is impossible. The nearest we can get to
detachment is to recognize that.

About this question the tragi-comic web of human absurdity thickens to
its closest. When has there ever been a lucid view or ever will be of
this great business? Here is the common madness of our species, here is
all a tissue of fine unreasonableness--to which, no doubt, we are in
the present paper infinitesimally adding. One has a vision of
preposterous proceedings; great, fat, wheezing, strigilated Roman
emperors, neat Parisian gentlemen of the latest cult, the good Saint
Anthony rolling on his thorns, and the piously obscene Durtal
undergoing his expiatory temptations, Mahomet and Brigham Young
receiving supplementary revelations, grim men babbling secrets to
schoolgirls, enamoured errand boys, amorous old women, debauchees
dreaming themselves thoroughly sensible men and going about their queer
proceedings with insane self-satisfaction, beautiful witless young
persons dressed in the most amazing things, all down the vista of
history--a Vision of Fair Women--looking their conscious queenliest,
sentimentalists crawling over every aspect and leaving tracks like
snails, flushed young blockheads telling the world "all about women,"
intrigue, folly--you have as much of it as one pen may condense in old
Burton's Anatomy--and through it all a vast multitude of decent,
respectable bodies pretending to have quite solved the problem--until
one day, almost shockingly, you get their secret from a careless
something glancing out of the eyes. Most preposterous of all for some
reason is a figure--one is maliciously disposed to present it as
feminine and a little unattractive, goloshed for preference, and saying
in a voice of cultivated flatness, "Why cannot we be perfectly plain
and sensible, and speak quite frankly about this matter?" The answer to
which one conceives, would be near the last conclusions of Philosophy.

So much seethes about the plain discussion of the question of sexual
institutions. One echoes the intelligent inquiry of that quite
imaginary, libellously conceived lady in goloshes with a smile and a
sigh. As well might she ask, "Why shouldn't I keep my sandwiches in the
Ark of the Covenant? There's room!" "Of course there's room," one
answers, "but--As things are, Madam, it is inadvisable to try. You see
--for one thing--people are so peculiar. The quantity of loose stones in
this neighbourhood."

The predominant feeling about the discussion of these things is, to
speak frankly, Fear. We know, very many of us, that our present state
has many evil aspects, seems unjust and wasteful of human happiness, is
full of secret and horrible dangers, abounding in cruelties and painful
things; that our system of sanctions and prohibitions is wickedly
venial, pressing far more gravely on the poor than on the rich, and
that it is enormously sapped by sentimentalities of various sorts and
undermined and qualified by secret cults; it is a clogged and an ill-
made and dishonest machine, but we have a dread, in part instinctive,
in part, no doubt, the suggestion of our upbringing and atmosphere, of
any rash alterations, of any really free examination of its
constitution. Jesus Christ was outspoken on this matter. His words
(Luke 10:29-37; Matthew 22:36-40) go at once to the heart of the
question and give its only possible solution.

THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN MEN
The Inequalities in the Lives of Men are many and far reaching. They
divide men from each other and tend, if brooded over, to make them
live lives apart, with a lessening sympathy and a growing hostility.

They pertain to race, education, business and society. They may be
natural, or artificially induced.
The great inequality to-day, however, upon which men place an acute
emphasis is that of wealth or the lack of it. A man once came to
Jesus and said, "Master, speak to my brother, that he divide the
inheritance with me" (Luke 12:13); there is the same demand to-day.And the thought of a public discussion without
limitations by a hasty myriad untrained to think, does, indeed, raise
an image of consequences best conveyed perhaps by that fine indefinite
phrase, "A Moral Chaos." These people who are for the free, frank, and
open discussion assume so much; they either intend a sham with foregone
conclusions, or they have not thought of all sorts of things inherent
in the natural silliness of contemporary man.

On the whole I think a man or woman who is no longer a fabric of pure
emotion may, if there is indeed the passion for truth and the clear
sight of things to justify research, venture upon this sinister seeming
wilderness of speculation, and I think, too, it is very probable the
courageous persistent explorer will end at last not so very remote from
the starting-point, but above it, as it were, on a crest that will give
a wider view, reaching over many things that now confine the lower
vision. But these are perilous paths, it must always be remembered.
This is no public playground. One may distrust the conventional code,
and one may leave it in thought, long before one is justified in
leaving it either in expressed opinion or in act. We are social
animals; we cannot live alone; manifestly from the nature of the
question, here, at any rate, we must associate and group. For all who
find the accepted righteousness not good enough or clear enough for
them, there is the chance of an ironical destiny. We must look well to
our company, as we come out of the city of the common practice and kick
its dust from our superior soles. There is an abominable riff-raff gone
into those thickets for purposes quite other than the discovery of the
right thing to do, for quite other motives than our high intellectual
desire. There are ugly rebels and born rascals, cheats by instinct, and
liars to women, swinish unbelievers who would compromise us with their
erratic pursuit of a miscellaneous collection of strange fancies and
betray us callously at last. Because a man does not find the law pure
justice, that is no reason why he should fake his gold to a thieves'
kitchen; because he does not think the city a sanitary place, why he
should pitch his tent on a dust-heap amidst pariah dogs. Because we
criticize the old limitations that does not bind us to the creed of
unfettered liberty. I very much doubt if, when at last the days for the
sane complete discussion of our sexual problems come, it will give us
anything at all in the way of "Liberty," as most people understand that
word. In the place of the rusty old manacles, the chain and shot, the
iron yoke, cruel, ill-fitting, violent implements from which it was yet
possible to wriggle and escape to outlawry, it may be the world will
discover only a completer restriction, will develop a scheme of neat
gyves, light but efficient, beautifully adaptable to the wrists and
ankles, never chafing, never oppressing, slipped on and worn until at
last, like the mask of the Happy Hypocrite, they mould the wearer to
their own identity. But for all that--gyves!

Let us glance for a moment or so now, in the most tentative fashion, at
some of the data for this inquiry, and then revert from this excursion
into general theory to our more immediate business, to the manner in
which our civilized community at present effects the emotional
initiation of youth.

The intellectual trouble in the matter, as it presents itself to me,
comes in upon this, that the question does not lie in one plane. So
many discussions ignore this fact, and deal with it on one plane only.
For example, we may take the whole business on the plane of the medical
man, ignoring all other considerations. On that plane it would probably
be almost easy to reason out a working system. It never has been done
by the medical profession, as a whole, which is fairly understandable,
or by any group of medical men, which is the more surprising, but it
would be an extremely interesting thing to have done and a material
contribution to the sane discussion of this problem. It would not solve
it but it would illuminate certain aspects. Let the mere physiological
problem be taken. We want healthy children and the best we can get. Let
the medical man devise his scheme primarily for that. Understand we are
shutting our eyes to every other consideration but physical or quasi-
physical ones. Imagine the thing done, for example, by a Mr. Francis
Galton, who had an absolutely open mind upon all other questions. Some
form of polygamy, marriage of the most transient description, with
reproduction barred to specified types, would probably come from such a
speculation. But, in addition, a number of people who can have only a
few children or none are, nevertheless, not adapted physiologically for
celibacy. Conceive the medical man working that problem out upon purely
materialistic lines and with an eye to all physiological and
pathological peculiarities. The Tasmanians (now extinct) seem to have
been somewhere near the probable result.

Then let us take one step up to a second stage of consideration,
remaining still materialistic, and with the medical man still as our
only guide. We want the children to grow up healthy; we want them to be
taken care of. This means homes, homes of some sort. That may not
abolish polygamy, but it will qualify it, it will certainly abolish any
approach to promiscuity that was possible at the lowest stage, it will
enhance the importance of motherhood and impose a number of limits upon
the sexual freedoms of men and women. People who have become parents,
at any rate, must be tied to the children and one another. We come at
once to much more definite marriage, to an organized family of some
sort, be it only Plato's state community or something after the Oneida
pattern, but with at least a system of guarantees and responsibilities.
Let us add that we want the children to go through a serious
educational process, and we find at once still further limitations
coming in. We discover the necessity of deferring experience, of
pushing back adolescence, of avoiding precocious stimulation with its
consequent arrest of growth. We are already face to face with an
enlarged case for decency, for a system of suppressions and of
complicated Taboos.

Directly we let our thoughts pass out of this physical plane and rise
so high as to consider the concurrent emotions--and I suppose to a
large number of people these are at least as important as the physical
aspects--we come to pride, we come to preference and jealousy, and so
soon as we bring these to bear upon our physical scheme, crumpling and
fissures begin. The complications have multiplied enormously. More
especially that little trouble of preferences. These emotions we may
educate indeed, but not altogether. Neither pride nor preference nor
jealousy are to be tampered with lightly. We are making men, we are not
planning a society of regulated slaves; we want fine upstanding
personalities, and we shall not get them if we break them down to
obedience in this particular--for the cardinal expression of freedom in
the human life is surely this choice of a mate. There is indeed no
freedom without this freedom. Our men and women in the future must feel
free and responsible. It seems almost instinctive, at least in the
youth of the white races, to exercise this power of choice, not simply
rebelling when opposition is offered to it, but _wanting to
rebel_; it is a socially good thing, and a thing we are justified in
protecting if the odds are against it, this passion for making the
business one's very own private affair. Our citizens must not be caught
and paired; it will never work like that. But in all social
contrivances we must see to it that the freedoms we give are real
freedoms. Our youths and maidens as they grow up out of the protection
of our first taboos, grow into a world very largely in the hands of
older people; strong men and experienced women are there before them,
and we are justified in any effectual contrivance to save them from
being "gobbled up"--against their real instincts. That works--the
reflective man will discover--towards whittling the previous polygamy
to still smaller proportions. Here, indeed, our present arrangements
fail most lamentably; each year sees a hideous sacrifice of girls,
mentally scarcely more than children--to our delicacy in discussion. We
give freedom, and we do not give adequate knowledge, and we punish
inexorably. There are a multitude of women, and not a few men, with
lives hopelessly damaged by this blindfold freedom. So many poor girls,
so many lads also, do not get a fair chance against the adult world.
Things mend indeed in this respect; as one sign the percentage of
illegitimate births in England has almost halved in fifty years, but it
is clear we have much to revise before this leakage to perdition of
unlucky creatures, for the most part girls no worse on the average, I
honestly believe--until our penalties make them so--than other women,
ceases. If our age of moral responsibility is high enough, then our age
of complete knowledge is too high. But nevertheless, things are better
than they were, and promise still to mend. All round we raise the age,
the average age at marriage rises, just as, I believe, the average age
at misconduct has risen. We may not be approaching a period of
universal morality, but we do seem within sight of a time when people
will know what they are doing.

That, however, is something of a digression. The intelligent inquirer
who has squared his initially materialistic system of morals with the
problems arising out of the necessity of sustaining pride and
preference, is then invited to explore an adjacent thicket of this
tortuous subject. It is, we hold, of supreme importance in our state to
sustain in all our citizens, women as well as men, a sense of personal
independence and responsibility. Particularly is this the case with
mothers. An illiterate mother means a backward child, a downtrodden
mother bears a dishonest man, an unwilling mother may even hate her
children. Slaves and brutes are the sexes where women are slaves. The
line of thought we are following out in these papers necessarily
attaches distinctive importance to the woman as mother. Our system of
morals, therefore, has to make it worth while and honourable to be a
mother; it is particularly undesirable that it should be held to be
right for a woman of exceptional charm or exceptional cleverness to
evade motherhood, unless, perhaps, to become a teacher. A woman evading
her high calling, must not be conceded the same claim upon men's toil
and service as the mother-woman; more particularly Lady Greensleeves
must not flaunt it over the housewife. And here also comes the question
of the quality of jealousy, whether being wife of a man and mother of
his children does not almost necessarily give a woman a feeling of
exclusive possession in him, and whether, therefore, if we are earnest
in our determination not to debase her, our last shred of polygamy does
not vanish. Christians are brothers because they have a common "Master"
and "Father" hence they seek to do good not only to the members
of the brotherhood but to all men, because God is the Father of all.
It is this thought that is to bring men up out of their selfishness.
Then into all this tangle, whether as a light or an added confusion it
is hard to say, comes the fact that while we are ever apt to talk of
what "a woman" feels and what "a man" will do, and so contrive our
code, there is, indeed, no such woman and no such man, but a vast
variety of temperaments and dispositions, monadic, dyadic, and
polymeric souls, and this sort of heart and brain and that. It is only
the young fool and the brooding mattoid who believe in a special
separate science of "women," there are all sorts of people, and some of
each sort are women and some are men. With every stage in educational
development people become more varied, or, at least, more conscious of
their variety, more sensitively insistent upon the claim of their
individualities over any general rules. Among the peasants of a
countryside one may hope to order homogeneous lives, but not among the
people of the coming state. It is well to sustain a home, it is noble
to be a good mother, and splendid to bear children well and train them
well, but we shall get no valid rules until we see clearly that life
has other ways by which the future may be served. There are laws to be
made and altered, there are roads and bridges to be built, figuratively
and really; there is not only a succession of flesh and blood but of
thought that is going on for ever. To write a fruitful book or improve
a widely used machine is just as much paternity as begetting a son.

The last temporary raft of a logical moral code goes to pieces at this,
and its separated spars float here and there. So I will confess they
float at present in my mind. I have no System--I wish I had--and I
never encountered a system or any universal doctrine of sexual conduct
that did not seem to me to be reached by clinging tight to one or two
of these dissevered spars and letting the rest drift disregarded,
making a law for A, B, and C, and pretending that E and F are out of
the question. That motherhood is a great and noble occupation for a
good woman, and not to be lightly undertaken, is a manifest thing, and
so also that to beget children and see them full grown in the world is
the common triumph of life, as inconsequence is its common failure.
That to live for pleasure is not only wickedness but folly, seems easy
to admit, and equally foolish, as Saint Paul has intimated, must it be
to waste a life of nervous energy in fighting down beyond a natural
minimum our natural desires. That we must pitch our lives just as much
as we can in the heroic key, and hem and control mere lasciviousness as
it were a sort of leprosy of the soul, seems fairly certain. And all
that love-making which involves lies, all sham heroics and shining
snares, assuredly must go out of a higher order of social being, for
here more than anywhere lying is the poison of life. But between these
data there are great interrogative blanks no generalization will fill--
cases, situations, temperaments. Each life, it seems to me, in that
intelligent, conscious, social state to which the world is coming, must
square itself to these things in its own way, and fill in the details
of its individual moral code according to its needs. So it seems, at
least, to one limited thinker.

To be frank, upon that common ground of decent behaviour, pride and
self-respect, health and the heroic habit of thinking, we need for
ourselves not so much rules as wisdom, and for others not, indeed, a
foolish and indiscriminate toleration but at least patience, arrests of
judgment, and the honest endeavour to understand. Now to help the
imagination in these judgments, to enlarge and interpret experience, is
most certainly one of the functions of literature. A good biography may
give facts of infinite suggestion, and the great multitude of novels at
present are, in fact, experiments in the science of this central field
of human action, experiments in the "way of looking at" various cases
and situations. Application of the Law.--The beauty of this law of
love is that it may be universally applied. There is no condition of man
that it cannot meet and satisfy. The crying wrongs of the home,
society, the industrial world, the state, arise out of its neglect
and condemnation.A good novel may
become a very potent and convincing experiment indeed. Books in these
matters are often so much quieter and cooler as counsellors than
friends. And there, in truth, is my whole mind in this matter.

Meanwhile, as we work each one to solve his own problems, the young
people are growing up about us.


Sec. 2


How do the young people arrive at knowledge and at their interpretation
of these things? Let us for a few moments at least, put pretence and
claptrap aside, and recall our own youth. Let us recognize that this
complex initiation is always a very shy and secret process, beyond the
range of parent and guardian. The prying type of schoolmaster or
schoolmistress only drives the thing deeper, and, at the worst,
blunders with a hideous suggestiveness. It is almost an instinct, a
part of the natural modesty of the growing young, to hide all that is
fermenting in the mind from authoritative older people. It would not be
difficult to find a biological reason for that. The growing mind
advances slowly, intermittently, with long pauses and sudden panics,
that is the law of its progress; it feels its way through three main
agencies, firstly, observation, secondly, tentative, confidential talk
with unauthoritative and trusted friends, and thirdly, books. In the
present epoch observation declines relatively to books; books and
pictures, these dumb impersonal initiators, play a larger and a larger
part in this great awakening. Perhaps for all but the children of the
urban poor, the furtive talk also declines and is delayed; a most
desirable thing in a civilizing process that finds great advantage in
putting off adolescence and prolonging the average life.

