About noon the succeeding day, some pages ran in to say we were to come
along without a moment's delay, as their king had ordered it. He would
not taste food until he saw me, so that everybody might know what great
respect he felt for me. In the meanwhile, however, he wished for some
gunpowder. I packed the pages off as fast as I could with some, and
tried myself to follow, but my men were all either sick or out foraging,
and therefore we could not get under way until the evening. After going
a certain distance, we came on a rush-drain, of much greater breadth
even than the Mwerango, called the Moga (or river) Myanza, which was so
deep I had to take off my trousers and tuck my clothes under my arms.
It flowed into the Mwerango, but with scarcely any current at all.
This rush-drain, all the natives assured me, rose in the hills to
the southward--not in the lake, as the Mwerango did--and it was never
bridged over like that river, because it was always fordable. This
account seemed to me reasonable; for though so much broader in its bed
than the Mwerango, it had no central, deep-flowing current.


Chapter XI. Palace, Uganda

Preparations for the Reception at the Court of Mtesa, King of
Uganda--The Ceremonial--African Diplomacy and Dignity--Feats with the
Rifle--Cruelty, and Wastefulness of Life--The Pages--The Queen-Dowager
of Uganda--Her Court Reception--I negotiate for a Palace--Conversations
with the King and Queen--The Queen's grand Entertainment--Royal
Dissipation.

To-day the king sent his pages to announce his intention of holding
a levee in my honour. I prepared for my first presentation at court,
attired in my best, though in it I cut a poor figure in comparison with
the display of the dressy Waganda. They wore neat bark cloaks resembling
the best yellow corduroy cloth, crimp and well set, as if stiffened with
starch, and over that, as upper-cloaks, a patchwork of small antelope
skins, which I observed were sewn together as well as any English
glovers could have pieced them; whilst their head-dresses, generally,
were abrus turbans, set off with highly-polished boar-tusks,
stick-charms, seeds, beads, or shells; and on their necks, arms, and
ankles they wore other charms of wood, or small horns stuffed with magic
powder, and fastened on by strings generally covered with snake-skin.
N'yamgundu and Maula demanded, as their official privilege, a first
peep; and this being refused, they tried to persuade me that the
articles comprising the present required to be covered with chintz, for
it was considered indecorous to offer anything to his majesty in a naked
state. This little interruption over, the articles enumerated below [18]
were conveyed to the palace in solemn procession thus:--With N'yamgundu,
Maula, the pages, and myself on the flanks, the Union-Jack carried by
the kirangozi guide led the way, followed by twelve men as a guard of
honour, dressed in red flannel cloaks, and carrying their arms sloped,
with fixed bayonets; whilst in their rear were the rest of my men, each
carrying some article as a present.

On the march towards the palace, the admiring courtiers, wonder-struck
at such an unusual display, exclaimed, in raptures of astonishment, some
with both hands at their mouths, and others clasping their heads with
their hands, "Irungi! irungi!" which may be translated "Beautiful!
beautiful!" I thought myself everything was going on as well as could
be wished; but before entering the royal enclosures, I found, to my
disagreeable surprise, that the men with Suwarora's hongo or offering,
which consisted of more than a hundred coils of wire, were ordered to
lead the procession, and take precedence of me. There was something
specially aggravating in this precedence; for it will be remembered that
these very brass wires which they saw, I had myself intended for Mtesa,
that they were taken from me by Suwarora as far back as Usui, and it
would never do, without remonstrance, to have them boastfully paraded
before my eyes in this fashion. My protests, however, had no effect upon
the escorting Wakungu. Resolving to make them catch it, I walked along
as if ruminating in anger up the broad high road into a cleared square,
which divides Mtesa's domain on the south from his Kamraviona's, or
commander-in-chief, on the north, and then turned into the court. The
palace or entrance quite surprised me by its extraordinary dimensions,
and the neatness with which it was kept. The whole brow and sides of the
hill on which we stood were covered with gigantic grass huts, thatched
as neatly as so many heads dressed by a London barber, and fenced all
round with the tall yellow reeds of the common Uganda tiger-grass;
whilst within the enclosure, the lines of huts were joined together, or
partitioned off into courts, with walls of the same grass. It is here
most of Mtesa's three or four hundred women are kept, the rest being
quartered chiefly with his mother, known by the title of N'yamasore, or
queen-dowager. They stood in little groups at the doors, looking at us,
and evidently passing their own remarks, and enjoying their own jokes,
on the triumphal procession. At each gate as we passed, officers on duty
opened and shut it for us, jingling the big bells which are hung upon
them, as they sometimes are at shop-doors, to prevent silent, stealthy
entrance.

The first court passed, I was even more surprised to find the unusual
ceremonies that awaited me. There courtiers of high dignity stepped
forward to greet me, dressed in the most scrupulously neat fashions.
Men, women, bulls, dogs, and goats, were led about by strings; cocks and
hens were carried in men's arms; and little pages, with rope-turbans,
rushed about, conveying messages, as if their lives depended on their
swiftness, every one holding his skin-cloak tightly round him lest his
naked legs might by accident be shown.

This, then, was the ante-reception court; and I might have taken
possession of the hut, in which musicians were playing and singing
on large nine-stringed harps, like the Nubian tambira, accompanied by
harmonicons. By the chief officers in waiting, however, who thought fit
to treat us like Arab merchants, I was requested to sit on the ground
outside in the sun with my servants. Now, I had made up my mind never to
sit upon the ground as the natives and Arabs are obliged to do, nor
to make my obeisance in any other manner than is customary in England,
though the Arabs had told me that from fear they had always complied
with the manners of the court. I felt that if I did not stand up for my
social position at once, I should be treated with contempt during the
remainder of my visit, and thus lose the vantage-ground I had assumed
of appearing rather as a prince than a trader, for the purpose of
better gaining the confidence of the king. To avert over-hastiness,
however--for my servants began to be alarmed as I demurred against doing
as I was bid--I allowed five minutes to the court to give me a proper
reception, saying, if it were not conceded I would then walk away.

Nothing, however, was done. My own men, knowing me, feared for me, as
they did not know what a "savage" king would do in case I carried out my
threat; whilst the Waganda, lost in amazement at what seemed little less
than blasphemy, stood still as posts. The affair ended by my walking
straight away home, giving Bombay orders to leave the present on the
ground, and to follow me.

Although the king is said to be unapproachable, excepting when he
chooses to attend court--a ceremony which rarely happens--intelligence
of my hot wrath and hasty departure reached him in an instant. He first,
it seems, thought of leaving his toilet-room to follow me, but, finding
I was walking fast, and had gone far, changed his mind, and sent Wakungu
running after me. Poor creatures! they caught me up, fell upon their
knees, and implored I would return at once, for the king had not tasted
food, and would not until he saw me. I felt grieved at their touching
appeals; but, as I did not understand all they said, I simply replied
by patting my heart and shaking my head, walking if anything all the
faster.

On my arrival at my hut, Bombay and others came in, wet through with
perspiration, saying the king had heard of all my grievances. Suwarora's
hongo was turned out of court, and, if I desired it, I might bring
my own chair with me, for he was very anxious to show me great
respect--although such a seat was exclusively the attribute of the king,
no one else in Uganda daring to sit on an artificial seat.

My point was gained, so I cooled myself with coffee and a pipe, and
returned rejoicing in my victory, especially over Suwarora. After
returning to the second tier of huts from which I had retired, everybody
appeared to be in a hurried, confused state of excitement, not knowing
what to make out of so unprecedented an exhibition of temper. In the
most polite manner, the officers in waiting begged me to be seated on
my iron stool, which I had brought with me, whilst others hurried in to
announce my arrival. But for a few minutes only I was kept in suspense,
when a band of music, the musicians wearing on their backs long-haired
goat-skins, passed me, dancing as they went along, like bears in a fair,
and playing on reed instruments worked over with pretty beads in various
patters, from which depended leopard-cat skins--the time being regulated
by the beating of long hand-drums.

The mighty king was now reported to be sitting on his throne in the
statehut of the third tier. I advanced, hat in hand, with my guard
of honour following, formed in "open ranks," who in their turn were
followed by the bearers carrying the present. I did not walk straight up
to him as if to shake hands, but went outside the ranks of a three-sided
square of squatting Wakungu, all inhabited in skins, mostly cow-skins;
some few of whom had, in addition, leopard-cat skins girt round the
waist, the sign of royal blood. Here I was desired to halt and sit in
the glaring sun; so I donned my hat, mounted my umbrella, a phenomenon
which set them all a-wondering and laughing, ordered the guard to close
ranks, and sat gazing at the novel spectacle! A more theatrical sight
I never saw. The king, a good-looking, well-figured, tall young man of
twenty-five, was sitting on a red blanket spread upon a square platform
of royal grass, encased in tiger-grass reeds, scrupulously well dressed
in a new mbugu. The hair of his head was cut short, excepting on the
top, where it was combed up into a high ridge, running from stem to
stern like a cockscomb. On his neck was a very neat ornament--a large
ring, of beautifully-worked small beads, forming elegant patterns by
their various colours. On one arm was another bead ornament, prettily
devised; and on the other a wooden charm, tied by a string covered with
snakeskin. On every finger and every toe, he had alternate brass and
copper rings; and above the ankles, halfway up to the calf, a stocking
of very pretty beads. Everything was light, neat, and elegant in its
way; not a fault could be found with the taste of his "getting up."
For a handkerchief he held a well-folded piece of bark, and a piece of
gold-embroidered silk, which he constantly employed to hide his large
mouth when laughing, or to wipe it after a drink of plantain-wine, of
which he took constant and copious draughts from neat little gourd-cups,
administered by his ladies-in-waiting, who were at once his sisters
and wives. A white dog, spear, shield, and woman--the Uganda
cognisance--were by his side, as also a knot of staff officers, with
whom he kept up a brisk conversation on one side; and on the other was a
band of Wichezi, or lady-sorcerers, such as I have already described.

I was now asked to draw nearer within the hollow square of squatters,
where leopard-skins were strewed upon the ground, and a large copper
kettledrum, surmounted with brass bells on arching wires, along with
two other smaller drums covered with cowrie-shells, and beads of colour
worked into patterns, were placed. I now longed to open conversation,
but knew not the language, and no one near me dared speak, or even lift
his head from fear of being accused of eyeing the women; so the king
and myself sat staring at one another for full an hour--I mute, but he
pointing and remarking with those around him on the novelty of my guard
and general appearance, and even requiring to see my hat lifted, the
umbrella shut and opened, and the guards face about and show off their
red cloaks--for such wonders had never been seen in Uganda.

Then, finding the day waning, he sent Maula on an embassy to ask me if I
had seen him; and on receiving my reply, "Yes, for full one hour," I
was glad to find him rise, spear in hand, lead his dog, and walk
unceremoniously away through the enclosure into the fourth tier of huts;
for this being a pure levee day, no business was transacted. The king's
gait in retiring was intended to be very majestic, but did not succeed
in conveying to me that impression. It was the traditional walk of his
race, founded on the step of the lion; but the outward sweep of the
legs, intended to represent the stride of the noble beast, appeared to
me only to realise a very ludicrous kind of waddle, which made me ask
Bombay if anything serious was the matter with the royal person.

I had now to wait for some time, almost as an act of humanity; for I was
told the state secret, that the king had retired to break his fast and
eat for the first time since hearing of my arrival; but the repast was
no sooner over than he prepared for the second act, to show off his
splendour, and I was invited in, with all my men, to the exclusion of
all his own officers save my two guides. Entering as before, I found him
standing on a red blanket, leaning against the right portal of the hut,
talking and laughing, handkerchief in hand, to a hundred or more of his
admiring wives, who, all squatting on the ground outside, in two groups,
were dressed in mew mbugus. My men dared not advance upright, nor look
upon the women, but, stooping, with lowered heads and averted eyes, came
cringing after me. Unconscious myself, I gave loud and impatient orders
to my guard, rebuking them for moving like frightened geese, and, with
hat in hand, stood gazing on the fair sex till directed to sit and cap.

Mtesa then inquired what messages were brought from Rumanika; to which
Maula, delighted with the favour of speaking to royalty, replied by
saying, Rumanika had gained intelligence of Englishmen coming up the
Nile to Gani and Kidi. The king acknowledged the truthfulness of their
story, saying he had heard the same himself; and both Wakungu, as is
the custom in Uganda, thanked their lord in a very enthusiastic manner,
kneeling on the ground--for no one can stand in the presence of his
majesty--in an attitude of prayer, and throwing out their hands as they
repeated the words N'yanzig, N'yanzig, ai N'yanzig Mkahma wangi, etc.,
etc., for a considerable time; when, thinking they had done enough of
this, and heated with the exertion, they threw themselves flat upon
their stomachs, and, floundering about like fish on land, repeated the
same words over again and again, and rose doing the same, with their
faces covered with earth; for majesty in Uganda is never satisfied
till subjects have grovelled before it like the most abject worms. This
conversation over, after gazing at me, and chatting with his women for
a considerable time, the second scene ended. The third scene was more
easily arranged, for the day was fast declining. He simply moved his
train of women to another hut, where, after seating himself upon his
throne, with his women around him, he invited me to approach the nearest
limits of propriety, and to sit as before. Again he asked me if I had
seen him--evidently desirous of indulging in his regal pride; so I made
the most of the opportunity thus afforded me of opening a conversation
by telling him of those grand reports I had formerly heard about him,
which induced me to come all his way to see him, and the trouble it had
cost me to reach the object of my desire; at the same time taking a gold
ring from off my finger, and presenting it to him, I said, "This is a
small token of friendship; if you will inspect it, it is made after
the fashion of a dog-collar, and, being the king of metals, gold, is in
every respect appropriate to your illustrious race."

He said, in return, "If friendship is your desire, what would you say
if I showed you a road by which you might reach your home in one month?"
Now everything had to be told to Bombay, then to Nasib, my Kiganda
interpreter, and then to either Maula or N'yamgundu, before it was
delivered to the king, for it was considered indecorous to transmit
any message to his majesty excepting through the medium of one of his
officers. Hence I could not get an answer put in; for as all Waganda are
rapid and impetuous in their conversation, the king, probably forgetting
he had put a question, hastily changed the conversation and said, "What
guns have you got? Let me see the one you shoot with." I wished still
to answer the first question first, as I knew he referred to the direct
line to Zanzibar across the Masai, and was anxious, without delay, to
open the subject of Petherick and Grant; but no one dared to deliver
my statement. Much disappointed, I then said, "I had brought the best
shooting-gun in the world--Whitworth's rifle--which I begged he would
accept, with a few other trifles; and, with his permission, I would
lay them upon a carpet at his feet, as is the custom of my country when
visiting sultans." He assented, sent all his women away, and had an
mbugu spread for the purpose, on which Bombay, obeying my order, first
spread a red blanket, and then opened each article one after the other,
when Nasib, according to the usage already mentioned, smoothed them down
with his dirty hands, or rubbed them against his sooty face, and handed
them to the king to show there was no poison or witchcraft in them.
Mtesa appeared quite confused with the various wonders as he handled
them, made silly remarks, and pondered over them like a perfect child,
until it was quite dark. Torches were then lit, and guns, pistols,
powder, boxes, tools, beads--the whole collection, in short--were tossed
together topsy-turvy, bundled into mbugus, and carried away by
the pages. Mtesa now said, "It is late, and time to break up; what
provisions would you wish to have?" I said, "A little of everything,
but no one thing constantly." "And would you like to see me to-morrow?"
"Yes, every day." "Then you can't to-morrow, for I have business; but
the next day come if you like. You can now go away, and here are six
pots of plantain-wine for you; my men will search for food to-morrow."

21st.--In the morning, whilst it rained, some pages drove in twenty cows
and ten goats, with a polite metaphorical message from their king, to
the effect that I had pleased him much, and he hoped I would accept
these few "chickens" until he could send more,--when both Maula and
N'yamgundu, charmed with their success in having brought a welcome guest
to Uganda, never ceased showering eulogiums on me for my fortune in
having gained the countenance of their king. The rain falling was
considered at court a good omen, and everybody declared the king mad
with delight. Wishing to have a talk with him about Petherick and Grant,
I at once started off the Wakungu to thank him for the present, and
to beg pardon for my apparent rudeness of yesterday, at the same time
requesting I might have an early interview with his majesty, as I had
much of importance to communicate; but the solemn court formalities
which these African kings affect as much as Oriental emperors, precluded
my message from reaching the king. I heard, however, that he had spent
the day receiving Suwarora's hongo of wire, and that the officer who
brought them was made to sit in an empty court, whilst the king sat
behind a screen, never deigning to show his majestic person. I was told,
too, that he opened conversation by demanding to know how it happened
that Suwarora became possessed of the wires, for they were made by
the white men to be given to himself, and Suwarora must therefore have
robbed me of them; and it was by such practices he, Mtesa, never could
see any visitors. The officer's reply was, Suwarora would not show the
white men any respect, because they were wizards would did not sleep in
houses at night, but flew up to the tops of hills, and practised sorcery
of every abominable kind. The king to this retorted, in a truly African
fashion, "That's a lie; I can see no harm in this white man; and if
he had been a bad man, Rumanika would not have sent him on to me." At
night, when in bed, the king sent his pages to say, if I desired his
friendship I would lend him one musket to make up six with what I had
given him, for he intended visiting his relations the following morning.
I sent three, feeling that nothing would be lost by being "open-handed."

22d.--To-day the king went the round of his relations, showing the
beautiful things given him by the white man--a clear proof that he was
much favoured by the "spirits," for neither his father nor any of his
forefathers had been so recognised and distinguished by any "sign" as
a rightful inheritor to the Uganda throne: an anti-Christian
interpretation of omens, as rife in these dark regions now as it was
in the time of King Nebuchadnezzar. At midnight the three muskets were
returned, and I was so pleased with the young king's promptitude and
honesty, I begged he would accept them.

23d.--At noon Mtesa sent his pages to invite me to his palace. I went,
with my guard of honour and my stool, but found I had to sit waiting
in an ante-hut three hours with his commander-in-chief and other
high officers before he was ready to see me. During this time Wasoga
minstrels, playing on tambira, and accompanied by boys playing on a
harmonicon, kept us amused; and a small page, with a large bundle of
grass, came to me and said, "The king hopes you won't be offended if
required to sit on it before him; for no person in Uganda, however high
in office, is ever allowed to sit upon anything raised above the ground,
nor can anybody but himself sit upon such grass as this; it is all that
his throne is made of. The first day he only allowed you to sit on your
stool to appease your wrath."

On consenting to do in "Rome as the Romans do," when my position was so
handsomely acknowledged, I was called in, and found the court sitting
much as it was on the first day's interview, only that the number of
squatting Wakungu was much diminished; and the king, instead of wearing
his ten brass and copper rings, had my gold one on his third finger.
This day, however, was cut out for business, as, in addition to
the assemblage of officers, there were women, cows, goats, fowls,
confiscations, baskets of fish, baskets of small antelopes, porcupines,
and curious rats caught by his gamekeepers, bundles of mbugu, etc.,
etc., made by his linen-drapers, coloured earths and sticks by his
magician, all ready for presentation; but, as rain fell, the court
broke up, and I had nothing for it but to walk about under my umbrella,
indulging in angry reflections against the haughty king for not inviting
me into his hut.

When the rain had ceased, and we were again called in, he was found
sitting in state as before, but this time with the head of a black bull
placed before him, one horn of which, knocked off, was placed alongside,
whilst four living cows walked about the court.

I was now requested to shoot the four cows as quickly as possible; but
having no bullets for my gun, I borrowed the revolving pistol I had
given him, and shot all four in a second of time; but as the last one,
only wounded, turned sharply upon me, I gave him the fifth and settled
him. Great applause followed this wonderful feat, and the cows were
given to my men. The king now loaded one of the carbines I had given him
with his own hands, and giving it full-cock to a page, told him to go
out and shoot a man in the outer court; which was no sooner accomplished
than the little urchin returned to announce his success, with a look of
glee such as one would see in the face of a boy who had robbed a bird's
nest, caught a trout, or done any other boyish trick. The king said to
him, "And did you do it well?" "Oh, yes, capitally." He spoke the truth,
no doubt, for he dared not have trifled with the king; but the affair
created hardly any interest. I never heard, and there appeared no
curiosity to know, what individual human being the urchin had deprived
of life.

The Wakungu were not dismissed, and I asked to draw near, when the king
showed me a book I had given to Rumanika, and begged for the inspiring
medicine which he had before applied for through the mystic stick. The
day was now gone, so torches were lit, and we were ordered to go, though
as yet I had not been able to speak one word I wished to impart about
Petherick and Grant; for my interpreters were so afraid of the king they
dared not open their mouths until they were spoken to. The king was
now rising to go, when, in great fear and anxiety that the day would be
lost, I said, in Kisuahili, "I wish you would send a letter by post
to Grant, and also send a boat up the Kitangule, as far as Rumanika's
palace, for him, for he is totally unable to walk." I thus attracted his
notice, though he did not understand one word I uttered. The result was,
that he waited for the interpretation, and replied that a post would
be no use, for no one would be responsible for the safe delivery of the
message; he would send N'yamgundu to fetch him, but he thought Rumanika
would not consent to his sending boats up the Kitangule as far as the
Little Windermere; and then, turning round with true Mganda impetuosity,
he walked away without taking a word from me in exchange.

24th.--Early this morning the pages came to say Mtesa desired I would
send him three of my Wanguaga to shoot cows before him. This was just
what I wanted. It had struck me that personal conferences with me so
roused the excitable king, that there was no bringing plain matters of
business home to him; so, detaching seven men with Bombay, I told him,
before shooting, to be sure and elicit the matter I wanted--which was,
to excite the king's cupidity by telling him I had a boat full of stores
with two white men at Gani, whom I wished to call to me if he would
furnish some guides to accompany my men; and further, as Grant could not
walk, I wished boats sent for him, at least as far as the ferry on the
Kitangule, to which place Rumanika, at any rate, would slip him down in
canoes. At once, on arriving, Mtesa admitted the men, and ordered them
to shoot at some cows; but Bombay, obeying my orders to first have
his talk out, said, No--before he could shoot he must obey master and
deliver his message; which no sooner was told than the king, in a hurry,
excited by the prospects of sport, impatiently said, "Very good; I will
send men either by water or overland through Kidi, [19] just as your
master likes; only some of his men had better go with mine: but now
shoot cows, shoot cows; for I want to see how the Waguana shoot." They
shot seven, and all were given to them when they were dismissed. In the
evening the pages came to ask me if I would like to shoot kites in
the palace with their king; but I declined shooting anything less than
elephants, rhinoceros, or buffaloes; and even for these I would not go
out unless the king went with me;--a dodge I conceived would tend
more than any other to bring us together, and so break through those
ceremonial restraints of the court, which at present were stopping all
pans of progression.

25th.--The king invited me to shoot with him--really buffaloes--close to
the palace; but as the pages had been sent off in a hurry, without being
fully instructed, I declined, on the plea that I had always been gulled
and kept waiting or treated with incivility, for hours before I obtained
an interview; and as I did not wish to have any more ruptures in the
palace, I proposed Bombay should go to make proper arrangements for my
reception on the morrow--as anyhow, at present I felt indisposed. The
pages dreaded their master's wrath, departed for a while, and then sent
another lad to tell me he was sorry to hear I felt unwell, but he hoped
I would come if only for a minute, bringing my medicines with me, for
he himself felt pain. That this second message was a forged one I had no
doubt, for the boys had not been long enough gone; still, I packed up my
medicines and went, leaving the onus, should any accident happen, upon
the mischievous story-bearers.

As I anticipated, on arrival at the palace I found the king was not
ready to receive me, and the pages desired me to sit with the officers
in waiting until he might appear. I found it necessary to fly at once
into a rage, called the pages a set of deceiving young blackguards,
turned upon my heel, and walked straight back through the courts,
intending to leave the palace. Everybody was alarmed; information of my
retreat at once reached the king, and he sent his Wakungu to prevent my
egress. These officers passed me, as I was walking hurriedly along under
my umbrella, in the last court, and shut the entrance-gate in front of
me. This was too much, so I stamped, and, pointing my finger, swore in
every language I knew, that if they did not open the gate again, as they
had shut it at once, and that, too, before my face, I would never leave
the spot I stood upon alive. Terror-stricken, the Wakungu fell on their
knees before me, doing as they were bid; and, to please them, I returned
at once, and went up to the king, who, now sitting on his throne, asked
the officers how they had managed to entice me back; to which they all
replied in a breath, n'yanzigging heartily, "Oh, we were so afraid--he
was so terrible! but he turned at once as soon as we opened the gate."
"How? what gate? tell us all about it." And when the whole story was
fully narrated, the matter was thought a good joke. After pausing a
little, I asked the king what ailed him, for I was sorry to hear he had
been sick; but instead of replying, he shook his head, as much as to
say, I had put a very uncouth question to his majesty--and ordered some
men to shoot cows.

Instead of admiring this childish pastime, which in Uganda is considered
royal sport, I rather looked disdainful, until, apparently disappointed
at my indifference, he asked what the box I had brought contained. On
being told it was the medicine he desired, he asked me to draw near, and
sent his courtiers away. When only the interpreters and one confidential
officer were left, besides myself, he wished to know if I could apply
the medicine without its touching the afflicted part. To give him
confidence in my surgical skill, I moved my finger, and asked him if he
knew what gave it action; and on his replying in the negative, I have
him an anatomical lecture, which so pleased him, he at once consented to
be operated on, and I applied a blister accordingly. The whole operation
was rather ridiculous; for the blister, after being applied, had to be
rubbed in turn on the hands and faces of both Bombay and Nasib, to show
there was no evil spirit in the "doctor." Now, thought I to myself,
is the right time for business; for I had the king all to myself, then
considered a most fortunate occurrence in Uganda, where every man courts
the favour of a word with his king, and adores him as a deity, and he in
turn makes himself as distance as he can, to give greater effect to his
exalted position. The matter, however, was merely deferred: for I no
sooner told him my plans for communicating quickly with Petherick and
Grant, than, after saying he desired their coming even more than myself,
he promised to arrange everything on the morrow.

26th.--In the morning, as agreed, I called on the king, and found the
blister had drawn nicely; so I let off the water, which Bombay called
the malady, and so delighted the king amazingly. A basket of fruit, like
Indian loquots, was then ordered in, and we ate them together, holding a
discussion about Grant and Petherick, which ended by the king promising
to send an officer by water to Kitangule, and another with two of my
men, via Usoga and Kidi, to Gani; but as it was necessary my men should
go in disguise, I asked the king to send me four mbugu and two spears;
when, with the liberality of a great king, he sent me twenty sheets of
the former, four spears, and a load of sun-dried fish strung on a stick
in shape of a shield.

27th.--At last something was done. One Uganda officer and one Kidi
guide were sent to my hut by the king, as agreed upon yesterday, when
I detached Mabruki and Bilal from my men, gave them letters and maps
addressed to Petherick; and giving the officers a load of Mtende to
pay their hotel bills on the way, I gave them, at the same time, strict
orders to keep by the Nile; then, having dismissed them, I called on the
king to make arrangements for Grant, and to complain that my residence
in Uganda was anything but cheerful, as my hut was a mile from the
palace, in an unhealthy place, where he kept his Arab visitors. It did
not become my dignity to live in houses appropriated to persons in the
rank of servants, which I considered the ivory merchants to be; and as
I had come only to see him and the high officers of Uganda, not seeking
for ivory or slaves, I begged he would change my place of residence to
the west end, when I also trusted his officers would not be ashamed
to visit me, as appeared to be the case at present. Silence being the
provoking resort of the king, when he did not know exactly what to say,
he made no answer to my appeal, but instead, he began a discourse on
geography, and then desired me to call upon his mother, N'yamasore, at
her palace Masorisori, vulgarly called Soli Soli, for she also required
medicine; and, moreover, I was cautioned that for the future the
Uganda court etiquette required I should attend on the king two days in
succession, and every third day on his mother the queen-dowager, as such
were their respective rights.

Till now, owing to the strict laws of the country, I had not been able
to call upon anybody but the king himself. I had not been able to send
presents or bribes to any one, nor had any one, except the cockaded
pages, by the king's order, visited me; neither was anybody permitted
to sell me provisions, so that my men had to feed themselves by taking
anything they chose from certain gardens pointed out by the king's
officers, or by seizing pombe or plantains which they might find Waganda
carrying towards the palace. This non-interventive order was part of the
royal policy, in order that the king might have the full fleecing of his
visitors.

To call upon the queen-mother respectfully, as it was the opening visit,
I too, besides the medicine-chest, a present of eight brass and copper
wire, thirty blue-egg beads, one bundle of diminutive beads, and sixteen
cubits of chintz, a small guard, and my throne of royal grass. The
palace to be visited lay half a mile beyond the king's, but the highroad
to it was forbidden me, as it is considered uncourteous to pass the
king's gate without going in. So after winding through back-gardens, the
slums of Bandowaroga, I struck upon the highroad close to her majesty's,
where everything looked like the royal palace on a miniature scale. A
large cleared space divided the queen's residence from her Kamraviona's.
The outer enclosures and courts were fenced with tiger-grass; and the
huts, though neither so numerous nor so large, were constructed after
the same fashion as the king's. Guards also kept the doors, on which
large bells were hung to give alarm, and officers in waiting watched
the throne-rooms. All the huts were full of women, save those kept as
waiting-rooms; where drums and harmonicons were played for amusement. On
first entering, I was required to sit in a waiting-hut till my arrival
was announced; but that did not take long, as the queen was prepared to
receive me; and being of a more affable disposition than her son, she
held rather a levee of amusement than a stiff court of show. I entered
the throne-hut as the gate of that court was thrown open, with my hat
off, but umbrella held over my head, and walked straight towards her
till ordered to sit upon my bundle of grass.

Her majesty--fat, fair, and forty-five--was sitting, plainly garbed in
mbugu, upon a carpet spread upon the ground within a curtain of mbugu,
her elbow resting on a pillow of the same bark material; the only
ornaments on her person being an abrus necklace, and a piece of mbugu
tied round her head, whilst a folding looking-glass, much the worse for
wear, stood open by her side. An iron rod like a spit, with a cup on
the top, charged with magic powder, and other magic wands, were placed
before the entrance; and within the room, four Mabandwa sorceresses or
devil-drivers, fantastically dressed, as before described, and a mass of
other women, formed the company. For a short while we sat at a distance,
exchanging inquiring glances at one another, when the women were
dismissed, and a band of music, with a court full of Wakungu, was
ordered in to change the scene. I also got orders to draw near and sit
fronting her within the hut. Pombe, the best in Uganda, was then drunk
by the queen, and handed to me and to all the high officers about her,
when she smoked her pipe, and bade me smoke mine. The musicians, dressed
in long-haired Usoga goat-skins, were now ordered to strike up, which
they did, with their bodies swaying or dancing like bears in a fair.
Different drums were then beat, and I was asked if I could distinguish
their different tones.

The queen, full of mirth, now suddenly rose, leaving me sitting, whilst
she went to another hut, changed her mbugu for a deole, and came back
again for us to admire her, which was no sooner done to her heart's
content, than a second time, by her order, the court was cleared, and,
when only three or four confidential Wakungu were left, she took up a
small faggot of well-trimmed sticks, and, selecting three, told me she
had three complains. "This stick," she says, "represents my stomach,
which gives me much uneasiness; this second stick my liver, which causes
shooting pains all over my body; and this third one my heart, for I get
constant dreams at night about Sunna, my late husband, and they are not
pleasant." The dreams and sleeplessness I told her was a common widow's
complaint, and could only be cured by her majesty making up her mind
to marry a second time; but before I could advise for the bodily
complaints, it would be necessary for me to see her tongue, feel her
pulse, and perhaps, also, her sides. Hearing this, the Wakungu said,
"Oh, that can never be allowed without the sanction of the king"; but
the queen, rising in her seat, expressed her scorn at the idea to taking
advice from a mere stripling, and submitted herself for examination.

I then took out two pills, the powder of which was tasted by the Wakungu
to prove that there was no devilry in "the doctor," and gave orders for
them to be eaten at night, restricting her pombe and food until I saw
her again. My game was now advancing, for I found through her I should
get the key to an influence that might bear on the king, and was much
pleased to hear her express herself delighted with me for everything I
had done except stopping her grog, which, naturally enough in this great
pombe-drinking country, she said would be a very trying abstinence.

The doctoring over, her majesty expressed herself ready to inspect
the honorarium I had brought for her, and the articles were no sooner
presented by Bombay and Nasib, with the usual formalities of stroking to
insure their purity, than she, boiling with pleasure, showed them all to
her officers, who declared, with a voice of most exquisite triumph,
that she was indeed the most favoured of queens. Then, in excellent good
taste, after saying that nobody had ever given her such treasures, she
gave me, in return, a beautifully-worked pombe sucking-pipe, which was
acknowledged by every one to be the greatest honour she could pay me.

Not satisfied with this, she made me select, though against my desire,
a number of sambo, called here gundu, rings of giraffe hair wound round
with thin iron or copper wire, and worn as anklets; and crowned with
all sundry pots of pombe, a cow, and a bundle of dried fish, of the
description given in the woodcut, called by my men Samaki Kambari. This
business over, she begged me to show her my picture-books, and was so
amused with them that she ordered her sorceresses and all the other
women in again to inspect them with her. Then began a warm and
complimentary conversation, which ended by an inspection of my rings and
al the contents of my pockets, as well as of my watch, which she called
Lubari--a term equivalent to a place of worship, the object of worship
itself, or the iron horn or magic pan. Still she said I had not yet
satisfied her; I must return again two days hence, for she like me
much--excessively--she could not say how much; but now the day was gone,
I might go. With this queer kind of adieu she rose and walked away,
leaving me with my servants to carry the royal present home.

28th.--My whole thoughts were now occupied in devising some scheme to
obtain a hut in the palace, not only the better to maintain my dignity,
and so gain superior influence in the court, but also that I might have
a better insight into the manners and customs of these strange people. I
was not sorry to find the king attempting to draw me to court, daily
to sit in attendance on him as his officers were obliged to do all day
long, in order that he might always have a full court or escort whenever
by chance he might emerge from his palace, for it gave me an opening for
asserting my proper position.

Instead, therefore, of going at the call of his pages this morning I
sent Bombay with some men to say that although I was desirous of
seeing him daily, I could not so expose myself to the sun. In all other
countries I received, as my right, a palace to live in when I called
on the king of my country, and unless he gave one now I should feel
slighted; moreover, I should like a hut in the same enclosure as
himself, when I could sit and converse with him constantly, and teach
him the use of the things I had given him. By Bombay's account, the king
was much struck with the force of my humble request, and replied that he
should like to have Bana, meaning myself, ever by his side, but his
huts were all full of women, and therefore it could not be managed; if,
however, Bana would but have patience for a while, a hut should be built
for him in the environs, which would be a mark of distinction he
had never paid to any visitor before. Then changing the subject by
inspecting my men, he fell so much in love with their little red "fez"
caps, that he sent off his pages to beg me for a specimen, and, on
finding them sent by the boys, he remarked, with warm approbation, how
generous I was in supplying his wishes, and then, turning to Bombay,
wished to know what sort of return-presents would please me best.
Bombay, already primed, instantly said, "Oh, Bana, being a great man in
his own country, and not thirsting for gain in ivory or slaves, would
only accept such things as a spear, shield, or drum, which he could take
to his own country as a specimen of the manufactures of Uganda, and a
pleasing recollection of his visit to the king."

"Ah," says Mtesa, "if that is all he wants, then indeed will I satisfy
him, for I will give him the two spears with which I took all this
country, and, when engaged in so doing, pierced three men with one stab.

"But, for the present, is it true what I have heard, that Bana would
like to go out with me shooting?" "Oh yes, he is a most wonderful
sportsman--shoots elephants and buffaloes, and birds on the wing. He
would like to go out on a shooting excursion and teach you the way."

Then turning the subject, in the highest good-humour the king made
centurions of N'yamgundu and Maula, my two Wakungu, for their good
service, he said, in bringing him such a valuable guest. This delighted
them so much that as soon as they could they came back to my camp, threw
themselves at my feet, and n'yanzigging incessantly, narrated their
fortunes, and begged, as a great man, I would lend them some cows to
present to the king as an acknowledgement for the favour he had shown
them. The cows, I then told them, had come from the king, and could not
go back again, for it was not the habit of white men to part with their
presents; but as I felt their promotion redounded on myself, and was
certainly the highest compliment their king could have paid me, I would
give them each a wire to make their salaam good.

This was enough; both officers got drunk, and, beating their drums,
serenaded the camp until the evening set in, when, to my utter
surprise, an elderly Mganda woman was brought into camp with the
commander-in-chief's metaphorical compliments, hoping I would accept her
"to carry my water"; with this trifling addition, that in case I did not
think her pretty enough, he hoped I would not hesitate to select which I
liked from ten others, of "all colours," Wahuma included, who, for that
purpose, were then waiting in his palace.

Unprepared for this social addition in my camp, I must now confess I
felt in a fix, knowing full well that nothing so offends as rejecting
an offer at once, so I kept her for the time being, intending in the
morning to send her back with a string of blue beads on her neck; but
during the night she relieved me of my anxieties by running away, which
Bombay said was no wonder, for she had obviously been seized as part of
some confiscated estate, and without doubt knew where to find some of
her friends.

To-day, for the first time since I have been here, I received a quantity
of plantains. This was in consequence of my complaining that the king's
orders to my men to feed themselves at others' expense was virtually
making them a pack of thieves.

1st.--I received a letter from Grant, dated 10th February, reporting
Baraka's departure for Unyoro on the 30th January, escorted by Kamrasi's
men on their return, and a large party of Rumanika's bearing presents
as a letter from their king; whilst Grant himself hoped to leave Karague
before the end of the month. I then sent Bombay to see the queen, to
ask after her health, beg for a hut in the palace enclosures, and say
I should have gone myself, only I feared her gate might be shut, and I
cannot go backwards and forwards so far in the sun without a horse or an
elephant to ride upon. She begged I would come next morning. A wonderful
report came that the king put two tops of powder into his Whitworth
rifle to shoot a cow, and the bullet not only passed through the cow,
but through the court fence, then through the centre of a woman, and,
after passing the outer fence, flew whizzing along no one knew where.

2d.--Calling on the queen early, she admitted me at once, scolding me
severely for not having come or sent my men to see her after she had
taken the pills. She said they did her no good, and prevailed on me to
give her another prescription. Then sending her servant for a bag full
of drinking-gourds, she made me select six of the best, and begged
for my watch. That, of course, I could not part with; but I took the
opportunity of telling her I did not like my residence; it was not only
far away from everybody, but it was unworthy of my dignity. I came
to Uganda to see the king and queen, because the Arabs said they were
always treated with great respect; but now I could perceive those Arabs
did not know what true respect means. Being poor men, they thought much
of a cow or goat given gratis, and were content to live in any hovels.
Such, I must inform her, was not my case. I could neither sit in the sun
nor live in a poor man's hut. When I rose to leave for breakfast, she
requested me to stop, but I declined, and walked away. I saw, however,
there was something wrong; for Maula, always ordered to be in attendance
when anybody visits, was retained by her order to answer why I would not
stay with her longer. If I wanted food or pombe, there was plenty of it
in her palace, and her cooks were the cleverest in the world; she hoped
I would return to see her in the morning.

3d.--Our cross purposes seemed to increase; for, while I could not get a
satisfactory interview, the king sent for N'yamgundu to ascertain why I
had given him good guns and many pretty things which he did not know
the use of, and yet I would not visit him to explain their several uses.
N'yamgundu told him I lived too far off, and wanted a palace. After this
I walked off to see N'yamasore, taking my blankets, a pillow, and some
cooking-pots to make a day of it, and try to win the affections of the
queen with sixteen cubits bindera, three pints peke, and three pints
mtende beads, which, as Waganda are all fond of figurative language, I
called a trifle for her servants.

I was shown in at once, and found her majesty sitting on an Indian
carpet, dressed in a red linen wrapper with a gold border, and a box,
in shape of a lady's work-box, prettily coloured in divers patters with
minute beads, by her side. Her councillors were in attendance; and
in the yard a band of music, with many minor Wakungu squatting in a
semicircle, completed her levee. Maula on my behalf opened conversation,
in allusion to her yesterday's question, by saying I had applied to
Mtesa for a palace, that I might be near enough both their majesties
to pay them constant visits. She replied, in a good hearty manner, that
indeed was a very proper request, which showed my good sense, and ought
to have been complied with at once; but Mtesa was only a Kijana or
stripling, and as she influenced all the government of the country,
she would have it carried into effect. Compliments were now passed,
my presents given and approved of; and the queen, thinking I must be
hungry, for she wanted to eat herself, requested me to refresh myself in
another hut. I complied, spread my bedding, and ordered in my breakfast;
but as the hut was full of men, I suspended a Scotch plain, and quite
eclipsed her mbugu curtain.

Reports of this magnificence at once flew to the queen, who sent to know
how many more blankets I had in my possession, and whether, if she asked
for one, she would get it. She also desired to see my spoons, fork, and
pipe--an English meerschaum, mounted with silver; so, after breakfast,
I returned to see her, showed her the spoons and forks, and smoked my
pipe, but told her I had no blankets left but what formed my bed. She
appeared very happy and very well, did not say another word about the
blankets, but ordered a pipe for herself, and sat chatting, laughing,
and smoking in concert with me.

I told her I had visited all the four quarters of the globe, and had
seen all colours of people, but wondered where she got her pipe from,
for it was much after the Rumish (Turkish) fashion, with a long stick.
Greatly tickled at the flattery, she said, "We hear men like yourself
come to Amara from the other side, and drive cattle away." "The Gallas,
or Abyssinians, who are tall and fair, like Rumanika," I said, "might do
so, for they live not far off on the other side of Amara, but we
never fight for such paltry objects. If cows fall into our hands
when fighting, we allow our soldiers to eat them, while we take the
government of the country into our hands." She then said, "We hear you
don't like the Unyamuezi route, we will open the Ukori one for you."
"Thank your majesty," said I, in a figurative kind of speech to please
Waganda ears; and turning the advantage of the project on her side, "You
have indeed hit the right nail on the head. I do not like the Unyamuezi
route, as you may imagine when I tell you I have lost so much property
there by mere robbery of the people and their kings. The Waganda do not
see me in a true light; but if they have patience for a year or two,
until the Ukori road is open, and trade between our respective countries
shall commence, they will then see the fruits of my advent; so much so,
that every Mganda will say the first Uganda year dates from the arrival
of the first Mzundu (white) visitor. As one coffee-seed sown brings
forth fruit in plenty, so my coming here may be considered." All
appreciated this speech, saying, "The white man, he even speaks
beautifully! beautifully! beautifully! beautifully!" and, putting their
hands to their mouths, they looked askance at me, nodding their admiring
approval.

The queen and her ministers then plunged into pombe and became
uproarious, laughing with all their might and main. Small bugu cups
were not enough to keep up the excitement of the time, so a large wooden
trough was placed before the queen and filled with liquor. If any was
spilt, the Wakungu instantly fought over it, dabbing their noses on
the ground, or grabbing it with their hands, that not one atom of the
queen's favour might be lost; for everything must be adored that comes
from royalty, whether by design or accident. The queen put her head
to the trough and drank like a pig from it, and was followed by her
ministers. The band, by order, then struck up a tune called the Milele,
playing on a dozen reeds, ornamented with beads and cow-tips, and five
drums, of various tones and sizes, keeping time. The musicians dancing
with zest, were led by four bandmasters, also dancing, but with their
backs turned to the company to show off their long, shaggy, goat-skin
jackets, sometimes upright, at other times bending and on their heels,
like the hornpipe-dancers or western countries.

It was a merry scene, but soon became tiresome; when Bombay, by way of
flattery, and wishing to see what the queen's wardrobe embraced, told
her, Any woman, however ugly, would assume a goodly appearance if
prettily dressed; upon which her gracious majesty immediately rose,
retired to her toilet-hut, and soon returned attired in a common
check cloth, and abrus tiara, a bead necklace, and with a folding
looking-glass, when she sat, as before, and was handed a blown-glass
cup of pombe, with a cork floating on the liquor, and a napkin mbugu
covering the top, by a naked virgin. For her kind condescension in
assuming plain raiment, everybody, of course, n'yanzigged. Next she
ordered her slave girls to bring a large number of sambo (anklets), and
begged me to select the best, for she liked me much. In vain I tried to
refuse them: she had given more than enough for a keepsake before, and I
was not hungry for property; still I had to choose some, or I would give
offence. She then gave me a basket of tobacco, and a nest of hen eggs
for her "son's" breakfast. When this was over, the Mukonderi, another
dancing-tune, with instruments something like clarionets, was ordered;
but it had scarcely been struck up, before a drenching rain, with strong
wind, set in and spoilt the music, though not the playing--for none
dared stop without an order; and the queen, instead of taking pity,
laughed most boisterously over the exercise of her savage power as the
unfortunate musicians were nearly beaten down by the violence of the
weather.

When the rain ceased, her majesty retired a second time to her
toilet-hut, and changed her dress for a puce-coloured wrapper, when I,
ashamed of having robbed her of so many sambo, asked her if she would
allow me to present her with a little English "wool" to hang up instead
of her mbugu curtain on cold days like this. Of course she could not
decline, and a large double scarlet blanket was placed before her. "Oh,
wonder of wonders!" exclaimed all the spectators, holding their mouths
in both hands at a time--such a "pattern" had never been seen here
before. It stretched across the hut, was higher than the men could
reach--indeed it was a perfect marvel; and the man must be a good one
who brought such a treasure as this to Uddu. "And why not say Uganda?"
I asked. "Because all this country is called Uddu. Uganda is personified
by Mtesa; and no one can say he has seen Uganda until he has been
presented to the king."

As I had them all in a good humour now, I complained I did not see
enough of the Waganda--and as every one dressed so remarkably well, I
could not discern the big men from the small; could she not issue some
order by which they might call on me, as they did not dare do so without
instruction, and then I, in turn, would call on them? Hearing this,
she introduced me to her prime minister, chancellor of exchequer,
women-keepers, hangmen, and cooks, as the first nobles in the land, that
I might recognise them again if I met them on the road. All n'yanzigged
for this great condescension, and said they were delighted with their
guest; then producing a strip of common joho to compare it with my
blanket, they asked if I could recognise it. Of course, said I, it is
made in my country, of the same material, only of coarser quality, and
everything of the same sort is made in Uzungu. Then, indeed, said the
whole company, in one voice, we do like you, and your cloth too--but you
most. I modestly bowed my head, and said their friendship was my chief
desire.

This speech also created great hilarity; the queen and councillors all
became uproarious. The queen began to sing, and the councillors to join
in chorus; then all sang and all drank, and drank and sang, till, in
their heated excitement, they turned the palace into a pandemonium;
still there was not noise enough, so the band and drums were called
again, and tomfool--for Uganda, like the old European monarchies, always
keeps a jester--was made to sing in the gruff, hoarse, unnatural voice
which he ever affects to maintain his character, and furnished with
pombe when his throat was dry.

Now all of a sudden, as if a devil had taken possession of the company,
the prime minister with all the courtiers jumped upon their legs, seized
their sticks, for nobody can carry a spear when visiting, swore the
queen had lost her heart to me, and running into the yard, returned,
charging and jabbering at the queen; retreated and returned again, as
if they were going to put an end to her for the guilt of loving me, but
really to show their devotion and true love to her. The queen professed
to take this ceremony with calm indifference, but her face showed that
she enjoyed it. I was not getting very tired of sitting on my low stool,
and begged for leave to depart, but N'yamasore would not hear of it; she
loved me a great deal too much to let me go away at this time of day,
and forthwith ordered in more pombe. The same roystering scene was
repeated; cups were too small, so the trough was employed; and the queen
graced it by drinking, pig-fashion, first, and then handing it round to
the company.

Now, hoping to produce gravity and then to slip away, I asked if my
medicines had given her any relief, that I might give her more to
strengthen her. She said she could not answer that question just yet;
for though the medicine had moved her copiously, as yet she had seen no
snake depart from her. I told her I would give her some strengthening
medicine in the morning: for the present, however, I would take my
leave, as the day was far gone, and the distance home very great; but
though I dragged my body away, my heart would still remain here, for I
loved her much.

This announcement took all by surprise; they looked at me and then at
her, and looked again and laughed, whilst I rose, waved my hat, and
said, "Kua heri, Bibi" (good-bye, madam). On reaching home I found
Maribu, a Mkungu, with a gang of men sent by Mtesa to fetch Grant from
Kitangule by water. He would not take any of my men with him to fetch
the kit from Karague, as Mtesa, he said, had given him orders to find
all the means of transport; so I gave him a letter to Grant, and told
him to look sharp, else Grant would have passed the Kitangule before he
arrived there. "Never mind," says Maribu, "I shall walk to the mouth
of the Katonga, boat it to Sese island, where Mtesa keeps all his large
vessels, and I shall be at Kitangule in a very short time."

4th.--I sent Bombay off to administer quinine to the queen; but the
king's pages, who watched him making for her gateway, hurried up to him,
and turned him back by force. He pleaded earnestly that I would flog
him if he disobeyed my orders, but they would take all the
responsibility--the king had ordered it; and then they, forging a lie,
bade him run back as fast as he could, saying I wanted to see the king,
but could not till his return. In this way poor Bombay returned to me
half-drowned in perspiration. Just then another page hurried in with
orders to bring me to the palace at once, for I had not been there these
four days; and while I was preparing to express the proper amount of
indignation at this unceremonious message, the last impudent page began
rolling like a pig upon my mbugued or carpeted floor, till I stormed and
swore I would turn him out unless he chose to behave more respectfully
before my majesty, for I was no peddling merchant, as he had been
accustomed to see, and would not stand it; moreover, I would not leave
my hut at the summons of the king or anybody else, until I chose to do
so.

This expression of becoming wrath brought every one to a sense of his
duty; and I then told them all I was excessively angry with Mtesa for
turning back my messenger; nobody had ever dared do such a thing before,
and I would never forgive the king until my medicines had been given to
the queen. As for my going to the palace, it was out of the question,
as I had been repeatedly before told the king, unless it pleased him to
give me a fitting residence near himself. In order now that full weight
should be given to my expressions, I sent Bombay with the quinine to
the king, in company with the boys, to give an account of all that had
happened; and further, to say I felt exceedingly distressed I could not
go to see him constantly--that I was ashamed of my domicile--the sun was
hot to walk in; and when I went to the palace, his officers in waiting
always kept me waiting like a servant--a matter hurtful to my honour and
dignity. It now rested with himself to remove these obstacles. Everybody
concerned in this matter left for the palace but Maula, who said he must
stop in camp to look after Bana. Bombay no sooner arrived in the palace,
and saw the king upon his throne, than Mtesa asked him why he came? "By
the instructions of Bana," was his reply--"for Bana cannot walk in the
sun; no white man of the sultan's breed can do so."

Hearing this, the king rose in a huff, without deigning to reply, and
busied himself in another court. Bombay, still sitting, waited for hours
till quite tired, when he sent a boy in to say he had not delivered half
my message; he had brought medicine for the queen, and as yet he had no
reply for Bana. Either with haughty indifference, or else with injured
pride at his not being able to command me at his pleasure, the king sent
word, if medicine is brought for the queen, then let it be taken to her;
and so Bombay walked off to the queen's palace. Arrived there, he sent
in to say he had brought medicine, and waited without a reply till
nightfall, when, tired of his charge, he gave the quinine into
N'yamgundu's hands for delivery, and returned h home. Soon after,
however, N'yamgundu also returned to say the queen would not take the
dose to-day, but hoped I would administer it personally in the morning.

Whilst all this vexations business had been going on in court--evidently
dictated by extreme jealousy because I showed, as they all thought, a
preference for the queen--Maula, more than tipsy, brought a Mkungu of
some standing at court before me, contrary to all law--for as yet no
Mganda, save the king's pages, had ever dared enter even the precincts
of my camp. With a scowling, determined, hang-dog-looking countenance,
he walked impudently into my hut, and taking down the pombe-suckers the
queen had given me, showed them with many queer gesticulations, intended
to insinuate there was something between the queen and me. Among his
jokes were, that I must never drink pombe excepting with these sticks;
if I wanted any when I leave Uganda, to show my friends, she would give
me twenty more sticks of that sort if I liked them; and, turning from
verbal to practical jocularity, the dirty fellow took my common sucker
out of the pot, inserted one of the queen's, and sucked at it himself,
when I snatched and threw it away.

Maula's friend, who, I imagined, was a spy, then asked me whom I liked
most--the mother or the son; but, without waiting to hear me, Maula
hastily said, "The mother, the mother of course! he does not care for
Mtesa, and won't go to see him." The friend coaxingly responded, "Oh
no; he likes Mtesa, and will go and see him too; won't you?" I declined,
however, to answer from fear of mistake, as both interpreters were away.
Still the two went on talking to themselves, Maula swearing that I
loved the mother most, whilst the friend said, No, he loves the son, and
asking me with anxious looks, till they found I was not to be caught by
chaff, and then, both tired, walked away--the friend advising me, next
time I went to court, to put on an Arab's gown, as trousers are indecent
in the estimation of every Mganda.

5th.--Alarmed at having got involved in something that looked like court
intrigues, I called up N'yamgundu; told him all that happened yesterday,
both at the two courts and with Maula at home; and begged him to apply
to the king for a meeting of five elders, that a proper understanding
might be arrived at; but instead of doing as I desired, he got into a
terrible fright, calling Maula, and told me if I pressed the matter in
this way men would lose their lives. Meanwhile the cunning blackguard
Maula begged for pardon; said I quite misunderstood his meaning; all he
had said was that I was very fortunate, being in such favour at court,
for the king and queen both equally loved me.

N'yamgundu now got orders to go to Karague overland for Dr K'yengo; but,
dreading to tell me of it, as I had been so kind to him, he forged a
falsehood, said he had leave to visit his home for six days, and begged
for a wire to sacrifice to his church. I gave him what he wanted,
and away he went. I then heard his servants had received orders to
go overland for Grant and K'yengo; so I wrote another note to Grant,
telling him to come sharp, and bring all the property by boat that he
could carry, leaving what he could not behind in charge of Rumanika.

At noon, the plaguy little imps of pages hurried in to order the
attendance of all my men fully armed before the king, as he wished to
seize some refractory officer. I declined this abuse of my arms, and
said I should first go and speak to the king on the subject myself,
ordering the men on no account to go on such an errand; and saying this,
I proceeded towards the palace, leaving instructions for those men who
were not ready to follow. As the court messengers, however, objected to
our going in detachments, I told Bombay to wait for the rest, and hurry
on to overtake me. Whilst lingering on the way, every minute expecting
to see my men, the Wazinza, who had also received orders to seize the
same officer, passed me, going to the place of attack, and, at the
same time, I heard my men firing in a direction exactly opposite to the
palace. I now saw I had been duped, and returned to my hut to see the
issue. The boys had deceived us all. Bombay, tricked on the plea of
their taking him by a short cut to the palace, suddenly found himself
with all the men opposite the fenced gardens that had to be taken--the
establishment of the recusant officer,--and the boys, knowing how eager
all blacks are to loot, said, "Now, then, at the houses; seize all you
can, sparing nothing--men, women, or children, mbugus or cowries,
all alike--for it is the order of the king;" and in an instant my men
surrounded the place, fired their guns, and rushed upon the inmates. One
was speared forcing his way through the fence, but the rest were taken
and brought triumphantly into my camp. It formed a strange sight in the
establishment of an English gentleman, to see my men flushed with the
excitement of their spoils, staggering under loads of mbugu, or leading
children, mothers, goats, and dogs off in triumph to their respective
huts. Bombay alone, of all my men, obeyed my orders, touching nothing;
and when remonstrated with for having lead the men, he said he could not
help it--the boys had deceived him in the same way as they had tricked
me.

It was now necessary that I should take some critical step in African
diplomacy; so, after ordering all the seizures to be given up to Maula
on behalf of the king, and threatening to discharge any of my men who
dared retain one item of the property, I shut the door of my hut to do
penance for two days, giving orders that nobody but my cook Ilmas, not
even Bombay, should come near me; for the king had caused my men to
sin--had disgraced their red cloth--and had inflicted on me a greater
insult than I could bear. I was ashamed to show my face. Just as the
door was closed, other pages from the king brought the Whitworth rifle
to be cleaned, and demanded an admittance; but no one dared approach me,
and they went on their way again.

6th.--I still continued to do penance. Bombay, by my orders, issued
from within, prepared for a visit to the king, to tell him all that had
happened yesterday, and also to ascertain if the orders for sending my
men on a plundering mission had really emanated from himself, when the
bothering pages came again, bringing a gun and knife to be mended. My
door was found shut, so they went to Bombay, asked him to do it, and
told him the king desired to know if I would go shooting with him in the
morning. The reply was, "No; Bana is praying to-day that Mtesa's sins
might be forgiven him for having committed such an injury to him,
sending his soldiers on a mission that did not become them, and without
his sanction too. He is very angry about it, and wished to know if it
was done by the king's orders." The boys said, "Nothing can be done
without the king's orders." After further discussion, Bombay intimated
that I wished the king to send me a party of five elderly officers to
counsel with, and set all disagreeables to rights, or I would not go to
the palace again; but the boys said there were no elderly gentlemen at
court, only boys such as themselves. Bombay now wished to go with them
before the king, to explain matters to him, and to give him all the red
cloths of my men, which I took from them, because they defiled their
uniform when plundering women and children; but the boys said the king
was unapproachable just them, being engaged shooting cows before his
women. He then wished the boys to carry the cloth; but they declined,
saying it was contrary to orders for anybody to handle cloth, and they
could not do it.


Chapter XII. Palace, Uganda--Continued

Continued Diplomatic Difficulties--Negro Chaffing--The King in a
New Costume--Adjutant and Heron Shooting at Court--My
Residence Changed--Scenes at Court--The Kamraviona, or
Commander-in-Chief--Quarrels--Confidential Communications with the
King--Court Executions and Executioners--Another Day with the Queen.

7th.--The farce continued, and how to manage these haughty capricious
blacks puzzled my brains considerably; but I felt that if I did not
stand up now, no one would ever be treated better hereafter. I sent
Nasib to the queen, to explain why I had not been to see her. I desired
to do so, because I admired her wisdom; but before I went I must first
see the king, to provide against any insult being offered to me, such
as befell Bombay when I sent him with medicine. Having despatched him,
I repaired again to the palace. In the antechamber I found a number of
Wakungu, as usual, lounging about on the ground, smoking, chatting,
and drinking pombe, whilst Wasoga amused them singing and playing on
lap-harps, and little boys kept time on the harmonicon.

These Wakungu are naturally patient attendants, being well trained to
the duty; but their very lives depend upon their presenting themselves
at court a certain number of months every year, no matter from what
distant part of the country they have to come. If they failed, their
estates would be confiscated, and their lives taken unless they could
escape. I found a messenger who consented to tell the king of my desire
to see him. He returned to say that the king was sleeping--a palpable
falsehood. In a huff, I walked home to breakfast, leaving my attendants,
Maula and Uledi, behind to make explanations. They saw the king, who
simply asked, "Where is Bana?" And on being told that I came, but went
off again, he said, as I was informed, "That is a lie, for had he come
here to see me he would not have returned"; then rising, he walked away
and left the men to follow me.

I continued ruminating on these absurd entanglements, and the best way
of dealing with them, when lo! to perplex me still more, in ran a bevy
of the royal pages to ask for mtende beads--a whole sack of them; for
the king wished to go with his women on a pilgrimage to the N'yanza.
Thinking myself very lucky to buy the king's ear so cheaply, I sent
Maula as before, adding that I considered my luck very bad, as nobody
here knew my position in society, else they would not treat me as they
did. My proper sphere was the palace, and unless I got a hut there, I
wished to leave the country. My first desire had always been to see the
king; and if he went to the N'yanza, I trusted he would allow me to go
there also. The boys replied, "How can you go with his women? No one
ever is permitted to see them." "Well," said I, "if I cannot go to
the N'yanza with him" (thinking only of the great lake, whereas they
probably meant a pond in the palace enclosures, where Mtesa constantly
frolics with his women), "I wish to go to Usoga and Amara, as far as
the Masai; for I have no companions here but crows and vultures." They
promised to take the message, but its delivery was quite another thing;
for no one can speak at this court till he is spoken to, and a word put
in out of season is a life lost.

On Maula's return, I was told the king would not believe so generous
a man as Bana could have sent him so few beads; he believed most of my
store must have been stolen on the road, and would ask me about that
to-morrow. He intimated that for the future I must fire a gun at the
waiting-hut whenever I entered the palace, so that he might hear of my
arrival, for he had been up that morning, and would have been glad to
see me, only the boys, from fear of entering his cabinet, had forged a
lie, and deprived him of any interview with me, which he had long wished
to get. This ready cordiality was as perplexing as all the rest. Could
it be possible, I thought, I had been fighting with a phantom all this
while, and yet the king had not been able to perceive it? At all events,
now, as the key to his door had been given, I would make good use of it
and watch the result. Meanwhile Nasib returned from the queen-dowager's
palace without having seen her majesty, though he had waited there
patiently the whole day long, for she was engaged in festivities,
incessantly drumming and playing, in consequence of the birth of twins
(Mabassa), which had just taken place in her palace; but he was advised
to return on the morrow.

8th.--After breakfast I walked to the palace, thinking I had gained all
I wanted; entered, and fired guns, expecting an instant admittance;
but, as usual, I was required to sit and wait; the king was expected
immediately. All the Wagungu talked in whispers, and nothing was heard
but the never-ceasing harps and harmonicons. In a little while I felt
tired of the monotony, and wished to hang up a curtain, that I might lie
down in privacy and sleep till the king was ready; but the officers
in waiting forbade this, as contrary to law, and left me the only
alternative of walking up and down the court to kill time, spreading
my umbrella against the powerful rays of the sun. A very little of that
made me fidgety and impetuous, which the Waganda noticed, and, from fear
of the consequences, they began to close the gate to prevent my walking
away. I flew out on them, told Bombay to notice the disrespect, and
shamed them into opening it again. The king immediately, on hearing
of this, sent me pombe to keep me quiet; but as I would not touch it,
saying I was sick at heart, another page rushed out to say the king was
ready to receive me; and, opening a side gate leading into a small open
court without a hut in it, there, to be sure, was his majesty, sitting
on an Arab's donkey run, propped against one page, and encompassed by
four others.

On confronting him, he motioned me to sit, which I did upon my bundle
of grass, and, finding it warm, asked leave to open my umbrella. He was
much struck at the facility with which I could make shade, but wondered
still more at my requiring it. I explained to him that my skin was white
because I lived in a colder country than his, and therefore was much
more sensitive to the heat of the sun than his black skin; adding, at
the same time, if it gave no offence, I would prefer sitting in the
shade of the court fence. He had no objection, and opened conversation
by asking who it was that gave me such offence in taking my guard from
me to seize his Wakungu. The boy who had provoked me was then dragged
in, tied by his neck and hands, when the king asked him by whose orders
he had acted in such a manner, knowing that I objected to it, and
wished to speak to him on the subject first. The poor boy, in a dreadful
fright, said he had acted under the instructions of the Kamraviona:
there was no harm done, for Bana's men were not hurt. "Well, then,"
said the king, "if they were not injured, and you only did as you were
ordered, no fault rests with you; but begone out of my sight, for I
cannot bear to see you, and the Kamraviona shall be taught a lesson not
to meddle with my guests again until I give him authority to do so."

I now hoped, as I had got the king all by himself, and apparently in
a good humour with me, that I might give him a wholesome lesson on the
manners and customs of the English nation, to show how much I felt the
slights I had received since my residence in Uganda; but he never lost
his dignity and fussiness as an Uganda king. My words must pass through
his Mkungu, as well as my interpreter's, before they reached him; and,
as he had no patience, everything was lost till he suddenly asked Maula,
pretending not to know, where my hut was; why everybody said I lived so
far away; and when told, he said, "Oh! that is very far, he must come
nearer." Still I could not say a word, his fussiness and self-importance
overcoming his inquisitiveness.

Rain now fell, and the king retired by one gate, whilst I was shown
out of another, until the shower was over. As soon as the sky was
clear again, we returned to the little court, and this time became more
confidential, as he asked many questions about England--such as, Whether
the Queen knew anything about medicines? Whether she kept a number
of women as he did? and what her palace was like?--which gave me an
opportunity of saying I would like to see his ships, for I heard they
were very numerous--and also his menagerie, said to be full of wonderful
animals. He said the vessels were far off, but he would send for them;
and although he once kept a large number of animals, he killed them all
in practising with his guns. The Whitworth rifle was then brought in for
me to take to pieces and teach him the use of; and then the chronometer.
He then inquired if I would like to go shooting? I said, "Yes, if he
would accompany me--not otherwise." "Hippopotami?" "Yes; there is great
fun in that, for they knock the boats over when they charge from below."
"Can you swim?" "Yes." "So can I. And would you like to shoot buffalo?"
"Yes, if you will go." "At night, then, I will send my keepers to look
out for them. Here is a leopard-car, with white behind its ears, and
a Ndezi porcupine of the short-quilled kind, which my people eat with
great relish; and if you are fond of animals, I will give you any number
of specimens, for my keepers net and bring in live animals of every kind
daily; for the present, you can take this basket of porcupines home for
your dinner." My men n'yanzigged--the king walked away, giving orders
for another officer to follow up the first who went to Ukori, and bring
Petherick quickly--and I went home.

This was to be a day of varied success. When I arrived at my hut I found
a messenger sent by the queen, with a present of a goat, called "fowls
for Bana, my son," and a load of plantains, called potatoes, waiting
for me; so I gave the bearer fundo of mtende beads, and told again the
reasons why I had not been able to call upon the queen, but I hoped
to do so shortly, as the king had promised me a house near at hand. I
doubt, however, whether one word of my message ever reached her. That
she wanted me at her palace was evident by the present, though she was
either too proud or too cautious to say so.

At night I overheard a chat between Sangizo, a Myamuezi, and Ntalo, a
freed man of Zanzibar, very characteristic of their way of chaffing.
Sangizo opened the battle by saying, "Ntalo, who are you?" N. "A Mguana"
(freed man). S. "A Mguana, indeed! then where is your mother?" N. "She
died at Anguja." S. "Your mother died at Anguja! then where is your
father?" N. "He died at Anguja likewise." S. "Well, that is strange; and
where are your brothers and sister?" N. "They all died at Anguja." S.
(then changing the word Anguja for Anguza, says to Ntalo) "I think you
said your mother and father both died at Anguza, did you not?" N. "Yes,
at Anguza." S. "Then you had two mothers and two fathers--one set
died at Anguja, and the other set at Anguza; you are a humbug; I don't
believe you; you are no Mguana, but a slave who has been snatched from
his family, and does not know where any of his family are. Ah! ah!
ah!" And all the men of the camp laugh together at the wretched Ntalo's
defeat; but Ntalo won't be done, so retorts by saying, "Sangizo, you
may laugh at me because I am an orphan, but what are you? you are a
savage--a Mshezi; you come from the Mashenzi, and you wear skins, not
cloths, as men do; so hold your impudent tongue";--and the camp pealed
with merry boisterous laughter again.

9th.--Early in the morning, and whilst I was in bed, the king sent his
pages to request me to visit his royal mother, with some specific for
the itch, with which her majesty was then afflicted. I said I could not
go so far in the sun; I would wait till I received the promised palace
near her. In the meanwhile I prepared to call on him. I observed, in
fact, that I was an object of jealousy between the two courts, and
that, if I acted skilfully and decidedly, I might become master of the
situation, and secure my darling object of a passage northwards. The
boys returned, bringing a pistol to be cleaned, and a message to say
it was no use my thinking of calling on the king--that I must go to the
queen immediately, for she was very ill. So far the queen won the day,
but I did not obtain my new residence, which I considered the first step
to accomplishing the greater object; I therefore put the iron farther in
the fire by saying I was no man's slave, and I should not go until I got
a house in the palace--Bombay could teach the boys the way to clean the
pistol. The perk monkeys, however, turned up their noses at such menial
service, and Uledi was instructed in their stead.

10th.--To surprise the queen, and try another dodge, I called on her
with all my dining things and bedding, to make a day of it, and sleep
the night. She admitted me at once, when I gave her quinine, on the
proviso that I should stop there all day and night to repeat the dose,
and tell her the reason why I did not come before. She affected great
anger at Mtesa having interfered with my servants when coming to see
her--sympathised with me on the distance I had to travel--ordered a hut
to be cleared for me ere night--told me to eat my breakfast in the next
court--and, rising abruptly, walked away. At noon we heard the king
approaching with his drums and rattle-traps, but I still waited on till
5 p.m., when, on summons, I repaired to the throne-hut. Here I heard, in
an adjoining court, the boisterous, explosive laughs of both mother and
son--royal shouts loud enough to be heard a mile off, and inform the
community that their sovereigns were pleased to indulge in hilarity.
Immediately afterwards, the gate between us being thrown open, the
king, like a very child, stood before us, dressed for the first time, in
public, in what Europeans would call clothes. For a cap he wore a Muscat
alfia, on his neck a silk Arab turban, fastened with a ring. Then for
a coat he had an Indian kizbow, and for trousers a yellow woollen doti;
whilst in his hand, in imitation of myself, he kept running his ramrod
backwards and forwards through his fingers. As I advanced and doffed my
hat, the king, smiling, entered the court, followed by a budding damsel
dressed in red bindera, who carried the chair I had presented to him,
and two new spears.

He now took his seat for the first time upon the chair, for I had told
him, at my last interview, that all kings were expected to bring out
some new fashion, or else the world would never make progress; and I was
directed to sit before him on my grass throne. Talking, though I longed
to enter into conversation, was out of the question; for no one dared
speak for me, and I could not talk myself; so we sat and grinned, till
in a few minutes the queen, full of smirks and smiles, joined us, and
sat on a mbugu. I offered the medicine-chest as a seat, but she dared
not take it; in fact, by the constitution of Uganda, no one, however
high in rank, not even his mother, can sit before the king. After sundry
jokes, whilst we were all bursting with laughter at the theatrical
phenomenon, the Wakungu who were present, some twenty in number,
threw themselves in line upon their bellies, and wriggling like fish,
n'yanzigged, n'goned, and demaned, and uttered other wonderful words
of rejoining--as, for instance, "Hai Minange! Hai Mkama wangi!" (O my
chief! O my king!)--whilst they continued floundering, kicking about
their legs, rubbing their faces, and patting their hands upon the
ground, as if the king had performed some act of extraordinary
munificence by showing himself to them in that strange and new
position--a thing quite enough to date a new Uganda era from.

The king, without deigning to look upon his grovelling subjects, said,
"Now, mother, take your medicine"; for he had been called solemnly to
witness the medical treatment she was undergoing at my hands. When
she had swallowed her quinine with a wry face, two very black virgins
appeared on the stage holding up the double red blanket I had given the
queen; for nothing, however trifling, can be kept secret from the king.
The whole court was in raptures. The king signified his approval by
holding his mouth, putting his head on one side, and looking askance
at it. The queen looked at me, then at the blanket and her son in turn;
whilst my men hung down their heads, fearful lest they should be accused
of looking at the ladies of the court; and the Wakungu n'yanzigged
again, as if they could not contain the gratification they felt at the
favour shown them. Nobody had ever brought such wonderful things to
Uganda before, and all loved Bana.

Till now I had expected to vent my wrath on both together for all past
grievances, but this childish, merry, homely scene--the mother holding
up her pride, her son, before the state officers--melted my heart at
once. I laughed as well as they did, and said it pleased me excessively
to see them both so happy together. It was well the king had broken
through the old-fashioned laws of Uganda, by sitting on an iron chair,
and adopting European dresses; for now he was opening a road to cement
his own dominions with my country. I should know what things to send
that would please him. The king listened, but without replying; and
said, at the conclusion, "It is late, now let us move"; and walked away,
preserving famously the lion's gait. The mother also vanished, and I was
led away to a hut outside, prepared for my night's residence. It was a
small, newly-built hut, just large enough for my bed, with a corner for
one servant; so I turned all my men away, save one--ate my dinner, and
hoped to have a quiet cool night of it, when suddenly Maula flounced in
with all his boys, lighting a fire, and they spread their mbugus for the
night. In vain I pleaded I could not stand the suffocation of so many
men, especially of Waganda, who eat raw plantains; and unless they
turned out, I should do so, to benefit by the pure air. Maula said he
had the queen's orders to sleep with Bana, and sleep there he would; so
rather than kick him out, which I felt inclined to do, I smoked my pipe
and drank pombe all night, turning the people out and myself in, in the
morning, to prepare for a small house-fight with the queen.

11th.--Early in the morning, as I expected, she demanded my immediate
attendance; and so the little diplomatic affair I had anticipated came
on. I began the affair by intimating that I am in bed, and have not
breakfasted. So at 10 a.m. another messenger arrives, to say her majesty
is much surprised at my not coming. What can such conduct mean, when she
arranged everything so nicely for me after my own desire, that she might
drink her medicine properly? Still I am not up; but nobody will let me
rest for fear of the queen; so, to while away the time, I order Bombay
to call upon her, give the quinine, and tell her all that has happened;
at which she flies into a towering rage, says she will never touch
medicine administered by any other hands but mine, and will not believe
in one word Bombay says, either about Maula or the hut; for Maula, whose
duty necessarily obliged him to take my servants before her majesty,
had primed her with a lot of falsehoods on the subject; and she had
a fondness for Maula, because he was a clever humbug and exceeding
rogue--and sent Bombay back to fetch me, for nobody had ever dared
disobey her mandates before.

It had now turned noon, and being ready for the visit, I went to see the
queen. Determined to have her turn, she kept me waiting for a long time
before she would show herself; and at last, when she came, she flounced
up to her curtain, lay down in a huff, and vented her wrath, holding her
head very high, and wishing to know how I could expect officers, with
large establishments, to be turned out of their homes merely to give me
room for one night; I ought to have been content with my fare; it was no
fault of Maula's. I tried to explain through Nasib, but she called Nasib
a liar, and listened to Maula who told the lies; then asked for her
medicine; drank it, saying it was a small dose; and walked off in ill
humour as she had come. I now made up my mind to sit till 3 p.m., hoping
to see the queen again, whilst talking with some Kidi officers, who,
contrary to the general law of the country, indulged me with some
discourses on geography, from which I gathered, though their stories
were rather confused, that beyond the Asua river, in the Galla country,
there was another lake which was navigated by the inhabitants in very
large vessels; and somewhere in the same neighbourhood there was an
exceedingly high mountain covered with yellow dust, which the natives
collected, etc., etc.

Time was drawing on, and as the queen would not appear of her own
accord, I sent to request a friendly conversation with her before I
left, endeavouring, as well as I could, to persuade her that the want of
cordiality between us was owing to the mistakes of interpreters, who had
not conveyed to her my profound sentiments of devotion. This brought her
gracious corpulence out all smirks and smiles, preceded by a basket
of potatoes for "Bana, my son." I began conversation with a speech of
courtesy, explaining how I had left my brother Grant and my great friend
Rumanika at Karague--hastening, in compliance with the invitation of the
king, to visit him and herself, with the full hope of making friends in
Uganda; but now I had come, I was greatly disappointed; for I neither
saw half enough of their majesties, nor did any of their officers ever
call upon me to converse and pass away the dreary hours. All seemed
highly pleased, and complimented my speech; while the queen, turning to
her officers, said, "If that is the case, I will send these men to you";
whereupon the officers, highly delighted at the prospect of coming to
see me, and its consequence a present, n'yanzigged until I thought their
hands would drop off. Then her majesty to my thorough annoyance, and
before I had finished half I had to say, rose from her seat, and,
showing her broad stern to the company, walked straight away. The
officers then drew near me, and begged I would sleep there another
night; but as they had nothing better to offer than the hut of last
night, I declined and went my way, begging them to call and make friends
with me.

12th.--Immediately after breakfast the king sent his pages in a great
hurry to say he was waiting on the hill for me, and begged I would bring
all my guns immediately. I prepared, thinking, naturally enough, that
some buffaloes had been marked down; for the boys, as usual, were
perfectly ignorant of his designs. To my surprise, however, when I
mounted the hill half-way to the palace, I found the king standing,
dressed in a rich filagreed waistcoat, trimmed with gold embroidery,
tweedling the loading-rod in his fingers, and an alfia cap on his head,
whilst his pages held his chair and guns, and a number of officers, with
dogs and goats for offerings, squatted before him.

When I arrived, hat in hand, he smiled, examined my firearms, and
proceeded for sport, leading the way to a high tree, on which some
adjutant birds were nesting, and numerous vultures resting. This was the
sport; Bana must shoot a nundo (adjutant) for the king's gratification.
I begged him to take a shot himself, as I really could not demean myself
by firing at birds sitting on a tree; but it was all of no use--no one
could shoot as I could, and they must be shot. I proposed frightening
them out with stones, but no stone could reach so high; so, to cut the
matter short, I killed an adjutant on the nest, and, as the vultures
flew away, brought one down on the wing, which fell in a garden
enclosure.

The Waganda were for a minute all spell-bound with astonishment, when
the king jumped frantically in the air, clapping his hands above his
head, and singing out, "Woh, woh, woh! what wonders! Oh, Bana, Bana!
what miracles he performs!"--and all the Wakungu followed in chorus.
"Now load, Bana--load, and let us see you do it," cried the excited
king; but before I was half loaded, he said, "Come along, come along,
and let us see the bird." Then directing the officers which way to
go--for, by the etiquette of the court of Uganda, every one must precede
the king--he sent them through a court where his women, afraid of the
gun, had been concealed. Here the rush onward was stopped by newly made
fences, but the king roared to the officers to knock them down. This
was no sooner said than done, by the attendants in a body shoving on and
trampling them under, as an elephant would crush small trees to keep his
course. So pushing, floundering through plaintain and shrub, pell-mell
one upon the other, that the king's pace might not be checked, or any
one come in for a royal kick or blow, they came upon the prostrate bird.
"Woh, woh, woh!" cried the king again, "there he is, sure enough; come
here, women--come and look what wonders!" And all the women, in the
highest excitement, "woh-wohed" as loud as any of the men. But that was
not enough. "Come along, Bana," said the king, "we must have some more
sport;" and, saying this he directed the way towards the queen's palace,
the attendants leading, followed by the pages, then the king, next
myself--for I never would walk before him--and finally the women, some
forty or fifty, who constantly attended him.

To make the most of the king's good-humour, while I wanted to screen
myself from the blazing sun, I asked him if he would like to enjoy the
pleasures of an umbrella; and before he had time to answer, held mine
over him as we walked side by side. The Wakungu were astonished, and the
women prattled in great delight; whilst the king, hardly able to control
himself, sidled and spoke to his flatterers as if he were doubly created
monarch of all he surveyed. He then, growing more familiar, said, "Now,
Bana, do tell me--did you not shoot that bird with something more than
common ammunition? I am sure you did, now; there was magic in it." And
all I said to the contrary would not convince him. "But we will see
again." "At buffaloes?" I said. "No, the buffaloes are too far off now;
we will wait to go after then until I have given you a hut close by."
Presently, as some herons were flying overhead, he said, "Now, shoot,
shoot!" and I brought a couple down right and left. He stared, and
everybody stared, believing me to be a magician, when the king said
he would like to have pictures of the birds drawn and hung up in the
palace; "but let us go and shoot some more, for it is truly wonderful."
Similar results followed, for the herons were continually whirling
round, as they had their nests upon a neighbouring tree; and then the
king ordered his pages to carry all the birds, save the vulture--which,
for some reason, they did not touch--and show them to the queen.

He then gave the order to move on, and we all repaired to the palace.
Arrived at the usual throne-room, he took his seat, dismissed the party
of wives who had been following him, as well as the Wakungu, received
pombe from his female evil-eye averters, and ordered me, with my men,
to sit in the sun facing him, till I complained of the heat, and was
allowed to sit by his side. Kites, crows, and sparrows were flying about
in all directions, and as they came within shot, nothing would satisfy
the excited boy-king but I must shoot them, and his pages take them to
the queen, till my ammunition was totally expended. He then wanted me
to send for more shot; and as I told him he must wait for more until
my brothers come, he contented himself with taking two or three sample
grains and ordering his iron-smiths to make some like them.

Cows were now driven in for me to kill two with one bullet; but as the
off one jumped away when the gun fired, the bullet passed through the
near one, then through all the courts and fences, and away no one knew
where. The king was delighted, and said he must keep the rifle to look
at for the night. I now asked permission to speak with him on some
important matters, when he sent his women away and listened. I said I
felt anxious about the road on which Mabruki was travelling, to which I
added that I had ordered him to tell Petherick to come here or else to
send property to the value of one thousand dollars; and I felt anxious
because some of the queen's officers felt doubtful about Waganda being
able to penetrate Kidi. He said I need not concern myself on that score;
he was much more anxious for the white men to come here than even I was,
and he would not send my men into any danger; but it was highly improper
for any of his people to speak about such subjects. Then, assembling
the women again, he asked me to load Whitworth for him, when he shot the
remaining cow, holding the rifle in both hands close to his thigh. The
feat, of course, brought forth great and uproarious congratulations from
his women. The day thus ended, and I was dismissed.

13th.--Mabriki and Bilal come into camp: they returned last night; but
the Waganda escort, afraid of my obtaining information of them before
the king received it, kept them concealed. They had been defeated
in Usoga, two marches each of Kira, at the residence of Nagozigombi,
Mtesa's border officer, who gave them two bullocks, but advised their
returning at once to inform the king that the independent Wasoga had
been fighting with his dependent Wasoga subjects for some time, and the
battle would not be over for two months or more, unless he sent an army
to their assistance.

I now sent Bombay to the king to request an interview, as I had much of
importance to tell him; but the could not be seen, as he was deep in
the interior of the palace enjoying the society of his wives. The
Kamraviona, however, was found there waiting, as usual, on the mere
chance of his majesty taking it into his head to come out. He asked
Bombay if it was true the woman he gave me ran away; and when Bombay
told him, he said, "Oh, he should have chained her for two or three
days, until she became accustomed to her residence; for women often take
fright and run away in that way, believing strangers to be cannibals."
But Bombay replied, "She was not good enough for Bana; he let her go off
like a dog; he wants a young and beautiful Mhuma, or none at all." "Ah,
well, then, if he is so particular, he must wait a bit, for we have
none on hand. What I gave him is the sort of creature we give all our
guests." A Msoga was sent by the king to take the dead adjutant of
yesterday out of the nest--for all Wasoga are expert climbers, which is
not the case with the Waganda; but the man was attacked half-way up the
tree by a swarm of bees, and driven down again.

14th.--After all the vexatious haggling for a house, I gained my
object to-day by a judicious piece of bribery which I had intended to
accomplish whenever I could. I now succeeded in sending--for I could
not, under the jealous eyes in Uganda, get it done earlier--a present of
fifteen pints mixed beads, twenty blue eggs, and five copper bracelets,
to the commander-in-chief, as a mark of friendship. At the same time I
hinted that I should like him to use his influence in obtaining for me
a near and respectable residence, where I hoped he, as well as all the
Waganda nobility, would call upon me; for my life in Uganda was utterly
miserable, being shut up like a hermit by myself every day. The result
was, that a number of huts in a large plantain garden were at once
assigned to me, on the face of a hill, immediately overlooking and close
to the main road. It was considered the "West End." It had never before
been occupied by any visitors excepting Wahinda ambassadors; and being
near, and in full view of the palace, was pleasant and advantageous, as
I could both hear the constant music, and see the throngs of people ever
wending their way to and from the royal abodes. I lost no time in moving
all my property, turning out the original occupants--in selecting the
best hut for myself, giving the rest to my three officers--and ordering
my men to build barracks for themselves, in street form, from my hut to
the main road. There was one thing only left to be done; the sanitary
orders of Uganda required every man to build himself a house of
parliament, such being the neat and cleanly nature of the Waganda--a
pattern to all other negro tribes.

15th.--As nobody could obtain an interview with the king yesterday, I
went to the palace to-day, and fired three shots--a signal which was at
once answered from within by a double discharge of a gun I had just lent
him on his returning my rifle. In a little while, as soon as he had
time to dress, the king, walking like a lion, sallied forth, leading his
white dog, and beckoned me to follow him to the state hut, the court of
which was filled with squatting men as usual, well dressed, and keeping
perfect order. He planted himself on his throne, and begged me to sit by
his side. Then took place the usual scene of a court levee, as described
in Chapter X., with the specialty, in this instance, that the son of the
chief executioner--one of the highest officers of state--was led off
for execution, for some omission or informality in his n'yanzigs, or
salutes.

At this levee sundry Wakungu of rank complained that the Wanyambo
plundered their houses at night, and rough-handled their women, without
any respect for their greatness, and, when caught, said they were Bana's
men. Bombay, who was present, heard the complaint, and declared these
were Suwarora's men, who made use of the proximity of my camp to cover
their own transgressions. Then Suwarora's deputation, who were also
present, cringed forward, n'yanzigging like Waganda, and denied the
accusation, when the king gave all warning that he would find out the
truth by placing guards on the look-out at night.

Till this time the king had not heard one word about the defeat of the
party sent for Petherick. His kingdom might have been lost, and he would
have been no wiser; when the officer who led Mabruki came forward and
told him all that had happened, stating, in addition to what I heard
before, that they took eighty men with them, and went into battle three
times successfully. Dismissing business, however, the king turned to me,
and said he never saw anything so wonderful as my shooting in his life;
he was sure it was done by magic, as my gun never missed, and he wished
I would instruct him in the art. When I denied there was any art in
shooting, further than holding the gun straight, he shook his head,
and getting me to load his revolving pistol for him, he fired all
five barrels into two cows before the multitude. He then thought of
adjutant-shooting with ball, left the court sitting, desired me to
follow him, and leading the way, went into the interior of the palace,
where only a few select officers were permitted to follow us. The birds
were wild, and as nothing was done, I instructed him in the way to fire
from his shoulder, placing the gun in position. He was shy at first, and
all the people laughed at my handling royalty like a schoolboy; but he
soon took to it very good-naturedly, when I gave him my silk necktie and
gold crest-ring, explaining their value, which he could not comprehend,
and telling him we gentlemen prided ourselves on never wearing brass or
copper.

He now begged hard for shot; but I told him again his only chance of
getting any lay in opening the road onwards; it was on this account, I
said, I had come to see him to-day. He answered, "I am going to send an
army to Usoga to force the way from where your men were turned back."
But this, I said, would not do for me, as I saw his people travelled
like geese, not knowing the direction of Gani, or where they were going
to when sent. I proposed that if he would call all his travelling men
of experience together, I would explain matters to them by a map I had
brought; for I should never be content till I saw Petherick.

The map was then produced. He seemed to comprehend it immediately, and
assembled the desired Wakungu; but, to my mortification, he kept all the
conversation to himself, Waganda fashion; spoke a lot of nonsense;
and then asked his men what they thought had better be done. The sages
replied, "Oh, make friends, and do the matter gently." But the king
proudly raised his head, laughed them to scorn, and said, "Make friends
with men who have crossed their spears with us already! Nonsense! they
would only laugh at us; the Uganda spear alone shall do it." Hearing
this bravado, the Kamraviona, the pages, and the elders, all rose to a
man, with their sticks, and came charging at their king, swearing they
would carry out his wished with their lives. The meeting now broke up
in the usual unsatisfactory, unfinished manner, by the king rising and
walking away, whilst I returned with the Kamraviona, who begged for ten
more blue eggs in addition to my present to make a full necklace, and
told my men to call upon him in the morning, when he would give me
anything I wished to eat. Bombay was then ordered to describe what sort
of food I lived on usually; when, Mganda fashion, he broke a stick into
ten bits, each representing a differing article, and said, "Bana eat
mixed food always"; and explained that stick No. 1 represented beef; No.
2, mutton; No. 3, fowl; No. 4, eggs; No. 5, fish; No. 6, potatoes; No.
7, plantains; No. 8, pombe; No. 9, butter; No. 10, flour.

16th.--To-day the king was amusing himself among his women again, and
not to be seen. I sent Bombay with ten blue eggs as a present for the
Kamraviona, intimating my desire to call upon him. He sent me a goat
and ten fowls' eggs, saying he was not visible to strangers on business
to-day. I inferred that he required the king's permission to receive me.
This double failure was a more serious affair then a mere slight; for
my cows were eaten up, and my men clamouring incessantly for food;
and though they might by orders help themselves "ku n'yangania"--by
seizing--from the Waganda, it hurt my feelings so much to witness this,
that I tried from the first to dispense with it, telling the king I had
always flogged my men for stealing, and now he turned them into a pack
of thieves. I urged that he should either allow me to purchase rations,
or else feed them from the palace as Rumanika did; but he always turned
a deaf ear, or said that what Sunna his father had introduced it ill
became him to subvert; and unless my men helped themselves they would
die of starvation.

On the present emergency I resolved to call upon the queen. On reaching
the palace, I sent an officer in to announce my arrival, and sat waiting
for the reply fully half an hour, smoking my pipe, and listening to
her in the adjoining court, where music was playing, and her voice
occasionally rent the air with merry boisterous laughing.

The messenger returned to say no one could approach her sanctuary or
disturb her pleasure at this hour; I must wait and bide my time, as the
Uganda officers do. Whew! Here was another diplomatic crisis, which had
to be dealt with in the usual way. "I bide my time!" I said, rising in
a towering passion, and thrashing the air with my ramrod walking-stick,
before all the visiting Wakungu, "when the queen has assured me her
door would always be open to me! I shall leave this court at once, and
I solemnly swear I shall never set foot in it again, unless some apology
be made for treating me like a dog." Then, returning home, I tied up all
the presents her majesty had given me in a bundle, and calling Maula and
my men together, told them to take them where they came from; for it
ill became me to keep tokens of friendship when no friendship existed
between us. I came to make friends with the queen, not to trade or take
things from her--and so forth. The blackguard Maula, laughing, said,
"Bana does not know what he is doing; it is a heinous offence in Uganda
sending presents back; nobody for their lives dare do so to the queen;
her wrath would know no bounds. She will say, 'I took a few trifles from
Bana as specimens of his country, but they shall all go back, and the
things the king has received shall go back also, for we are all of one
family'; and then won't Bana be very sorry? Moreover, Wakungu will be
killed by dozens, and lamentations will reign throughout the court to
propitiate the devils who brought such disasters on them." Bombay, also
in a fright, said, "Pray don't do so; you don't know these savages as
we do; there is no knowing what will happen; it may defeat our journey
altogether. Further, we have had no food these four days, because row
succeeds row. If we steal, you flog us; and if we ask the Waganda
for food, they beat us. We don't know what to do." I was imperative,
however, and said, "Maula must take back these things in the morning, or
stand the consequences." In fact, I found that, like the organ-grinders
in London, to get myself moved on I must make myself troublesome.

17th.--The queen's presents were taken back by Maula and Nasib, whilst I
went to see the Kamraviona. Even this gentleman kept me waiting for some
time to show his own importance, and then admitted me into one of his
interior courts, where I found him sitting on the ground with several
elders; whilst Wasoga minstrels played on their lap-harps, and sang
songs in praise of their king, and the noble stranger who wore fine
clothes and eclipsed all previous visitors. At first, on my approach,
the haughty young chief, very handsome, and twenty years of age, did not
raise his head; then he begged me to be seated, and even enquired
after my health, in a listless, condescending kind of manner, as if the
exertion of talking was too much for his constitution or his rank; but
he soon gave up this nonsense as I began to talk, inquired, amongst
other things, why I did not see the Waganda at my house, when I said
I should so much like to make acquaintance with them, and begged to be
introduced to the company who were present.

I was now enabled to enlarge the list of topics on which it is
prohibited to the Waganda to speak or act under pain of death. No one
even dare ever talk about the royal pedigree of the countries that have
been conquered, or even of any neighbouring countries; no one dare visit
the king's guests, or be visited by them, without leave, else the king,
fearing sharers in his plunder, would say, What are you plucking our
goose for? Neither can any one cast his eye for a moment on the women of
the palace, whether out walking or at home, lest he should be accused of
amorous intentions. Beads and brass wire, exchanged for ivory or slaves,
are the only articles of foreign manufacture any Mganda can hold in his
possession. Should anything else be seen in his house--for instance,
cloth--his property would be confiscated and his life taken.

I was now introduced to the company present, of whom one Mgema, an
elderly gentleman of great dignity, had the honour to carry Sunna the
late king; Mpungu, who cooked for Sunna, also ranks high in court; then
Usungu and Kunza, executioners, rank very high, enjoying the greatest
confidence with the king; and, finally, Jumba and Natigo, who traced
their pedigree to the age of the first Uganda king. As I took down a
note of their several names, each seemed delighted at finding his name
written down by me; and Kunza, the executioner, begged as a great favour
that I would plead to the king to spare his son's life, who, as I have
mentioned, was ordered out to execution on the last levee day. At first
I thought it necessary, for the sake of maintaining my dignity, to raise
objections, and said it would ill become one of my rank to make any
request that might possibly be rejected; but as the Kamraviona assured
me there would be no chance of failure, and everybody else agreed with
him, I said it would give me intense satisfaction to serve him; and the
old man squeezed my hand as if overpowered with joy.

This meeting, as might be imagined, was a very dull one, because the
company, being tongue-tied as regards everything of external interest,
occupied themselves solely on matters of home business, or indulged
their busy tongues, Waganda fashion, in gross flattery of their
"illustrious visitor." In imitation of the king, the Kamraviona now went
from one hut to another, requesting us to follow that we might see all
his greatness, and then took me alone into a separate court, to show
me his women, some five-and-twenty of the ugliest in Uganda. This,
he added, was a mark of respect he had never conferred on any person
before; but, fearing lest I should misunderstand his meaning and covet
any of them, he said, "Mind they are only to be looked at."

As we retired to the other visitors, the Kamraviona, in return for some
courteous remarks of mine, said all the Waganda were immensely pleased
with my having come to visit them; and as he heard my country is
governed by a woman, what would I say if he made the Waganda dethrone
her, and create me king instead? Without specially replying, I showed
him a map, marking off the comparative sizes of British and
Waganda possessions, and shut him up. The great Kamraviona, or
commander-in-chief, with all his wives, has no children, and was eager
to know if my skill could avail to remove this cloud in his fortunes.
He generously gave me a goat and eggs, telling my men they might help
themselves to plantains from any gardens they liked beyond certain
limits, provided they did not enter houses or take anything else. He
then said he was tired and walked away without another word.

On returning home I found Nasib and Maula waiting for me, with all the
articles that had been returned to the queen very neatly tied together.
They had seen her majesty, who, on receiving my message, pretended
excessive anger with her doorkeeper for not announcing my
arrival yesterday--flogged him severely--inspected all the things
returned--folded them up again very neatly with her own hands--said
she felt much hurt at the mistake which had arisen, and hoped I would
forgive and forget it, as her doors would always be open to me.

I now had a laugh at my friends Maula and Bombay for their misgivings of
yesterday, telling them I knew more of human nature than they did; but
they shook their heads, and said it was all very well Bana having done
it, but if Arabs or any other person had tried the same trick, it would
have been another affair. "Just so," said I; "but then, don't you see, I
know my value here, which makes all the difference you speak of."

18th.--Whilst walking towards the palace to pay the king a friendly
visit, I met two of my men speared on the head, and streaming with
blood; they had been trying to help themselves to plantains carried
on the heads of Waganda; but the latter proving too strong, my people
seized a boy and woman from their party as witnesses, according to
Uganda law, and ran away with them, tied hand and neck together. With
this addition to my attendance I first called in at the Kamraviona's
for justice; but as he was too proud to appear at once, I went on to the
king's fired three shots as usual, and obtained admittance at once, when
I found him standing in a yard dressed in cloth, with his iron chair
behind him, and my double-gun loaded with half charges of powder and a
few grains of iron shot, looking eagerly about for kites to fly over.
His quick eye, however, readily detected my wounded men and prisoners,
as also some Wazinza prisoners led in by Waganda police, who had been
taken in the act of entering Waganda houses and assailing their women.
Thus my men were cleared of a false stigma; and the king, whilst
praising them, ordered all the Wazinza to leave his dominions on the
morrow.

The other case was easily settled by my wounded men receiving orders to
keep their prisoners till claimed, when, should any people come forward,
they would be punished, otherwise their loss in human stock would be
enough. The Wanguana had done quite right to seize on the highway, else
they would have starved; such was the old law, and such is the present
one. It was no use our applying for a change of system. At this stage of
the business, the birds he was watching having appeared, the king, in a
great state of excitement, said, "Shoot that kite," and then "Shoot that
other"; but the charges were too light; and the birds flew away, kicking
with their claws as if merely stung a little.

Whilst this was going on, the Kamraviona, taking advantage of my having
opened the door with the gun, walked in to make his salutations. A
blacksmith produced two very handsome spears, and a fisherman a basket
of fish, from which two fish were taken out and given to me. The king
then sat on his iron chair, and I on a wooden box which I had contrived
to stuff with the royal grass he gave me, and so made a complete
miniature imitation of his throne. The folly in now allowing me to sit
upon my portable iron stool, as an ingenious device for carrying out
my determination to sit before him like an Englishman. I wished to be
communicative, and, giving him a purse of money, told him the use and
value of the several coins; but he paid little regard to them, and soon
put them down. The small-talk of Uganda had much more attractions to
his mind than the wonders of the outer world, and he kept it up with his
Kamraviona until rain fell and dispersed the company.

19th.--As the queen, to avoid future difficulties, desired my officers
to acquaint her beforehand whenever I wished to call upon her, I sent
Nasib early to say I would call in the afternoon; but he had to wait
till the evening before he could deliver the message, though she had
been drumming and playing all the day. She then complained against
my men for robbing her gardeners on the highway, wished to know why I
didn't call upon her oftener, appointed the following morning for an
interview, and begged I would bring her some liver medicines, as she
suffered from constant twinges in her right side, sealing her "letter"
with a present of a nest of eggs and one fowl.

Whilst Nasib was away, I went to the Kamraviona to treat him as I had
the king. He appeared a little more affable to-day, yet still delighted
in nothing but what was frivolous. My beard, for instance, engrossed the
major part of the conversation; all the Waganda would come out in future
with hairy faces; but when I told them that, to produce such a growth,
they must wash their faces with milk, and allow a cat to lick it off,
they turned up their noses in utter contempt.

20th.--I became dead tired of living all alone, with nothing else
to occupy my time save making these notes every day in my office
letter-book, as my store of stationery was left at Karague. I had no
chance of seeing any visitors, save the tiresome pages, who asked me
to give or to do something for the king every day; and my prospect was
cheerless, as I had been flatly refused a visit to Usoga until Grant
should come. For want of better amusement, I made a page of Lugoi, a
sharp little lad, son of the late Beluch, but adopted by Uledi, and
treated him as a son, which he declared he wished to be, for he liked
me better than Uledi as a father. He said he disliked Uganda, where
people's lives are taken like those of fowls; and wished to live at
the coast, the only place he ever heard of, where all the Wanguana come
from--great swells in Lugoi's estimation. Now, with Lugoi dressed in a
new white pillow-case, with holes trimmed with black tape for his head
and arms to go through, a dagger tied with red bindera round his waist,
and a square of red blanket rolled on his shoulder as a napkin, for my
gun to rest on, or in place of a goat-skin run when he wished to sit
down, I walked off to inquire how the Kamraviona was, and took my
pictures with me.

Lugoi's dress, however, absorbed all their thoughts, and he was made to
take it off and put it on again as often as any fresh visitor came to
call. Hardly a word was said about anything else; even the pictures,
which generally are in such demand, attracted but little notice. I asked
the Kamraviona to allow me to draw his pet dog; when the king's sister
Miengo came in and sat down, laughing and joking with me immoderately.

At first there was a demur about my drawing the dog--whether from fear
of bewitching the animal or not, I cannot say; but instead of producing
the pet--a beautifully-formed cream-coloured dog--a common black one was
brought in, which I tied in front of Miengo, and then drew both woman
and dog together. After this unlawful act was discovered, of drawing
the king's sister without his consent, the whole company roared with
laughter, and pretended nervous excitement lest I should book them
likewise. One of my men, Sangoro, did not return to camp last night from
foraging; and as my men suspect the Waganda must have murdered him, I
told the Kamraviona, requesting him to find out; but he coolly said,
"Look for him yourselves two days more, for Wanguana often make friends
with our people, and so slip away from their masters; but as they are
also often murdered, provided you cannot find him in that time, we will
have the Mganga out."

21st.--Last night I was turned out of my bed by a terrible hue and cry
from the quarter allotted to Rozaro and his Wanyambo companions; for the
Waganda had threatened to demolish my men, one by one, for seizing their
pombe and plaintains, though done according to the orders of the king;
and now, finding the Wanyambo nearest to the road, they set on them by
moonlight, with spear and club, maltreating them severely, till, with
reinforcements, the Wanyambo gained the ascendancy, seized two spears
and one shield as a trophy, and drove their enemies off. In the morning,
I sent the Wakungu off with the trophies to the king, again complaining
that he had turned my men into a pack of highwaymen, and, as I foresaw,
had thus created enmity between the Waganda and them, much to my
annoyance. I therefore begged he would institute some means to prevent
any further occurrence of such scenes, otherwise I would use firearms in
self-defence.

Whilst these men were on this mission, I went on a like errand to the
queen, taking my page Lugoi with the liver medicine. The first object of
remark was Lugoi, as indeed it was everywhere; for, as I walked along,
crowds ran after the little phenomenon. Then came the liver questions;
and, finally what I wanted--her complaint against my men for robbing
on the road, as it gave me the opportunity of telling her the king was
doing what I had been trying to undo with my stick ever since I left
the coast; and I begged she would use influence to correct these
disagreeables. She told me for the future to send my men to her palace
for food, and rob no more; in the meanwhile, here were some plantains
for them. She then rose and walked away, leaving me extremely
disappointed that I could not make some more tangible arrangement with
her--such as, if my men came and found the gate shut, what were they to
do then? there were forty-five of them; how much would she allow; etc.
etc. But this was a true specimen of the method of transacting business
among the royal family of Uganda. They gave orders without knowing how
they are to be carried out, and treat all practical arrangements as
trifling details not worth attending to.

After this unsatisfactory interview, I repaired to the king's, knowing
the power of my gun to obtain an interview, whilst doubting the ability
of the Wakungu to gain an audience for me. Such was the case. These men
had been sitting all day without seeing the king, and three shots opened
his gate immediately to me. He was sitting on the iron chair in the
shade of the court, attended by some eighty women, tweedling the loading
rod in his fingers; but as my rod appeared a better one than his, they
were exchanged. I then gave him a tortoise-shell comb to comb his hair
straight with, as he invariably remarked on the beautiful manner in
which I dressed my hair, making my uncap to show it to his women, and
afterwards asked my men to bring on the affair of last night. They
feared, they said, to speak on such subjects whilst the women were
present. I begged for a private audience; still they would not speak
until encouraged and urged beyond all patience. I said, in Kisuahili,
"Kbakka" (king), "my men are afraid to tell you what I want to say";
when Maula, taking advantage of my having engaged his attention, though
the king did not understand one word I said, said of himself, by way of
currying favour, "I saw a wonderful gun in Rumankika's hands, with
six barrells; not a short one like your fiver" (meaning the revolving
pistol) "but a long one, as long as my arm." "Indeed," says the king,
"we must have that." A page was then sent for by Maula, who, giving
him a bit of stick representing the gun required, told him to fetch it
immediately.

The king then said to me, "What is powder made of?" I began with sulphur
(kibriti), intending to explain everything; but the word kibriti was
enough for him, and a second stick was sent for kibriti, the bearer
being told to hurry for his life and fetch it. The king now ordered
some high officers who were in waiting to approach. They come, almost
crouching to their knees, with eyes averted from the women, and
n'yanzigged for the favour of being called, till they streamed with
perspiration. Four young women, virgins, the daughters of these high
officers, nicely dressed, were shown in as brides, and ordered to sit
with the other women. A gamekeeper brought in baskets small antelopes,
called mpeo--with straight horns resembling those of the saltiana, but
with coats like the hog-deer of India--intended for the royal kitchen.
Elderly gentlemen led in goats as commutation for offences, and went
through the ceremonies due for the favour of being relieved of so much
property. Ten cows were then driven in, plundered from Unyoro, and
outside, the voices of the brave army who captured them were heard
n'yanzigging vehemently. Lastly, some beautifully made shields were
presented, and, because extolled, n'yanzigged over; when the king rose
abruptly and walked straight away, leaving my fools of men no better off
for food, no reparation for their broken heads, than if I had never gone
there.

22d.--I called on the queen to inquire after her health, and to know how
my men were to be fed; but, without giving me time to speak, she flew
at me again about my men plundering. The old story was repeated; I had
forty-five hungry men, who must have food, and unless either she or the
king would make some proper provision for them, I could not help it.
Again she promised to feed them, but she objected to them bearing
swords, "for of what use are swords? If the Waganda don't like the
Wanguana, can swords prevail in our country?" And, saying this, she
walked away. I thought to myself that she must have directed the attack
upon my camp last night and is angry at the Wanguana swords driving
her men away. At 3 p.m. I visited the king, to have a private chat, and
state my grievances; but the three shots fired brought him out to levee,
when animals and sundry other things were presented; and appointments
of Wakungu were made for the late gallant services of some of the men in
plundering Unyoro.

The old executioner, Kunza, being present, I asked the king to pardon
his son. Surprised, at first Mtesa said, "Can it be possible Bana has
asked for this?" And when assured, in great glee he ordered the lad's
release, amidst shouts of laughter from everybody but the agitated
father, who n'yanzigged, cried, and fell at my feet, making a host of
powerful signs as a token of his gratitude; for his heart was too full
of emotion to give utterance to his feelings. The king them, in high
good-humour, said, "You have called on me many times without broaching
the subject of Usoga, and perhaps you may fancy we are not exerting
ourselves in the matter; but my army is only now returning from war"
(meaning plundering in Unyoro), "and I am collecting another one, which
will open Usoga effectually." Before I could say anything, the king
started up in his usual manner, inviting a select few to follow him to
another court, when my medicine-chest was inspected, and I was asked
to operate for fistula on one of the royal executioners. I had no
opportunity of incurring this responsibility; for while professing to
prepare for the operation, the king went off it a fling.

When I got home I found Sangoro, whom we thought lost or murdered,
quietly ensconced in camp. He had been foraging by himself a long way
from camp, in a neighbourhood where many of the king's women are kept;
and it being forbidden ground, he was taken up by the keepers, placed in
the stocks, and fed, until to-day, when he extricated his legs by means
of his sword, and ran away. My ever-grumbling men mobbed me again,
clamouring for food, saying, as they eyed my goats, I lived at ease
and overlooked their wants. In vain I told them they had fared more
abundantly than I had since we entered Uganda; whilst I spared my goats
to have a little flesh of their cows as rapidly as possible, selling the
skins for pombe, which I seldom tasted; they robbed me as long as I had
cloth or beads, and now they had all become as fat as hogs by lifting
food off the Waganda lands. As I could not quiet them, I directed that,
early next morning, Maula should go to the king and Nasib to the queen,
while I proposed going to Kamraviona's to work them all three about this
affair of food.

23d.--According to the plan of last night, I called early on the
Kamraviona. He promised me assistance, but with an air which seemed
to say, What are the sufferings of other men to me? So I went home to
breakfast, doubting if anything ever would be done. As Kaggo, however,
the second officer of importance, had expressed a wish to see me, I sent
Bombay to him for food, and waited the upshot. Presently the king sent
to say he wished to see me with my compass; for the blackguard Maula had
told him I possessed a wonderful instrument, by looking at which I could
find my way all over the world. I went as requested, and found the king
sitting outside the palace on my chair dressed in cloths, with my
silk neckerchief and crest-ring, playing his flute in concert with his
brothers, some thirty-odd young men and boys, one half of them manacled,
the other half free, with an officer watching over them to see that they
committed no intrigues.

We then both sat side by side in the shade of the courtwalls, conversed
and had music by turns; for the king had invited his brothers here to
please me, the first step towards winning the coveted compass. My hair
must now be shown and admired, then my shoes taken off and inspected,
and my trousers tucked up to show that I am white all over. Just at this
time Bombay, who had been in great request, came before us laden with
plantains. This was most opportune; for the king asked what he had been
about, and then the true state of the case as regards my difficulties in
obtaining food were, I fancy, for the first time, made known to him. In
a great fit of indignation he said, "I once killed a hundred Wakungu
in a single day, and now, if they won't feed my guests, I will kill a
hundred more; for I know the physic for bumptiousness." Then, sending
his brothers away, he asked me to follow him into the back part of the
palace, as he loved me so much he must show me everything. We walked
along under the umbrella, first looking down one street of huts, then
up another, and, finally, passing the sleeping-chamber, stopped at one
adjoining it. "That hut," said the king, "is the one I sleep in; no one
of my wives dare venture within it unless I call her." He let me feel
immediately that for the distinction conferred on me in showing me this
sacred hut a return was expected. Could I after that refuse him such a
mere trifle as a compass? I told him he might as well put my eyes out
and ask me to walk home, as take away that little instrument, which
could be of no use to him, as he could not read or understand it.
But this only excited his cupidity; he watched it twirling round and
pointing to the north, and looked and begged again, until, tired of
his importunities, I told him I must wait until the Usoga road was open
before I could part with it, and then the compass would be nothing to
what I would give him. Hearing this, "That is all on my shoulders; as
sure as I live it shall be done; for that country has no king, and I
have long been desirous of taking it." I declined, however, to give him
the instrument on the security of his promise, and he went to breakfast.

I walked off to Usungu to see what I could do for him in his misery.
I found that he had a complication of evils entirely beyond my healing
power, and among them inveterate forms of the diseases which are
generally associated with civilisation and its social evils. I could
do nothing to cure him, but promised to do whatever was in my power to
alleviate his sufferings.

24th.--Before breakfast I called on poor Usungu, prescribing hot coffee
to be drunk with milk every morning, which astonished him not a little,
as the negroes only use coffee for chewing. He gave my men pombe and
plantains. On my return I met a page sent to invite me to the palace.
I found the king sitting with a number of women. He was dressed in
European clothes, part of them being a pair of trousers he begged for
yesterday, that he might appear like Bana. This was his first appearance
in trousers, and his whole attire, contrasting strangely with his native
habiliments, was in his opinion very becoming, though to me a little
ridiculous; for the legs of the trousers, as well as the sleeves of the
waistcoat, were much too short, so that his black feet and hands stuck
out at the extremities as an organ-player's monkey's do, whilst the
cockscomb on his head prevented a fez cap, which was part of his special
costume for the occasion, from sitting properly. This display over, the
women were sent away, and I saw shown into a court, where a large number
of plantains were placed in a line upon the ground for my men to take
away, and we were promised the same treat every day. From this we
proceeded to another court, where we sat in the shade together, when the
women returned again, but were all dumb, because my interpreters dared
not for their lives say anything, even on my account, to the king's
women. Getting tired, I took out my sketch-book and drew Lubuga, the
pet, which amused the king immensely as he recognised her cockscomb.

Then twenty naked virgins, the daughters of Wakungu, all smeared
and shining with grease, each holding a small square of mbugu for a
fig-leaf, marched in a line before us, as a fresh addition to the
harem, whilst the happy fathers floundered n'yanzigging on the ground,
delighted to find their darlings appreciated by the king. Seeing this
done in such a quiet mild way before all my men, who dared not lift
their heads to see it, made me burst into a roar of laughter, and the
king, catching the infection from me, laughed as well: but the laughing
did not end there--for the pages, for once giving way to nature, kept
bursting--my men chuckled in sudden gusts--while even the women, holding
their mouths for fear of detection, responded--and we all laughed
together. Then a sedate old dame rose from the squatting mass, ordered
the virgins to right-about, and marched them off, showing their still
more naked reverses. I now obtained permission for the Wakungu to call
upon me, and fancied I only required my interpreters to speak out like
men when I had anything to say, to make my residence in Uganda both
amusing and instructive; but though the king, carried off by the
prevailing good-humour of the scene we had both witnessed, supported me,
I found that he had counter-ordered what he had said as soon as I had
gone, and, in fact, no Mkungu ever dared come near me.

25th.--To-day I visited Usungu again, and found him better. He gave
pombe and plantains for my people, but would not talk to me, though I
told him he had permission to call on me.

I have now been for some time within the court precincts, and have
consequently had an opportunity of witnessing court customs. Among
these, nearly every day since I have changed my residence, incredible
as it may appear to be, I have seen one, two, or three of the wretched
palace women led away to execution, tied by the hand, and dragged along
by one of the body-guard, crying out, as she went to premature death,
"Hai Minange!" (O my lord!) "Kbakka!" (My king!) "Hai N'yawo!" (My
mother!) at the top of her voice, in the utmost despair and lamentation;
and yet there was not a soul who dared lift hand to save any of them,
though many might be heard privately commenting on their beauty.

26th.--To-day, to amuse the king, I drew a picture of himself holding
a levee, and proceeded to visit him. On the way I found the highroad
thronged with cattle captured in Unyoro; and on arrival at the
ante-chamber, amongst the officers in waiting, Masimbi (Mr Cowries or
Shells), the queen's uncle, and Congow, a young general, who once led
an army into Unyoro, past Kamrasi's palace. They said they had obtained
leave for me to visit them, and were eagerly looking out for the happy
event. At once, on firing, I was admitted to the king's favourite place,
which, now that the king had a movable chair to sit upon, was the shade
of the court screen. We had a chat; the picture was shown to the women;
the king would like to have some more, and gave me leave to draw in the
palace any time I liked. At the same time he asked for my paint-box,
merely to look at it. Though I repeatedly dunned him for it, I could
never get it back from him until I was preparing to leave Uganda.

27th.--After breakfast I started on a visit to Congow; but finding he
had gone to the king as usual, called at Masimbi's and he being absent
also, I took advantage of my proximity to the queen's palace to call on
her majesty. For hours I was kept waiting; firstly, because she was
at breakfast; secondly, because she was "putting on medicine"; and,
thirdly, because the sun was too powerful for her complexion; when I
became tired of her nonsense, and said, "If she does not wish to see me,
she had better say so at once, else I shall walk away; for the last time
I came I saw her but for a minute, when she rudely turned her back upon
me, and left me sitting by myself." I was told not to be in a hurry--she
would see me in the evening. This promise might probably be fulfilled
six blessed hours from the time when it was made; but I thought to
myself, every place in Uganda is alike when there is no company at home,
and so I resolved to sit the time out, like Patience on a monument,
hoping something funny might turn up after all.

At last her majesty stumps out, squats behind my red blanket, which is
converted into a permanent screen, and says hastily, or rather testily,
"Can't Bana perceive the angry state of the weather?--clouds flying
about, and the wind blowing half a gale? Whenever that is the case, I
cannot venture out." Taking her lie without an answer, I said, I had now
been fifty days or so doing nothing in Uganda--not one single visitor
of my own rank ever came near me, and I could not associated with people
far below her condition and mine--in fact, all I had to amuse me at
home now was watching a hen lay her eggs upon my spare bed. Her majesty
became genial, as she had been before, and promised to provide me with
suitable society. I then told her I had desired my officers several
times to ask the king how marriages were conducted in this country, as
they appeared so different from ours, but they always said they dared
not put such a question to him, and now I hoped she would explain it to
me. To tell her I could not get anything from the king, I knew would
be the surest way of eliciting what I wanted from her, because of the
jealousy between the two courts; and in this instance it was fully
proved, for she brightened up at once, and, when I got her to understand
something of what I meant by a marriage ceremony, in high good humour
entered on a long explanation, to the following effect:--

There are no such things as marriages in Uganda; there are no ceremonies
attached to it. If any Mkungu possessed of a pretty daughter committed
an offence, he might give her to the king as a peace-offering; if any
neighbouring king had a pretty daughter, and the king of Uganda wanted
her, she might be demanded as a fitting tribute. The Wakungu in Uganda
are supplied with women by the king, according to their merits, from
seizures in battle abroad, or seizures from refractory officers at
home. The women are not regarded as property according to the Wanyamuezi
practice, though many exchange their daughters; and some women, for
misdemeanours, are sold into slavery; whilst others are flogged, or are
degraded to do all the menial services of the house.

The Wakungu then changed the subject by asking, if I married a black
woman, would there be any offspring, and what would be their colour?
The company now became jovial, when the queen improved it by making a
significant gesture, and with roars of laughter asking me if I would
like to be her son-in-law, for she had some beautiful daughters, either
of the Wahuma, or Waganda breed. Rather staggered at first by this awful
proposal, I consulted Bombay what I should do with one if I got her.
He, looking more to number one than my convenience, said, "By all means
accept the offer, for if YOU don't like her, WE should, and it would
be a good means of getting her out of this land of death, for all black
people love Zanzibar." The rest need not be told; as a matter of course
I had to appear very much gratified, and as the bowl went round, all
became uproarious. I must wait a day or two, however, that a proper
selection might be made; and when the marriage came off, I was to chain
the fair one two or three days, until she became used to me, else, from
mere fright, she might run away.

To keep up the spirits of the queen, though her frequent potions of
pombe had wellnigh done enough, I admired her neck-ring, composed of
copper wire, with a running inlaid twist of iron, and asked her why she
wore such a wreath of vine-leaves, as I had often seen on some of the
Wakungu. On this she produced a number of rings similar to the one she
wore, and taking off her own, placed it round my neck. Then, pointing
to her wreath, she said, "This is the badge of a kidnapper's
office--whoever wears it, catches little children." I inferred that its
possession, as an insignia of royalty, conferred on the bearer the power
of seizure, as the great seal in this country confers power on public
officers.

The queen's dinner was now announced; and, desiring me to remain where
I was for a short time, she went to it. She sent me several dishes
(plantain-leaves), with well-cooked beef and mutton, and a variety of
vegetables, from her table, as well as a number of round moist napkins,
made in the shape of wafers, from the freshly-drawn plantain fibres, to
wash the hands and face with. There was no doubt now about her culinary
accomplishments. I told her so when she returned, and that I enjoyed her
parties all the more because they ended with a dinner. "More pombe, more
pombe," cried the queen, full of mirth and glee, helping everybody round
in turn, and shouting and laughing at their Kiganda witticisms--making,
though I knew not a word said, an amusing scene to behold--till the sun
sank; and her majesty remarking it, turned to her court and said, "If I
get up, will Bana also rise, and not accuse me of deserting him?" With
this speech a general rising took place, and, watching the queen's
retiring, I stood with my hat in hand, whilst all the Wakungu fell upon
their knees, and then all separated.

28th.--I went to the palace, and found, as usual, a large levee waiting
the king's pleasure to appear; amongst whom were the Kamraviona,
Masimbi, and the king's sister Miengo. I fired my gun, and admitted
at once, but none of the others could follow me save Miengo. The king,
sitting on the chair with his women by his side, ordered twelve cloths,
the presents of former Arab visitors, to be brought before him; and
all of these I was desired to turn into European garments, like my
own coats, trousers, and waistcoats. It was no use saying I had no
tailors--the thing must be done somehow; for he admired my costume
exceedingly, and wished to imitate it now he had cloth enough for ever
to dispense with the mbugu.

As I had often begged the king to induce his men, who are all
wonderfully clever artisans, to imitate the chair and other things I
gave him, I now told him if he would order some of his sempsters, who
are far cleverer with the needle than my men, to my camp, I would cut up
some old clothes, and so teach them how to work. This was agreed to, and
five cows were offered as a reward; but as his men never came, mine had
to do the job.

Maula then engaged the king's attention for fully an hour, relating what
wonderful things Bana kept in his house, if his majesty would only deign
to see them; and for this humbug got rewarded by a present of three
women. Just at this juncture an adjutant flew overhead, and, by way of
fun, I presented my gun, when the excited king, like a boy from school,
jumped up, forgetting his company, and cried, "Come, Bana, and shoot
the nundo; I know where he has gone--follow me." And away we went, first
through one court, then through another, till we found the nundo perched
on a tree, looking like a sedate old gentleman with a bald head, and
very sharp, long nose. Politeness lost the bird; for whilst I wished the
king to shoot, he wished me to do so, from fear of missing it himself.
He did not care about vultures--he could practise at them at any time;
but he wanted a nundo above all things. The bird, however, took the
hint, and flew away.


Chapter XIII. Palace, Uganda--Continued

A Visit to a Distinguished Statesman--A Visit from the King--Royal
Sport--The Queen's Present of Wives--The Court Beauties and their
Reverses--Judicial Procedure in Uganda--Buffalo-Hunting--A Musical
Party--My Medical Practice--A Royal Excursion on the N'yanza--The
Canoes of Uganda--A Regatta--Rifle Practice--Domestic
Difficulties--Interference of a Magician--The King's Brothers.

29th.--According to appointment I went early this morning to visit
Congow. He kept me some time waiting in his outer hut, and then called
me in to where I found him sitting with his women--a large group, by
no means pretty. His huts are numerous, the gardens and courts all
very neat and well kept. He was much delighted with my coming, produced
pombe, and asked me what I thought of his women, stripping them to
the waist. He assured me that he had thus paid me such a compliment as
nobody else had ever obtained, since the Waganda are very jealous of one
another--so much so, that any one would be killed if found starring upon
a woman even in the highways. I asked him what use he had for so many
women? To which he replied, "None whatever; the king gives them to us
to keep up our rank, sometimes as many as one hundred together, and we
either turn them into wives, or make servants of them, as we please."
Just then I heard that Mkuenda, the queen's woman-keeper, was outside
waiting for me, but dared not come in, because Congow's women were all
out; so I asked leave to go home to breakfast, much to the surprise of
Congow, who thought I was his guest for the whole day. It is considered
very indecorous in Uganda to call upon two persons in one day, though
even the king or the queen should be one of them. Then, as there was
no help for it--Congow could not detain me when hungry--he showed me a
little boy, the only child he had, and said, with much fatherly pride,
"Both the king and queen have called on me to see this fine little
fellow"; and we parted to meet again some other day. Outside his gate
I found Mkuenda, who said the queen had sent him to invite "her son" to
bring her some stomach medicine in the morning, and come to have a
chat with her. With Mkuenda I walked home; but he was so awed by the
splendour of my hut, with its few blankets and bit of chintz, that
he would not even sit upon a cow-skin, but asked if any Waganda dared
venture in there. He was either too dazzled or too timid to answer any
questions, and in a few minutes walked away again.

After this, I had scarcely swallowed by breakfast before I received a
summons from the king to meet him out shooting, with all the Wanguana
armed, and my guns; and going towards the palace, found him with a
large staff, pages and officers as well as women, in a plantain garden,
looking eagerly out for birds, whilst his band was playing. In addition
to his English dress, he wore a turban, and pretended that the glare of
the sun was distressing his eyes--for, in fact, he wanted me to give
him a wideawake like my own. Then, as if a sudden freak had seized him,
though I knew it was on account of Maula's having excited his curiosity,
he said, "Where does Bana live? lead away." Bounding and scrambling, the
Wakungu, the women and all, went pell-mell through everything towards my
hut. If the Kamraviona or any of the boys could not move fast enough,
on account of the crops on the fields, they were piked in the back
till half knocked over; but, instead of minding, they trotted on,
n'yanzigging as if honoured by a kingly poke, though treated like so
many dogs.

Arrived at the hut, the king took off his turban as I took off my
hat, and seated himself on my stool; whilst the Kamraviona, with much
difficulty, was induced to sit upon a cowskin, and the women at first
were ordered to squat outside. Everything that struck the eye was much
admired and begged for, though nothing so much as my wideawake and
mosquito-curtains; then, as the women were allowed to have a peep in and
see Bana in his den, I gave them two sacks of beads, to make the
visit profitable, the only alternative left me from being forced into
inhospitality, for no one would drink from my cup. Moreover, a present
was demanded by the laws of the country.

The king, excitedly impatient, now led the way again, shooting
hurry-scurry through my men's lines, which were much commented on as
being different from Waganda hutting, on to the tall tree with the
adjutant's nest. One young bird was still living in it. There was no
shot, so bullets must be fired; and the cunning king, wishing to show
off, desired me to fire simultaneously with himself. We fired, but my
bullet struck the bough the nest was resting on; we fired again, and the
bullet passed through the nest without touching the bird. I then asked
the king to allow me to try his Whitworth, to which a little bit of
stick, as a charm to secure a correct aim, had been tied below the
trigger-guard. This time I broke the bird's leg, and knocked him half
out of the nest; so, running up to the king, I pointed to the charm,
saying, That has done it--hoping to laugh him out of the folly; but he
took my joke in earnest, and he turned to his men, commenting on the
potency of the charm. Whilst thus engaged, I took another rifle and
brought the bird down altogether. "Woh, woh, woh!" shouted the king;
"Bana, Mzungu, Mzungu!" he repeated, leaping and clapping his hands, as
he ran full speed to the prostrate bird, whilst the drums beat, and the
Wakungu followed him: "Now, is not this a wonder? but we must go
and shoot another." "Where?" I said; "we may walk a long way without
finding, if we have nothing but our eyes to see with. Just send for your
telescope, and then I will show you how to look for birds." Surprised
at this announcement, the king sent his pages flying for the instrument,
and when it came I instructed him how to use it; when he could see with
it, and understand its powers, his astonishment knew no bounds; and,
turning to his Wakungu, he said, laughing, "Now I do see the use of this
thing I have been shutting up in the palace. On that distant tree I can
see three vultures. To its right there is a hut, with a woman sitting
inside the portal, and many goats are feeding all about the palace, just
as large and distinct as if I was close by them."

The day was now far spent, and all proceeded towards the palace. On
the way a mistletoe was pointed out as a rain-producing tree, probably
because, on a former occasion, I had advised the king to grow groves of
coffee-trees about his palace to improve its appearance, and supply the
court with wholesome food--at the same time informing him that trees
increase the falls of rain in a country, though very high ones would be
dangerous, because they attract lightning. Next the guns must be fired
off; and, as it would be a pity to waste lead, the king, amidst thunders
of applause, shot five cows, presenting his gun from the shoulder.

So ended the day's work in the field, but not at home; for I had hardly
arrived there before the pages hurried in to beg for powder and shot,
then caps, then cloth, and, everything else failing, a load of beads.
Such are the persecutions of this negro land--the host every day must
beg something in the most shameless manner from his guest, on the mere
chance of gaining something gratis, though I generally gave the king
some trifle when he least expected it, and made an excuse that he must
wait for the arrival of fresh stores from Gani when he asked.

30th.--To fulfil my engagement with the queen, I walked off to her
palace with stomach medicine, thinking we were now such warm friends,
all pride and distant ceremonies would be dispensed with; but, on the
contrary, I was kept waiting for hours till I sent in word to say,
if she did not want medicine, I wished to go home, for I was tired of
Uganda and everything belonging to it. This message brought her to her
gate, where she stood laughing till the Wahuma girls she had promised
me, one of twelve and the other a little older, were brought in and made
to squat in front of us. The elder, who was in the prime of youth and
beauty, very large of limb, dark in colour, cried considerably; whilst
the younger one, though very fair, had a snubby nose and everted lips,
and laughed as if she thought the change in her destiny very good fun. I
had now to make my selection, and took the smaller one, promising her to
Bombay as soon as we arrived on the coast, where, he said, she would
be considered a Hubshi or Abyssinian. But when the queen saw what I had
done, she gave me the other as well, saying the little one was too young
to go alone, and, if separated, she would take fright and run away. Then
with a gracious bow I walked of with my two fine specimens of natural
history, though I would rather have had princes, that I might have taken
them home to be instructed in England; but the queen, as soon as we had
cleared the palace, sent word to say she must have another parting look
at her son with his wives. Still laughing, she said, "That will do; you
look beautiful; now go away home"; and off we trotted, the elder sobbing
bitterly, the younger laughing.

As soon as we reached home, my first inquiry was concerning their
histories, of which they appeared to know but very little. The elder,
whom I named Meri (plantains), was obtained by Sunna, the late king, as
a wife, from Nkole; and though she was a mere Kahala, or girl, when the
old king died, he was so attached to her he gave her twenty cows, in
order that she might fatten up on milk after her native fashion; but on
Sunna's death, when the establishment of women was divided, Meri fell
to N'yamasore's (the queen's) lot. The lesser one, who still retains the
name of Kahala, said she was seized in Unyoro by the Waganda, who took
her to N'yamasore, but what became of her father and mother she could
not say.

It was now dinner-time, and as the usual sweet potatoes and goat's flesh
were put upon my box-table, I asked them to dine with me, and we became
great friends, for they were assured they would finally get good houses
and gardens at Zanzibar; but nothing would induce either of them to
touch food that had been cooked with butter. A dish of plantains and
goat-flesh was then prepared; but though Kahala wished to eat it,
Meri rejected the goat's flesh, and would not allow Kahala to taste it
either; and thus began a series of domestic difficulties. On inquiring
how I could best deal with my difficult charge, I was told the Wahuma
pride was so great, and their tempers so strong, they were more
difficult to break in than a phunda, or donkey, though when once tamed,
they became the best of wives.

31st.--I wished to call upon the queen and thank her for her charming
present, but my hungry men drove me to the king's palace in search of
food. The gun firing brought Mtesa out, prepared for a shooting trip,
with his Wakungu leading, the pages carrying his rifle and ammunition,
and a train of women behind. The first thing seen outside the palace
gate was a herd of cows, from which four were selected and shot at fifty
paces by the king, firing from his shoulder, amidst thunders of applause
and hand-shakings of the elders. I never saw them dare touch the king's
hand before. Then Mtesa, turning kindly to me, said, "Pray take a
shot"; but I waived the offer off, saying he could kill better himself.
Ambitious of a cut above cows, the king tried his hand at some herons
perched on a tree, and, after five or six attempts, hit one in the eye.
Hardly able to believe in his own skill, he stood petrified at first,
and then ran madly to the fallen bird, crying, "Woh, woh, woh! can this
be?--is it true? Woh, woh!" He jumped in the air, and all his men and
women shouted in concert with him. Then he rushes at me, takes both my
hands--shakes, shakes--woh, woh!--then runs to his women, then to his
men; shakes them all, woh-wohing, but yet not shaking or wohing half
enough for his satisfaction, for he is mad with joy at his own exploit.

The bird is then sent immediately to his mother, whilst he retires to
his palace, woh-wohing, and taking "ten to the dozen" all the way and
boasting of his prowess. "Now, Bana, tell me--do you not think, if two
such shots as you and I were opposed to an elephant, would he have any
chance before us? I know I can shoot--I am certain of it now. You have
often asked me to go hippopotamus-shooting with you, but I staved it
off until I learnt the way to shoot. Now, however, I can shoot--and that
remarkably well too, I flatter myself. I will have at them, and both of
us will go on the lake together." The palace was now reached; musicians
were ordered to play before the king, and Wakungu appointments were
made to celebrate the feats of the day. Then the royal cutler brought in
dinner-knives made of iron, inlaid with squares of copper and brass, and
goats and vegetables were presented as usual, when by torchlight we
were dismissed, my men taking with them as many plantains as they could
carry.

1st.--I stayed at home all this day, because the king and queen had set
it apart for looking at and arranging their horns--mapembe, or fetishes,
as the learned call such things--to see that there are no imperfections
in the Uganga. This was something like an inquiry into the
ecclesiastical condition of the country, while, at the same time, it
was a religious ceremony, and, as such, was appropriate to the first
day after the new moon appears. This being the third moon by account, in
pursuance of ancient customs, all the people about court, including the
king, shaved their heads--the king, however, retaining his cockscomb,
the pages their double cockades, and the other officers their single
cockades on the back of the head, or either side, according to the
official rank of each. My men were occupied making trousers for the king
all day; whilst the pages, and those sent to learn the art of tailoring,
instead of doing their duty, kept continually begging for something to
present the king.

2d.--The queen now taking a sporting fit into her head, sent for me
early in the morning, with all my men, armed, to shoot a crested crane
in her palace; but though we were there as required, we were kept
waiting till late in the afternoon, when, instead of talking about
shooting, as her Wakungu had forbidden her doing it, she asked after
her two daughters--whether they had run away, or if they liked their new
abode? I replied I was sorry circumstances did not permit my coming to
thank her sooner, for I felt grateful beyond measure to her for having
charmed my house with such beautiful society. I did not follow her
advice to chain either of them with iron, for I found cords of love,
the only instrument white men know the use of, quite strong enough.
Fascinated with this speech, she said she would give me another of a
middle age between the two, expecting, as I thought, that she would thus
induce me to visit her more frequently than I did her son; but, though I
thanked her, it frightened me from visiting her for ages after.

She then said, with glowing pride, casting a sneer on the king's
hospitality, "In the days of yore, Sunna, whenever visitors came to see
him, immediately presented them with women, and, secondly, with food;
for he was very particular in looking after his guests' welfare, which
is not exactly what you find the case now, I presume." The rest of the
business of the day consisted in applications for medicine and medical
treatment, which it was difficult satisfactorily to meet.

3d.--To-day Katumba, the king's head page, was sent to me with deoles
to be made into trousers and waistcoats, and a large sixty-dollar silk I
had given him to cover the chair with. The king likes rich colours, and
I was solemnly informed that he will never wear anything but clothes
like Bana.

4th.--By invitation I went to the palace at noon, with guns, and found
the king holding a levee, the first since the new moon, with all heads
shaved in the manner I have mentioned. Soon rising, he showed the way
through the palace to a pond, which is described as his bathing N'yanza,
his women attending, and pages leading the way with his guns. From
this we passed on to a jungle lying between the palace hill and
another situated at the northern end of the lake, where wild buffaloes
frequently lie concealed in the huge papyrus rushes of a miry drain; but
as none could be seen at that moment, we returned again to the palace.
He showed me large mounds of earth, in the shape of cocked hats, which
are private observatories, from which the surrounding country can be
seen. By the side of these observatories are huts, smaller than the
ordinary ones used for residing in, where the king, after the exertion
of "looking out," takes his repose. Here he ordered fruit to be
brought--the Matunguru, a crimson pod filled with acid seeds, which
has only been observed growing by the rivers or waters of Uganda--and
Kasori, a sort of liquorice-root. He then commenced eating with us, and
begging again, unsuccessfully, for my compass. I tried again to make him
see the absurdity of tying a charm on Whitworth's rifle, but without
the least effect. In fact he mistook all my answers for admiration, and
asked me, in the simplest manner possible, if I would like to possess
a charm; and even when I said "No, I should be afraid of provoking
Lubari's" (God's) "anger if I did so," he only wondered at my obstinacy,
so thoroughly was he wedded to his belief. He then called for his
wideawake, and walked with us into another quarter of his palace,
when he entered a dressing-hut, followed by a number of full-grown,
stark-naked women, his valets; at the same time ordering a large body
of women to sit on one side the entrance, whilst I, with Bombay, were
directed to sit on the other, waiting till he was ready to hold another
levee. From this, we repaired to the great throne-hut, where all his
Wakungu at once formed court, and business was commenced. Amongst other
things, an officer, by name Mbogo, or the Buffalo, who had been sent on
a wild-goose chase to look after Mr Petherick, described a journey he
had made, following down the morning sun. After he had passed the limits
of plantain-eating men, he came upon men who lived upon meat alone, who
never wore mbugus, but either cloth or skins, and instead of the spear
they used the double-edged sime. He called the people Wasewe, and their
chief Kisawa; but the company pronounced them to be Masawa (Masai).

After this, about eighty men were marched into the court, with their
faces blackened, and strips of plantain-bark tied on their heads, each
holding up a stick in his hand in place of a spear, under the regulation
that no person is permitted to carry weapons of any sort in the palace.
They were led by an officer, who, standing like a captain before his
company, ordered them to jump and praise the king, acting the part of
fugleman himself. Then said the king, turning to me, "Did I not tell you
I had sent many men to fight? These are some of my army returned; the
rest are coming, and will eventually, when all are collected, go in
a body to fight in Usoga." Goats and other peace-offerings were then
presented; and, finally a large body of officers came in with an old
man, with his two ears shorn off for having been too handsome in
his youth, and a young woman who, after four days' search, had been
discovered in his house. They were brought for judgment before the king.

Nothing was listened to but the plaintiff's statement, who said he had
lost the woman four days, and, after considerable search, had found
her concealed by the old man, who was indeed old enough to be her
grandfather. From all appearances one would have said the wretched girl
had run away from the plaintiff's house in consequence of ill treatment,
and had harboured herself on this decrepid old man without asking
his leave; but their voices in defence were never heard, for the king
instantly sentenced both to death, to prevent the occurrence of such
impropriety again; and, to make the example more severe, decreed that
their lives should not be taken at once, but, being fed to preserve life
as long as possible, they were to be dismembered bit by bit, as rations
for the vultures, every day, until life was extinct. The dismayed
criminals, struggling to be heard, in utter despair, were dragged away
boisterously in the most barbarous manner, to the drowning music of the
milele and drums.

The king, in total unconcern about the tragedy he had thus enacted,
immediately on their departure said, "Now, then, for shooting, Bana;
let us look at your gun." It happened to be loaded, but fortunately only
with powder, to fire my announcement at the palace; for he instantly
placed caps on the nipples, and let off one barrel by accident, the
contents of which stuck in the thatch. This created a momentary alarm,
for it was supposed the thatch had taken fire; but it was no sooner
suppressed than the childish king, still sitting on his throne, to
astonish his officers still more, levelled the gun from his shoulder,
fired the contents of the second barrel into the faces of his squatting
Wakungu, and then laughed at his own trick. In the meanwhile cows were
driven in, which the king ordered his Wakungu to shoot with carbines;
and as they missed them, he showed them the way to shoot with the
Whitworth, never missing. The company now broke up, but I still clung
to the king, begging him to allow me to purchase food with beads, as I
wanted it, for my establishment was always more or less in a starving
state; but he only said, "Let us know what you want and you shall always
have it"; which, in Uganda, I knew from experience only meant, Don't
bother me any more, but give me your spare money, and help yourself from
my spacious gardens--Uganda is before you.

5th--To-day the king went on a visit with his mother, and therefore
neither of them could be seen by visitors. I took a stroll towards the
N'yanza, passing through the plantain-groves occupied by the king's
women, where my man Sangoro had been twice taken up by the Mgemma
and put in the stocks. The plantain gardens were beautifully kept by
numerous women, who all ran away from fright at seeing me, save one who,
taken by surprise, threw herself flat on the ground, rolled herself up
in her mbugu, and, kicking with her naked heels, roared murder and help,
until I poked her up, and reproached her for her folly. This little
incident made my fairies bolder, and, sidling up to me one by one, they
sat in a knot with me upon the ground; then clasping their heads with
their hands, they woh-wohed in admiration of the white man; they never
in all their lives saw anything so wonderful; his wife and children must
be like him; what would not Sunna have given for such a treat?--but it
was destined to Mtesa's lot. What is the interpretation of this sign, if
it does not point to the favour in which Mtesa is upheld by the spirits?
I wished to go, but no: "Stop a little more," they said, all in a
breath, or rather out of breath in their excitement; "remove the hat
and show the hair; take off the shoes and tuck up the trousers; what on
earth is kept in the pockets? Oh, wonder of wonders!--and the iron!"
As I put the watch close to the ear of one of them, "Tick, tick,
ticks--woh, woh, woh"--everybody must hear it; and then the works had
to be seen. "Oh, fearful!" said one, "hide your faces: it is the Lubari.
Shut it up, Bana, shut it up; we have seen enough; but you will come
again and bring us beads." So ended the day's work.

6th.--To-day I sent Bombay to the palace for food. Though rain fell
in torrents, he found the king holding a levee, giving appointments,
plantations, and women, according to merit, to his officers. As one
officer, to whom only one woman was given, asked for more, the king
called him an ingrate, and ordered him to be cut to pieces on the spot;
and the sentence was, as Bombay told me, carried into effect--not with
knives, for they are prohibited, but with strips of sharp-edged grass,
after the executioners had first dislocated his neck by a blow delivered
behind the head, with a sharp, heavy-headed club.

No food, however, was given to my men, though the king, anticipating
Bombay's coming, sent me one load of tobacco, one of butter, and one of
coffee. My residence in Uganda became much more merry now, for all the
women of the camp came daily to call on my two little girls; during
which time they smoked my tobacco, chewed my coffee, drank my pombe,
and used to amuse me with queer stories of their native land. Rozaro's
sister also came, and proposed to marry me, for Maula, she said, was a
brutal man; he killed one of his women because he did not like her, and
now he had clipped one of this poor creature's ears off for trying to
run away from him; and when abused for his brutality, he only replied,
"It was no fault of his, as the king set the example in the country."

In the evening I took a walk with Kahala, dressed in a red scarf, and
in company with Lugoi, to show my children off in the gardens to my fair
friends of yesterday. Everybody was surprised. The Mgemma begged us
to sit with him and drink pombe, which he generously supplied to our
heart's content; wondered at the beauty of Kahala, wished I would give
him a wife like her, and lamented that the king would not allow his
to wear such pretty clothes. We passed on a little farther, and were
invited to sit with another man, Lukanikka, to drink pombe and chew
coffee--which we did as before, meeting with the same remarks; for all
Waganda, instructed by the court, know the art of flattery better than
any people in the world, even including the French.

7th.--In the morning, whilst it rained hard, the king sent to say that
he had started buffalo-shooting, and expected me to join him. After
walking a mile beyond the palace, we found him in a plantain garden,
dressed in imitation of myself, wideawake and all, the perfect picture
of a snob. He sent me a pot of pombe, which I sent home to the women,
and walked off for the shooting-ground, two miles further on, the band
playing in the front, followed by some hundred Wakungu--then the pages,
then the king, next myself, and finally the women--the best in front,
the worst bringing up the rear, with the king's spears and shield, as
also pots of pombe, a luxury the king never moves without. It was easy
to see there would be no sport, still more useless of offer any remarks,
therefore all did as they were bid. The broad road, like all in Uganda,
went straight over hill and dale, the heights covered with high grass
or plantain groves, and the valleys with dense masses of magnificent
forest-trees surrounding swamps covered with tall rushes half bridged.
Proceeding on, as we came to the first water, I commenced flirtations
with Mtesa's women, much to the surprise of the king and every one. The
bridge was broken, as a matter of course; and the logs which composed
it, lying concealed beneath the water, were toed successively by the
leading men, that those who followed should not be tripped up by them.
This favour the king did for me, and I in return for the women behind;
they had never been favoured in their lives with such gallantry, and
therefore could not refrain from laughing, which attracted the king's
notice and set everybody in a giggle; for till now no mortal man had
ever dared communicate with his women.

Shortly after this we left the highway, and, turning westwards, passed
through a dense jungle towards the eastern shores of the Murchison
Creek, cut by runnels and rivulets, where on one occasion I offered, by
dumb signs to carry the fair ones pick-a-back over, and after crossing a
second myself by a floating log, offered my hand. The leading wife first
fears to take it, then grows bold and accepts it; when the prime beauty,
Lubuga, following in her wake, and anxious to feel, I fancy, what the
white man is like, with an imploring face holds out both her hands in
such a captivating manner, that though I feared to draw attention by
waiting any longer, I could not resist compliance. The king noticed it;
but instead of upbraiding me, passed it off as a joke, and running up to
the Kamraviona, gave him a poke in the ribs, and whispered what he had
seen, as if it had been a secret. "Woh, woh!" says the Kamraviona, "what
wonders will happen next?"

We were now on the buffalo ground; but nothing could be seen save some
old footprints of buffaloes, and a pitfall made for catching them. By
this time the king was tired; and as he saw me searching for a log to
sit upon, he made one of his pages kneel upon all fours and sat upon his
back, acting the monkey in aping myself; for otherwise he would have sat
on a mbugu, in his customary manner, spread on the ground. We returned,
pushing along, up one way, then another, without a word, in thorough
confusion, for the king delights in boyish tricks, which he has learned
to play successfully. Leaving the road and plunging into thickets of
tall grass, the band and Wakungu must run for their lives, to maintain
the order of march, by heading him at some distant point of exit from
the jungle; whilst the Kamraviona, leading the pages and my men, must
push head first, like a herd of buffaloes, through the sharp-cutting
grass, at a sufficient rate to prevent the royal walk from being
impeded; and the poor women, ready to sink with exhaustion, can only be
kept in their places by fear of losing their lives.

We had been out the whole day; still he did not tire of these tricks,
and played them incessantly till near sundown, when we entered the
palace. Then the women and Wakungu separating from us, we--that is, the
king, the Kamraviona, pages, and myself--sat down to a warm feast of
sweet potatoes and plantains, ending with pombe and fruit, whilst
moist circular napkins, made in the shape of magnificent wafers out of
plantain fibre, acted at once both the part of water and towel. This
over, as the guns had to be emptied, and it was thought sinful to waste
the bullets, four cows were ordered in and shot by the king. Thus ended
the day, my men receiving one of the cows.

8th.--As Mtesa was tired with his yesterday's work, and would not see
anybody, I took Lugoi and Kahala, with a bundle of beads, to give a
return to the Mgemma for his late treat of pombe. His household men and
women were immensely delighted with us, but more so, they said, for the
honour of the visit. They gave us more pombe, and introduced us to one
of N'yamasore's numerous sisters, who was equally charmed with myself
and my children. The Mgemma did not know how he could treat us properly,
he said, for he was only a poor man; but he would order some fowls, that
I might carry them away. When I refused this offer, because we came to
see him, and not to rob him, he thought it the most beautiful language,
and said he would bring them to the house himself. I added, I hoped he
would do so in company with his wife, which he promised, though he never
dared fulfil the promise; and, on our leaving, set all his servants to
escort us beyond the premises. In the evening, as the king's musicians
passed the camp, I ordered them in to play the milele, and give my men
and children a treat of dancing. The performers received a bundle of
beads and went away happy.

9th.--I called on Congow, but found him absent, waiting on the king, as
usual; and the king sent for my big rifle to shoot birds with.

10th.--In consequence of my having explained to the king the effect of
the process of distilling, and the way of doing it, he sent a number of
earthen pots and bugus of pombe that I might produce some spirits for
him; but as the pots sent were not made after the proper fashion, I
called at the palace and waited all day in the hope of seeing him. No
one, however, dared enter his cabinet, where he had been practising
"Uganga" all day, and so the pombe turned sour and useless. Such are the
ways of Uganda all over.

11th.--The king was out shooting; and as nothing else could be done, I
invited Uledi's pretty wife Guriku to eat a mutton breakfast, and
teach my child Meri not to be so proud. In this we were successful; but
whether her head had been turned, as Bombay thought, or what else, we
know not; but she would neither walk, nor talk, nor do anything but lie
at full length all day long, smoking and lounging in thorough indolence.

12th.--I distilled some fresh pombe for the king; and taking it to him
in the afternoon, fired guns to announce arrival. He was not visible,
while fearful shrieks were heard from within, and presently a beautiful
woman, one of the king's sisters, with cockscomb erect, was dragged out
to execution, bewailing and calling on her king, the Kamraviona, and
Mzungu, by turns, to save her life. Would to God I could have done it!
but I did not know her crime, if crime she had committed, and therefore
had to hold my tongue, whilst the Kamraviona, and other Wakungu present,
looked on with utter unconcern, not daring to make the slightest remark.
It happened that Irungu was present in the ante-chamber at this time;
and as Maula came with my party, they had a fight in respect to their
merits for having brought welcome guests to their king. Mtesa, it was
argued, had given N'yamgundu more women and men than he did to Maula,
because he was the first to bring intelligence of our coming, as well as
that of K'yengo, and Suworora's hongo to his king; whilst, finally, he
superseded Maula by taking me out of his charge, and had done a further
good service by sending men on to Karague to fetch both Grant and
K'yengo.

Maula, although he had received the second reward, had literally done
nothing, whilst Irungu had been years absent at Usui, and finally had
brought a valuable hongo, yet he got less than Maula. This, Irungu
said, was an injustice he would not stand; N'yamgundu fairly earned his
reward, but Maula must have been tricking to get more than himself. He
would get a suitable offering of wire, and lay his complaint in court
the first opportunity. "Pooh, pooh! nonsense!" says Maula, laughing; "I
will give him more wires than you, and then let us see who will win the
king's ear." Upon this the two great children began collecting wire and
quarrelling until the sun went down, and I went home. I did not return
to a quiet dinner, as I had hoped, but to meet the summons of the king.
Thinking it policy to obey, I found him waiting my coming in the palace.
He made apologies for not answering my gun, and tasted some spirits
resembling toddy, which I had succeeded in distilling. He imbibed it
with great surprise; it was wonderful tipple; he must have some more;
and, for the purpose of brewing better, would send the barrel of an old
Brown Bess musket, as well as more pombe and wood in the morning.

13th.--As nothing was done all day, I took the usual promenade in the
Seraglio Park, and was accosted by a very pretty little woman, Kariana,
wife of Dumba, who, very neatly dressed, was returning from a visit. At
first she came trotting after me, then timidly paused, then advanced,
and, as I approached, stood spellbound at my remarkable appearance. At
last recovering herself, she woh-wohed with all the coquetry of a Mganda
woman, and a flirtation followed; she must see my hair, my watch, the
contents of my pockets--everything; but that was not enough. I waved
adieu, but still she followed. I offered my arm, showing her how to
take it in European fashion, and we walked along to the surprise of
everybody, as if we had been in Hyde Park rather than in Central Africa,
flirting and coquetting all the way. I was surprised that no one came to
prevent her forwardness; but not till I almost reached home did any one
appear; and then, with great scolding, she was ordered to return--not,
however, without her begging I would call in and see her on some future
occasion, when she would like to give me some pombe.

14th.--As conflicting reports came about Grant, the king very
courteously, at my request, forwarded letters to him. I passed the day
in distilling pombe, and the evening in calling on Mrs Dumba, with Meri,
Kahala, Lugoi, and a troop of Wanyamuezi women. She was very agreeable;
but as her husband was attending the palace, could not give pombe, and
instead gave my female escort sundry baskets of plaintains and potatoes,
signifying a dinner, and walked half-way home, flirting with me as
before.

15th--I called on the king with all the spirits I had made, as well as
the saccharine residue. We found him holding a levee, and receiving
his offerings of a batch of girls, cows, goats, and other things of an
ordinary nature. One of the goats presented gave me an opportunity of
hearing one of the strangest stories I had yet heard in this strange
country: it was a fine for attempted regicide, which happened yesterday,
when a boy, finding the king alone, which is very unusual, walked up to
him and threatened to kill him, because, he said, he took the lives of
men unjustly. The king explained by description and pantomime how
the affair passed. When the youth attacked him he had in his hand the
revolving pistol I had given him, and showed us, holding the pistol to
his cheek, how he had presented the muzzle to the boy, which, though
it was unloaded, so frightened him that he ran away. All the courtiers
n'yanzigged vigorously for the condescension of the king in telling the
story. There must have been some special reason why, in a court where
trifling breaches of etiquette were punished with a cruel death, so
grave a crime should have been so leniently dealt with; but I could
not get at the bottom of the affair. The culprit, a good-looking young
fellow of sixteen or seventeen, who brought in the goat, made his
n'yanzigs, stroked the goat and his own face with his hands, n'yanzigged
again with prostrations, and retired.

After this scene, officers announced the startling fact that two white
men had been seen at Kamrasi's, one with a beard like myself, the other
smooth-faced. I jumped at this news, and said, "Of course, they are
there; do let me send a letter to them." I believed it to be Petherick
and a companion whom I knew he was to bring with him. The king, however,
damped my ardour by saying the information was not perfect, and we must
wait until certain Wakungu, whom he sent to search in Unyoro, returned.

16th.--The regions about the palace were all in a state of commotion
to-day, men and women running for their lives in all directions,
followed by Wakungu and their retainers. The cause of all this commotion
was a royal order to seize sundry refractory Wakungu, with their
property, wives, concubines--if such a distinction can be made in this
country--and families all together. At the palace Mtesa had a musical
party, playing the flute occasionally himself. After this he called me
aside, and said, "Now, Bana, I wish you would instruct me, as you have
often proposed doing, for I wish to learn everything, though I have
little opportunity for doing so." Not knowing what was uppermost in his
mind, I begged him to put whatever questions he liked, and he should be
answered seriatim--hoping to find him inquisitive on foreign matters;
but nothing was more foreign to his mind: none of his countrymen ever
seemed to think beyond the sphere of Uganda.

The whole conversation turned on medicines, or the cause and effects of
diseases. Cholera, for instance, very much affected the land at certain
seasons, creating much mortality, and vanishing again as mysteriously as
it came. What brought this scourge? and what would cure it? Supposing
a man had a headache, what should he take for it? or a leg ache, or a
stomach-ache, or itch; in fact, going the rounds of every disease
he knew, until, exhausting the ordinary complaints, he went into
particulars in which he was personally much interested; but I was
unfortunately unable to prescribe medicines which produce the physical
phenomenon next to his heart.

17th.--I called upon the king by appointment, and found a large court,
where the Wakungu caught yesterday, and sentenced to execution, received
their reprieve on paying fines of cattle and young damsels--their
daughters. A variety of charms, amongst which were some bits of stick
strung on leather and covered with serpent-skin, were presented and
approved of. Kaggao, a large district officer, considered the second
in rank here, received permission for me to call upon him with my
medicines. I pressed the king again to send men with mine to Kamrasi's
to call Petherick. At first he objected that they would be killed, but
finally he yielded, and appointed Budja, his Unyoro ambassador, for the
service. Then, breaking up the court, he retired with a select party
of Wakungu, headed by the Kamraviona, and opened a conversation on the
subject which is ever uppermost with the king and his courtiers.

18th.--To-day I visited Kaggao with my medicine-chest. He had a local
disease, which he said came to him by magic, though a different cause
was sufficiently obvious, and wanted medicine such as I gave Mkuenda,
who reported that I gave him a most wonderful draught. Unfortunately I
had nothing suitable to give my new patient, but cautioned him to have a
care lest contagion should run throughout his immense establishment,
and explained the whole of the circumstances to him. Still he was not
satisfied; he would give me slaves, cows, or ivory, if I would only
cure him. He was a very great man, as I could see, with numerous houses,
numerous wives, and plenty of everything, so that it was ill-becoming of
him to be without his usual habits. Rejecting his munificent offers, I
gave him a cooling dose of calomel and jalap, which he drank like pombe,
and pronounced beautiful--holding up his hands, and repeating the words
"Beautiful, beautiful! they are all beautiful together! There is Bana
beautiful! his box is beautiful! and his medicine beautiful!"--and,
saying this, led us in to see his women, who at my request were grouped
in war apparel--viz., a dirk fastened to the waist by many strings of
coloured beads. There were from fifty to sixty women present, all very
lady-like, but none of them pretty. Kaggao then informed me the king had
told all his Wakungu he would keep me as his guest four months longer to
see if Petherick came; and should he not by that time, he would give me
an estate, stocked with men, women, and cattle, in perpetuity, so that,
if I ever wished to leave Uganda, I should always have something to come
back to; so I might now know what my fate was to be. Before leaving,
Kaggao presented us with two cows and ten baskets of potatoes.

19th.--I sent a return present of two wires and twelve fundo of beads of
sorts to Kaggao, and heard that the king had gone to show himself off
to his mother dressed Bana fashion. In the evening Katunzi, N'yamasore's
brother, just returned from the Unyoro plunder, called on me whilst I
was at dinner. Not knowing who he was, and surprised at such audacity in
Uganda, for he was the first officer who ever ventured to come near
me in this manner, I offered him a knife and fork, and a share in
the repast, which rather abashed him; for, taking it as a rebuff, he
apologised immediately for the liberty he had taken, contrary to the
etiquette of Uganda society, in coming to a house when the master was
at dinner; and he would have left again had I not pressed him to remain.
Katunzi then told me the whole army had returned from Unyoro, with
immense numbers of cows, women, and children, but not men, for those
who did not run away were killed fighting. He offered me a present of a
woman, and pressed me to call on him.

20th.--Still I found that the king would not send his Wakungu for the
Unyoro expedition, so I called on him about it. Fortunately he asked me
to speak a sentence in English, that he might hear how it sounds; and
this gave me an opportunity of saying, if he had kept his promise by
sending Budja to me, I should have despatched letters to Petherick. This
was no sooner interpreted than he said, if I would send my men to him
with letters in the morning he would forward them on, accompanied with
an army. On my asking if the army was intended to fight, he replied, in
short, "First to feel the way." On hearing this, I strongly advised him,
if he wished the road to be kept permanently open, to try conciliation
with Kamrasi, and send him some trifling present.

Now were brought in some thirty-odd women for punishment and execution,
which the king, who of late had been trying to learn Kisuahili, in order
that we might be able to converse together, asked me, in that language,
if I would like to have some of these women; and if so, how many? On my
replying "One," he begged me to have my choice, and a very pretty one
was selected. God only knows what became of the rest; but the one I
selected, on reaching home, I gave to Ilmas, my valet, for a wife.
He and all the other household servants were much delighted with this
charming acquisition; but the poor girl, from the time she had been
selected, had flattered herself she was to be Bana's wife, and became
immensely indignant at the supposed transfer, though from the first I
had intended her for Ilmas, not only to favour him for his past good
services, but as an example to my other men, as I had promised to give
them all, provided they behaved well upon the journey, a "free-man's
garden," with one wife each and a purse of money, to begin a new life
upon, as soon as they reached Zanzibar. The temper of Meri and Kahala
was shown in a very forcible manner: they wanted this maid as an
addition to my family, called her into the hut and chatted till
midnight, instructing her not to wed with Ilmas; and then, instead of
turning into bed as usual, they all three slept upon the ground. My
patience could stand this phase of henpecking no longer, so I called
in Manamaka, the head Myamuezi woman, whom I had selected for their
governess, and directed her to assist Ilmas, and put them to bed
"bundling."

21st.--In the morning, before I had time to write letters, the king
invited me to join him at some new tank he was making between his
palace and the residence of his brothers. I found him sitting with his
brothers, all playing in concert on flutes. I asked him, in Kisuahili,
if he knew where Grant was? On replying in the negative, I proposed
sending a letter, which he approved of; and Budja was again ordered to
go with an army for Petherick.

22d.--Mabruki and Bilal, with Budja, started to meet Petherick, and
three more men, with another letter to Grant. I called on the king,
who appointed the 24th instant for an excursion of three days'
hippopotamus-shooting on the N'yanza.

23d.--To-day occurred a brilliant instance of the capricious
restlessness and self-willedness of this despotic king. At noon, pages
hurried in to say that he had started for the N'yanza, and wished me to
follow him without delay. N'yanza, as I have mentioned, merely means a
piece of water, whether a pond, river, or lake; and as no one knew which
N'yanza he meant, or what project was on foot, I started off in a hurry,
leaving everything behind, and walked rapidly through gardens, over
hills, and across rushy swamps, down the west flank of the Murchison
Creek, till 3 p.m., when I found the king dressed in red, with his
Wakungu in front and women behind, travelling along in the confused
manner of a pack of hounds, occasionally firing his rifle that I might
know his whereabouts. He had just, it seems, mingled a little business
with pleasure; for noticing, as he passed, a woman tied by the hands to
be punished for some offence, the nature of which I did not learn, he
took the executioner's duty on himself, fired at her, and killed her
outright.

On this occasion, to test all his followers, and prove their readiness
to serve him, he had started on a sudden freak for the three days'
excursion on the lake one day before the appointed time, expecting
everybody to fall into place by magic, without the smallest regard to
each one's property, feelings, or comfort. The home must be forsaken
without a last adieu, the dinner untasted, and no provision made for the
coming night, in order that his impetuous majesty should not suffer one
moment's disappointment. The result was natural; many who would have
come were nowhere to be found; my guns, bed, bedding, and note-books,
as well as cooking utensils, were all left behind, and, though sent for,
did not arrive till the following day.

On arriving at the mooring station, not one boat was to be found, nor
did any arrive until after dark, when, on the beating of drums and
firing of guns, some fifty large ones appeared. They were all painted
with red clay, and averaged from ten to thirty paddles, with long prows
standing out like the neck of a syphon or swan, decorated on the head
with the horns of the Nsunnu (lencotis) antelope, between which was
stuck upright a tuft of feathers exactly like a grenadier's plume. These
arrived to convey us across the mouth of a deep rushy swamp to the
royal yachting establishment, the Cowes of Uganda, distant five hours'
travelling from the palace. We reached the Cowes by torchlight at 9
p.m., when the king had a picnic dinner with me, turned in with his
women in great comfort, and sent me off to a dreary hut, where I had to
sleep upon a grass-strew floor. I was surprised we had to walk so far,
when, by appearance, we might have boated it from the head of the creek
all the way down; but, on inquiry, was informed of the swampy nature of
the ground at the head of the creek precluded any approach to the
clear water there, and hence the long overland journey, which, though
fatiguing to the unfortunate women, who had to trot the whole way behind
Mtesa's four-mile-an-hour strides, was very amusing. The whole of the
scenery--hill, dale, and lake--was extremely beautiful. The Wanguana in
my escort compared the view to their own beautiful Poani (coast); but in
my opinion it far surpassed anything I ever saw, either from the sea or
upon the coast of Zanzibar.

The king rose betimes in the morning and called me, unwashed and very
uncomfortable, to picnic with him, during the collection of the boats.
The breakfast, eaten in the open court, consisted of sundry baskets of
roast-beef and plantain-squash, folded in plantain-leaves. He sometimes
ate with a copper knife and picker, not forked--but more usually like
a dog, with both hands. The bits too tough for his mastication he would
take from his mouth and give as a treat to the pages, who n'yanzigged,
and swallowed them with much seeming relish. Whatever remained over
was then divided by the boys, and the baskets taken to the cooks. Pombe
served as tea, coffee, and beer for the king; but his guests might think
themselves very lucky if they ever got a drop of it.

Now for the lake. Everybody in a hurry falls into his place the best way
he can--Wakungu leading, and women behind. They rattle along, through
plantains and shrubs, under large trees, seven, eight, and nine feet in
diameter, till the beautiful waters are reached--a picture of the Rio
scenery, barring that of the higher mountains in the background of that
lovely place, which are here represented by the most beautiful little
hills. A band of fifteen drums of all sizes, called the Mazaguzo,
playing with the regularity of a lot of factory engines at work,
announced the king's arrival, and brought all the boats to the
shore--but not as in England, where Jack, with all the consequence of a
lord at home, invites the ladies to be seated, and enjoys the sight of
so many pretty faces. Here every poor fellow, with his apprehensions
written in his face, leaps over the gunwale into the water--ducking
his head for fear of being accused of gazing on the fair sex, which
is death--and bides patiently his time. They were dressed in plantain
leaves, looking like grotesque Neptunes. The king, in his red coat and
wideawake, conducted the arrangements, ordering all to their proper
places--the women, in certain boats, the Wakungu and Wanguana in others,
whilst I sat in the same boat with him at his feet, three women holding
mbugus of pombe behind. The king's Kisuahali now came into play, and he
was prompt in carrying out the directions he got from myself to approach
the hippopotami. But the waters were too large and the animals too shy,
so we toiled all the day without any effect, going only once ashore
to picnic; not for the women to eat--for they, poor things, got
nothing--but the king, myself, the pages, and the principal Wakungu.
As a wind-up to the day's amusement, the king led the band of drums,
changed the men according to their powers, put them into concert pitch,
and readily detected every slight irregularity, showing himself a
thorough musician.

This day requires no remark, everything done being the counterpart
of yesterday, excepting that the king, growing bolder with me
in consequence of our talking together, became more playful and
familiar--amusing himself, for instance, sometimes by catching hold of
my beard as the rolling of the boat unsteadied him.

We started early in the usual manner; but after working up and down the
creek, inspecting the inlets for hippopotami, and tiring from want of
sport, the king changed his tactics, and, paddling and steering himself
with a pair of new white paddles, finally directing the boats to
an island occupied by the Mgussa, or Neptune of the N'yanza, not in
person--for Mgussa is a spirit--but by his familiar or deputy, the great
medium who communicates the secrets of the deep to the king of Uganda.
In another sense, he might be said to be the presiding priest of the
source of the mighty Nile, and as such was, of course, an interesting
person for me to meet. The first operation on shore was picnicking, when
many large bugus of pombe were brought for the king; next, the whole
party took a walk, winking through the trees, and picking fruit,
enjoying themselves amazingly, till, by some unlucky chance, one of the
royal wives, a most charming creature, and truly one of the best of the
lot, plucked a fruit and offered it to the king, thinking, doubtless, to
please him greatly; but he, like a madman, flew into a towering passion,
said it was the first time a woman ever had the impudence to offer him
anything, and ordered the pages to seize, bind, and lead her off to
execution.

These words were no sooner uttered by the king than the whole bevy of
pages slipped their cord turbans from their heads, and rushed, like a
pack of cupid beagles upon the fairy queen, who, indignant at the little
urchins daring to touch her majesty, remonstrated with the king, and
tried to beat them off like flies, but was soon captured, overcome,
and dragged away, crying, in the names of the Kamraviona and Mzungu
(myself), for help and protection; whilst Lubuga, the pet sister,
and all the other women, clasped the king by his legs, and, kneeling,
implored forgiveness for their sister. The more they craved for mercy,
the more brutal he became, till at last he took a heavy stick and began
to belabour the poor victim on the head.

Hitherto I had been extremely careful not to interfere with any of the
king's acts of arbitrary cruelty, knowing that such interference, at
an early stage, would produce more harm than good. This last act of
barbarism, however, was too much for my English blood to stand; and as
I heard my name, Mzungu, imploringly pronounced, I rushed at the king,
and, staying his uplifted arm, demanded from him the woman's life.
Of course I ran imminent risk of losing my own in thus thwarting the
capricious tyrant; but his caprice proved the friend of both. The
novelty of interference even made him smile, and the woman was instantly
released.

Proceeding on through the trees of this beautiful island, we next turned
into the hut of the Mgussa's familiar, which at the farther end was
decorated with many mystic symbols amongst others a paddle, the badge
of his high office--and for some time we sat chatting, when pombe was
brought, and the spiritual medium arrived. He was dressed Wichwezi
fashion, with a little white goat-skin apron, adorned with numerous
charms, and used a paddle for a mace or walking stick. He was not an old
man, though he affected to be so--walking very slowly and deliberately,
coughing asthmatically, glimmering with his eyes, and mumbling like a
witch. With much affected difficulty he sat at the end of the hut beside
the symbols alluded to, and continued his coughing full half an hour,
when his wife came in in the same manner, without saying a word, and
assumed the same affected style. The king jokingly looked at me and
laughed, and then at these strange creatures, by turn, as much as to
say, What do you think of them? but no voice was heard save that of the
old wife, who croaked like a frog for water, and, when some was brought,
croaked again because it was not the purest of the lake's produce--had
the first cup changed, wetted her lips with the second, and hobbled away
in the same manner as she came.

At this juncture the Mgussa's familiar motioned the Kamraviona and
several officers to draw around him, when, in a very low tone, he gave
them all the orders of the deep, and walked away. His revelations seemed
unpropitious, for we immediately repaired to our boats and returned to
our quarters. Here we no sooner arrived than a host of Wakungu, lately
returned from the Unyoro war, came to pay their respects to the king:
they had returned six days or more, but etiquette had forbidden their
approaching majesty sooner. Their successes had been great, their
losses, nil, for not one man had lost his life fighting. To these
men the king narrated all the adventures of the day; dwelling more
particularly on my defending his wife's life, whom he had destined for
execution. This was highly approved of by all; and they unanimously said
Bana knew what he was about, because he dispenses justice like a king in
his own country.

Early in the morning a great hue and cry was made because the Wanguana
had been seen bathing in the N'yanza naked, without the slightest regard
to decency. We went boating as usual all day long, sometimes after
hippopotami, at others racing up and down the lake, the king and Wakungu
paddling and steering by turns, the only break to this fatigue being
when we went ashore to picnic, or the king took a turn at the drums.
During the evening some of the principal Wakungu were collected
to listen to an intellectual discourse on the peculiarities of the
different women in the royal establishment, and the king in good-honour
described the benefits he had derived from this pleasant tour on the
water.

Whilst I was preparing my Massey's log to show the use of it to the
king, he went off boating without me; and as the few remaining boats
would not take me off because they had received no orders to do so, I
fired guns, but, getting no reply, went into the country hoping to find
game; but, disappointed in that also, I spent the first half of the day
with a hospitable old lady, who treated us to the last drop of pombe
in her house--for the king's servants had robbed her of nearly
everything--smoked her pipe with me, and chatted incessantly on the
honour paid her by the white king's visit, as well as of the horrors
of Uganda punishment, when my servants told her I saved the life of
one queen. Returning homewards, the afternoon was spent at a hospitable
officer's, who would not allow us to depart until my men were all
fuddled with pombe, and the evening setting in warned us to wend our
way. On arrival at camp, the king, quite shocked with himself for having
deserted me, asked me if I did not hear his guns fire. He had sent
twenty officers to scour the country, looking for me everywhere. He had
been on the lake the whole day himself, and was now amusing his officers
with a little archery practice, even using the bow himself, and making
them shoot by turns. A lucky shot brought forth immense applause, all
jumping and n'yanzigging with delight, whether it was done by their own
bows or the king's.

A shield was the mark, stuck up at only thirty paces; still they were
such bad shots that they hardly ever hit it. Now tired of this slow
sport, and to show his superior prowess, the king ordered sixteen
shields to be placed before him, one in front of the other, and with
one shot from Whitworth pierced the whole of them, the bullet passing
through the bosses of nearly every one. "Ah!" says the king, strutting
about with gigantic strides, and brandishing the rifle over his head
before all his men, "what is the use of spears and bows? I shall never
fight with anything but guns in the future." These Wakungu, having only
just then returned from plundering Unyoro, had never before seen their
king in a chair, or anybody sitting, as I was, by his side; and it
being foreign to their notions, as well as, perhaps, unpleasant to
their feelings, to find a stranger sitting higher than themselves, they
complained against this outrage to custom, and induced the king to order
my dethronement. The result was, as my iron stool was objectionable, I
stood for a moment to see that I thoroughly understood their meaning;
and then showing them my back, walked straightway home to make a grass
throne, and dodge them that way.

There was nothing for dinner last night, nothing again this morning,
yet no one would go in to report this fact, as rain was falling, and the
king was shut up with his women. Presently the thought struck me that
the rifle, which was always infallible in gaining me admittance at the
palace, might be of the same service now. I therefore shot a dove close
to the royal abode, and, as I expected, roused the king at once,
who sent his pages to know what the firing was about. When told the
truth--that I had been trying to shoot a dish of doves for breakfast,
as I could get neither meat nor drink from his kitchen--the head boy,
rather guessing than understanding what was told him, distorted my
message, and said to the king, as I could not obtain a regular supply
of food from his house, I did not wish to accept anything further at his
hands, but intended foraging for the future in the jungles. The king, as
might be imagined, did not believe the boy's story, and sent other pages
to ascertain the truth of the case, bidding them listen well, and beware
of what they were about. This second lot of boys conveyed the story
rightly, when the king sent me a cow. As I afterwards heard, he cut
off the ears of the unfortunate little mischief-maker for not making a
proper use of those organs; and then, as the lad was the son of one
of his own officers he was sent home to have the sores healed. After
breakfast the king called me to go boating, when I used my grass throne,
to the annoyance of the attendants. This induced the king to say before
them, laughing, "Bana, you see, is not to be done; he is accustomed to
sit before kings, and sit he will." Then by way of a change, he ordered
all the drums to embark and play upon the waters; whilst he and his
attendants paddled and steered by turns, first up the creek, and then
down nearly to the broad waters of the lake.

There was a passage this way, it was said, leading up to Usoga, but very
circuitous, on account of reefs or shoals, and on the way the Kitiri
island was passed; but no other Kitiri was known to the Waganda, though
boats went sometimes coasting down the western side of the lake to
Ukerewe. The largest island on the lake is the Sese, [20] off the mouth
of the Katonga river, where another of the high priests of the Neptune
of the N'yanza resides. The king's largest vessels are kept there, and
it is famous for its supply of mbugu barks. We next went on shore to
picnic, when a young hippopotamus, speared by harpoon, one pig, and
a pongo or bush-boc, were presented to the king. I now advised
boat-racing, which was duly ordered, and afforded much amusement as the
whole fifty boats formed in line, and paddle furiously to the beat of
drum to the goal which I indicated.

The day was done. In great glee the king, ever much attached to the
blackguard Maula, in consequence of his amusing stories, appointed him
to the office of seizer, or chief kidnapper of Wakungu; observing that,
after the return of so many officers from war, much business in that
line would naturally have to be done, and there was none so trustworthy
now at court to carry out the king's orders. All now went to the camp;
but what was my astonishment on reaching the hut to find every
servant gone, along with the pots, pans, meat, everything; and all in
consequence of the king's having taken the drums on board, which, being
unusual, was regarded as one of his delusive tricks, and a sign of
immediate departure. He had told no one he was going to the N'yanza,
and now it was thought he would return in the same way. I fired for my
supper, but fired in vain. Boys came out, by the king's order to inquire
what I wanted, but left again without doing anything further.

At my request the king sent off boats to inquire after the one that
left, or was supposed to have left, for Grant on the 3d of March, and he
then ordered the return home, much to my delight; for, beautiful as the
N'yanza was, the want of consideration for other people's comfort, the
tiring, incessant boating, all day long and every day, in the sun, as
well as the king's hurry-scurry about everything he undertook to do,
without the smallest forethought, preparation, or warning, made me
dream of my children, and look forward with pleasure to rejoining them.
Strange as it may appear to Englishmen, I had a sort of paternal love
for those little blackamoors as if they had been my offspring; and I
enjoyed the simple stories that their sable visitors told me every day
they came over to smoke their pipes, which they did with the utmost
familiarity, helping themselves from my stores just as they liked.

Without any breakfast, we returned by the same route by which we had
come, at four miles an hour, till half the way was cleared, when the
king said, laughing, "Bana, are you hungry?"--a ridiculous question
after twenty-four hours of starvation, which he knew full well--and led
the way into a plantain-grove, where the first hut that was found was
turned inside out for the king's accommodation, and picnic was prepared.
As, however, he ordered my portion to be given outside with the pages',
and allowed neither pombe or water, I gave him the slip, and walked
hurriedly home, where I found Kahala smirking, and apparently glad to
see us, but Meri shamming ill in bed, whilst Manamaka, the governess,
was full of smiles and conversation. She declared Meri had neither
tasted food or slept since my departure, but had been retching all the
time. Dreadfully concerned at the doleful story I immediately thought
of giving relief with medicines, but neither pulse, tongue, nor anything
else indicated the slightest disorder; and to add to these troubles,
Ilmas's woman had tried during my absence to hang herself, because she
would not serve as servant but wished to be my wife; and Bombay's wife,
after taking a doze of quinine, was delivered of a still-born child.

1st.--I visited the king, at his request, with the medicine-chest. He
had caught a cold. He showed me several of his women grievously affected
with boils, and expected me to cure them at once. I then went home,
and found twenty men who had passed Grant, coming on a stretcher from
Karague, without any of the rear property. Meri, still persistent,
rejected strengthening medicines, but said, in a confidential manner, if
I would give her a goat to sacrifice to the Uganga she would recover in
no time. There was something in her manner when she said this that I did
not like--it looked suspicious; and I contented myself by saying, "No,
I am a wiser doctor than any in these lands; if anybody could cure you,
that person is myself: and further, if I gave you a goat to sacrifice,
God would be angry with both of us for our superstitious credulity; you
must therefore say no more about it."

2d.--The whole country around the palace was in a state of commotion
to-day, from Maula and his children hunting down those officers who had
returned from the war, yet had not paid their respects to the king at
the N'yanza, because they thought they would not be justified in calling
on him so quickly after their arrival. Maula's house, in consequence of
this, was full of beef and pombe; whilst, in his courtyard, men, women,
and children, with feet in stocks, very like the old parish stocks in
England, waited his pleasure, to see what demands he would make upon
them as the price of their release. After anxiously watching, I found
out that Meri was angry with me for not allowing Ilmas's woman to
live in my house; and, to conquer my resolution against it--although I
ordered it with a view to please Ilmas, for he was desperately in love
with her--she made herself sick by putting her finger down her throat. I
scolded her for her obstinacy. She said she was ill--it was not feigned;
and if I would give her a goat to sacrifice she would be well at once;
for she had looked into the magic horn already, and discovered that if
I have her a goat for that purpose it would prove that I loved her,
and her health would be restored to her at once. Hallo! Here was a
transformation from the paternal position into that of a henpecked
husband! Somebody, I smelt at once, had been tampering with my household
whilst I was away. I commenced investigations, and after a while found
out that Rozaro's sister had brought a magician belonging to her family
into the hut during my absence, who had put Meri up to this trick of
extorting a goat from me, in order that he might benefit by it himself,
for the magician eats the sacrifice, and keeps the skin.

I immediately ordered him to be seized and bound to the flag-staff,
whilst Maula, Uledi, Rozaro, and Bombay were summoned to witness the
process of investigation. Rozaro flew into a passion, and tried
to release the magician as soon as he saw him, affecting intense
indignation that I should take the law into my own hands when one of
Rumanika's subjects was accused; but only lost his dignity still more on
being told he had acknowledged his inability to control his men so
often when they had misbehaved, that I scorned to ask his assistance any
longer. He took huff at this, and, as he could not help himself, walked
away, leaving us to do as we liked. The charge was fully proved. The
impudent magician, without leave, and contrary to all the usages of the
country, had entered and set my house against itself during my absence,
and had schemed to rob me of a goat. I therefore sentenced him to fifty
lashes--twenty-five for the injury he had inflicted on my by working up
a rebellion in my house, and the remaining twenty-five for attempting
larceny--saying, as he had wanted my goat and its skin, so now in
return I wanted his skin. These words were no sooner pronounced than the
wretched Meri cried out against it, saying all the fault was hers: "Let
the stick skin my back, but spare my doctor; it would kill me to see him
touched."

This appeal let me see that there was something in the whole matter too
deep and intricate to be remedied by my skill. I therefore dismissed her
on the spot, and gave her, as a sister and free woman, to Uledi and his
pretty Mhmula wife, giving Bombay orders to carry the sentences into
execution. After walking about till after dark, on returning to the
empty house, I had some misgivings as to the apparent cruelty of
abandoning one so helpless to the uncertainties of this wicked world.
Ilmas's woman also ran away, doubtless at the instigation of Rozaro's
sister, for she had been denied any further access to the house as being
at the bottom of all this mischief.

3d.--I was haunted all night by my fancied cruelty, and in the morning
sent its victim, after Uganda fashion, some symbolical presents,
including a goat, in token of esteem; a black blanket, as a sign of
mourning; a bundle of gundu anklets; and a packet of tobacco, in proof
of my forgiveness.


Chapter XIV. Palace, Uganda--Continued

Reception of a Victorious Army at Court--Royal Sport--A Review of the
Troops--Negotiations for the Opening of the Road along the Nile--Grant's
Return--Pillagings--Court Marriages--The King's Brothers--Divinations
and Sacrifices--The Road granted at last--The Preparations for
continuing the Expedition--The Departure.

I now received a letter from Grant to say he was coming by boat from
Kitangule, and at once went to the palace to give the welcome news to
the king. The road to the palace I found thronged with people; and
in the square outside the entrance there squatted a multitude of
attendants, headed by the king, sitting on a cloth, dressed in his
national costume, with two spears and a shield by his side. On his right
hand the pages sat waiting for orders, while on his left there was a
small squatting cluster of women, headed by Wichwezis, or attendant
sorceresses, offering pombe. In front of the king, in form of a hollow
square, many ranks deep, sat the victorious officers, lately returned
from the war, variously dressed; the nobles distinguished by their
leopard-cat skins and dirks, the commoners by coloured mbugu and cow
or antelope skin cloaks; but all their faces and arms were painted red,
black, or smoke-colour. Within the square of men, immediately fronting
the king, the war-arms of Uganda were arranged in three ranks; the great
war-drum, covered with a leopard-skin, and standing on a large carpeting
of them, was placed in advance; behind this, propped or hung on a
rack of iron, were a variety of the implements of war in common use,
offensive and defensive, as spears--of which two were of copper, the
rest iron--and shields of wood and leather; whilst in the last row or
lot were arranged systematically, with great taste and powerful effect,
the supernatural arms, the god of Uganda, consisting of charms of
various descriptions and in great numbers. Outside the square again, in
a line with the king, were the household arms, a very handsome copper
kettledrum, of French manufacture, surmounted on the outer edge with
pretty little brass bells depending from swan-neck-shaped copper wire,
two new spears, a painted leather shield, and magic wands of various
devices, deposited on a carpet of leopard-skins--the whole scene giving
the effect of true barbarous royalty in its uttermost magnificence.

Approaching, as usual, to take my seat beside the king, some slight
sensation was perceptible, and I was directed to sit beyond the women.
The whole ceremonies of this grand assemblage were now obvious. Each
regimental commandant in turn narrated the whole services of his party,
distinguishing those subs who executed his orders well and successfully
from those who either deserted before the enemy or feared to follow up
their success. The king listened attentively, making, let us suppose,
very shrewd remarks concerning them; when to the worthy he awarded
pombe, helped with gourd-cups from large earthen jars, which has
n'yanzigged for vehemently; and to the unworthy execution. When the
fatal sentence was pronounced, a terrible bustle ensued, the convict
wrestling and defying, whilst the other men seized, pulled and tore the
struggling wretch from the crowd, bound him hands and head together, and
led or rather tumbled him away.

After a while, and when all business was over, the king begged me to
follow him into the palace. He asked again for stimulants--a matter ever
uppermost in his mind--and would not be convinced that such things can
do him no possible good, but would in the end be deleterious. Grant's
letter was then read to him before his women, and I asked for the
dismissal of all the Wanyambo, for they had not only destroyed my peace
and home, but were always getting me into disrepute by plundering the
Waganda in the highways. No answer was given to this; and on walking
home, I found one of the king's women at my hut, imploring protection
against the Wanyambo, who had robbed and bruised her so often, she could
not stand such abuse any longer.

4th.--I sent Maula, early in the morning, with the plundered woman,
and desired him to request that the Wanyambo might be dismissed. He
returned, saying he delivered my message, but no reply was given. I
then searched for the king, and found him at his brothers' suite of huts
playing the flute before them. On taking my seat, he proudly pointed
to two vultures which he had shot with bullet, saying to his brothers,
"There, do you see these birds? Bana shoots with shot, but I kill with
bullets." To try him, I then asked for leave to go to Usoga, as Grant
was so far off; but he said, "No, wait until he comes, and you shall
both go together then; you fancy he is far off, but I know better. One
of my men saw him coming along carried on a stretcher." I said, "No;
that must be a mistake, for he told me by letter he would come by
water."

Heavy rain now set in, and we got under cover; but the brothers never
moved, some even sitting in the streaming gutter, and n'yanzigging
whenever noticed. The eldest brother offered me his cup of pombe,
thinking I would not drink it; but when he saw its contents vanishing
fast, he cried "lekerow!" (hold fast!) and as I pretended not to
understand him, continuing to drink, he rudely snatched the cup from
my lips. Alternate concerts with the brothers, and conversation about
hunting, in consequence of a bump caused by a fall with steeple-chasing,
which as discovered on my forehead, ended this day's entertainment.

5th.--As all the Wanguana went foraging, I was compelled to stop at
home. The king, however, sent an officer for Grant, because I would not
believe in his statement yesterday that he was coming by land; and I
also sent a lot of men with a litter to help him on, and bring me an
answer.

6th.--I went to the palace at the king's command. He kept us waiting an
hour, and then passing out by a side gate, beckoned us to follow. He
was dressed in European clothes, with his guns and tin box of clothes
leading the way. His first question was, "Well, Bana, where are your
guns? for I have called you to go shooting." "The pages never said
anything about shooting, and therefore the guns were left behind."
Totally unconcerned, the king walked on to his brothers, headed by a
band and attendants, who were much lauded for being ready at a moment's
notice. A grand flute concert was then played, one of the younger
brothers keeping time with a long hand-drum; then the band played; and
dancing and duets and singing followed. After the usual presentations,
fines, and n'yanziggings, I asked for leave to go and meet Grant by
water, but was hastily told that two boats had been sent for him when
we returned from the N'yanza, and that two runners, just returned from
Karague, said he was on the way not far off. The child-king then changed
his dress for another suit of clothes for his brothers to admire, and
I retired, much annoyed, as he would neither give pombe for myself, nor
plantains for my men: and I was further annoyed on my arrival at home,
to find the Wanguana mobbing my hut and clamouring for food, and calling
for an order to plunder if I did not give them beads, which, as the
stock had run short, I could only do by their returning to Karague
for the beads stored there; and, even if they were obtained, it was
questionable if the king would revoke his order prohibiting the sale of
provisions to us.

7th.--To-day I called at the queen's, but had to wait five hours in
company with some attendants, to whom she sent pombe occasionally;
but after waiting for her nearly all day, they were dismissed, because
excess of business prevented her seeing them, though I was desired to
remain. I asked these attendants to sell me food for beads, but they
declared they could not without obtaining permission. In the evening
the queen stumped out of her chambers and walked to the other end of
her palace, where the head or queen of the Wichwezi women lived, to whom
everybody paid the profoundest respect. On the way I joined her, she
saying, in a state of high anger, "You won't call on me, now I have
given you such a charming damsel: you have quite forgotten us in your
love of home." Of course Meri's misdemeanour had to be explained, when
she said, "As that is the case, I will give you another; but you must
take Meri out of the country, else she will bring trouble on us; for,
you know, I never gave girls who lived in the palace to any one in my
life before, because they would tell domestic affairs not proper for
common people to know." I then said my reason for not seeing her before
was, that the four times I had sent messengers to make an appointment
for the following day, they had been repulsed from her doors. This she
would not believe, but called me a story-teller in very coarse language,
until the men who had been sent were pointed out to her, and they
corroborated me.

The Wichwezi queen met her majesty with her head held very high, and
instead of permitting me to sit on my box of grass, threw out a bundle
of grass for that purpose. All conversation was kept between the two
queens; but her Wichwezi majesty had a platter of clay-stone brought,
which she ate with great relish, making a noise of satisfaction like
a happy guinea-pig. She threw me a bit, which to the surprise of
everybody, I caught and threw it into my mouth, thinking it was some
confection; but the harsh taste soon made me spit it out again, to
the amusement of the company. On returning home I found the king had
requested me to call on him as soon as possible with the medicine-chest.

8th.--Without a morsel to eat for dinner last night, or anything this
morning, we proceeded early to the palace, in great expectation that the
medicines in request would bring us something; but after waiting all day
till 4 p.m., as the king did not appear, leaving Bombay behind, I walked
away to shoot a guinea-fowl within earshot of the palace. The scheme was
successful, for the report of the gun which killed the bird reached the
king's ear, and induced him to say that if Bana was present he would
be glad to see him. This gave Bombay an opportunity of telling all the
facts of the case; which were no sooner heard than the king gave his
starving guests a number of plantains, and vanished at once, taking my
page Lugoi with him, to instruct him in Kisuahili (Zanzibar language).

9th.--As the fruit of last night's scheme, the king sent us four goats
and two cows. In great good-humour I now called on him, and found him
walking about the palace environs with a carbine, looking eagerly for
sport, whilst his pages dragged about five half-dead vultures tied in
a bundle by their legs to a string. "These birds," said he, tossing his
head proudly, "were all shot flying, with iron slugs, as the boys will
tell you. I like the carbine very well, but you must give me a double
smooth gun." This I promised to give when Grant arrived, for his
good-nature in sending so many officers to fetch him.

We next tried for guinea-fowl, as I tell him they are the game the
English delight in; but the day was far spent, and none could be found.
A boy then in attendance was pointed out, as having seen Grant in Uddu
ten days ago. If the statement were true, he must have crossed the
Katonga. But though told with great apparent circumspection, I did
not credit it, because my men sent on the 15th ultimo for a letter to
ascertain his whereabouts had not returned, and they certainly would
have done so had he been so near. To make sure, the king then proposed
sending the boy again with some of my men; but this I objected to as
useless, considering the boy had spoken falsely. Hearing this, the king
looked at the boy and then at the women in turn, to ascertain what they
thought of my opinion, whereupon the boy cried. Late in the evening
the sly little girl Kahala changed her cloth wrapper for a mbugu, and
slipped quietly away. I did not suspect her intention, because of late
she had appeared much more than ordinary happy, behaving to me in every
respect like a dutiful child to a parent. A search was made, and guns
fired, in the hopes of frightening her back again, but without effect.

10th.--I had promised that this morning I would teach the king the art
of guinea-fowl shooting, and when I reached the palace at 6 a.m., I
found him already on the ground. He listened to the tale of the missing
girl, and sent orders for her apprehension at once; then proceeding
with the gun, fired eight shots successively at guinea-birds sitting on
trees, but missed them all. After this, as the birds were scared
away, and both iron shot and bullets were expended, he took us to his
dressing-hut, went inside himself, attended by full-grown naked women,
and ordered a breakfast of pork, beef, fish, and plantains to be served
me outside on the left of the entrance; whilst a large batch of his
women sat on the right side, silently coquetting, and amusing themselves
by mimicking the white man eating. Poor little Lugoi joined in the
repast, and said he longed to return to my hut, for he was half starved
here, and no one took any notice of him; but he was destined to be a
royal page, for the king would not part with him. A cold fit then seized
me, and as I asked for leave to go, the king gave orders for one of
his wives to be flogged. The reason for this act of brutality I did not
discover; but the moment the order was issued, the victim begged the
pages to do it quickly, that the king's wrath might be appeased; and in
an instant I saw a dozen boys tear their cord-turbans from their heads
pull her roughly into the middle of the court, and belabour her
with sticks, whilst she lay floundering about, screeching to me for
protection. All I did was to turn my head away and walk rapidly out of
sight, thinking it better not to interfere again with the discipline of
the palace; indeed, I thought it not improbable that the king did these
things sometimes merely that his guests might see his savage power. On
reaching home I found Kahala standing like a culprit before my door.
She would not admit, what I suspected, that Meri had induced her to run
away; but said she was very happy in my house until yester-evening, when
Rozaro's sister told her she was very stupid living with the Mzungu all
alone, and told her to run away; which she did, taking the direction of
N'yamasore's, until some officers finding her, and noticing beads on her
neck, and her hair cut, according to the common court fashion, in slopes
from a point in the forehead to the breadth of her ears, suspected her
to be one of the king's women, and kept her in confinement all night,
till Mtesa's men came this morning and brought her back again. As a
punishment, I ordered her to live with Bombay; but my house was so dull
again from want of some one to eat dinner with me, that I remitted the
punishment, to her great delight.

11th.--To-day I received letters from Grant, dated 22d., 25th, 28th
April and 2d May. They were brought by my three men, with Karague pease,
flour, and ammunition. He was at Maula's house, which proved the king's
boy to be correct; for the convoy, afraid of encountering the voyage
on the lake, had deceived my companion and brought him on by land, like
true negroes.

12th.--I sent the three men who had returned from Grant to lay a
complaint against the convoy, who had tricked him out of a pleasant
voyage, and myself out of the long-wished-for survey of the lake. They
carried at the same time a present of a canister of shot from me to the
king. Delighted with this unexpected prize, he immediately shot fifteen
birds flying, and ordered the men to acquaint me with his prowess.

13th.--To-day the king sent me four cows and a load of butter as a
return-present for the shot, and allowed one of his officers, at my
solicitation, to go with ten of my men to help Grant on. He also sent a
message that he had just shot thirteen birds flying.

14th.--Mabuki and Bilal returned with Budja and his ten children from
Unyoro, attended by a deputation of four men sent by Kamrasi, who were
headed by Kidgwiga. Mtesa, it now transpired, had followed my advice
of making friendship with Kamrasi by sending two brass wires as a hongo
instead of an army, and Kamrasi in return, sent him two elephant-tusks.
Kidgwiga said Petherick's party was not in Unyoro--they had never
reached there, but were lying at anchor off Gani. Two white men only
had been seen--one, they said, a hairy man, the other smooth-faced; they
were as anxiously inquiring after us as we were after them: they sat on
chairs, dressed like myself, and had guns and everything precisely like
those in my hut. On one occasion they sent up a necklace of beads to
Kamrasi, and he, in return, gave them a number of women and tusks. If I
wished to go that way, Kamrasi would forward me on to their position
in boats; for the land route, leading through Kidi, was a jungle of ten
days, tenanted by a savage set of people, who hunt everybody, and seize
everything they see.

This tract is sometimes, however, traversed by the Wanyoro and Gani
people, who are traders in cows and tippet monkey-skins, stealthily
travelling at night; but they seldom attempt it from fear of being
murdered. Baraka and Uledi, sent from Karague on the 30th January, had
been at Kamrasi's palace upwards of a month, applying for the road to
Gani, and as they could not get that, wished to come with Mabruki to me;
but this Kamrasi also refused, on the plea that, as they had come from
Karague, so they must return there. Kamrasi had heard of my shooting
with Mtesa, as also of the attempt made by Mabruki and Uledi to reach
Gani via Usoga. He had received my present of beads from Baraka, and, in
addition, took Uledi's sword, saying, "If you do not wish to part with
it, you must remain a prisoner in my country all your life, for you have
not paid your footing." Mabruki then told me he was kept waiting at a
village, one hour's walk from Kamrasi's palace, five days before they
were allowed to approach his majesty; but when they were seen, and the
presents exchanged, they were ordered to pack off the following morning,
as Kamrasi said the Waganda were a set of plundering blackguards.

This information, to say the least of it, was very embarrassing--a
mixture of good and bad. Petherick, I now felt certain, was on the
look-out for us; but his men had reached Kamrasi's, and returned again
before Baraka's arrival. Baraka was not allowed to go on to him and
acquaint him of our proximity, and the Waganda were so much disliked in
Unyoro, that there seemed no hopes of our ever being able to communicate
by letter. To add to my embarrassments, Grant had not been able to
survey the lake from Kitangule, nor had Usoga and the eastern side of
the lake been seen.

15th.--I was still laid up with the cold fit of the 10th, which turned
into a low kind of fever. I sent Bombay to the king to tell him the
news, and ask him what he thought of doing next. He replied that he
would push for Gani direct; and sent back a pot of pombe for the sick
man.

16th.--The king to-day inquired after my health, and, strange to say,
did not accompany his message with a begging request.

17th.--My respite, however, was not long. At the earliest possible
hour in the morning the king sent begging for things one hundred times
refused, supposing, apparently, that I had some little reserve store
which I wished to conceal from him.

18th and 19th.--I sent Bombay to the palace to beg for pombe, as it was
the only thing I had an appetite for, but the king would see no person
but myself. He had broken his rifle washing-rod, and this must be
mended, the pages who brought it saying that no one dared take it back
to him until it was repaired. A guinea-fowl was sent after dark for me
to see, as a proof that the king was a sportsman complete.

20th.--The king going out shooting borrowed my powder-horn. The Wanguana
mobbed the hut and bullied me for food, merely because they did not like
the trouble of helping themselves from the king's garden, though they
knew I had purchased their privilege to do so at the price of a gold
chronometer and the best guns England could produce.

21st.--I now, for the first time, saw the way in which the king
collected his army together. The highroads were all thronged with
Waganda warriors, painted in divers colours, with plantain-leaf bands
round their heads, scanty goat-skin fastened to their loins, and spears
and shield in their hands, singing the tambure or march, ending with
a repetition of the word Mkavia, or Monarch. They surpassed in number,
according to Bombay, the troops and ragamuffins enlisted by Sultain
Majid when Sayyid Sweni threatened to attack Zanzibar; in fact, he never
saw such a large army collected anywhere.

Bombay, on going to the palace, hoping to obtain plantains for the men,
found the king holding a levee, for the purpose of despatching this
said army somewhere, but where no one would pronounce. The king,
then, observing my men who had gone to Unyoro together with Kamrasi's,
questioned them on their mission; and when told that no white men were
there, he waxed wrathful, and said it was a falsehood, for his men had
seen them, and could not be mistaken. Kamrasi, he said, must have hidden
them somewhere, fearful of the number of guns which now surrounded him;
and, for the same reason, he told lies, yes, lies--but no man living
shall dare tell himself lies; and now, as he could not obtain his object
by fair means, he would use arms and force it out. Then, turning to
Bombay, he said, "What does your master think of this business?" upon
which Bombay replied, according to his instructions, "Bana wishes
nothing done until Grant arrives, when all will go together." On this
the king turned his back and walked away.

22d.--Kitunzi called on me early, because he heard I was sick. I asked
him why the Waganda objected to my sitting on a chair; but, to avoid the
inconvenience of answering a troublesome question, without replying, he
walked off, saying he heard a noise in the neighbourhood of the palace
which must be caused by the king ordering some persons to be seized, and
his presence was so necessary he could not wait another moment. My men
went for plantains to the palace and for pombe on my behalf; but the
king, instead of giving them anything, took two fez caps off their
heads, keeping them to himself, and ordered them to tell Bana all his
beer was done.

23d.--Kidgwiga called on me to say Kamrasi so very much wanted the white
men at Gani to visit him, he had sent a hongo of thirty tusks to the
chief of that country in hopes that it would insure their coming to see
him. He also felt sure if I went there his king would treat me with the
greatest respect. This afforded an opportunity for putting in a word of
reconciliation. I said that it was at my request that Mtesa sent Kamrasi
a present; and so now, if Kamrasi made friends with the Waganda, there
would be no difficulty about the matter.

24th.--The army still thronged the highways, some going, others coming,
like a swarm of ants, the whole day long. Kidgwiga paid another visit,
and I went to the palace without my gun, wishing the king to fancy all
my powder was done, as he had nearly consumed all my store; but the
consequence was that, after waiting the whole day, I never saw him at
all. In the evening pages informed me that Grant had arrived at N'yama
Goma, one march distant.

25th.--I prepared twenty men, with a quarter of mutton for Grant to help
him on the way, but they could not go without a native officer, lest
they should be seized, and no officer would lead the way. The king came
shooting close to my hut and ordered me out. I found him marching Rozaro
about in custody with four other Wanyambo, who, detected plundering by
Kitunzi, had set upon and beaten him severely. The king, pointing them
out to me, said, he did not like the system of plundering, and wished to
know if it was the practice in Karague. Of course I took the opportunity
to renew my protest against the plundering system; but the king,
changing the subject, told me the Wazungu were at Gani inquiring after
us, and wishing to come here. To this I proposed fetching them myself
in boats, but he objected, saying he would send men first, for they were
not farther off to the northward than the place he sent boats to, to
bring Grant. He said he did not like Unyoro, because Kamrasi hides
himself like a Neptune in the Nile, whenever his men go on a visit
there, and instead of treating his guests with respect, he keeps them
beyond the river. For this reason he had himself determined on adopting
the passage by Kidi.

I was anxious, of course, to go on with the subject thus unexpectedly
opened, but, as ill-luck would have it, an adjutant was espied sitting
on a tree, when a terrible fuss and excitement ensued. The women were
ordered one way and the attendants another, whilst I had to load the
gun on the best way I could with the last charge and a half left in
the king's pouch. Ten grains were all he would have allowed himself,
reserving the residue, without reflecting that a large bird required
much shot; and he was shocked to find me lavishly use the whole, and
still say it was not enough.

The bird was then at a great height, so that the first shot merely
tickled him, and drove him to another tree. "Woh! woh!" cried the king,
"I am sure he is hit; look there, look there;" and away he rushed
after the bird; down with one fence, then with another, in the utmost
confusion, everybody trying to keep his proper place, till at last the
tree to which the bird had flown was reached, and then, with the last
charge of shot, the king killed his first nundo. The bird, however, did
not fall, but lay like a spread eagle in the upper branches. Wasoga were
called to climb the tree and pull it down; whilst the king, in ecstasies
of joy and excitement, rushed up and down the potato-field like a mad
bull, jumping and plunging, waving and brandishing the gun above his
head; whilst the drums beat, the attendants all woh-wohed, and the
women, joining with their lord, rushed about lullalooing and dancing
like insane creatures. Then began congratulations and hand-shakings,
and, finally, the inspection of the bird, which, by this time, the
Wasoga had thrown down. Oh! oh! what a wonder! Its wings outspread
reached further than the height of a man; we must go and show it to the
brothers. Even that was not enough--we must show it to the mother; and
away we all rattled as fast as our legs could carry us.

Arrived at the queen's palace, out of respect to his mother, the king
changed his European clothes for a white kid-skin wrapper, and then
walked in to see her, leaving us waiting outside. By this time Colonel
Congow, in his full-dress uniform, had arrived in the square outside,
with his regiment drawn up in review order. The king, hearing the
announcement, at once came out with spears and shield, preceded by the
bird, and took post, standing armed, by the entrance, encircled by his
staff, all squatting, when the adjutant was placed in the middle of the
company. Before us was a large open square, with the huts of the queen's
Kamraviona or commander-in-chief beyond. The battalion, consisting of
what might be termed three companies, each containing 200 men, being
drawn up on the left extremity of the parade-ground, received orders to
march past in single file from the right of companies, at a long trot,
and re-form again at the other end of the square.

Nothing conceivable could be more wild or fantastic than the sight which
ensued--the men all nearly naked, with goat or cat skins depending from
their girdles, and smeared with war colours according to the taste of
each individual; one-half of the body red or black, the other blue, not
in regular order--as, for instance, one stocking would be red, the other
black, whilst the breeches above would be the opposite colours, and so
with the sleeves and waistcoat. Every man carried the same arms--two
spears and one shield--held as if approaching an enemy, and they thus
moved in three lines of single rank and file, at fifteen to twenty paces
asunder, with the same high action and elongated step, the ground leg
only being bent, to give their strides the greater force. After the
men had all started, the captains of companies followed, even more
fantastically dressed; and last of all came the great Colonel Congow,
a perfect Robinson Crusoe, with his long white-haired goat-skins,
a fiddle-shaped leather shield, tufted with white hair at all six
extremities, bands of long hair tied below the knees, and a magnificent
helmet, covered with rich beads of every colour, in excellent taste,
surmounted with a plume of crimson feathers, from the centre of which
rose a bent stem, tufted with goat-hair. Next they charged in companies
to and fro; and, finally, the senior officers came charging at their
king, making violent professions of faith and honesty, for which they
were applauded. The parade then broke up, and all went home.

26th.--One of king Mtesa's officers now consenting to go to N'yama Goma
with some of my men, I sent Grant a quarter of goat. The reply brought
to me was, that he was very thankful for it; that he cooked it and ate
it on the spot; and begged I would see the king, to get him released
from that starving place. Rozaro was given over to the custody of
Kitunzi for punishment. At the same time, the queen, having heard of the
outrages committed against her brother and women, commanded that neither
my men nor any of Rozaro's should get any more food at the palace; for
as we all came to Uganda in one body, so all alike were, by her logic,
answerable for the offence. I called at the palace for explanation but
could not obtain admittance because I would not fire the gun.

27th.--The king sent to say he wanted medicine to propitiate lightning.
I called and described the effects of a lightning-rod, and tried to
enter into the Unyoro business, wishing to go there at once myself. He
objected, because he had not seen Grant, but appointed an officer to
go through Unyoro on to Gani, and begged I would also send men with
letters. Our talk was agreeably interrupted by guns in the distance
announcing Grant's arrival, and I took my leave to welcome my friend.
How we enjoyed ourselves after so much anxiety and want of one another's
company, I need not describe. For my part, I was only too rejoiced
to see Grant could limp about a bit, and was able to laugh over the
picturesque and amusing account he gave me of his own rough travels.

28th.--The king in the morning sent Budja, his ambassador, with
Kamrasi's Kidgwiga, over to me for my men and letters, to go to
Kamrasi's again and ask for the road to Gani. I wished to speak to
the king first, but they said they had no orders to stop for that, and
walked straight away. I sent the king a present of a double-barrelled
gun and ammunition, and received in answer a request that both Grant and
myself would attend a levee, which he was to hold in state, accompanied
by his bodyguard, as when I was first presented to him. In the afternoon
we proceeded to court accordingly, but found it scantily attended; and
after the first sitting, which was speedily over, retired to another
court, and saw the women. Of this dumb show the king soon got tired; he
therefore called for his iron chair, and entered into conversation, at
first about the ever-engrossing subject of stimulants, till we changed
it by asking him how he liked the gun? He pronounced it a famous weapon,
which he would use intensely. We then began to talk in a general way
about Suwarora and Rumanika, as well as the road through Unyamuezi,
which we hoped would soon cease to exist, and be superseded by one
through Unyoro.

It will be kept in view that the hanging about at this court, and all
the perplexing and irritating negotiations here described, had always
one end in view--that of reaching the Nile where it pours out of the
N'yanza, as I was long certain that it did. Without the consent and
even the aid of this capricious barbarian I was now talking to, such a
project was hopeless. I naturally seized every opportunity for putting
in a word in the direction of my great object, and here seemed to be an
opportunity. We now ventured on a plump application for boats that we
might feel our way to Gani by water, supposing the lake and river to
be navigable all the way; and begged Kitunzi might be appointed to
accompany us, in order that whatever was done might be done all with
good effect in opening up a new line of commerce, by which articles of
European manufacture might find a permanent route to Uganda. It was "no
go," however. The appeal, though listened to, and commented on, showing
that it was well understood, got no direct reply. It was not my policy
to make our object appear too important to ourselves, so I had to appear
tolerably indifferent, and took the opportunity to ask for my paint-box,
which he had borrowed for a day and had kept in his possession for
months. I got no answer to that request either, but was immediately
dunned for the compass, which had been promised on Grant's arrival. Now,
with a promise that the compass would be sent him in the morning, he
said he would see what pombe his women could spare us; and, bidding good
evening, walked away.

29th.--I sent Bombay with the compass, much to the delight of the
king, who no sooner saw it than he jumped and woh-wohed with intense
excitement at the treasure he had gained, said it was the greatest
present Bana had ever given him, for it was the thing by which he found
out all the roads and countries--it was, in fact, half his knowledge;
and the parting with it showed plainly that Bana entertained an
everlasting friendship for him. The king then called Maula, and said,
"Maula, indeed you have spoken the truth; there is nothing like this
instrument," etc., etc., repeating what he had already told Bombay. In
the evening, the king, accompanied by all his brothers, with iron chair
and box, came to visit us, and inspected all Grant's recently brought
pictures of the natives, with great acclamation. We did not give him
anything this time, but, instead, dunned him for the paint-box, and
afterwards took a walk to my observatory hill, where I acted as guide.
On the summit of this hill the king instructed his brothers on the
extent of his dominions; and as I asked where Lubari or God resides, he
pointed to the skies.

30th.--The king at last sent the paint-box, with some birds of his own
shooting, which he wished painted. He also wanted himself drawn, and all
Grant's pictures copied. Then, to wind up these mild requests, a demand
was made for more powder, and that all our guns be sent to the palace
for inspection.

31st.--I drew a large white and black hornbill and a green pigeon sent
by himself; but he was not satisfied; he sent more birds, and wanted
to see my shoes. The pages who came with the second message, however,
proving impertinent, got a book flung at their heads, and a warning to
be off, as I intended to see the king myself, and ask for food to keep
my ever-complaining Wanguana quiet. Proceeding to the palace, as I found
Mtesa had gone out shooting, I called on the Kamraviona, complained that
my camp was starving, and as I had nothing left to give the king said I
wished to leave the country. Ashamed of its being supposed that his king
would not give me any food because I had no more presents to give him,
the Kamraviona, from his own stores, gave me a goat and pombe, and said
he would speak to the king on the subject.

1st.--I drew for the king a picture of a guinea-fowl which he shot in
the early morning, and proceeded on a visit with Grant to the queen's,
accompanied only by seven men, as the rest preferred foraging for
themselves, to the chance of picking up a few plantains at her
majesty's. After an hour's waiting, the queen received us with smiles,
and gave pombe and plantains to her new visitor, stating pointedly she
had none for me. There was deep Uganda policy in this: it was for the
purpose of treating Grant as a separate, independent person, and so
obtaining a fresh hongo or tax. Laughing at the trick, I thanked her
for the beer, taking it personally on my household, and told her when
my property arrived from Karague, she should have a few more things as
I promised her; but the men sent had neither brought my brother in
a vessel, as they were ordered, not did they bring my property from
Karague.

Still the queen was not content: she certainly expected something from
Grant, if it was ever so little, for she was entitled to it, and would
not listen to our being one house. Turning the subject, to put in a word
for my great object, I asked her to use her influence in opening the
road to Gani, as, after all, that was the best way to get new things
into Uganda. Cunning as a fox, the queen agreed to this project,
provided Grant remained behind, for she had not seen enough of him yet,
and she would speak to her son about the matter in the morning.

This was really the first gleam of hope, and I set to putting our future
operations into a shape that might lead to practical results without
alarming our capricious host. I thought that whilst I could be employed
in inspecting the river, and in feeling the route by water to Gani,
Grant could return to Karague by water, bringing up our rear traps, and,
in navigating the lake, obtain the information he had been frustrated in
getting by the machinations of his attendant Maribu. It was agreed to,
and all seemed well; for there was much left to be done in Uganda and
Usoga, if we could only make sure of communicating once with Petherick.
Before going home we had some more polite conversation, during which the
queen played with a toy in the shape of a cocoa du mer, studded all
over with cowries: this was a sort of doll, or symbol of a baby and her
dandling it was held to indicate that she would ever remain a widow. In
the evening the king returned all our rifles and guns, with a request
for one of them; as also for the iron chair he sat upon when calling on
us, an iron bedstead, and the Union Jack, for he did not honour us with
a visit for nothing; and the head page was sent to witness the transfer
of the goods, and see there was no humbug about it. It was absolutely
necessary to get into a rage, and tell the head page we did not come to
Uganda to be swindled in that manner, and he might tell the king I would
not part with one of them.

2d.--K'yengo, who came with Grant, now tried to obtain an interview with
the king, but could not get admission. I had some further trouble about
the disposal of the child Meri, who said she never before had lived in
a poor man's house since she was born. I thought to content her by
offering to marry her to one of Rumanika's sons, a prince of her own
breed, but she would not listen to the proposal.

3d.--For days past, streams of men have been carrying faggots of
firewood, clean-cut timber, into the palaces of the king, queen, and
the Kamraviona; and to-day, on calling on the king, I found him engaged
having these faggots removed by Colonel Mkavia's regiment from one court
into another, this being his way of ascertaining their quantity, instead
of counting them. About 1600 men were engaged on this service, when
the king, standing on a carpet in front of the middle hut of the first
court, with two spears in his hand and his dog by his side, surrounded
by his brothers and a large staff of officers, gave orders for the
regiment to run to and fro in column, that he might see them well; then
turning to his staff, ordered them to run up and down the regiment, and
see what they thought of it. This ridiculous order set them all flying,
and soon they returned, charging at the king with their sticks, dancing
and jabbering that their numbers were many, he was the greatest king on
earth, and their lives and services were his for ever. The regiment
now received orders to put down their faggots, and, taking up their own
sticks in imitation of spears, followed the antics of their officers
in charging and vociferating. Next, Mkavia presented five hairy Usoga
goats, n'yanzigging and performing the other appropriate ceremonies. On
asking the king if he had any knowledge of the extent of his army, he
merely said, "How can I, when these you see are a portion of them just
ordered here to carry wood?"

The regiment was now dismissed; but the officers were invited to follow
the king into another court, when he complimented them on assembling so
many men; they, instead of leaving well alone, foolishly replied they
were sorry they were not more numerous, as some of the men lived so far
away they shirked the summons; Maula, then, ever forward in mischief,
put a cap on it by saying, if he could only impress upon the Waganda to
listen to his orders, there would never be a deficiency. Upon which
the king said, "If they fail to obey you, they disobey me; for I have
appointed you as my orderly, and thereby you personify the orders of the
king." Up jumped Maula in a moment as soon as these words were uttered,
charging with his stick, then floundering and n'yanzigging as if he had
been signally rewarded. I expected some piece of cruel mischief to come
of all this, but the king, in his usual capricious way, suddenly rising,
walked off to a third court, followed only by a select few.

Here, turning to me, he said, "Bana, I love you, because you have come
so far to see me, and have taught me so many things since you have been
here." Rising, with my hand to my heart, and gracefully bowing at
this strange announcement--for at that moment I was full of hunger and
wrath--I intimated I was much flattered at hearing it, but as my house
was in a state of starvation, I trusted he would consider it. "What!"
said he, "do you want goats?" "Yes, very much." The pages then received
orders to furnish me with ten that moment, as the king's farmyard was
empty, and he would reimburse them as soon as more confiscations took
place. But this, I said, was not enough; the Wanguana wanted plantains,
for they had received none these fifteen days. "What!" said the king,
turning to his pages again, "have you given these men no plantains, as I
ordered? Go and fetch them this moment, and pombe too, for Bana."

The subject then turned on the plan I had formed of going to Gani by
water, and of sending Grant to Karague by the lake; but the king's mind
was fully occupied with the compass I had given him. He required me to
explain its use, and then broke up the meeting.

4th.--Viarungi, an officer sent by Rumanika to escort Grant to Uganda,
as well as to apply to king Mtesa for a force to fight his brother
Rogero, called on me with Rozaro, and said he had received instructions
from his king to apply to me for forty cows and two slave-boys, because
the Arabs who pass through his country to Uganda always make him a
present of that sort after receiving them from Mtesa. After telling him
we English never give the presents they have received away to any one,
and never make slaves, but free them, I laid a complaint against Rozaro
for having brought much trouble and disgrace upon my camp, as well as
much trouble on myself, and begged that he might be removed from my
camp. Rozaro then attempted to excuse himself, but without success, and
said he had already detached his residence from my camp, and taken up a
separate residence with Viarungi, his superior officer.

I called on the king in the afternoon, and found the pages had already
issued plantains for my men and pombe for myself. The king addressed me
with great cordiality, and asked if I wished to go to Gani. I answered
him with all promptitude,--Yes, at once, with some of his officers
competent to judge of the value of all I point out to them for
future purposes in keeping the road permanently open. His provoking
capriciousness, however, again broke in, and he put me off till his
messengers should return from Unyoro. I told him his men had gone in
vain, for Budja left without my letter or my men; and further, that the
river route is the only one that will ever be of advantage to Uganda,
and the sooner it was opened up the better. I entreated him to listen
to my advice, and send some of my men to Kamrasi direct, to acquaint him
with my intention to go down the river in boats to him; but I could get
no answer to this. Bombay then asked for cows for the Wanguana, getting
laughed at for his audacity, and the king broke up the court and walked
away.

5th.--I started on a visit to the queen, but half-way met Congow, who
informed me he had just escorted her majesty from his house, where she
was visiting, to her palace. By way of a joke and feeler, I took it in
my head to try, by taking a harmless rise out of Congow, whether the
Nile is understood by the natives to be navigable near its exit from the
N'yanza. I told him he had been appointed by the king to escort us down
the river to Gani. He took the affair very seriously, delivering himself
to the following purport: "Well, then, my days are numbered; for if
I refuse compliance I shall lose my head; and if I attempt to pass
Kamrasi's, which is on the river, I shall lose my life; for I am a
marked man there, having once led an army past his palace and back
again. It would be no use calling it a peaceful mission, as you propose;
for the Wanyoro distrust the Waganda to such an extent, they would fly
to arms at once."

Proceeding to the queen's palace, we met Murondo, who had once travelled
to the Masai frontier. He said it would take a month to go in boats from
Kira, the most easterly district in Uganda, to Masai, where there is
another N'yanza, joined by a strait to the big N'yanza, which king
Mtesa's boats frequent for salt; but the same distance could be
accomplished in four days overland, and three days afterwards by boat.
The queen, after keeping us all day waiting, sent three bunches of
plantains and a pot of pombe, with a message that she was too tired to
receive visitors, and hoped we would call another day.

6th.--I met Pokino, the governor-general of Uddu, in the morning's
walk, who came here at the same time as Grant to visit the king, and was
invited into his house to drink pombe. His badge of office is an iron
hatchet, inlaid with copper and handled with ivory. He wished to give
us a cow, but put it off for another day, and was surprised we dared
venture into his premises without permission from the king. After this,
we called at the palace, just as the king was returning from a walk with
his brothers. He saw us, and sent for Bana. We entered, and presented
him with some pictures, which he greatly admired, looked at close and
far, showed to the brothers, and inspected again. Pokino at this
time came in with a number of well-made shields, and presented them
grovelling and n'yanzigging; but though the governor of an important
province, who had not been seen by the king for years, he was taken
no more notice of than any common Mkungu. A plan of the lake and Nile,
which I brought with me to explain our projects for reaching Karague and
Gani, engaged the king's attention for a while; but still he would not
agree to let anything be done until the messenger returned from Unyoro.
Finding him inflexible, I proposed sending a letter, arranging that his
men should be under the guidance of my men after they pass Unyoro on the
way to Gani; and this was acceded to, provided I should write a letter
to Petherick by the morrow. I then tried to teach the king the use of
the compass. To make a stand for it, I turned a drum on its head, when
all the courtiers flew at me as if to prevent an outrage, and the king
laughed. I found that, as the instrument was supposed to be a magic
charm of very wonderful powers, my meddling with it and treating it as
an ordinary movable was considered a kind of sacrilege.

7th.--I wrote a letter to Petherick, but the promised Wakungu never came
for it. As K'yengo was ordered to attend court with Rumanika's hongo,
consisting of a few wires, small beads, and a cloth I gave him, as well
as a trifle from Nnanji, I sent Bombay, in place of going myself, to
remind the king of his promises for the Wakungu to Gani, as well as for
boats to Karague, but a grunt was the only reply which my messenger said
he obtained.

8th.--Calling at the palace, I found the king issuing for a walk,
and joined him, when he suddenly turned round in the rudest manner,
re-entered his palace, and left me to go home without speaking a word.
The capricious creature then reissued, and, finding me gone, inquired
after me, presuming I ought to have waited for him.

9th.--During the night, when sleeping profoundly, some person stealthily
entered my hut and ran off with a box of bullets towards the palace, but
on the way dropped his burden. Maula, on the way home, happening to see
it, and knowing it to be mine, brought it back again. I stayed at home,
not feeling well.

10th.--K'yengo paid his hongo in wire to the king, and received a return
of six cows. Still at home, an invalid, I received a visit from Meri,
who seemed to have quite recovered herself. Speaking of her present
quarters, she said she loved Uledi's wife very much, thinking birds of
a feather ought to live together. She helped herself to a quarter of
mutton, and said she would come again.

11th.--To-day Viarungi, finding Rozaro's men had stolen thirty cows,
twelve slaves, and a load of mbugu from the Waganda, laid hands on them
himself for Rumanika, instead of giving them to King Mtesa. Such are the
daily incidents among our neighbours.

12th.--At night a box of ammunition and a bag of shot, which were placed
out as a reserve present for the king, to be given on our departure,
were stolen, obviously by the king's boys, and most likely by the king's
orders; for he is the only person who could have made any use of
them, and his boys alone know the way into the hut; besides which, the
previous box of bullets was found on the direct road to the palace,
while it was well known that no one dared to touch an article of
European manufacture without the consent of the king.

13th.--I sent a message to the king about the theft, requiring him, if
an honest man, to set his detectives to work, and ferret it out; his
boys, at the same time, to show our suspicions, were peremptorily
forbidden ever to enter the hut again. Twice the king sent down a hasty
message to say he was collecting all his men to make a search, and, if
they do not succeed, the Mganga would be sent; but nothing was done. The
Kamraviona was sharply rebuked by the king for allowing K'yengo to visit
him before permission was given, and thus defrauding the royal exchequer
of many pretty things, which were brought for majesty alone. At night
the rascally boys returned again to plunder, but Kahala, more wakeful
than myself, heard them trying to untie the door-handle, and frightened
them away in endeavouring to awaken me.

14th and 15th.--Grant, doing duty for me, tried a day's penance at the
palace, but though he sat all day in the ante-chamber, and musicians
were ordered into the presence, nobody called for him. K'yengo was sent
with all his men on a Wakungu-seizing expedition,--a good job for
him, as it was his perquisite to receive the major part of the plunder
himself.

16th.--I sent Kahala out of the house, giving her finally over to Bombay
as a wife, because she preferred playing with dirty little children
to behaving like a young lady, and had caught the itch. This was much
against her wish, and the child vowed she would not leave me until force
compelled her; but I had really no other way of dealing with the remnant
of the awkward burden which the queen's generosity had thrown on me.
K'yengo went to the palace with fifty prisoners; but as the king had
taken his women to the small pond, where he has recently placed a tub
canoe for purposes of amusement, they did no business.

17th.--I took a first convalescent walk. The king, who was out shooting
all day, begged for powder in the evening. Uledi returned from his
expedition against a recusant officer at Kituntu, bringing with him a
spoil of ten women. It appeared that the officer himself had bolted from
his landed possessions, and as they belonged to "the church," or were
in some way or other sacred from civil execution, they could not be
touched, so that Uledi lost an estate which the king had promised him.
We heard that Ilmas, wife of Majanja, who, as I already mentioned, had
achieved an illustrious position by services at the birth of the
king, had been sent to visit the late king Sunna's tomb, whence, after
observing certain trees which were planted, and divining by mystic arts
what the future state of Uganda required, she would return at a specific
time, to order the king at the time of his coronation either to take the
field with an army, to make a pilgrimage, or to live a life of ease
at home; whichever of these courses the influence of the ordeal at the
grave might prompt her to order, must be complied with by the king.

18th.--I called at the palace with Grant, taking with us some pictures
of soldiers, horses, elephants, etc. We found the guard fighting over
their beef and plantain dinner. Bombay remarked that this daily feeding
on beef would be the lot of the Wanguana if they had no religious
scruples about the throat-cutting of animals for food. This, I told him,
was all their own fault, for they have really no religion or opinions of
their own; and had they been brought up in England instead of Africa, it
would have been all the other way with them as a matter of course; but
Bombay replied, "We could no more throw off the Mussulman faith than you
could yours." A man with a maniacal voice sang and whistled by turns.
Katumba, the officer of the guards, saw our pictures, and being a
favourite, acquainted the king, which gained us an admittance.

We found his majesty sitting on the ground, within a hut, behind a
portal, encompassed by his women, and took our seats outside. At first
all was silence, till one told the king we had some wonderful pictures
to show him; in an instant he grew lively, crying out, "Oh, let us see
them!" and they were shown, Bombay explaining. Three of the king's wives
then came in, and offered him their two virgin sisters, n'yanzigging
incessantly, and beseeching their acceptance, as by that means they
themselves would become doubly related to him. Nothing, however, seemed
to be done to promote the union, until one old lady, sitting by the
king's side, who was evidently learned in the etiquette and traditions
of the court, said, "Wait and see if he embraces, otherwise you may know
he is not pleased." At this announcement the girls received a hint to
pass on, and the king commenced bestowing on them a series of huggings,
first sitting on the lap of one, whom he clasped to his bosom, crossing
his neck with hers to the right, then to the left, and, having finished
with her, took post in the second one's lap, then on that of the third,
performing on each of them the same evolutions. He then retired to
his original position, and the marriage ceremony was supposed to be
concluded, and the settlements adjusted, when all went on as before.

The pictures were again looked at, and again admired, when we asked
for a private interview on business, and drew the king outside. I then
begged he would allow me, whilst his men were absent at Unyoro, to go to
the Masai country, and see the Salt Lake at the north-east corner of the
N'yanza, and to lend me some of his boats for Grant to fetch powder and
beads from Karague. This important arrangement being conceded by the
king more promptly than we expected, a cow, plantains, and pombe were
requested; but the cow only was given, though our men were said to be
feeding on grass. Taking the king, as it appeared, in a good humour, to
show him the abuses arising from the system of allowing his guests to
help themselves by force upon the highways, I reported the late seizures
made of thirty cows and twelve slaves by the Wanyambo; but, though
surprised to hear the news, he merely remarked that there were indeed a
great number of visitors in Uganda. During this one day we heard the
sad voice of no less than four women, dragged from the palace to the
slaughter-house.

19th.--To follow up our success in the marching question and keep the
king to his promise, I called at his palace, but found he had gone out
shooting. To push my object further, I then marched off to the queen's
to bid her good-bye, as if we were certain to leave the next day; but as
no one would dare to approach her cabinet to apprise her of our arrival,
we returned home tired and annoyed.

20th.--The king sent for us at noon; but when we reached the palace we
found he had started on a shooting tour; so, to make the best of our
time, we called again upon the queen for the same purpose as yesterday,
as also to get my books of birds and animals, which, taken merely
to look at for a day or so, had been kept for months. After hours of
waiting, her majesty appeared standing in an open gateway; beckoned us
to advance, and offered pombe; then, as two or three drops of rain fell,
she said she could not stand the violence of the weather, and forthwith
retired without one word being obtained. An officer, however, venturing
in for the books, at length I got them.

21st.--To-day I went to the palace, but found no one; the king was out
shooting again.

22d.--We resolved to-day to try on a new political influence at the
court. Grant had taken to the court of Karague a jumping-jack, to amuse
the young princes; but it had a higher destiny, for it so fascinated the
king Rumanika himself that he would not part with it--unless, indeed,
Grant would make him a big one out of a tree which was handed to him
for the purpose. We resolved to try the influence of such a toy on king
Mtesa, and brought with us, in addition, a mask and some pictures. But
although the king took a visiting card, the gate was never opened to us.
Finding this, and the day closing, we deposited the mask and pictures on
a throne, and walked away. We found that we had thus committed a serious
breach of state etiquette; for the guard, as soon as they saw what we
had done, seized the Wanguana for our offences in defiling the royal
seat, and would have bound them, had they not offered to return the
articles to us.

23d.--Early in the morning, hearing the royal procession marching off on
a shooting excursion, we sent Bombay running after it with the mask and
pictures, to aquaint the king with our desire to see him, and explain
that we had been four days successively foiled in attempts to find him
in his palace, our object being an eager wish to come to some speedy
understanding about the appointed journeys to the Salt Lake and Karague.
The toys produced the desired effect; for the king stopped and played
with them, making Bombay and the pages don the masks by turns. He
appointed the morrow for an interview, at the same time excusing himself
for not having seen us yesterday on the plea of illness. In the evening
Kahala absconded with another little girl of the camp in an opposite
direction from the one she took last time; but as both of them wandered
about not knowing where to go to, and as they omitted to take off all
their finery, they were soon recognised as in some way connected with my
party, taken up, and brought into camp, where they were well laughed at
for their folly, and laughed in turn at the absurdity of their futile
venture.

24th.--Hoping to keep the king to his promise, I went to the palace
early, but found he had already gone to see his brothers, so followed
him down, and found him engaged playing on a harmonicon with them.
Surprised at my intrusion, he first asked how I managed to find him out;
then went on playing for a while; but suddenly stopping to talk with me,
he gave me an opportunity of telling him I wished to send Grant off to
Karague, and start myself for Usoga and the Salt Lake in the morning.
"What! going away?" said the king, as if he had never heard a word
about it before; and then, after talking the whole subject over again,
especially dwelling on the quantity of powder I had in store at Karague,
he promised to send the necessary officers for escorting us on our
respective journeys in the morning.

The brothers' wives then wished to see me, and came before us, when I
had to take off my hat and shoes as usual, my ready compliance inducing
the princes to pass various compliments of my person and disposition.
The brothers then showed me a stool made of wood after the fashion of
our sketching-stool, and a gun-cover of leather, made by themselves,
of as good workmanship as is to be found in India. The king then rose,
followed by his brothers, and we all walked off to the pond. The effect
of stimulants was mooted, as well as other physiological phenomena, when
a second move took us to the palace by torchlight, and the king showed
a number of new huts just finished and beautifully made. Finally, he
settled down to a musical concert, in which he took the lead himself.
At eight o'clock, being tired and hungry, I reminded the king of his
promises, and he appointed the morning to call on him for the Wakungu,
and took leave.

25th.--Makinga, hearing of the intended march through Usoga, was pleased
to say he would like to join my camp and spend his time in buying slaves
and ivory there. I went to the palace for the promised escort, but
was no sooner announced by the pages than the king walked off into the
interior of his harem, and left me no alternative but to try my luck
with the Kamraviona, who, equally proud with his master, would not
answer my call,--and so another day was lost.

26th.--This morning we had the assuring intelligence from Kaddu that he
had received orders to hold himself in readiness for a voyage to Karague
in twenty boats with Grant, but the date of departure was not fixed.
The passage was expected to be rough, as the water off the mouth of the
Kitangule Kagera (river) always runs high, so that no boats can go there
except at night, when the winds of day subside, and are replaced by the
calms of night. I called at the palace, but saw nothing of the king,
though the court was full of officials; and there were no less than 150
women, besides girls, goats, and various other things, seizures from
refractory state officers, who, it was said, had been too proud to
present themselves at court for a period exceeding propriety.

All these creatures, I was assured, would afterwards be given away as
return-presents for the hongos or presents received from the king's
visitors. No wonder the tribes of Africa are mixed breeds. Amongst the
officers in waiting was my friend Budja, the ambassador that had been
sent to Unyoro with Kidgwiga, Kamrasi's deputy. He had returned three
days before, but had not yet seen the king. As might have been expected,
he said he had been anything but welcomed in Unyoro. Kamrasi, after
keeping him half-starved and in suspense eight days, sent a message--for
he would not see him--that he did not desire any communication with
blackguard Waganda thieves, and therefore advised him, if he valued his
life, to return by the road by which he came as speedily as possible.
Turning to Congow, I playfully told him that, as the road through Unyoro
was closed, he would have to go with me through Usoga and Kidi; but
the gallant colonel merely shuddered, and said that would be a terrible
undertaking.

27th.--The king would not show, for some reason or other, and we
still feared to fire guns lest he should think our store of powder
inexhaustible, and so keep us here until he had extorted the last of
it. I found that the Waganda have the same absurd notion here as the
Wanyambo have in Karague, of Kamrasi's supernatural power in being able
to divide the waters of the Nile in the same manner as Moses did the Red
Sea.

28th.--The king sent a messenger-boy to inform us that he had just heard
from Unyoro that the white men were still at Gani inquiring after us;
but nothing was said of Budja's defeat. I sent Bombay immediately off
to tell him we had changed our plans, and now simply required a large
escort to accompany us through Usoga and Kidi to Gani, as further delay
in communicating with Petherick might frustrate all chance of opening
the Nile trade with Uganda. He answered that he would assemble all his
officers in the morning to consult with them on the subject, when he
hoped we would attend, as he wished to further our views. A herd of
cows, about eighty in number, were driven in from Unyoro, showing that
the silly king was actually robbing Kamrasi at the same time that he was
trying to treat with him. K'yengo informed us that the king, considering
the surprising events which had lately occurred at his court, being
very anxious to pry into the future, had resolved to take a very strong
measure for accomplishing that end. This was the sacrifice of a child by
cooking, as described in the introduction--a ceremony which it fell to
K'yengo to carry out.

29th.--To have two strings to my bow, and press our departure as hotly
as possible, I sent first Frij off with Nasib to the queen, conveying,
as a parting present, a block-tin brush-box, a watch without a key, two
sixpenny pocket-handkerchiefs, and a white towel, with an intimation
that we were going, as the king had expressed his desire of sending us
to Gani. Her majesty accepted the present, finding fault with the watch
for not ticking like the king's, and would not believe her son Mtesa
had been so hasty in giving us leave to depart, as she had not been
consulted on the subject yet. Setting off to attend the king at his
appointed time, I found the Kamraviona already there, with a large court
attendance, patiently awaiting his majesty's advent. As we were all
waiting on, I took a rise out of the Kamraviona by telling him I wanted
a thousand men to march with me through Kidi to Gani. Surprised at the
extent of my requisition, he wished to know if my purpose was fighting.
I made him a present of the great principle that power commands respect,
and it was to prevent any chance of fighting that we required so
formidable an escort. His reply was that he would tell the king; and he
immediately rose and walked away home.

K'yengo and the representatives of Usui and Karague now arrived by order
of the king to bid farewell, and received the slaves and cattle lately
captured. As I was very hungry, I set off home to breakfast. Just as I
had gone, the provoking king inquired after me, and so brought me back
again, though I never saw him the whole day. K'yengo, however, was very
communicative. He said he was present when Sunna, with all the forces he
could muster, tried to take the very countries I now proposed to travel
through; but, though in person exciting his army to victory, he could
make nothing of it. He advised my returning to Karague, when Rumanika
would give me an escort through Nkole to Unyoro; but finding that
did not suit my views, as I swore I would never retrace one step, he
proposed my going by boat to Unyoro, following down the Nile.

This, of course, was exactly what I wanted; but how could king Mtesa,
after the rebuff he had received from Kamrasi be induced to consent
to it? My intention, I said, was to try the king on the Usoga and Kidi
route first, then on the Masai route to Zanzibar, affecting perfect
indifference about Kamrasi; and all those failing--which, of course,
they would--I would ask for Unyoro as a last and only resource. Still I
could not see the king to open my heart to him, and therefore felt quite
nonplussed. "Oh," says K'yengo, "the reason why you do not see him is
merely because he is Ashamed to show his face, having made so many fair
promises to you which he knows he can never carry out: bide your time,
and all will be well." At 4 p.m., as no hope of seeing the king was
left, all retired.

30th.--Unexpectedly, and for reasons only known to himself, the king
sent us a cow and load of butter, which had been asked for many days
ago. The new moon seen last night kept the king engaged at home, paying
his devotions with his magic horns or fetishes in the manner already
described. The spirit of this religion--if such it can be called--is not
so much adoration of a Being supreme and beneficent, as a tax to certain
malignant furies--a propitiation, in fact, to prevent them bringing evil
on the land, and to insure a fruitful harvest. It was rather ominous
that hail fell with violence, and lightning burnt down one of the palace
huts, while the king was in the midst of his propitiatory devotions.

1st.--As Bombay was ordered to the palace to instruct the king in the
art of casting bullets, I primed him well to plead for the road, and he
reported to me the results, thus: First, he asked one thousand men to go
through Kidi. This the king said was impracticable, as the Waganda had
tried it so often before without success. Then, as that could not be
managed, what would the king devise himself? Bana only proposed the
Usoga and Kidi route, because he thought it would be to the advantage
of Uganda. "Oh," says the king, cunningly, "if Bana merely wishes to see
Usoga, he can do so, and I will send a suitable escort, but no more."
To this Bombay replied, "Bana never could return; he would sooner
do anything than return--even penetrate the Masai to Zanzibar, or go
through Unyoro"; to which the king, ashamed of his impotence, hung down
his head and walked away.

In the meanwhile, and whilst this was going on at the king's palace, I
went with Grant, by appointment, to see the queen. As usual, she kept
us waiting some time, then appeared sitting by an open gate, and invited
us, together with many Wakungu and Wasumbua to approach. Very lavish
with stale sour pombe, she gave us all some, saving the Wasumbua, whom
she addressed very angrily, asking what they wanted, as they have been
months in the country. These poor creatures, in a desponding mood,
defended themselves by saying, which was quite true, that they had left
their homes in Sorombo to visit her, and to trade. They had, since their
arrival in the country, been daily in attendance at her palace, but
never had the good fortune to see her excepting on such lucky occasions
as brought the Wazungu (white men) here, when she opened her gates to
them, but otherwise kept them shut. The queen retorted, "And what have
you brought me, pray? where is it? Until I touch it you will neither
see me nor obtain permission to trade. Uganda is no place for idle
vagabonds." We then asked for a private interview, when, a few drops of
rain falling, the queen walked away, and we had orders to wait a little.
During this time two boys were birched by the queen's orders, and an
officer was sent out to inquire why the watch he had given her did not
go. This was easily explained. It had no key; and, never losing sight
of the main object, we took advantage of the opportunity to add, that
if she did not approve of it, we could easily exchange it for another on
arrival at Gani, provided she would send an officer with us.

The queen, squatting within her hut, now ordered both Grant and myself
to sit outside and receive a present of five eggs and one cock each,
saying coaxingly, "These are for my children." Then taking out the
presents, she learned the way of wearing her watch with a tape guard
round her neck, reposing the instrument in her bare bosom, and of
opening and shutting it, which so pleased her, that she declared it
quite satisfactory. The key was quite a minor consideration, for she
could show it to her attendants just as well without one. The towel and
handkerchiefs were also very beautiful, but what use could they be put
to? "Oh, your majesty, to wipe the mouth after drinking pombe." "Of
course," is the reply--"excellent; I won't use a mbugu napkin any more,
but have one of these placed on my cup when it is brought to drink, and
wipe my mouth with it afterwards. But what does Bana want?" "The road to
Gani," says Bombay for me. "The king won't see him when he goes to
The palace, so now he comes here, trusting your superior influence and
good-nature will be more practicable." "Oh!" says her majesty, "Bana
does not know the facts of the case. My son has tried all the roads
without success, and now he is ashamed to meet Bana face to face." "Then
what is to be done, your majesty?" "Bana must go back to Karague and
wait for a year, until my son is crowned, when he will make friends with
the surrounding chiefs, and the roads will be opened." "But Bana says he
will not retrace one step; he would sooner lose his life." "Oh, that's
nonsense! he must not be headstrong; but before anything more can be
said, I will send a message to my son, and Bana can then go with Kaddu,
K'yengo, and Viarungi, and tell all they have to say to Mtesa to-morrow,
and the following day return to me, when everything will be concluded."
We all now left but Kaddu and some of the queen's officers, who waited
for the message to her son about us. To judge from Kaddu, it must have
been very different from what she led us to expect, as, on joining us,
he said there was not the smallest chance of our getting the road we
required, for the queen was so decided about it no further argument
would be listened to.

2d.--Three goats were stolen, and suspicion falling on the king's cooks,
who are expert foragers, we sent to the Kamraviona, and asked him to
order out the Mganga; but his only reply was, that he often loses goats
in the same way. He sent us one of his own for present purposes, and
gave thirty baskets of potatoes to my men. As the king held a court, and
broke it up before 8 a.m., and no one would go there for fear of his not
appearing again, I waited, till the evening for Bombay, Kaddu, K'yengo,
and Viarungi, when, finding them drunk, I went by myself, fired a gun,
and was admitted to where the king was hunting guinea-fowl. On seeing
me, he took me affectionately by the hand, and, as we walked along
together, he asked me what I wanted, showed me the house which was burnt
down, and promised to settle the road question in the morning.

3d.--With Kaddu, K'yengo, and Viarungi all in attendance, we went to
the palace, where there was a large assemblage prepared for a levee,
and fired a gun, which brought the king out in state. The Sakibobo, or
provincial governor, arrived with a body of soldiers armed with sticks,
made a speech, and danced at the head of his men, all pointing sticks
upwards, and singing fidelity to their king.

The king then turned to me, and said, "I have come out to listen to your
request of last night. What is it you do want?" I said, "To open the
country to the north, that an uninterrupted line of commerce might exist
between England and this country by means of the Nile. I might go round
by Nkole" (K'yengo looked daggers at me); "but that is out of the way,
and not suitable to the purpose." The queen's deputation was now ordered
to draw near, and questioned in a whisper. As K'yengo was supposed to
know all about me, and spoke fluently both in Kiganda and Kisuahili,
he had to speak first; but K'yengo, to everybody's surprise, said, "One
white man wishes to go to Kamrasi's, whilst the other wishes to return
through Unyamuezi." This announcement made the king reflect; for he had
been privately primed by his mother's attendants, that we both wished to
go to Gani, and therefore shrewdly inquired if Rumanika knew we wished
to visit Kamrasi, and whether he was aware we should attempt the passage
north from Uganda. "Oh yes! of course Bana wrote to Bana Mdogo" (the
little master) "as soon as he arrived in Uganda and told him and
Rumanika all about it." "Wrote! what does that mean?" and I was called
upon to explain. Mtesa, then seeing a flaw in K'yengo's statements,
called him a story-teller; ordered him and his party away, and bade me
draw near.

The moment of triumph had come at last, and suddenly the road was
granted! The king presently let us see the motive by which he had been
influenced. He said he did not like having to send to Rumanika for
everything: he wanted his visitors to come to him direct; moreover,
Rumanika had sent him a message to the effect that we were not to be
shown anything out of Uganda, and when we had done with it, were to be
returned to him. Rumanika, indeed! who cared about Rumanika? Was not
Mtesa the king of the country, to do as he liked? and we all laughed.
Then the king, swelling with pride, asked me whom I liked best--Rumanika
or himself,--an awkward question, which I disposed of by saying I liked
Rumanika very much because he spoke well, and was very communicative;
but I also liked Mtesa, because his habits were much like my own--fond
of shooting and roaming about; whilst he had learned so many things from
my teaching, I must ever feel a yearning towards him.

With much satisfaction I felt that my business was now done; for Budja
was appointed to escort us to Unyoro, and Jumba to prepare us boats,
that we might go all the way to Kamrasi's by water. Viarungi made a
petition, on Rumanika's behalf, for an army of Waganda to go to Karague,
and fight the refractory brother, Rogero; but this was refused, on the
plea that the whole army was out fighting at the present moment. The
court then broke up and we went home.

To keep the king up to the mark, and seal our passage, in the evening I
took a Lancaster rifle, with ammunition, and the iron chair he formerly
asked for, as a parting present, to the palace, but did not find him, as
he had gone out shooting with his brothers.

4th.--Grant and I now called together on the king to present the rifle,
chair, and ammunition, as we could not thank him in words sufficiently
for the favour he had done us in granting the road through Unyoro. I
said the parting gift was not half as much as I should like to have been
able to give; but we hoped, on reaching Gani, to send Petherick up to
him with everything that he could desire. We regretted we had no more
powder or shot, as what was intended, and actually placed out expressly
to be presented on this occasion, was stolen. The king looked hard at
his head page, who was once sent to get these very things now given, and
then turning the subject adroitly, asked me how many cows and women I
would like, holding his hand up with spread fingers, and desiring me
to count by hundreds; but the reply was, Five cows and goats would be
enough, for we wished to travel lightly in boats, starting from the
Murchison Creek. Women were declined on such grounds as would seem
rational to him. But if the king would clothe my naked men with one
mbugu (bark cloth) each, and give a small tusk each to nine Wanyamuezi
porters, who desired to return to their home, the obligation would be
great.

Everything was granted without the slightest hesitation; and then the
king, turning to me, said, "Well, Bana, so you really wish to go?" "Yes,
for I have not seen my home for four years and upwards"--reckoning five
months to the year, Uganda fashion. "And you can give no stimulants?"
"No." "Then you will send me some from Gani--brandy if you like; it
makes people sleep sound, and gives them strength." Next we went to the
queen to bid her farewell, but did not see her.

On returning home I found half my men in a state of mutiny. They had
been on their own account to beg for the women and cows which had been
refused, saying, If Bana does not want them we do, for we have been
starved here ever since we came, and when we go for food get broken
heads; we will not serve with Bana any longer; but as he goes north, we
will return to Karague and Unyanyembe. Bombay, however, told them they
never had fed so well in all their lives as they had in Uganda, counting
from fifty to sixty cows killed, and pombe and plantains every day,
whenever they took the trouble to forage; and for their broken heads
they invariably received a compensation in women; so that Bana had
reason to regret every day spent in asking for food for them at the
palace--a favour which none but his men received, but which they had
not, as they might have done, turned to good effect by changing the
system of plundering for food in Uganda.

5th.--By the king's order we attended at the palace early. The gun
obtained us all a speedy admittance, when the king opened conversation
by saying, "Well, Bana, so you really are going?" "Yes; I have enjoyed
your hospitality for a long time, and now wish to return to my home."
"What provision do you want?" I said, Five cows and five goats, as we
shan't be long in Uganda; and it is not the custom of our country, when
we go visiting, to carry anything away with us. The king then said,
"Well, I wish to give you much, but you won't have it"; when Budja spoke
out, saying, "Bana does not know the country he had to travel through;
there is nothing but jungle and famine on the way, and he must have
cows"; on which the king ordered us sixty cows, fourteen goats, ten
loads of butter, a load of coffee and tobacco, one hundred sheets of
mbugu, as clothes for my men, at a suggestion of Bombay's, as all my
cloth had been expended even before I left Karague.

This magnificent order created a pause, which K'yengo took advantage of
by producing a little bundle of peculiarly-shaped sticks and a lump of
earth--all of which have their own particular magical powers, as K'yengo
described to the king's satisfaction. After this, Viarungi pleaded the
cause of my mutinous followers, till I shook my finger angrily at
him before the king, rebuked him for intermeddling in other people's
affairs, and told my own story, which gained the sympathy of the king,
and induced him to say, "Supposing they desert Bana, what road do they
expect to get?" Maula was now appointed to go with Rozaro to Karague for
the powder and other things promised yesterday, whilst Viarungi and all
his party, though exceedingly anxious to get away, had orders to remain
here prisoners as a surety for the things arriving. Further, Kaddu and
two other Wakungu received orders to go to Usui with two tusks of
ivory to purchase gunpowder, caps, and flints, failing which they would
proceed to Unyanyembe, and even to Zanzibar, for the king must not be
disappointed, and failure would cost them their lives.

Not another word was said, and away the two parties went, with no more
arrangement than a set of geese--Maula without a letter, and Kaddu
without any provision for the way, as if all the world belonged to
Mtesa, and he could help himself from any man's garden that he liked,
no matter where he was. In the evening my men made a humble petition for
their discharge, even if I did not pay them, producing a hundred reasons
for wishing to leave me, but none which would stand a moment's argument:
the fact was, they were afraid of the road to Unyoro, thinking I had not
sufficient ammunition.

6th.--I visited the king, and asked leave for boats to go at once;
but the fleet admiral put a veto on this by making out that dangerous
shallows exist between the Murchison Creek and the Kira district
station, so that the boats of one place never visit the other; and
further, if we went to Kira, we should find impracticable cataracts
to the Urondogani boat-station; our better plan would therefore be, to
deposit our property at the Urondogani station, and walk by land up
the river, if a sight of the falls at the mouth of the lake was of such
material consequence to us.

Of course this man carried everything his own way, for there was nobody
able to contradict him, and we could not afford time to visit Usoga
first, lest by the delay we might lose an opportunity of communicating
with Petherick. Grant now took a portrait of Mtesa by royal permission,
the king sitting as quietly as his impatient nature would permit. Then
at home the Wanyamuezi porters received their tusks of ivory, weighing
from 16 to 50 lb. each, and took a note besides on Rumanika each for
twenty fundo of beads, barring one Bogue man, who, having lent a cloth
to the expedition some months previously, thought it would not be paid
him, and therefore seized a sword as security; the consequence was, his
tusk was seized until the sword was returned, and he was dismissed minus
his beads, for having so misconducted himself. The impudent fellow
then said, "It will be well for Bana if he succeeds in getting the road
through Unyoro; for, should he fail, I will stand in his path at Bogue."
Kitunzi offered an ivory for beads, and when told we were not merchants,
and advised to try K'yengo, he said he dared not even approach K'yengo's
camp lest people should tell the king of it, and accuse him of seeking
for magical powers against his sovereign. Old Nasib begged for his
discharge. It was granted, and he took a $50 letter on the coast, and a
letter of emancipation for himself and family, besides an order, written
in Kisuahili, for ten fundo of beads on Rumanika, which made him very
happy.

In the evening we called again at the palace with pictures of the things
the king required from Rumanika, and a letter informing Rumanika what
we wished done with them, in order that there might be no mistake,
requesting the king to forward them after Mula. Just then Kaddu's men
returned to say they wanted provisions for the way, as the Wazinza,
hearing of their mission, asked them if they knew what they were about,
going to a strange country without any means of paying their way. But
the king instead of listening to reason, impetuously said, "If you do
not pack off at once, and bring me the things I want, every man of you
shall lose his head; and as for the Wazinza, for interfering with my
orders, they shall be kept here prisoners until you return."

On the way home, one of the king's favourite women overtook us, walking,
with her hands clasped at the back of her head, to execution, crying,
"N'uawo!" in the most pitiful manner. A man was preceding her, but did
not touch her; for she loved to obey the orders of her king voluntarily,
and in consequence of previous attachment, was permitted, as a mark of
distinction, to walk free. Wondrous world! it was not ten minutes since
we parted from the king, yet he had found time to transact this bloody
piece of business.

7th.--Early in the morning the king bade us come to him to say farewell.
Wishing to leave behind a favourable impression, I instantly complied.
On the breast of my coat I suspended the necklace the queen had given
me, as well as his knife, and my medals. I talked with him in as
friendly and flattering a manner as I could, dwelling on his shooting,
the pleasant cruising on the lake, and our sundry picnics, as well as
the grand prospect there was now of opening the country to trade, by
which his guns, the best in the world, would be fed with powder--and
other small matters of a like nature,--to which he replied with great
feeling and good taste. We then all rose with an English bow, placing
the hand on the heart whilst saying adieu; and there was a complete
uniformity in the ceremonial, for whatever I did, Mtesa, in an instant,
mimicked with the instinct of a monkey.

We had, however, scarcely quitted the palace gate before the king
issued himself, with his attendants and his brothers leading, and women
bringing up the rear; here K'yengo and all the Wazinza joined in the
procession with ourselves, they kneeling and clapping their hands after
the fashion of their own country. Budja just then made me feel very
anxious, by pointing out the position of Urondogani, as I thought, too
far north. I called the king's attention to it, and in a moment he said
he would speak to Budja in such a manner that would leave no doubts in
my mind, for he liked me much, and desired to please me in all things.
As the procession now drew to our camp, and Mtesa expressed a wish to
have a final look at my men, I ordered them to turn out with their
arms and n'yanzig for the many favours they had received. Mtesa, much
pleased, complimented them on their goodly appearance, remarking that
with such a force I would have no difficulty in reaching Gani, and
exhorted them to follow me through fire and water; then exchanging
adieus again he walked ahead in gigantic strides up the hill, the pretty
favourite of his harem, Lubuga--beckoning and waving with her little
hands, and crying, "Bana! Bana!"--trotting after him conspicuous amongst
the rest, though all showed a little feeling at the severance. We saw
them no more.


Chapter XV. March Down the Northern Slopes of Africa

Kari--Tragic Incident there--Renewals of Troubles--Quarrels with the
Natives--Reach the Nile--Description of the Scene there--Sport--Church
Estate--Ascend the River to the Junction with the Lake--Ripon
Falls--General Account of the Source of the Nile--Descend again to
Urondogani--The Truculent Sakibobo.

7th to 11th.--With Budja appointed as the general director, a lieutenant
of the Sakibobo's to furnish us with sixty cows in his division at the
first halting-place, and Kasoro (Mr Cat), a lieutenant of Jumba's, to
provide the boats at Urondogani, we started at 1 p.m., on the journey
northwards. The Wanguana still grumbled, swearing they would carry no
loads, as they got no rations, and threatening to shoot us if we pressed
them, forgetting that their food had been paid for to the king in
rifles, chronometers, and other articles, costing about 2000 dollars,
and, what was more to the point, that all the ammunition was in our
hands. A judicious threat of the stick, however, put things right, and
on we marched five successive days to Kari--as the place was afterwards
named, in consequence of the tragedy mentioned below--the whole distance
accomplished being thirty miles from the capital, through a fine hilly
country, with jungles and rich cultivation alternating. The second
march, after crossing the Katawana river with its many branches flowing
north-east into the huge rush-drain of Luajerri, carried us beyond the
influence of the higher hills, and away from the huge grasses which
characterise the southern boundary of Uganda bordering on the lake.

Each day's march to Kari was directed much in the same manner. After
a certain number of hours' travelling, Budja appointed some village of
residence for the night, avoiding those which belonged to the queen,
lest any rows should take place in them, which would create disagreeable
consequences with the king, and preferring those the heads of which had
been lately seized by the orders of the king. Nevertheless, wherever
we went, all the villagers forsook their homes, and left their houses,
property, and gardens an easy prey to the thieving propensities of the
escort. To put a stop to this vile practice was now beyond my power;
the king allowed it, and his men were the first in every house, taking
goats, fowls, skins, mbugus, cowries, beads, drums, spears, tobacco,
pombe,--in short, everything they could lay their hands on--in the most
ruthless manner. It was a perfect marauding campaign for them all, and
all alike were soon laden with as much as they could carry.

A halt of some days had become necessary at Kari to collect the
cows given by the king; and, as it is one of the most extensive
pasture-grounds, I strolled with my rifle (11th) to see what new animals
could be found; but no sooner did I wound a zebra than messengers came
running after me to say Kari, one of my men, had been murdered by the
villagers three miles off; and such was the fact. He, with others of my
men, had been induced to go plundering, with a few boys of the Waganda
escort, to a certain village of potters, as pots were required by Budja
for making plantain-wine, the first thing ever thought of when a camp
is formed. On nearing the place, however, the women of the village, who
were the only people visible, instead of running away, as our braves
expected, commenced hullalooing, and brought out their husbands. Flight
was now the only thought of our men, and all would have escaped had Kari
not been slow and his musket empty. The potters overtook him, and, as he
pointed his gun, which they considered a magic-horn, they speared him
to death, and then fled at once. Our survivors were not long in bringing
the news into camp, when a party went out, and in the evening brought in
the man's corpse and everything belonging to him, for nothing had been
taken.

12th.--To enable me at my leisure to trace up the Nile to its exit from
the lake, and then go on with the journey as quickly as possible, I
wished the cattle to be collected and taken by Budja and some of my men
with the heavy baggage overland to Kamrasi's. Another reason for doing
so was, that I thought it advisable Kamrasi should be forewarned that we
were coming by the water route, lest we should be suspected and stopped
as spies by his officers on the river, or regarded as enemies, which
would provoke a fight. Budja, however, objected to move until a report
of Kari's murder had been forwarded to the king, lest the people,
getting bumptious, should try the same trick again; and Kasoro said he
would not go up the river, as he had received no orders to do so.

In this fix I ordered a march back to the palace, mentioning the king's
last words, and should have gone, had not Budja ordered Kasoro to go
with me. A page then arrived from the king to ask after Bana's health,
carrying the Whitworth rifle as his master's card, and begging for a
heavy double-barrelled gun to be sent him from Gani. I called this lad
to witness the agreement I had made with Budja, and told him, if Kasoro
satisfied me, I would return by him, in addition to the heavy gun, a
Massey's patent log. I had taken it for the navigation of the lake,
and it was now of no further use to me, but, being an instrument of
complicated structure, it would be a valuable addition to the king's
museum of magic charms. I added I should like the king to send me the
robes of honour and spears he had once promised me, in order that I
might, on reaching England, be able to show my countrymen a specimen
of the manufactures of his country. The men who were with Kari were now
sent to the palace, under accusation of having led him into ambush, and
a complaint was made against the villagers, which we waited the reply
to. As Budja forbade it, no men would follow me out shooting, saying the
villagers were out surrounding our camp, and threatening destruction
on any one who dared show his face; for this was not the highroad to
Uganda, and therefore no one had a right to turn them out of their
houses and pillage their gardens.

13th.--Budja lost two cows given to his party last night, and seeing
ours securely tied by their legs to trees, asked by what spells we had
secured them; and would not believe our assurance that the ropes
that bound them were all the medicines we knew of. One of the Queen's
sisters, hearing of Kari's murder, came on a visit to condole with us,
bringing a pot of pombe, for which she received some beads. On being
asked how many sisters the queen had, for we could not help suspecting
some imposition, she replied she was the only one, till assured ten
other ladies had presented themselves as the queen's sisters before,
when she changed her tone, and said, "That is true, I am not the only
one; but if I had told you the truth I might have lost my head." This
was a significant expression of the danger to telling court secrets.

I suspected that there must be a considerable quantity of game in this
district, as stake-nets and other traps were found in all the huts,
as well as numbers of small antelope hoofs spitted on pipe-sticks--an
ornament which is counted the special badge of the sportsman in this
part of Africa. Despite, therefore, of the warnings of Budja, I strolled
again with my rifle, and saw pallah, small plovers, and green antelopes
with straight horns, called mpeo, the skin of which makes a favourite
apron for the Mabandwa.

14th.--I met to-day a Mhuma cowherd in my strolls with the rifle,
and asked him if he knew where the game lay. The unmannerly creature,
standing among a thousand of the sleekest cattle, gruffishly replied,
"What can I know of any other animals than cows?" and went on with
his work, as if nothing in the world could interest him but his
cattle-tending. I shot a doe, leucotis, called here nsunnu, the first
one seen upon the journey.

15th.--In the morning, when our men went for water to the springs, some
Waganda in ambush threw a spear at them, and this time caught a Tartar,
for the "horns," as they called their guns, were loaded, and two of
them received shot-wounds. In the evening, whilst we were returning from
shooting, a party of Waganda, also lying in the bush, called out to know
what we were about; saying, "Is it not enough that you have turned us
out of our homes and plantations, leaving us to live like animals in the
wilderness?" and when told we were only searching for sport, would not
believe that our motive was any other than hostility to themselves.

At night one of Budja's men returned from the palace, to say the
king was highly pleased with the measures adopted by his Wakungu, in
prosecution of Kari's affair. He hoped now as we had cows to eat,
there would be no necessity for wandering for food, but all would keep
together "in one garden." At present no notice would be taken of the
murderers, as all the culprits would have fled far away in their fright
to escape chastisement. But when a little time had elapsed, and all
would appear to have been forgotten, officers would be sent and the
miscreants apprehended, for it was impossible to suppose anybody could
be ignorant of the white men being the guests of the king, considering
they had lived at the palace for so long. The king took this opportunity
again to remind me that he wanted a heavy solid double gun, such as
would last him all his life; and intimated that in a few days the arms
and robes of honour were to be sent.

16th.--Most of the cows for ourselves and the guides--for the king gave
them also a present, ten each--were driven into camp. We also got 50 lb.
of butter, the remainder to be picked up on the way. I strolled with
the gun, and shot two zebras, to be sent to the king, as, by the
constitution of Uganda, he alone can keep their royal skins.

17th.--We had to halt again, as the guides had lost most of their cows,
so I strolled with my rifle and shot a ndjezza doe, the first I had
ever seen. It is a brown animal, a little smaller than leucotis, and
frequents much the same kind of ground.

18th.--We had still to wait another day for Budja's cows, when, as it
appeared all-important to communicate quickly with Petherick, and as
Grant's leg was considered too weak for travelling fast, we took counsel
together, and altered our plans. I arranged that Grant should go to
Kamrasi's direct with the property, cattle, and women, taking my letters
and a map for immediate despatch to Petherick at Gani, whilst I should
go up the river to its source or exit from the lake, and come down again
navigating as far as practicable.

At night the Waganda startled us by setting fire to the huts our men
were sleeping in, but providentially did more damage to themselves than
to us, for one sword only was buried in the fire, whilst their own huts,
intended to be vacated in the morning, were burnt to the ground. To
fortify ourselves against another invasion, we cut down all their
plaintains to make a boma or fence.

We started all together on our respective journeys; but, after the third
mile, Grant turned west, to join the highroad to Kamrasi's, whilst I
went east for Urondogani, crossing the Luajerri, a huge rush-drain three
miles broad, fordable nearly to the right bank, where we had to ferry in
boats, and the cows to be swum over with men holding on to their tails.
It was larger than the Katonga, and more tedious to cross, for it took
no less than four hours mosquitoes in myriads biting our bare backs and
legs all the while. The Luajerri is said to rise in the lake and fall
into the Nile, due south of our crossing-point. On the right bank wild
buffalo are described to be as numerous as cows, but we did not see any,
though the country is covered with a most inviting jungle for sport,
which intermediate lays of fine grazing grass. Such is the nature of the
country all the way to Urondogani, except in some favoured spots, kept
as tidily as in any part of Uganda, where plantains grow in the
utmost luxuriance. From want of guides, and misguided by the exclusive
ill-natured Wahuma who were here in great numbers tending their king's
cattle, we lost our way continually, so that we did not reach the
boat-station until the morning of the 21st.

Here at last I stood on the brink of the Nile; most beautiful was the
scene, nothing could surpass it! It was the very perfection of the kind
of effect aimed at in a highly kept park; with a magnificent stream from
600 to 700 yards wide, dotted with islets and rocks, the former occupied
by fishermen's huts, the latter by sterns and crocodiles basking in the
sun,--flowing between the fine high grassy banks, with rich trees and
plantains in the background, where herds of the nsunnu and hartebeest
could be seen grazing, while the hippopotami were snorting in the water,
and florikan and guinea-fowl rising at our feet. Unfortunately, the
chief district officer, Mlondo, was from home, but we took possession of
his huts--clean, extensive, and tidily kept--facing the river, and
felt as if a residence here would do one good. Delays and subterfuges,
however, soon came to damp our spirits. The acting officer was sent
for, and asked for the boats; they were all scattered, and could not be
collected for a day or two; but, even if they were at hand, no boat ever
went up or down the river. The chief was away and would be sent for, as
the king often changed his orders, and, after all, might not mean
what had been said. The district belonged to the Sakibobo, and no
representative of his had come here. These excuses, of course, would not
satisfy us. The boats must be collected, seven, if there are not ten,
for we must try them, and come to some understanding about them, before
we march up stream, when, if the officer values his life, he will let
us have them, and acknowledge Karoso as the king's representative,
otherwise a complaint will be sent to the palace, for we won't stand
trifling.

We were now confronting Usoga, a country which may be said to be the
very counterpart of Uganda in its richness and beauty. Here the people
use such huge iron-headed spears with short handles, that, on seeing
one to-day, my people remarked that they were better fitted for
digging potatoes than piercing men. Elephants, as we had seen by their
devastations during the last two marches, were very numerous in this
neighbourhood. Till lately, a party from Unyoro, ivory-hunting, had
driven them away. Lions were also described as very numerous and
destructive to human life. Antelopes were common in the jungle, and the
hippopotami, though frequenters of the plantain-garden and constantly
heard, were seldom seen on land in consequence of their unsteady habits.

The king's page again came, begging I would not forget the gun and
stimulants, and bringing with him the things I asked for--two spears,
one shield, one dirk, two leopard-cat skins, and two sheets of small
antelope skins. I told my men they ought to shave their heads and bathe
in the holy river, the cradle of Moses--the waters of which, sweetened
with sugar, men carry all the way from Egypt to Mecca, and sell to the
pilgrims. But Bombay, who is a philosopher of the Epicurean school,
said, "We don't look on those things in the same fanciful manner that
you do; we are contented with all the common-places of life, and look
for nothing beyond the present. If things don't go well, it is God's
will; and if they do go well, that is His will also."

22d.--The acting chief brought a present of one cow, one goat, and
pombe, with a mob of his courtiers to pay his respects. He promised that
the seven boats, which are all the station he could muster, would be
ready next day, and in the meanwhile a number of men would conduct me
to the shooting-ground. He asked to be shown the books of birds and
animals, and no sooner saw some specimens of Wolf's handiwork, than,
in utter surprise, he exclaimed, "I know how these are done; a bird
was caught and stamped upon the paper," using action to his words,
and showing what he meant, while all his followers n'yanzigged for the
favour of the exhibition.

In the evening I strolled in the antelope parks, enjoying the scenery
and sport excessively. A noble buck nsunnu, standing by himself, was the
first thing seen on this side, though a herd of hertebeests were grazing
on the Usoga banks. One bullet rolled my fine friend over, but the
rabble looking on no sooner saw the hit than they rushed upon him and
drove him off, for he was only wounded. A chase ensued, and he was
tracked by his blood when a pongo (bush box) was started and divided
the party. It also brought me to another single buck nsunnu, which
was floored at once, and left to be carried home by some of my men in
company with Waganda, whilst I went on, shot a third nsunnu buck, and
tracked him by his blood till dark, for the bullet had pierced his lungs
and passed out on the other side. Failing to find him on the way home,
I shot, besides florikan and guinea-chicks, a wonderful goatsucker,
remarkable for the exceeding length of some of its feathers floating out
far beyond the rest in both wings. [21] Returning home, I found the men
who had charge of the dead buck all in a state of excitement; they no
sooner removed his carcass, than two lions came out of the jungle and
lapped his blood. All the Waganda ran away at once; but my braves feared
my answer more than the lions, and came off safely with the buck on
their shoulders.

23d.--Three boats arrived, like those used on the Murchison Creek, and
when I demanded the rest, as well as a decisive answer about going to
Kamrasi's, the acting Mkungu said he was afraid accidents might happen,
and he would not take me. Nothing would frighten this pig-headed
creature into compliance, though I told him I had arranged with the king
to make the Nile the channel of communication with England. I therefore
applied to him for guides to conduct me up the river, and ordered Bombay
and Kasoro to obtain fresh orders from the king, as all future Wazungu,
coming to Uganda to visit or trade, would prefer the passage by the
river. I shot another buck in the evening, as the Waganda love their
skins, and also a load of guinea-fowl--three, four, and five at a
shot--as Kasoro and his boys prefer them to anything.

24th.--The acting officer absconded, but another man came in his place,
and offered to take us on the way up the river to-morrow, humbugging
Kasoro into the belief that his road to the palace would branch off
from the first state, though in reality it was here. The Mkungu's women
brought pombe, and spent the day gazing at us, till, in the evening,
when I took up my rifle, one ran after Bana to see him shoot, and
followed like a man; but the only sport she got was on an ant-hill,
where she fixed herself some time, popping into her mouth and devouring
the white ants as fast as they emanated from their cells--for,
disdaining does, I missed the only pongo buck I got a shot at in my
anxiety to show the fair one what she came for.

Reports came to-day of new cruelties at the palace. Kasoro improved
on their off-hand manslaughter by saying that two Kamravionas and two
Sakibobos, as well as all the old Wakungu of Sunna's time, had been
executed by the orders of king Mtesa. He told us, moreover, that if
Mtesa ever has a dream that his father directs him to kill anybody as
being dangerous to his person, the order is religiously kept. I wished
to send a message to Mtesa by an officer who is starting at once to
pay his respects at court; but although he received it, and promised to
deliver it, Kasoro laughed at me for expecting that one word of it would
ever reach the king; for, however, appropriate or important the matter
might be, it was more than anybody dare do to tell the king, as it would
be an infringement of the rule that no one is to speak to him unless in
answer to a question. My second buck of the first day was brought in by
the natives, but they would not allow it to approach the hut until it
had been skinned; and I found their reason to be a superstition
that otherwise no others would ever be killed by the inmates of that
establishment.

I marched up the left bank of the Nile at a considerable distance
from the water, to the Isamba rapids, passing through rich jungle and
plantain-gardens. Nango, an old friend, and district officer of the
place, first refreshed us with a dish of plantain-squash and dried
fish, with pombe. He told us he is often threatened by elephants, but
he sedulously keeps them off with charms; for if they ever tasted a
plantain they would never leave the garden until they had cleared it
out. He then took us to see the nearest falls of the Nile--extremely
beautiful, but very confined. The water ran deep between its banks,
which were covered with fine grass, soft cloudy acacias, and festoons
of lilac convolvuli; whilst here and there, where the land had slipped
above the rapids, bared places of red earth could be seen, like that
of Devonshire; there, too, the waters, impeded by a natural dam, looked
like a huge mill-pond, sullen and dark, in which two crocodiles, laving
about, were looking out for prey. From the high banks we looked down
upon a line of sloping wooded islets lying across the stream, which
divide its waters, and, by interrupting them, cause at once both dam and
rapids. The whole was more fairy-like, wild, and romantic than--I must
confess that my thoughts took that shape--anything I ever saw outside
of a theatre. It was exactly the sort of place, in fact, where, bridged
across from one side-slip to the other, on a moonlight night, brigands
would assemble to enact some dreadful tragedy. Even the Wanguana seemed
spellbound at the novel beauty of the sight, and no one thought of
moving till hunger warned us night was setting in, and we had better
look out for lodgings.

Start again, and after drinking pombe with Nango, when we heard that
three Wakungu had been seized at Kari, in consequence of the murder,
the march was commenced, but soon after stopped by the mischievous
machinations of our guide, who pretended it was too late in the day
to cross the jungles on ahead, either by the road to the source or the
palace, and therefore would not move till the morning; then, leaving
us, on the pretext of business, he vanished, and was never seen again.
A small black fly, with thick shoulders and bullet-head, infests the
place, and torments the naked arms and legs of the people with its sharp
stings to an extent that must render life miserable to them.

After a long struggling march, plodding through huge grasses and jungle,
we reached a district which I cannot otherwise describe than by calling
it a "Church Estate." It is dedicated in some mysterious manner to
Lubari (Almighty), and although the king appeared to have authority
over some of the inhabitants of it, yet others had apparently a sacred
character, exempting them from the civil power, and he had no right to
dispose of the land itself. In this territory there are small villages
only at every fifth mile, for there is no road, and the lands run high
again, whilst, from want of a guide, we often lost the track. It now
transpired that Budja, when he told at the palace that there was no road
down the banks of the Nile, did so in consequence of his fear that if he
sent my whole party here they would rob these church lands, and so bring
him into a scrape with the wizards or ecclesiastical authorities. Had my
party not been under control, we could not have put up here; but on my
being answerable that no thefts should take place, the people kindly
consented to provide us with board and lodgings, and we found them very
obliging. One elderly man, half-witted--they said the king had driven
his senses from him by seizing his house and family--came at once on
hearing of our arrival, laughing and singing in a loose jaunty maniacal
manner, carrying odd sticks, shells, and a bundle of mbugu rags, which
he deposited before me, dancing and singing again, then retreating and
bringing some more, with a few plantains from a garden, when I was to
eat, as kings lived upon flesh, and "poor Tom" wanted some, for he lived
with lions and elephants in a hovel beyond the gardens, and his belly
was empty. He was precisely a black specimen of the English parish
idiot.

At last, with a good push for it, crossing hills and threading huge
grasses, as well as extensive village plantations lately devastated by
elephants--they had eaten all that was eatable, and what would not serve
for food they had destroyed with their trunks, not one plantain or one
hut being left entire--we arrived at the extreme end of the journey, the
farthest point ever visited by the expedition on the same parallel of
latitude as king Mtesa's palace, and just forty miles east of it.

We were well rewarded; for the "stones," as the Waganda call the falls,
was by far the most interesting sight I had seen in Africa. Everybody
ran to see them at once, though the march had been long and fatiguing,
and even my sketch-block was called into play. Though beautiful, the
scene was not exactly what I expected; for the broad surface of the lake
was shut out from view by a spur of hill, and the falls, about 12 feet
deep, and 400 to 500 feet broad, were broken by rocks. Still it was a
sight that attracted one to it for hours--the roar of the waters, the
thousands of passenger-fish, leaping at the falls with all their might;
the Wasoga and Waganda fisherman coming out in boats and taking post
on all the rocks with rod and hook, hippopotami and crocodiles lying
sleepily on the water, the ferry at work above the falls, and cattle
driven down to drink at the margin of the lake,--made, in all, with the
pretty nature of the country--small hills, grassy-topped, with trees in
the folds, and gardens on the lower slopes--as interesting a picture as
one could wish to see.

The expedition had now performed its functions. I saw that old father
Nile without any doubt rises in the Victoria N'yanza, and, as I had
foretold, that lake is the great source of the holy river which cradled
the first expounder of our religious belief. I mourned, however, when I
thought how much I had lost by the delays in the journey having deprived
me of the pleasure of going to look at the north-east corner of the
N'yanza to see what connection there was, by the strait so often spoken
of, with it and the other lake where the Waganda went to get their
salt, and from which another river flowed to the north, making "Usoga an
island." But I felt I ought to be content with what I had been spared
to accomplish; for I had seen full half of the lake, and had information
given me of the other half, by means of which I knew all about the lake,
as far, at least, as the chief objects of geographical importance were
concerned.

