Then he went to his desk, took out some money, and stepped down into
the street again. During all this while it had become quieter out
there; the lights on the Christmas trees had burnt out, the
processions of children had come to an end. The wind was sweeping
through the deserted streets; old and young alike were sitting
together at home in family parties; the second period of Christmas Eve
celebrations had begun.

As Reinhard drew near the Ratskeller he heard from below the scraping
of the fiddle and the singing of the zither girl. The restaurant door
bell tinkled and a dark form staggered up the broad dimly-lighted
stair.

Reinhard drew aside into the shadow of the houses and then passed
swiftly by. After a while he reached the well-lighted shop of a
jeweller, and after buying a little cross studded with red corals, he
returned by the same way he had come.

Not far from his lodgings he caught sight of a little girl, dressed in
miserable rags, standing before a tall door, in a vain attempt to open
it.

"Shall I help you?" he said.

The child gave no answer, but let go the massive door-handle. Reinhard
had soon opened the door.

"No," he said; "they might drive you out again. Come along with me,
and I'll give you some Christmas cake."

He then closed the door again and gave his hand to the little girl,
who walked along with him in silence to his lodgings.

On going out he had left the light burning.

"Here are some cakes for you," he said, pouring half of his whole
stock into her apron, though he gave none that bore the sugar letters.

"Now, off you go home, and give your mother some of them too."

The child cast a shy look up at him; she seemed unaccustomed to such
kindness and unable to say anything in reply. Reinhard opened the
door, and lighted her way, and then the little thing like a bird flew
downstairs with her cakes and out of the house.

Reinhard poked the fire in the stove, set the dusty ink-stand on the
table, and then sat down and wrote and wrote letters the whole night
long to his mother and Elisabeth.

The remainder of the Christmas cakes lay untouched by his side, but he
had buttoned on Elisabeth's cuffs, and odd they looked on his shaggy
coat of undyed wool. And there he was still sitting when the winter
sun cast its light on the frosted window-panes, and showed him a pale,
grave face reflected in the looking-glass.

*      *       *       *       *


HOME


When the Easter vacation came Reinhard journeyed home. On the morning
after his arrival he went to see Elisabeth.

"How tall you've grown," he said, as the pretty, slender girl advanced
with a smile to meet him. She blushed, but made no reply; he had taken
her hand in his own in greeting, and she tried to draw it gently away.
He looked at her doubtingly, for never had she done that before; but
now it was as if some strange thing was coming between them.

The same feeling remained, too, after he had been at home for some
time and came to see her constantly day after day. When they sat alone
together there ensued pauses in the conversation which distressed him,
and which he anxiously did his best to avoid. In order to have a
definite occupation during the holidays, he began to give Elisabeth
some instruction in botany, in which he himself had been keenly
interested during the early months of his university career.

Elisabeth, who was wont to follow him in all things and was moreover
very quick to learn, willingly entered into the proposal. So now
several times in the week they made excursions into the fields or the
moors, and if by midday they brought home their green field-box full
of plants and flowers, Reinhard would come again later in the day and
share with Elisabeth what they had collected in common.

With this same object in view, he entered the room one afternoon while
Elisabeth was standing by the window and sticking some fresh chick-
weed in a gilded birdcage which he had not seen in the place before.
In the cage was a canary, which was flapping its wings and shrilly
chirruping as it pecked at Elisabeth's fingers. Previously to this
Reinhard's bird had hung in that spot.

"Has my poor linnet changed into a goldfinch after its death?" he
asked jovially.

"Linnets are not accustomed to do any such thing," said Elizabeth's
mother, who sat spinning in her armchair. "Your friend Eric sent it
this noon from his estate as a present for Elisabeth."

"What estate?"

"Why, don't you know?"

"Know what?"

"That a month ago Eric took over his father's second estate by the
Immensee." [Footnote: <i>I.e.</i> the 'Lake of the Bees']

"But you have never said a word to me about it."

"Well," said the mother, "you haven't yet made a single word of
inquiry after your friend. He is a very nice, sensible young man."

The mother went out of the room to make the coffee. Elisabeth had her
back turned to Reinhard, and was still busy with the making of her
little chickweed bower.

"Please, just a little longer," she said, "I'll be done in a minute."

As Reinhard did not answer, contrary to his wont, she turned round and
faced him. In his eyes there was a sudden expression of trouble which
she had never observed before in them.

"What is the matter with you, Reinhard?" she said, drawing nearer to
him.

"With me?" he said, his thoughts far away and his eyes resting
dreamily on hers.

"You look so sad."

"Elisabeth," he said, "I cannot bear that yellow bird."

She looked at him in astonishment, without understanding his meaning.
"You are so strange," she said.

He took both her hands in his, and she let him keep them there. Her
mother came back into the room shortly after; and after they had drunk
their coffee she sat down at her spinning-wheel, while Reinhard and
Elisabeth went off into the next room to arrange their plants.

Stamens were counted, leaves and blossoms carefully opened out, and
two specimens of each sort were laid to dry between the pages of a
large folio volume.

All was calm and still this sunny afternoon; the only sounds to be
heard were the hum of the mother's spinning-wheel in the next room,
and now and then the subdued voice of Reinhard, as he named the orders
of the families of the plants, and corrected Elisabeth's awkward
pronunciation of the Latin names.

"I am still short of that lily of the valley which I didn't get last
time," said she, after the whole collection had been classified and
arranged.

Reinhard pulled a little white vellum volume from his pocket. "Here is
a spray of the lily of the valley for you," he said, taking out a
half-pressed bloom.

When Elisabeth saw the pages all covered with writing, she asked:
"Have you been writing stories again?"

"These aren't stories," he answered, handing her the book.

The contents were all poems, and the majority of them at most filled
one page. Elisabeth turned over the leaves one after another; she
appeared to be reading the titles only. "When she was scolded by the
teacher." "When they lost their way in the woods." "An Easter story."
"On her writing to me for the first time." Thus ran most of the
titles.

Reinhard fixed his eyes on her with a searching look, and as she kept
turning over the leaves he saw that a gentle blush arose and gradually
mantled over the whole of her sweet face. He would fain have looked
into her eyes, but Elisabeth did not look up, and finally laid the
book down before him without a word.

"Don't give it back like that," he said.

She took a brown spray out of the tin case. "I will put your favourite
flower inside," she said, giving back the book into his hands.

At length came the last day of the vacation and the morning of his
departure. At her own request Elisabeth received permission from her
mother to accompany her friend to the stage-coach, which had its
station a few streets from their house.

When they passed out of the front door Reinhard gave her his arm, and
thus he walked in silence side by side with the slender maiden. The
nearer they came to their destination the more he felt as if he had
something he must say to her before he bade her a long farewell,
something on which all that was worthy and all that was sweet in his
future life depended, and yet he could not formulate the saving word.
In his anguish, he walked slower and slower.

"You'll be too late," she said; "it has already struck ten by St
Mary's clock."

But he did not quicken his pace for all that. At last he stammered
out:

"Elisabeth, you will not see me again for two whole years. Shall I be
as dear to you as ever when I come back?"

She nodded, and looked affectionately into his face.

"I stood up for you too," she said, after a pause.

"Me? And against whom had you to stand up for me?"

"Against my mother. We were talking about you a long time yesterday
evening after you left. She thought you were not so nice now as you
once were."

Reinhard held his peace for a moment: then he took her hand in his,
and looking gravely into her childish eyes, he said:

"I am still just as nice as I ever was; I would have you firmly
believe that. Do you believe it, Elisabeth?"

"Yes," she said.

He freed her hand and quickly walked with her through the last street.
The nearer he felt the time of parting approach, the happier became
the look on his face; he went almost too quickly for her.

"What is the matter with you, Reinhard?" she asked.

"I have a secret, a beautiful secret," said Reinhard, looking at her
with a light in his eyes. "When I come back again in two years' time,
then you shall know it."

Meanwhile they had reached the stage-coach; they were only just in
time. Once more Reinhard took her hand. "Farewell!" he said,
"farewell, Elisabeth! Do not forget!"

She shook her head. "Farewell," she said. Reinhard climbed up into the
coach and the horses started. As the coach rumbled round the corner of
the street he saw her dear form once more as she slowly wended her way
home.

*       *       *       *       *


A LETTER


Nearly two years later Reinhard was sitting by lamplight with his
books and papers around him, expecting a friend with whom he used to
study in common. Some one came upstairs. "Come in." It was the
landlady. "A letter for you, Herr Werner," and she went away.

Reinhard had never written to Elisabeth since his visit home, and he
had received no letter from her. Nor was this one from her; it was in
his mother's handwriting.

Reinhard broke the seal and read, and ere long he came to this
paragraph:

"At your time of life, my dear boy, nearly every year still brings its
own peculiar experience; for youth is apt to turn everything to the
best account. At home, too, things have changed very much, and all
this will, I fear, cause you much pain at first, if my understanding
of you is at all correct.

"Yesterday Eric was at last accepted by Elisabeth, after having twice
proposed in vain during the last three months. She had never been able
to make up her mind to it, but now in the end she has done so. To my
mind she is still far too young. The wedding is to take place soon,
and her mother means to go away with them."

*       *       *       *       *


IMMENSEE


Again years have passed. One warm afternoon in spring a young man,
whose sunburnt face was the picture of health, was walking along a
shady road through the wood leading down to the valley below.

His grave dark eyes looked intently into the distance, as though he
was expecting to find every moment some change in the monotony of the
road, a change however which seemed reluctant to come about. At length
he saw a cart slowly coming up from below.

"Hullo! my friend," shouted the traveller to the farmer, who was
walking by the side of the cart, "is this the right road to Immensee?"

"Yes, straight on," answered the man touching his slouch hat.

"Is it still far off?"

"You are close to the place, sir. In less time than it takes to smoke
half a pipe of tobacco you'll be at the lake side, and the manor is
hard by."

The farmer passed on while the other quickened his pace as he went
along under the trees. After a quarter of an hour's walk the shade to
the left of him suddenly came to an end; the road led along a steep
slope from which the ancient oaks growing below hardly reared their
topmost branches.

Away over their crests opened out a broad, sunny landscape. Far below
lay the peaceful, dark-blue lake, almost entirely surrounded by green
sun-lit woods, save where on one spot they divided and afforded an
extensive view until it closed in the distant blue mountains.

Straight opposite, in the middle of all this forest verdure, there lay
a patch of white, like driven snow. This was an expanse of blossoming
fruit-trees, and out of them, up on the high lake shore, rose the
manor-house, shining white, with tiles of red. A stork flew up from
the chimney, and circled slowly above the waters.

"Immensee!" exclaimed the traveller.

It almost seemed as if he had now reached the end of his journey, for
he stood motionless, looking out over the tops of the trees at his
feet, and gazing at the farther shore, where the reflection of the
manor-house floated, rocking gently, on the bosom of the water. Then
he suddenly started on his way again.

His road now led almost steeply down the mountain-side, so that the
trees that had once stood below him again gave him their shade, but at
the same time cut off from him the view of the lake, which only now
and then peeped out between the gaps in the branches.

Soon the way went gently upwards again, and to left and right the
woods disappeared, yielding place to vine-clad hills stretching along
the pathway; while on either side stood fruit-trees in blossom, filled
with the hum of the bees as they busily pried into the blossoms. A
tall man wearing a brown overcoat advanced to meet the traveller. When
he had almost come up to him, he waved his cap and cried out in a loud
voice:

"Welcome, welcome, brother Reinhard! Welcome to my Immensee estate!"

"God's greeting to you, [Footnote: This form of salutation is
especially common in the south of Germany.] Eric, and thank you for
your welcome," replied the other.

By this time they had come up close to one another, and clasped hands.

"And is it really you?" said Eric, when he at last got a near sight of
the grave face of his old school-fellow.

"It is I right enough, Eric, and I recognize you too; only you almost
look cheerier than you ever did before."

At these words a glad smile made Eric's plain features all the more
cheerful.

"Yes, brother Reinhard," he said, as he once more held out his hand to
him, "but since those days, you see, I have won the great prize; but
you know that well enough."

Then he rubbed his hands and cried cheerily: "This <i>will</i> be a
surprise! You are the last person she expects to see."

"A surprise?" asked Reinhard. "For whom, pray?"

"Why, for Elisabeth."

"Elisabeth! You haven't told her a word about my visit?"

"Not a word, brother Reinhard; she has no thought of you, nor her
mother either. I invited you entirely on the quiet, in order that the
pleasure might be all the greater. You know I always had little quiet
schemes of my own."

Reinhard turned thoughtful; he seemed to breathe more heavily the
nearer they approached the house.

On the left side of the road the vineyards came to an end, and gave
place to an extensive kitchen-garden, which reached almost as far as
the lake-shore. The stork had meanwhile come to earth and was striding
solemnly between the vegetable beds.

"Hullo!" cried Eric, clapping his hands together, "if that long-legged
Egyptian isn't stealing my short pea-sticks again!"

The bird slowly rose and flew on to the roof of a new building, which
ran along the end of the kitchen-garden, and whose walls were covered
with the branches of the peach and apricot trees that were trained
over them.

"That's the distillery," said Eric. "I built it only two years ago. My
late father had the farm buildings rebuilt; the dwelling-house was
built as far back as my grandfather's time. So we go ever forward a
little bit at a time."

Talking thus they came to a wide, open space, enclosed at the sides by
farm-buildings, and in the rear by the manor-house, the two wings of
which were connected by a high garden wall. Behind this wall ran dark
hedges of yew trees, while here and there syringa trees trailed their
blossoming branches over into the courtyard.

Men with faces scorched by the sun and heated with toil were walking
over the open space and gave a greeting to the two friends, while Eric
called out to one or another of them some order or question about
their day's work.

By this time they had reached the house. They entered a high, cool
vestibule, at the far end of which they turned to the left into a
somewhat darker passage.

Here Eric opened a door and they passed into a spacious room that
opened into a garden. The heavy mass of leafage that covered the
opposite windows filled this room at either end with a green twilight,
while between the windows two lofty wide-open folding-doors let in the
full glow of spring sunshine, and afforded a view into a garden, laid
out with circular flower-beds and steep hedgerows and divided by a
straight, broad path, along which the eye roamed out on to the lake
and away over the woods growing on the opposite shore.

As the two friends entered, a breath of wind bore in upon them a
perfect stream of fragrance.

On a terrace in front of the door leading to the garden sat a girlish
figure dressed in white. She rose and came to meet the two friends as
they entered, but half-way she stood stock-still as if rooted to the
spot and stared at the stranger. With a smile he held out his hand to
her.

"Reinhard!" she cried. "Reinhard! Oh! is it you? It is such a long
time since we have seen each other."

"Yes, a long time," he said, and not a word more could he utter; for
on hearing her voice he felt a keen, physical pain at his heart, and
as he looked up to her, there she stood before him, the same slight,
graceful figure to whom he had said farewell years ago in the town
where he was born.

Eric had stood back by the door, with joy beaming from his eyes.

"Now, then, Elisabeth," he said, "isn't he really the very last person
in the world you would have expected to see?"

Elisabeth looked at him with the eyes of a sister. "You are so kind,
Eric," she said.

He took her slender hand caressingly in his. "And now that we have
him," he said, "we shall not be in a hurry to let him go. He has been
so long away abroad, we will try to make him feel at home again. Just
see how foreign-looking he has become, and what a distinguished
appearance he has!"

Elisabeth shyly scanned Reinhard's face. "The time that we have been
separated is enough to account for that," she said.

At this moment in at the door came her mother, key-basket on arm.

"Herr Werner!" she cried, when she caught sight of Reinhard; "ah! you
are as dearly welcome as you are unexpected."

And so the conversation went smoothly on with questions and answers.
The ladies sat over their work, and while Reinhard enjoyed the
refreshment that had been prepared for him, Eric had lighted his huge
meerschaum pipe and sat smoking and conversing by his side.

Next day Reinhard had to go out with him to see the fields, the
vineyards, the hop-garden, the distillery. It was all well appointed;
the people who were working on the land or at the vats all had a
healthy and contented look.

For dinner the family assembled in the room that opened into the
garden, and the day was spent more or less in company just according
to the leisure of the host and hostess. Only during the hours
preceding the evening meal, as also during the early hours of the
forenoon, did Reinhard stay working in his own room.

For some years past, whenever he could come across them, he had been
collecting the rhymes and songs that form part of the life of the
people, and now set about arranging his treasure, and wherever
possible increasing it by means of fresh records from the immediate
neighbourhood.

Elisabeth was at all times gentle and kind. Eric's constant attentions
she received with an almost humble gratitude, and Reinhard thought at
whiles that the gay, cheerful child of bygone days had given promise
of a somewhat less sedate womanhood.

Ever since the second day of his visit he had been wont of an evening
to take a walk along the shore of the lake. The road led along close
under the garden. At the end of the latter, on a projecting mound,
there was a bench under some tall birch trees. Elisabeth's mother had
christened it the Evening Bench, because the spot faced westward, and
was mostly used at that time of the day in order to enjoy a view of
the sunset.

One evening Reinhard was returning from his walk along this road when
he was overtaken by the rain. He sought shelter under one of the
linden trees that grew by the water-side, but the heavy drops were
soon pelting through the leaves. Wet through as he was he resigned
himself to his fate and slowly continued his homeward way.

It was almost dark; the rain fell faster and faster. As he drew near
to the Evening Bench he fancied he could make out the figure of a
woman dressed in white standing among the gleaming birch tree trunks.
She stood motionless, and, as far as he could make out on approaching
nearer, with her face turned in his direction, as if she was expecting
some one.

He thought it was Elisabeth. But when he quickened his pace in order
that he might catch up to her and then return together with her
through the garden into the house, she turned slowly away and
disappeared among the dark side-paths.

He could not understand it; he was almost angry with Elisabeth, and
yet he doubted whether it had really been she. He was, however, shy of
questioning her about it--nay, he even avoided going into the garden-
room on his return to the house for fear he should happen to see
Elisabeth enter through the garden-door.

*       *       *       *       *


BY MY MOTHER'S HARD DECREE


Some days later, as evening was already closing in, the family was, as
usual at this time of the day, sitting all together in their garden-
room. The doors stood wide open, and the sun had already sunk behind
the woods on the far side of the lake.

Reinhard was invited to read some folk-songs which had been sent to
him that afternoon by a friend who lived away in the country. He went
up to his room and soon returned with a roll of papers which seemed to
consist of detached neatly written pages.

So they all sat down to the table, Elisabeth beside Reinhard. "We
shall read them at random," said the latter, "I have not yet looked
through them myself."

Elisabeth unrolled the manuscript. "Here's some music," she said, "you
must sing it, Reinhard."

To begin with he read some Tyrolese ditties [Footnote: Dialectal for
<i>Schnitterhüpfen</i>, <i>i.e.</i> 'reapers' dances,' sung especially
in the Tyrol and in Bavaria.] and as he read on he would now and then
hum one or other of the lively melodies. A general feeling of
cheeriness pervaded the little party.

"And who, pray, made all these pretty songs?" asked Elisabeth.

"Oh," said Eric, "you can tell that by listening to the rubbishy
things--tailors' apprentices and barbers and such-like merry folk."

Reinhard said: "They are not made; they grow, they drop from the
clouds, they float over the land like gossamer, [Footnote: These fine
cobwebs, produced by field-spiders, have always in the popular mind
been connected with the gods. After the advent of Christianity they
were connected with the Virgin Mary. The shroud in which she was
wrapped after her death was believed to have been woven of the very
finest thread, which during her ascent to Heaven frayed away from her
body.] hither and thither, and are sung in a thousand places at the
same time. We discover in these songs our very inmost activities and
sufferings: it is as if we all had helped to write them."

He took up another sheet: "I stood on the mountain height [Footnote:
An ancient folk-song which treats of a beautiful but poor maiden, who,
being unable to marry 'the young count,' retired to a convent.]..."

"I know that one," cried Elisabeth; "begin it, do, Reinhard, and I
will help you out."

So they sang that famous melody, which is so mysterious that one can
hardly believe that it was ever conceived by the heart of man,
Elisabeth with her slightly clouded contralta taking the second part
to the young man's tenor.

The mother meanwhile sat busy with her needlework, while Eric listened
attentively, with one hand clasped in the other. The song finished,
Reinhard laid the sheet on one side in silence. Up from the lake-shore
came through the evening calm the tinkle of the cattle bells; they
were all listening without knowing why, and presently they heard a
boy's clear voice singing:

I stood on the mountain height
   And viewed the deep valley beneath....

Reinhard smiled. "Do you hear that now? So it passes from mouth to
mouth."

"It is often sung in these parts," said Elisabeth.

"Yes," said Eric, "it is Casper the herdsman; he is driving the
heifers [Footnote: <i>Starke</i> is the southern dialect word for
<i>Färse</i>, 'young cow,' 'heifer.'] home."

They listened a while longer until the tinkle of the bells died away
behind the farm buildings. "These melodies are as old as the world,"
said Reinhard; "they slumber in the depths of the forest; God knows
who discovered them."

He drew forth a fresh sheet.

It had now grown darker; a crimson evening glow lay like foam over the
woods in the farther side of the lake. Reinhard unrolled the sheet,
Elisabeth caught one side of it in her hand, and they both examined it
together. Then Reinhard read:

By my mother's hard decree
Another's wife I needs must be;
Him on whom my heart was set,
Him, alas! I must forget;
My heart protesting, but not free.

Bitterly did I complain
That my mother brought me pain.
What mine honour might have been,
That is turned to deadly sin.
Can I ever hope again?

For my pride what can I show,
And my joy, save grief and woe?
h! could I undo what's done,
O'er the moor scorched by the sun
Beggarwise I'd gladly go.

During the reading of this Reinhard had felt an imperceptible
quivering of the paper; and when he came to an end Elisabeth gently
pushed her chair back and passed silently out into the garden. Her
mother followed her with a look. Eric made as if to go after, but the
mother said:

"Elisabeth has one or two little things to do outside," so he remained
where he was.

But out of doors the evening brooded darker and darker over garden and
lake. Moths whirred past the open doors through which the fragrance of
flower and bush floated in increasingly; up from the water came the
croak of the frogs, under the windows a nightingale commenced his song
answered by another from within the depths of the garden; the moon
appeared over the tree-tops.

Reinhard looked for a little while longer at the spot where
Elisabeth's sweet form had been lost to sight in the thick-foliaged
garden paths, and then he rolled up his manuscript, bade his friends
good-night and passed through the house down to the water.

The woods stood silent and cast their dark shadow far out over the
lake, while the centre was bathed in the haze of a pale moonlight. Now
and then a gentle rustle trembled through the trees, though wind there
was none; it was but the breath of summer night.

Reinhard continued along the shore. A stone's throw from the land he
perceived a white water-lily. All at once he was seized with the
desire to see it quite close, so he threw off his clothes and entered
the water. It was quite shallow; sharp stones and water plants cut his
feet, and yet he could not reach water deep enough for him to swim in.

Then suddenly he stepped out of his depth: the waters swirled above
him; and it was some time before he rose to the surface again. He
struck out with hands and feet and swam about in a circle until he had
made quite sure from what point he had entered the water. And soon too
he saw the lily again floating lonely among the large, gleaming
leaves.

He swam slowly out, lifting every now and then his arms out of the
water so that the drops trickled down and sparkled in the moonlight.
Yet the distance between him and the flower showed no signs of
diminishing, while the shore, as he glanced back at it, showed behind
him in a hazy mist that ever deepened. But he refused to give up the
venture and vigorously continued swimming in the same direction.

At length he had come so near the flower that he was able clearly to
distinguish the silvery leaves in the moonlight; but at the same time
he felt himself entangled in a net formed by the smooth stems of the
water plants which swayed up from the bottom and wound themselves
round his naked limbs.

The unfamiliar water was black all round about him, and behind him he
heard the sound of a fish leaping. Suddenly such an uncanny feeling
overpowered him in the midst of this strange element that with might
and main he tore asunder the network of plants and swam back to land
in breathless haste. And when from the shore he looked back upon the
lake, there floated the lily on the bosom of the darkling water as far
away and as lonely as before.

He dressed and slowly wended his way home. As he passed out of the
garden into the room he discovered Eric and the mother busied with
preparations for a short journey which had to be undertaken for
business purposes on the morrow.

"Where ever have you been so late in the dark?" the mother called out
to him.

"I?" he answered, "oh, I wanted to pay a call on the water-lily, but I
failed."

"That's beyond the comprehension of any man," said Eric. "What on
earth had you to do with the water-lily?"

"Oh, I used to be friends with the lily once," said Reinhard; "but
that was long ago."

*       *       *       *       *


ELISABETH


The following afternoon Reinhard and Elisabeth went for a walk on the
farther side of the lake, strolling at times through the woodland, at
other times along the shore where it jutted out into the water.
Elisabeth had received injunctions from Eric, during the absence of
himself and her mother to show Reinhard the prettiest views in the
immediate neighbourhood, particularly the view toward the farm itself
from the other side of the lake. So now they proceeded from one point
to another.

At last Elisabeth got tired and sat down in the shade of some
overhanging branches. Reinhard stood opposite to her, leaning against
a tree trunk; and as he heard the cuckoo calling farther back in the
woods, it suddenly struck him that all this had happened once before.
He looked at her and with an odd smile asked:

"Shall we look for strawberries?"

"It isn't strawberry time," she said.

"No, but it will soon be here."

