At seven in the evening we went to bed in the second story--with our
clothes on, as usual, and all three in the same bed, for every available
space on the floors, chairs, etc., was in request, and even then there
was barely room for the housing of the inn's guests.  An hour later we
were awakened by a great turmoil, and springing out of bed we picked our
way nimbly among the ranks of snoring teamsters on the floor and got to
the front windows of the long room.  A glance revealed a strange
spectacle, under the moonlight.  The crooked Carson was full to the brim,
and its waters were raging and foaming in the wildest way--sweeping
around the sharp bends at a furious speed, and bearing on their surface a
chaos of logs, brush and all sorts of rubbish.  A depression, where its
bed had once been, in other times, was already filling, and in one or two
places the water was beginning to wash over the main bank.  Men were
flying hither and thither, bringing cattle and wagons close up to the
house, for the spot of high ground on which it stood extended only some
thirty feet in front and about a hundred in the rear.  Close to the old
river bed just spoken of, stood a little log stable, and in this our
horses were lodged.

While we looked, the waters increased so fast in this place that in a few
minutes a torrent was roaring by the little stable and its margin
encroaching steadily on the logs.  --One of the tracts, entitled "The
Confession of Richard Brandon, the Hangman, upon his Death-bed, concerning
the Beheading of his late Majesty," printed in 1649, states, "During the
time of his sickness, his conscience was much troubled, and exceedingly
perplexed in mind; and on Sunday last, a young man of his acquaintance
going to visit him, fell into discourse, asked him how he did, and whether
he was not troubled in conscience for cutting off the King's head. He
replied yes, by reason that (upon the time of his tryall) he had
taken a vow and protestation, wishing God to punish him, body and soul,
if ever he appeared on the scaffold to do the act, or lift up his hand
against him. He likewise confessed that he had 30_l_. for his pains, all
paid him in half-crowns within an hour after the blow was given; and he
had an orange stuck full with cloves, and a handkircher out of the
King's pocket, so soon as he was carried off the scaffold; for which
orange he was proffered twenty shillings by a gentleman in Whitechapel,
but refused the same, and afterwards sold it for ten shillings in
Rosemary Lane. About eight o'clock at night he returned home to his wife,
living in Rosemary Lane, and gave her the money, saying, it was
the dearest money, he earned in his life, for it would cost him his
life.

About three days before he died, he lay speechless, uttering many a
sigh and heavy groan, and so in a desperate state departed from his
bed of sorrow.
The Indians were true prophets, but how
did they get their information?  I am not able to answer the question.
We remained cooped up eight days and nights with that curious crew.
Swearing, drinking and card playing were the order of the day, and
occasionally a fight was thrown in for variety.  Dirt and vermin--but let
us forget those features; their profusion is simply inconceivable--it is
better that they remain so.

There were two men----however, this chapter is long enough.