"And then," said Una, sitting up very straight, with sparkling eyes and
flushed cheeks: "papa got him out of prison again.  That was papa's
secret!  When people were put in prison, in Russia, when they hadn't
really done anything wrong, papa used to help them to get free again,
and he used to write letters to the Czar and tell him how his poor
people were being treated, and he used to write books too--big
books--to send all over the world, so that everyone should know what
sad, sad lives many of the people in Russia led, and should try and
help them if they could."

"And the yellow country at the top of Russia, Una?  You haven't told
about that," said Dan.

"The yellow country?  What do you mean?" said Tom.

"He means Siberia; it's yellow on the map I showed to him," said Una.
"Yes, very often people are sent to live in that cold country--not
because they have done anything wrong, but because there are lots of
salt mines there and they can't get people to go and live there and
work in the mines.  And so they send men to live there who don't want
to go at all, and they have to leave their wives and children and go
and live in that cold country, and work in the mines without getting
any money for doing it."

"But, Una, couldn't the wives and children go and live in that country
too?" asked Norah.

"Oh, yes," said Una; "very often they do go and live there, but it is
hundreds and hundreds of miles away from their homes, and they have to
walk all the way; no one pays for their journey or gives them homes
when they get there."

"Oh, Una, it's dreadful!" said Norah.  "And did your father help the
man to get away from prison, and from that horrid, cold country?  But
how could he, when he was in England?"

"Papa used to help them to get away when he lived in other countries
nearer Russia," said Una.  "And he used to let them come and live in
his house until they were well again, because they often got quite ill
in that country, with having only poor food to eat and being treated so
badly; and then papa used to fetch their wives and families out of
Russia and give them enough money to begin to earn their own living
again in another country.

"But often the cruel people I told you about used to find out where
papa was living and prevent him helping the poor people to escape, and
then we used to have to go and live in another country until he was
found out again; and then at last he got ill and came to live in
England, and could only write books and have the poor prisoners to stay
here and get strong and well again; and other people had to help them
to get away from Siberia and from prison."

"It sounds like a story out of a book," said Tom.

"What a rich man your father must have been," said Norah.  "It must be
very nice to have lots of money, and be able to help people."

"It wasn't all papa's own money," said Una.  "Papa belonged to what he
called a society, and that society used to give him money to give to
the poor people.  Someone in that society has found homes for Ivan and
Peter, our old servants, you know, who used to live here.  It is very
nice that Marie is going to live with me always," added the little girl.

Norah drew a long breath.

"So that was your father's secret, Una?" she said.  "It's a very nice
one."

"Papa would have helped the poor Russian people somehow," said Una,
with a wise little nod of her head, "even if he hadn't had any money.
Papa said once that everybody ought to try and help other people
somehow."

The children walked back across the fields and through the woods--not
talking much, but thinking of all that Una had told them--until they
came to the gap in the fence and saw that it had been boarded up.

"Oh, Una, look!" cried Tom.

"We shan't have any more picnics," said Norah dolefully.

Dan leant out of his small carriage and put his hand into Una's with a
happy little laugh.

