VOlume 2 ***


Produced by Anne Soulard, Naomi Parkhurst, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


THE PRINCE OF INDIA
OR
WHY CONSTANTINOPLE FELL

BY
LEW. WALLACE

VOL. II.


   _Rise, too, ye Shapes and Shadows of the Past
    Rise from your long forgotten grazes at last
    Let us behold your faces, let us hear
    The words you uttered in those days of fear
    Revisit your familiar haunts again
    The scenes of triumph and the scenes of pain
    And leave the footprints of your bleeding feet
    Once more upon the pavement of the street_
                                       LONGFELLOW


CONTENTS


BOOK IV
THE PALACE OF BLACHERNE
(_Continued_)

CHAPTER
   XI. THE PRINCESS HEARS FROM THE WORLD
  XII. The very God! think, Abib: dost
 thou think?
  So, the All-Great were the
   All-Loving too-- So through the thunder comes a
  human voice Saying "O heart I made,
 a heart beats here!
Face, my hands fashioned, see
  it in myself!
   Thou hast no power nor mayst
  conceive of mine, But love I gave
 thee, with myself to love, And thou must
love me who have died for thee!"
 Science has at least something to consider in a thought so strangely
potent.

A
nineteenth-century sceptic's exposition of his Christian faith is
the paradoxical subject of _Bishop Blougram's Apology_, and it is
one which admirably suited that side of Browning's genius which
leaned towards intellectual casuistry.

    
   COUNT CORTI TO MAHOMMED
 VIII. OUR LORD'S CREED
   IX. COUNT CORTI TO MAHOMMED
    X. SERGIUS TO THE LION

BOOK VI
CONSTANTINE

    I. THE SWORD OF SOLOMON
   II. MAHOMMED AND COUNT CORTI MAKE A WAGER
  III. THE BLOODY HARVEST
   IV. EUROPE ANSWERS THE CRY FOR HELP
    V. COUNT CORTI RECEIVES A FAVOR
   VI. MAHOMMED AT THE GATE ST. ROMAIN
  VII. THE GREAT GUN SPEAKS
 VIII. MAHOMMED TRIES HIS GUNS AGAIN
   IX. THE MADONNA TO THE RESCUE
    X. THE NIGHT BEFORE THE ASSAULT
   XI. COUNT CORTI IN DILEMMA
  XII. THE ASSAULT
 XIII. MAHOMMED IN SANCTA SOPHIA


BOOK IV

THE PALACE OF BLACHERNE
(_Continued_)


CHAPTER XI

THE PRINCESS HEARS FROM THE WORLD


The sun shone clear and hot, and the guests in the garden were glad to
rest in the shaded places of promenade along the brooksides and under
the beeches and soaring pines of the avenues. Far up the extended hollow
there was a basin first to receive the water from the conduit supposed
to tap the aqueduct leading down from the forest of Belgrade. The noise
of the little cataract there was strong enough to draw a quota of
visitors. From the front gate to the basin, from the basin to the summit
of the promontory, the company in lingering groups amused each other
detailing what of fortune good and bad the year had brought them. The
main features of such meetings are always alike. There were games by the
children, lovers in retired places, and old people plying each other
with reminiscences. The faculty of enjoyment changes but never expires.

An array of men chosen for the purpose sallied from the basement of the
palace carrying baskets of bread, fruits in season, and wine of the
country in water-skins. Dispersing themselves through the garden, they
waited on the guests, and made distribution without stint or
discrimination. You don't mean to say you have tickets for it? (Excitedly.)

_He_. No, of course I don't: I am not a thief.

_She_. No, you are only the next thing to it--a shabby fellow. Why
did you ask me in that way when you knew we couldn't go?

_He_. How you do jump at lame and impotent conclusions! Who said
we could not go? I am sure I did not.
_She_. John Woodstock, if you don't stop this, and tell me what you
mean, I will never make you another shirt!

_He_. Small loss!This was the hour she chose to go out and personally visit her guests.
Descending from the portico, she led her household attendants into the
garden. She alone appeared unveiled. The happiness of the many amongst
whom she immediately stepped touched every spring of enjoyment in her
being; her eyes were bright, her cheeks rosy, her spirit high; in a
word, the beauty so peculiarly hers, and which no one could look on
without consciousness of its influence, shone with singular enhancement.

News that she was in the garden spread rapidly, and where she went
everyone arose and remained standing. Now and then, while making
acknowledgments to groups along the way, she recognized acquaintances,
and for such, whether men or women, she had a smile, sometimes a word.
Upon her passing, they pursued with benisons, "God bless you!" "May the
Holy Mother keep her!" Not unfrequently children ran flinging flowers at
her feet, and mothers knelt and begged her blessing. They had lively
recollection of a sickness or other overtaking by sorrow, and of her
boat drawing to the landing laden with delicacies, and bringing what was
quite as welcome, the charm of her presence, with words inspiring hope
and trust. The vast, vociferous, premeditated Roman ovation, sonorously
the Triumph, never brought a Consular hero the satisfaction this
Christian woman now derived.

She was aware of the admiration which went with her, and the sensation
was of walking through a purer and brighter sunshine. Nor did she affect
to put aside the triumph there certainly was in the demonstration; but
she accounted it the due of charity--a triumph of good work done for the
pleasure there was in the doing.

At the basin mentioned as the landward terminus of the garden the
progress in that direction stopped. Thence, after gracious attentions to
the women and children there, the Princess set out for the summit of the
promontory. The road taken was broad and smooth, and on the left hand
lined from bottom to top with pine trees, some of which are yet
standing.

The summit had been a place of interest time out of mind. From its woody
cover, the first inhabitants beheld the Argonauts anchor off the town of
Amycus, king of the Bebryces; there the vengeful Medea practised her
incantations; and descending to acknowledged history, it were long
telling the notable events of the ages landmarked by the hoary height.
When the builder of the palace below threw his scheme of improvement
over the brow of the hill, he constructed water basins on different
levels, surrounding them with raised walls artistically sculptured;
between the basins he pitched marble pavilions, looking in the distance
like airy domes on a Cyclopean temple; then he drew the work together by
a tesselated pavement identical with the floor of the house of Caesar
hard by the Forum in Rome.

Giving little heed to the other guests in occupancy of the summit, the
attendants of the Princess broke into parties sight seeing; while she
called Sergius to her, and conducted him to a point commanding the
Bosphorus for leagues. A favorite lookout, in fact, the spot had been
provided with a pavement and a capacious chair cut from a block of the
coarse brown limestone native to the locality. There she took seat, and
the ascent, though all in shade, having been wearisome, she was glad of
the blowing of the fresh upper air.

From a place in the rear Sergius had witnessed the progress to the
present halt. Every incident and demonstration had been in his view and
hearing. The expressions of affection showered upon the Princess were
delightful to him; they seemed so spontaneous and genuine. As testimony
to her character in the popular estimate at least, they left nothing
doubtful. His first impression of her was confirmed. She was a woman to
whom Heaven had confided every grace and virtue. Such marvels had been
before. He had heard of them in tradition, and always in a strain to
lift those thus favored above the hardened commonplace of human life,
creatures not exactly angels, yet moving in the same atmosphere with
angels. The monasteries, even those into whose gates women are forbidden
to look, all have stories of womanly excellence which the monks tell
each other in pauses from labor in the lentil patch, and in their cells
after vesper prayers. In brief, so did Sergius' estimate of the Princess
increase that he was unaware of impropriety when, trudging slowly after
the train of attendants, he associated her with heroines most odorous in
Church and Scriptural memories; with Mothers Superior famous for
sanctity; with Saints, like Theckla and Cecilia; with the Prophetess who
was left by the wayside in the desert of Zin, and the later seer and
singer, she who had her judgment-seat under the palm tree of Deborah.

Withal, however, the monk was uncomfortable. The words of his Hegumen
pursued him. Should he tell the Princess? Assailed by doubts, he
followed her to the lookout on the edge of the promontory.

Seating herself, she glanced over the wide field of water below; from
the vessels there, she gazed across to Asia; then up at the sky, full to
its bluest depth with the glory of day. At length she asked:

"Have you heard from Father Hilarion?"

"Not yet," Sergius replied.

"I was thinking of him," she continued. "He used to tell me of the
primitive church--the Church of the Disciples. One of his lessons
returns to me. He seems to be standing where you are. I hear his voice.
I see his countenance. I remember his words: 'The brethren while of one
faith, because the creed was too simple for division, were of two
classes, as they now are and will always be'--ay, Sergius, as they will
always be!--'But,' he said, 'it is worthy remembrance, my dear child,
unlike the present habit, the rich held their riches with the
understanding that the brethren all had shares in them. The owner was
more than owner; he was a trustee charged with the safe-keeping of his
property, and with farming it to the best advantage, that he might be in
condition to help the greatest number of the Christian brotherhood
according to their necessities.' I wondered greatly at the time, but not
now. The delight I have today confirms the Father; for it is not in my
palace and garden, nor in my gold, but in the power I derive from them
to give respite from the grind of poverty to so many less fortunate than
myself. 'The divine order was not to desist from getting wealth'--thus
the Father continued--'for Christ knew there were who, labor as they
might, could not accumulate or retain; circumstances would be against
them, or the genius might be wanting. Poor without fault, were they to
suffer, and curse God with the curse of the sick, the cold, the naked,
the hungry? Oh, no! Christ was the representative of the Infinitely
Merciful. Under his dispensation they were to be partners of the more
favored.' Who can tell, who can begin to measure the reward there is to
me in the laughter of children at play under the trees by the brooks,
and in the cheer and smiles of women whom I have been able to draw from
the unvarying routine of toil like theirs?"

There was a ship with full spread sail speeding along so close in shore
Sergius could have thrown a stone on its deck. He affected to be deeply
interested in it. The ruse did not avail him.

"What is the matter?"

Receiving no reply, she repeated the question.

"My dear friend, you are not old enough in concealment to deceive me.
You are in trouble. Come sit here.... True, I am not an authorized
confessor; yet I know the principle on which the Church defends the
confessional. Let me share your burden. Insomuch as you give me, you
shall be relieved."

It came to him then that he must speak.

"Princess," he began, striving to keep his voice firm, "you know not
what you ask."

"Is it what a woman may hear?"

A step nearer brought him on the tesselated square.

"I hesitate, Princess, because a judgment is required of me. Hear, and
help me first."

Then he proceeded rapidly:

"There is one just entered holy service. He is a member of an ancient
and honorable Brotherhood, and by reason of his inexperience, doubtless,
its obligations rest the heavier on his conscience. His superior has
declared to him how glad he would be had he a son like him, and
confiding in his loyalty, he intrusted him with gravest secrets; amongst
others, that a person well known and greatly beloved is under watch for
the highest of religious crimes. Pause now, O Princess, and consider the
obligations inseparable from the relation and trust here disclosed....
Look then to this other circumstance. The person accused condescended to
be the friend and patron of the same neophyte, and by vouching for him
to the head of the Church, put him on the road to favor and quick
promotion. Briefly, O Princess, to which is obligation first owing? The
father superior or the patron in danger?"

The Princess replied calmly, but with feeling: "It is not a supposition,
Sergius."

Though surprised, he returned: "Without it I could not have your
decision first."

"Thou, Sergius, art the distressed neophyte."

He held his hands out to her: "Give me thy judgment."

"They behaved like boys, for when I woke--I mean just before you
came for me--I thought I heard somebody laugh, and then they were
gone, and my gloves were gone too; and I just believe they managed
to blacken my face somehow, and then stole my gloves."

"If I thought that--" exclaimed John savagely; and then added in a
puzzled tone, "But how could they have done it, Peg, unless you
were sleeping like a rock?"

"Well, I believe I was," answered the young woman candidly, "for I
was tired to death, and couldn't understand half the gorilla said."

"It was all my fault for dragging you there, and then leaving you," said
John, his penitence making him overlook this glaring disrespect
to his hobby and its rider.

"But those fellows looked like gentlemen; and besides, I know who
that old man was who sat next me, and I am sure he would not have let any
such trick be played right under his nose without stopping it."
"You can think what you please," said Marjory, a little crossly,
for her naturally good temper had been severely tried, "but nothing
will ever make me believe it was not those boys."

II.

Some weeks had elapsed since that sorrowful result of praiseworthy
economy. Marjory's feelings had been soothed by a pair of tan-colored
kids, three-buttoned, stitched on the backs, accompanied by a glove-buttoner
and a hug from John. The mention of dyed gloves still raised a
flush on her round cheeks and painful recollections in her heart, but
she was beginning to banish the sore subject from her mind, and to
half smile to herself when she did think of it; for, in spite of the
enormity of the supposed offence, the vision of her remarkable
appearance when John raised her veil before the glass was too much
for her risibles as it grew more and more retrospective.

For she was one of those happy mortals who cannot help seeing a
joke, even when it points their way.

She came down stairs one evening arrayed in her best bib and tucker,
and was speedily joined by John, whose appearance likewise indicated some
approaching festivity--all but his face, which wore a rather disgusted
expression. "What a bore parties are!" said that world-weary individual
from the height of his twenty-third year.

"That depends," answered Marjory with the superior wisdom of eighteen.

"If one meets bright people, they are not a bore.

And I'll give you some advice, Jack: don't always take it for granted that
the girls can only talk gossip and fashions. Take it for granted that
they have at least as much sense as you have, and talk about something
worth while."
"The descent of man, for instance?" suggested John, somewhat mischievously.
"From the interest _you_ take in that, I've no doubt the rest of
the girls would be charmed."

"What is that thing somebody said about the man of one book?" asked
Marjory, looking abstracted.

"Don't know," replied John--"never met him."
The party was about as lively and about as stupid as parties generally
are.

They are Greeks
trained to diplomacy; you are"--she paused and half smiled--"only a
pupil of Hilarion's. See now--if they mean to kill me, how important to
invent a tale which shall rob me of sympathy, and reconcile the public
to my sacrifice. They who do much good, and no harm"--she cast a glance
at the people swarming around the pavilions--"always have friends. Such
is the law of kindness, and it never failed but once; but today a
splinter of the Cross is worth a kingdom."

"Princess, I will hold nothing back."

"And I, Sergius--God witnessing for me--will speak to each denunciation
thou givest me."

"There were two matters in the Hegumen's mind," Sergius began, but struck
with the abruptness, he added apologetically: "I pray you, Princess,
remember I speak at your insistence, and that I am not in any sense an
accuser. It may be well to say also the Hegumen returned from last
night's Mystery low in spirits, and much spent bodily, and before
speaking of you, declared he had been an active partisan of your
father's. I do not think him your personal enemy."

A mist of tears dimmed her eyes while the Princess replied: "He was my
father's friend, and I am grateful to him; but alas! that he is
naturally kind and just is now of small consequence."

"It grieves me"--

"Do not stop," she said, interrupting him.

"At the Father's bedside I received his blessing; and asked leave to be
absent a few days. 'Where?' he inquired, and I answered: 'Thou knowest I
regard the Princess Irene as my little mother. I should like to go see
her.'"

Sergius sought his auditor's face at this, and observing no sign of
objection to the familiarity, was greatly strengthened.

"The Father endeavored to persuade me not to come, and it was with that
purpose he entered upon the disclosures you ask.... 'The life the
Princess leads'--thus he commenced--'and her manners, are outside the
sanctions of society.'"

Here, from resting on her elbow, the listener sat upright, grasping the
massive arm of the chair.

"Shall I proceed, O Princess?"

"Yes."

"This place is very public"--he glanced at the people above them.

"I will hear you here."

"At your pleasure.... The Hegumen referred next to your going about
publicly unveiled. While not positively wrong, he condemned the practice
as a pernicious example; besides which there was a defiant boldness in
it, he said, tending to make you a subject of discussion and indelicate
remark."

The hand on the stony arm trembled.

"I fear, O Princess," Sergius continued, with downcast look, "that my
words are giving you pain."

"But they are not yours. Go on."

"Then the Father came to what was much more serious."

Sergius again hesitated.

"I am listening," she said.

"He termed it your persistence in keeping up the establishment here at
Therapia."

The Princess grew red and white by turns.

"He said the Turk was too near you; that unmarried and unprotected your
proper place was in some house of God on the Islands, or in the city,
where you could have the benefit of holy offices. As it was, rumor was
free to accuse you of preferring guilty freedom to marriage."

The breeze fell off that moment, leaving the Princess in the centre of a
profound hush; except for the unwonted labor of her heart, the leaves
overhead were not more still. The sight of her was too oppressive--
Sergius turned away. Presently he heard her say, as if to herself: "I am
indeed in danger. If my death were not in meditation, the boldest of them
would not dare think so foul a falsehood.... Sergius," she said.

He turned to her, but she broke off diverted by another idea. Had this
last accusation reference to the Emperor's dream of making her his wife?
Could the Emperor have published what took place between them?
Impossible!

"Sergius, did the Hegumen tell you whence this calumny had origin?"

"He laid it to rumor merely."

"Surely he disclosed some ground for it. A dignitary of his rank and
profession cannot lend himself to shaming a helpless woman without
reason or excuse."

"Except your residence at Therapia, he gave no reason."

Here she looked at Sergius, and the pain in the glance was pitiful. "My
friend, is there anything in your knowledge which might serve such a
rumor?"

"Yes," he replied, letting his eyes fall.

"What!" and she lifted her head, and opened her eyes.

He stood silent and evidently suffering.

"Poor Sergius! The punishment is yours. I am sorry for you--sorry we
entered on this subject--but it is too late to retire from it. Speak
bravely. What is it you know against me? It cannot be a crime; much I
doubt if it be a sin; my walk has been very strait and altogether in
God's view. Speak!"

"Princess," he answered, "coming down from the landing, I was stopped by
a concourse studying a brass plate nailed to the right-hand pillar of
your gate. It was inscribed, but none of them knew the import of the
inscription. The hamari came up, and at sight of it fell to saluting,
like the abject Eastern he is. The bystanders chaffered him, and he
retorted, and, amongst other things, said the brass was a safeguard
directed to all Turks, notifying them that this property, its owner, and
inmates were under protection of the Prince Mahommed. Give heed now, I
pray you, O Princess, to this other thing of the man's saying. They
were trustworthy and sympathetic; Henrietta had special reasons of her
own for sympathy; Captain Surtees Cook, who afterwards became her
husband, might be discussing affairs with her in the drawing-room
at the same time that Mr Browning the poet--"the man of the
pomegranates" as he was named by Mr Barrett--held converse on
literature with Elizabeth in the upper chamber.

The household was honeycombed with treasons.

For the humours of superficial situations and passing incidents
Miss Barrett had a lively sense, and she found some relief in playing
with them; but with a nature essentially truthful like hers the
necessity of concealment was a cause of distress.

The position was no less painful to Browning, and in the end it
became intolerable.

Yet while there were obstructions and winding ways in the shallows,
in the depths were flawless truth and inviolable love.

What sentimental persons fancy and grow effusive over was here the
simplest and yet always a miraculous reality--"He of the heavens and
earth brought us together so wonderfully, holding two souls in his
hand.

"[37] In the most illuminating words of each correspondent no merely
private, or peculiar feeling is expressed; it is the common wave
of human passion, the common love of man and woman, that here leaps
from the depths to the height, and over which the iris of beauty
ever and anon appears with--it is true--an unusual intensity.

Here a voice in fierce malediction was heard up at the pavilions,
together with a prodigious splashing of water. Laughter, clapping of
hands, and other expressions of delight succeeded.

"Go, Sergius, and see what is taking place," said the Princess.

Glad of the opportunity to terminate the painful scene, he hastened to
the reservoirs and returned.

"Your presence will restore quiet at once."

The people made way for their hostess with alacrity. The hamari, it
appeared, had just arrived from the garden. Observing Lael in the midst
of the suite of fair ladies, he advanced to her with many strange
salutations. Alarmed, she would have run away had not Joqard broken from
his master, and leaped with a roar into the water. The poor beast seemed
determined to enjoy the bath. He swam, and dived, and played antics
without number. In vain the showman, resorting to every known language,
coaxed and threatened by turns--Joqard was self-willed and happy, and it
were hard saying which appreciated his liberty most, he or the
spectators of the scene.

The Princess, for the time conquering her pain of heart, interceded for
the brute; whereupon the hamari, like a philosopher used to making the
best of surprises, joined in the sport until Joqard grew tired, and
voluntarily returned to control.


CHAPTER XII

LAEL TELLS OF HER TWO FATHERS


Word passed from the garden to the knots of people on the height: "Come
down quickly. They are making ready for the boat race." Directly the
reservoirs, the pavilions, and the tesselation about them were deserted.

The Princess Irene, with her suite, made the descent to the garden more
at leisure, knowing the regatta would wait for her. So it happened she
was at length in charge of what seemed a rear guard; but how it befell
that Sergius and Lael drew together, the very last of that rear guard,
is not of such easy explanation.

Whether by accident or mutual seeking, side by side the two moved slowly
down the hill, one moment in the shade of the kingly pines, then in the
glowing sunshine. The noises of the celebration, the shouting, singing,
calling, and merry outcries of children ascended to them, and through
the verdurousness below, lucent as a lake, gleams of color flashed from
scarfs, mantles, embroidered jackets, and flaming petticoats.

"I hope you are enjoying yourself," he said to Lael, upon their meeting.

"Oh, yes! How could I help it--everything is delightful. And the
Princess--she is so good and gracious. Oh, if I were a man, I should go
mad with loving her!"

She spoke with enthusiasm; she even drew her veil partially aside; yet
Sergius did not respond; he was asking himself if it were possible the
girl could be an impostor. Presently he resolved to try her with
questions.

"Tell me of your father. Is he well?"

At this she raised her veil entirely, and in turn asked: "Which father
do you mean?"

"Which father," he repeated, stopping.

"Oh, I have the advantage of everybody else! I have two fathers."

He could do no more than repeat after her: "Two fathers!"

"Yes; Uel the merchant is one of them, and the Prince of India is the
other. I suppose you mean the Prince, since you know him. He accompanied
me to the landing this morning, and seated me in the boat. He was then
well."

There was no concealment here. Yet Sergius saw the disclosure was not
complete. He was tempted to go on.

"Two fathers! How can such thing be?"

She met the question with a laugh. "Oh! If it depended on which of them
is the kinder to me, I could not tell you the real father."

Now, my dear Marjory, how often must I tell you that calling a fellow
names is not arguing?

If you could keep from being abusive for five minutes, you might hear
of something to your advantage.

I have a little money, for a wonder, but it is like the turkey--too
much for one, and not enough for two.

You cannot go by yourself, for it is an evening affair; but if you were
not so frightfully vain about your personal appearance, I think we could
manage it. I heard you say yesterday that you had the money
for a new pair of gloves: if you will sacrifice them, we can go, and in
two weeks I can give you the gloves besides. I can't before, for my
princely income is at present heavily mortgaged. Can you furbish up
your old ones till then, and thereby prove yourself sensible for
once?

_She_. You are a pretty good boy, after all; but really I have not a decent
pair to my name: that last pair of light ones got lemonade all over them,
and it took the color out, of course.

_He_.

Now I'll tell you what!

I can take them for you on my way down town, and leave them to be dyed,
and then you can do some fancy-work on their backs; and what more do you
want?

_She_ (doubtfully). But would black gloves do?

_He_ (conclusively). Of course they would for a thing like that. Fetch
them out, and be quick about it; and bring your money too, for I had
better buy the tickets this morning, and then we shall have some
choice as to seats.

So it was arranged. Marjory's lofty mind did wince a little at the
idea of dyed gloves, but she tried not to think of it. John brought
the objectionable kids home in time for elaborate decoration "on
their backs;" but, as he watched her in the pauses of his reading
aloud, they both observed with anxiety that the black "came off a
little," and Marjory asked him to warn her if he saw her let them
go anywhere near her face.
Two children never enjoyed a holiday more than these two enjoyed
that concert.They were at the instant in a bar of brightest
sunlight projected across the road; and had she asked him the cause of
the frown on his face, he could not have told her he was thinking of
Demedes.

"Yes, I see it--I see it, and congratulate you upon being so doubly
blessed. Tell me next who the Prince of India is."

She looked now here, now there, he watching her narrowly.

"Oh! I never thought of asking him about himself."

She was merely puzzled by an unexpected question.

"But you know something of him?"

"Let me think," she replied. "Yes, he was the intimate of my father
Uel's father, and of his father before him."

"Is he so old then?"

"I cannot say how long he has been a family acquaintance. Of my knowledge
he is very learned in everything. He speaks all the languages I ever
heard of; he passes the nights alone on the roof of his house"--

"Alone on the roof of his house!"

"Only of clear nights, you understand. A servant carries a chair and
table up for him, and a roll of papers, with pen and ink, and a clock of
brass and gold. The paper is a map of the heavens; and he sits there
watching the stars, marking them in position on the map, the clock
telling him the exact time."

"An astronomer," said Sergius.

"And an astrologer," she added; "and besides these things he is a doctor,
but goes only amongst the poor, taking nothing from them. He is also a
chemist; and he has tables of the plants curative and deadly, and can
extract their qualities, and reduce them from fluids to solids, and
proportionate them. He is also a master of figures, a science, he always
terms it, the first of creative principles without which God could not
be God. So, too, he is a traveller--indeed I think he has been over the
known world. You cannot speak of a capital or of an island, or a tribe
which he has not visited. He has servants from the farthest East. One of
his attendants is an African King; and what is the strangest to me,
Sergius, his domestics are all deaf and dumb."

"Impossible!"

"Nothing appears impossible to him."

"How does he communicate with them?"

"They catch his meaning from the motion of his lips. He says signs are
too slow and uncertain for close explanations."

"Still he must resort to some language."

"Oh, yes, the Greek."

"But if they have somewhat to impart to him?"

"It is theirs to obey, and pantomime seems sufficient to convey the
little they have to return to him, for it is seldom more than, 'My Lord,
I have done the thing you gave me to do.' If the matter be complex, he
too resorts to the lip-speech, which he could not teach without first
being proficient in it himself. Thus, for instance, to Nilo"--

"The black giant who defended you against the Greek?"

"Yes--a wonderful man--an ally, not a servant. On the journey to
Constantinople, the Prince turned aside into an African Kingdom called
Kash-Cush. I cannot tell where it is. Nilo was the King, and a mighty
hunter and warrior. His trappings hang in his room now--shields, spears,
knives, bows and arrows, and among them a net of linen threads. When he
took the field for lions, his favorite game, the net and a short sword
were all he cared for. His throne room, I have heard my father the
Prince say, was carpeted with skins taken by him in single combats."

"What could he do with the net, little Princess?"

"I will give you his account; perhaps you can see it clearly--I cannot.
When the monster makes his leap, the corners of the net are tossed up in
the air, and he is in some way caught and tangled... Well, as I was
saying, Nilo, though deaf and dumb, of choice left his people and throne
to follow the Prince, he knew not where."

"Oh, little friend! Do you know you are talking the incredible to me?
Who ever heard of such thing before?"

Sergius' blue eyes were astare with wonder.

"I only speak what I have heard recounted by my father, the Prince, to
my other father, Uel.... What I intended saying was that directly the
Prince established himself at home he began teaching Nilo to converse.
At their parting she invited the English visitors to come again, kissed
Mrs Browning on the lips, and received Browning's kiss upon her hand.
The second call upon her was less agreeable.

She sat warming her feet in a circle of eight or nine ill-bred men,
representatives of "the ragged Red diluted with the lower theatrical."

If any other mistress of a house had behaved so unceremoniously,
Browning declared that he would have walked out of the room; and Mrs
Browning left with the impression--"she does not care for me."

Sergius was struck with the idea, and wished to go further with it, but
they were at the foot of the hill, and Lael exclaimed, "The garden is
deserted. We may lose the starting of the race. Let us hurry."

"Nay, little friend, you forget how narrow my skirts are. I cannot run.
Let us walk fast. Give me a hand. There now--we will arrive in time."

Near the palace, however, Sergius dropped into his ordinary gait; then
coming to a halt, he asked: "Tell me to whom else you have related this
pretty tale of the two fathers?"

His look and tone were exceedingly grave, and she studied his face, and
questioned him in turn: "You are very serious--why?"

"Oh, I was wondering if the story is public?" More plainly, he was
wondering whence Demedes had his information.

The seats immediately in front of his own and Marjory's were vacant.

"Would you mind, Peggy," said John, deprecatingly, "if I left you for a
few minutes? I can't half see what he is drawing, and there is a
vacant front seat. I'll only stay five minutes."I have heard him
say gratefully that since the coming of the Prince of India his business
has greatly increased. He used to deal in many kinds of goods; now he
sells nothing but precious stones. His patrons are not alone the nobles
of Byzantium; traders over in Galata buy of him for the western markets,
especially Italy and France. My other father, the Prince, is an expert
in such things, and does not disdain to help Uel with advice."

Lael might have added that the Prince, in course of his travels, had
ascertained the conveniency of jewels as a currency familiar and
acceptable to almost every people, and always kept a store of them by
him, from which he frequently replenished his protege's stock, allowing
him the profits. That she did not make this further disclosure was
probably due to ignorance of the circumstances; in other words, her
artlessness was extreme enough to render her a dangerous confidant, and
both her fathers were aware of it.

"Everybody in the bazaar is friendly to my father Uel, and the Prince
visits him there, going in state; and he and his train are an
attraction"--thus Lael proceeded. "On his departure, the questions about
him are countless, and Uel holds nothing back. Indeed, it is more than
likely he has put the whole mart and city in possession of the history
of my adoption by the Prince."

In front of the palace she broke off abruptly: "But see! The landing is
covered with men and women. Let us hurry."

Presently they issued from the garden, and were permitted to join the
Princess.


Can't you put your veil down till we get out of this?"

Obediently hiding her countenance, Marjory, bewildered and still
not quite awake, followed John after a few minutes' further and
fruitless search for the missing gloves.

The brisk walk home through the frosty air restored her consciousness,
and when John led her up to the looking-glass, kindly removing
her veil at the same time, consciousness took the form of wrath.

"I _never_ could have done all that myself," she exclaimed indignantly.
"Why, I took those hateful gloves off, and put them on the cushion;
and it is just my belief that one of those dreadful boys in front
of us--" 
"Boys!"

interrupted John. "Those fellows were enough older than you--or I either,
for that matter."
The shore from the stand to the town, and from the stand again around
the promontory on the south, was thronged with spectators, while every
vantage point fairly in view was occupied by them; even the ships were
pressed into the service; and somehow the air over and about the bay
seemed to give back and tremble with the eagerness of interest
everywhere discernible.

Between Fanar, the last northern point of lookout over the Black Sea,
and Galata, down on the Golden Horn, there are about thirty hamlets,
villages and cities specking the European shore of the Bosphorus. Each
of them has its settlement of fishermen. Aside from a voluminous net,
the prime necessity for successful pursuit of the ancient and honorable
calling is a boat. Like most things of use amongst men, the vessel of
preferred model here came of evolution. The modern tourist may yet see
its kind drawn up at every landing he passes.

Proper handling, inclusive of running out and hauling in the seine,
demanded a skilful crew of at least five men; and as whole lives were
devoted to rowing, the proficiency finally attained in it can be
fancied. It was only natural, therefore, that the thirty communities
should each insist upon having the crew of greatest excellence--the crew
which could outrow any other five on the Bosphorus; and as every
Byzantine Greek was a passionate gambler, the wagers were without end.
Vauntings of the sort, like the Black Sea birds of unresting wings, went
up and down the famous waterway.

But if people of genius will not do that, can you expect it of dyed
gloves? Few are the authors who have not followed up a brilliant success
with something very like a failure, and Marjory's gloves seemed
to catch the spirit of the times.In determining to conclude the fete with a boat-race open to all Greek
comers from the capital to the Cyanian rocks, the Princess Irene did
more than secure a desirable climax; unconsciously, perhaps, she hit
upon the measure most certain to bring peace to the thirty villages.

She imposed but two conditions on the competitors--they should be
fishermen and Greeks.

The interval between the announcement of the race and the day set for it
had been filled with boasting, from which one would have supposed the
bay of Therapia at the hour of starting would be too contracted to hold
the adversaries. When the hour came there were six crews present actually
prepared to contest for the prize--a tall ebony crucifix, with a gilded
image, to be displayed of holidays on the winning prow. The shrinkage
told the usual tale of courage oozed out. There was of course no end of
explanation.

