Produced by Alan Johns


DOPE

By Sax Rohmer


PART FIRST--KAZMAH THE DREAM-READER


CHAPTER I. A MESSAGE FOR IRVIN

Monte Irvin, alderman of the city and prospective Lord Mayor of London,
paced restlessly from end to end of the well-appointed library of his
house in Prince's Gate. Between his teeth he gripped the stump of a
burnt-out cigar. A tiny spaniel lay beside the fire, his beady black
eyes following the nervous movements of the master of the house.

At the age of forty-five Monte Irvin was not ill-looking, and, indeed,
was sometimes spoken of as handsome. His figure was full without being
corpulent; his well-groomed black hair and moustache and fresh if rather
coarse complexion, together with the dignity of his upright carriage,
lent him something of a military air. This he assiduously cultivated as
befitting an ex-Territorial officer, although as he had seen no active
service he modestly refrained from using any title of rank.

Some quality in his brilliant smile, an oriental expressiveness of the
dark eyes beneath their drooping lids, hinted a Semitic strain; but
it was otherwise not marked in his appearance, which was free from
vulgarity, whilst essentially that of a successful man of affairs.

In fact, Monte Irvin had made a success of every affair in life with
the lamentable exception of his marriage. Of late his forehead had
grown lined, and those business friends who had known him for a man of
abstemious habits had observed in the City chophouse at which he lunched
almost daily that whereas formerly he had been a noted trencherman, he
now ate little but drank much.

Suddenly the spaniel leapt up with that feverish, spider-like activity
of the toy species and began to bark.

Monte Irvin paused in his restless patrol and listened.

"Lie down!" he said. "Be quiet."

The spaniel ran to the door, sniffing eagerly. A muffled sound of voices
became audible, and Irvin, following a moment of hesitation, crossed
and opened the door. The dog ran out, yapping in his irritating staccato
fashion, and an expression of hope faded from Irvin's face as he saw a
tall fair girl standing in the hallway talking to Hinkes, the butler.
She wore soiled Burberry, high-legged tan boots, and a peaked cap of
distinctly military appearance. Irvin would have retired again, but
the girl glanced up and saw him where he stood by the library door. He
summoned up a smile and advanced.

"Good evening, Miss Halley," he said, striving to speak genially--for of
all of his wife's friends he liked Margaret Halley the best. "Were you
expecting to find Rita at home?"

The girl's expression was vaguely troubled. She had the clear complexion
and bright eyes of perfect health, but to-night her eyes seemed
over-bright, whilst her face was slightly pale.

"Yes," she replied; "that is, I hoped she might be at home."

"I am afraid I cannot tell you when she is likely to return. But please
come in, and I will make inquiries."

"Oh, no, I would rather you did not trouble and I won't stay, thank you
nevertheless. I expect she will ring me up when she comes in."

"Is there any message I can give her?"

"Well"--she hesitated for an instant--"you might tell her, if you would,
that I only returned home at eight o'clock, so that I could not come
around any earlier." She glanced rapidly at Irvin, biting her lip. "I
wish I could have seen her," she added in a low voice.

"She wishes to see you particularly?"

"Yes. She left a note this afternoon." Again she glanced at him in
a troubled way. "Well, I suppose it cannot be helped," she added and
smilingly extended her hand. "Good night, Mr. Irvin. Don't bother to
come to the door."

But Irvin passed Hinkes and walked out under the porch with Margaret
Halley. Humid yellow mist floated past the street lamps, and seemed to
have gathered in a moving reef around the little runabout car which was
standing outside the house, its motor chattering tremulously.

"Phew! a beastly night!" he said. "Foggy and wet."

"It's a brute isn't it?" said the girl laughingly, and turned on the
steps so that the light shining out of the hallway gleamed on her white
teeth and upraised eyes. She was pulling on big, ugly, furred gloves,
and Monte Irvin mentally contrasted her fresh, athletic type of beauty
with the delicate, exotic charm of his wife.

She opened the door of the little car, got in and drove off, waving one
hugely gloved hand to Irvin as he stood in the porch looking after her.
When the red tail-light had vanished in the mist he returned to the
house and re-entered the library. If only all his wife's friends
were like Margaret Halley, he mused, he might have been spared the
insupportable misgivings which were goading him to madness. His mind
filled with poisonous suspicions, he resumed his pacing of the library,
awaiting and dreading that which should confirm his blackest theories.
He was unaware of the fact that throughout the interview he had held the
stump of cigar between his teeth. He held it there yet, pacing, pacing
up and down the long room.

Then came the expected summons. The telephone bell rang. Monte Irvin
clenched his hands and inhaled deeply. His color changed in a
manner that would have aroused a physician's interest. Regaining his
self-possession by a visible effort, he crossed to a small side-table
upon which the instrument rested. Rolling the cigar stump into the left
corner of his mouth, he took up the receiver.

"Hallo!" he said.

"Someone named Brisley, sir, wishes--"

"Put him through to me here."

"Very good, sir."

A short interval, then:

"Yes?" said Monte Irvin.

"My name is Brisley. I have a message for Mr. Monte Irvin."

"Monte Irvin speaking. Anything to report, Brisley?"

Irvin's deep, rich voice was not entirely under control.

"Yes, sir. The lady drove by taxicab from Prince's Gate to Albemarle
Street."

"Ah!"

"Went up to chambers of Sir Lucien Pyne and was admitted."

"Well?"

"Twenty minutes later came out. Lady was with Sir Lucien. Both walked
around to old Bond Street. The Honorable Quentin Gray--"

"Ah!" breathed Irvin.

"--Overtook them there. He got out of a cab. He joined them. All three
up to apartments of a professional crystal-gazer styling himself Kazmah
'the dream-reader.'"

A puzzled expression began to steal over the face of Monte Irvin. At
the sound of the telephone bell he had paled somewhat. Now he began to
recover his habitual florid coloring.

"Go on," he directed, for the speaker had paused.

"Seven to ten minutes later," resumed the nasal voice, "Mr. Gray came
down. He hailed a passing cab, but man refused to stop. Mr. Gray seemed
to be very irritable."

The fact that the invisible speaker was reading from a notebook he
betrayed by his monotonous intonation and abbreviated sentences, which
resembled those of a constable giving evidence in a police court.

"He walked off rapidly in direction of Piccadilly. Colleague followed.
Near the Ritz he obtained a cab. He returned in same to old Bond Street.
He ran upstairs and was gone from four-and-a-half to five minutes. He
then came down again. He was very pale and agitated. He discharged cab
and walked away. Colleague followed. He saw Mr. Gray enter Prince's
Restaurant. In the hall Mr. Gray met a gent unknown by sight to
colleague. Following some conversation both gents went in to dinner.
They are there now. Speaking from Dover Street Tube."

"Yes, yes. But the lady?"

"A native, possibly Egyptian, apparently servant of Kazmah, came out a
few minutes after Mr. Gray had gone for cab, and went away. Sir Lucien
Pyne and lady are still in Kazmah's rooms."

"What!" cried Irvin, pulling out his watch and glancing at the disk.
"But it's after eight o'clock!"

"Yes, sir. The place is all shut up, and other offices in block closed
at six. Door of Kazmah's is locked. I knocked and got no reply."

"Damn it! You're talking nonsense! There must be another exit."

"No, sir. Colleague has just relieved me. Left two gents over their wine
at Prince's."

Monte Irvin's color began to fade slowly.

"Then it's Pyne!" he whispered. The hand which held the receiver shook.
"Brisley--meet me at the Piccadilly end of Bond Street. I am coming
now."

He put down the telephone, crossed to the wall and pressed a button. The
cigar stump held firmly between his teeth, he stood on the rug before
the hearth, facing the door. Presently it opened and Hinkes came in.

"The car is ready, Hinkes?"

"Yes, sir, as you ordered. Shall Pattison come round to the door?"

"At once."

"Very good, sir."

He withdrew, closing the door quietly, and Monte Irvin stood staring
across the library at the full-length portrait in oils of his wife in
the pierrot dress which she had worn in the third act of The Maid of the
Masque.

The clock in the hall struck half-past eight.


CHAPTER II. THE APARTMENTS OF KAZMAH

It was rather less than two hours earlier on the same evening that
Quentin Gray came out of the confectioner's shop in old Bond Street
carrying a neat parcel. Yellow dusk was closing down upon this bazaar
of the New Babylon, and many of the dealers in precious gems, vendors
of rich stuffs, and makers of modes had already deserted their shops.
Smartly dressed show-girls, saleswomen, girl clerks and others crowded
the pavements, which at high noon had been thronged with ladies of
fashion. Here a tailor's staff, there a hatter's lingered awhile as iron
shutters and gratings were secured, and bidding one another good night,
separated and made off towards Tube and bus. The working day was ended.
Society was dressing for dinner.

Gray was about to enter the cab which awaited him, and his
fresh-colored, boyish face wore an expression of eager expectancy,
which must have betrayed the fact to an experienced beholder that he was
hurrying to keep an agreeable appointment. Then, his hand resting on the
handle of the cab-door, this expression suddenly changed to one of alert
suspicion.

A tall, dark man, accompanied by a woman muffled in grey furs and
wearing a silk scarf over her hair, had passed on foot along the
opposite side of the street. Gray had seen them through the cab windows.

His smooth brow wrinkled and his mouth tightened to a thin straight line
beneath the fair "regulation" moustache. He fumbled under his overcoat
for loose silver, drew out a handful and paid off the taximan.

Sometimes walking in the gutter in order to avoid the throngs upon
the pavement, regardless of the fact that his glossy dress-boots were
becoming spattered with mud, Gray hurried off in pursuit of the pair.
Twenty yards ahead he overtook them, as they were on the point of
passing a picture dealer's window, from which yellow light streamed
forth into the humid dusk. They were walking slowly, and Gray stopped in
front of them.

"Hello, you two!" he cried. "Where are you off to? I was on my way to
call for you, Rita."

Flushed and boyish he stood before them, and his annoyance was
increased by their failure to conceal the fact that his appearance was
embarrassing if not unwelcome. Mrs. Monte Irvin was a petite, pretty
woman, although some of the more wonderful bronzed tints of her hair
suggested the employment of henna, and her naturally lovely complexion
was delicately and artistically enhanced by art. Nevertheless, the
flower-like face peeping out from the folds of a gauzy scarf, like a
rose from a mist, whilst her soft little chin nestled into the fur,
might have explained even in the case of an older man the infatuation
which Quentin Gray was at no pains to hide.

She glanced up at her companion, Sir Lucien Pyne, a swarthy, cynical
type of aristocrat, imperturbably. Then: "I had left a note for
you, Quentin," she said hurriedly. She seemed to be in a dangerously
high-strung condition.

"But I have booked a table and a box," cried Gray, with a hint of
juvenile petulance.

"My dear Gray," said Sir Lucien coolly, "we are men of the world--and
we do not look for consistency in womenfolk. Mrs. Irvin has decided to
consult a palmist or a hypnotist or some such occult authority before
dining with you this evening. Doubtless she seeks to learn if the play
to which you propose to take her is an amusing one."

His smile of sardonic amusement Gray found to be almost insupportable,
and although Sir Lucien refrained from looking at Mrs. Irvin whilst
he spoke, it was evident enough that his words held some covert
significance, for:

"You know perfectly well that I have a particular reason for seeing
him," she said.

"A woman's particular reason is a man's feeble excuse," murmured Sir
Lucien rudely. "At least, according to a learned Arabian philosopher."

"I was going to meet you at Prince's," said Mrs. Irvin hurriedly, and
again glancing at Gray. There was a pathetic hesitancy in her manner,
the hesitancy of a weak woman who adheres to a purpose only by supreme
effort.

"Might I ask," said Gray, "the name of the pervert you are going to
consult?"

Again she hesitated and glanced rapidly at Sir Lucien, but he was
staring coolly in another direction.

"Kazmah," she replied in a low voice.

"Kazmah!" cried Gray. "The man who sells perfume and pretends to read
dreams? What an extraordinary notion. Wouldn't tomorrow do? He will
surely have shut up shop!"

"I have been at pains to ascertain," replied Sir Lucien, "at Mrs.
Irvin's express desire, that the man of mystery is still in session and
will receive her."

Beneath the mask of nonchalance which he wore it might have been
possible to detect excitement repressed with difficulty; and had Gray
been more composed and not obsessed with the idea that Sir Lucien had
deliberately intruded upon his plans for the evening, he could not have
failed to perceive that Mrs. Monte Irvin was feverishly preoccupied with
matters having no relation to dinner and the theatre. But his private
suspicions grew only the more acute.

"Then if the dinner is not off," he said, "may I come along and wait for
you?"

"At Kazmah's?" asked Mrs. Irvin. "Certainly." She turned to Sir Lucien.
"Shall you wait? It isn't much use as I'm dining with Quentin."

"If I do not intrude," replied the baronet, "I will accompany you as far
as the cave of the oracle, and then bid you good night."

The trio proceeded along old Bond Street. Quentin Gray regarded the
story of Kazmah as a very poor lie devised on the spur of the moment.
If he had been less infatuated, his natural sense of dignity must
have dictated an offer to release Mrs. Irvin from her engagement. But
jealousy stimulates the worst instincts and destroys the best. He
was determined to attach himself as closely as the old Man of the
Sea attached himself to Es-Sindibad, in order that the lie might
be unmasked. Mrs. Irvin's palpable embarrassment and nervousness he
ascribed to her perception of his design.

A group of shop girls and others waiting for buses rendered it
impossible for the three to keep abreast, and Gray, falling to the rear,
stepped upon the foot of a little man who was walking close behind them.

"Sorry, sir," said the man, suppressing an exclamation of pain--for the
fault had been Gray's.

Gray muttered an ungenerous acknowledgment, all anxiety to regain the
side of Mrs. Irvin; for she seemed to be speaking rapidly and excitedly
to Sir Lucien.

He recovered his place as the two turned in at a lighted doorway. Upon
the wall was a bronze plate bearing the inscription:

    KAZMAH
    Second Floor

Gray fully expected Mrs. Irvin to suggest that he should return later.
But without a word she began to ascend the stairs. Gray followed, Sir
Lucien standing aside to give him precedence. On the second floor was a
door painted in Oriental fashion. It possessed neither bell nor knocker,
but as one stepped upon the threshold this door opened noiselessly as
if dumbly inviting the visitor to enter the square apartment discovered.
This apartment was richly furnished in the Arab manner, and lighted by
a fine brass lamp swung upon chains from the painted ceiling. The
intricate perforations of the lamp were inset with colored glass, and
the result was a subdued and warm illumination. Odd-looking oriental
vessels, long-necked jars, jugs with tenuous spouts and squat bowls
possessing engraved and figured covers emerged from the shadows of
niches. A low divan with gaily colored mattresses extended from the
door around one corner of the room where it terminated beside a kind
of mushrabiyeh cabinet or cupboard. Beyond this cabinet was a long, low
counter laden with statuettes of Nile gods, amulets, mummy-beads and
little stoppered flasks of blue enamel ware. There were two glass cases
filled with other strange-looking antiquities. A faint perfume was
perceptible.

Sir Lucien entering last of the party, the door closed behind him, and
from the cabinet on the right of the divan a young Egyptian stepped
out. He wore the customary white robe, red sash and red slippers, and a
tarbush, the little scarlet cap commonly called a fez, was set upon
his head. He walked to a door on the left of the counter, and slid it
noiselessly open. Bowing gravely, "The Sheikh el Kazmah awaits," he
said, speaking with the soft intonation of a native of Upper Egypt.

It now became evident, even to the infatuated Gray, that Mrs. Irvin was
laboring under the influence of tremendous excitement. She turned to him
quickly, and he thought that her face looked almost haggard, whilst her
eyes seemed to have changed color--become lighter, although he could
not be certain that this latter effect was not due to the peculiar
illumination of the room. But when she spoke her voice was unsteady.

"Will you see if you can find a cab," she said. "It is so difficult at
night, and my shoes will get frightfully muddy crossing Piccadilly. I
shall not be more than a few minutes." She walked through the doorway,
the Egyptian standing aside as she passed. He followed her, but came
out again almost immediately, reclosed the door, and retired into the
cabinet, which was evidently his private cubicle.

Silence claimed the apartment. Sir Lucien threw himself nonchalantly
upon the divan, and took out his cigarette-case.

"Will you have a cigarette, Gray?" he asked.

"No thanks," replied the other, in tones of smothered hostility. He
was ill at ease, and paced the apartment nervously. Pyne lighted a
cigarette, and tossed the extinguished match into a brass bowl.

"I think," said Gray jerkily, "I shall go for a cab. Are you remaining?"

"I am dining at the club," answered Pyne, "but I can wait until you
return."

"As you wish," jerked Gray. "I don't expect to be long."

He walked rapidly to the outer door, which opened at his approach and
closed noiselessly behind him as he made his exit.


CHAPTER III. KAZMAH

Mrs. Monte Irvin entered the inner room. The air was heavy with the
perfume of frankincense which smouldered in a brass vessel set upon a
tray. This was the audience chamber of Kazmah. In marked contrast to the
overcrowded appointments, divans and cupboards of the first room, it
was sparsely furnished. The floor was thickly carpeted, but save for an
ornate inlaid table upon which stood the tray and incense-burner, and
a long, low-cushioned seat placed immediately beneath a hanging lamp
burning dimly in a globular green shade, it was devoid of decoration.
The walls were draped with green curtains, so that except for the
presence of the painted door, the four sides of the apartment appeared
to be uniform.

Having conducted Mrs. Irvin to the seat, the Egyptian bowed and retired
again through the doorway by which they had entered. The visitor found
herself alone.

She moved nervously, staring across at the blank wall before her. With
her little satin shoe she tapped the carpet, biting her under lip and
seeming to be listening. Nothing stirred. Not even an echo of busy Bond
Street penetrated to the place. Mrs. Irvin unfastened her cloak and
allowed it to fall back upon the settee. Her bare shoulders looked waxen
and unnatural in the weird light which shone down upon them. She was
breathing rapidly.

The minutes passed by in unbroken silence. So still was the room that
Mrs. Irvin could hear the faint crackling sound made by the burning
charcoal in the brass vessel near her. Wisps of blue-grey smoke arose
through the perforated lid and she began to watch them fascinatedly,
so lithe they seemed, like wraiths of serpents creeping up the green
draperies.

So she was seated, her foot still restlessly tapping, but her gaze
arrested by the hypnotic movements of the smoke, when at last a sound
from the outer world, penetrated to the room. A church clock struck the
hour of seven, its clangor intruding upon the silence only as a muffled
boom. Almost coincident with the last stroke came the sweeter note of a
silver gong from somewhere close at hand.

Mrs. Irvin started, and her eyes turned instantly in the direction
of the greenly draped wall before her. Her pupils had grown suddenly
dilated, and she clenched her hands tightly.

The light above her head went out.

Now that the moment was come to which she had looked forward with
mingled hope and terror, long pent-up emotion threatened to overcome
her, and she trembled wildly.

Out of the darkness dawned a vague light and in it a shape seemed to
take form. As the light increased the effect was as though part of the
wall had become transparent so as to reveal the interior of an inner
room where a figure was seated in a massive ebony chair. The figure was
that of an oriental, richly robed and wearing a white turban. His long
slim hands, of the color of old ivory, rested upon the arms of
the chair, and on the first finger of the right hand gleamed a big
talismanic ring. The face of the seated man was lowered, but from under
heavy brows his abnormally large eyes regarded her fixedly.

So dim the light remained that it was impossible to discern the details
with anything like clearness, but that the clean-shaven face of the man
with those wonderful eyes was strikingly and intellectually handsome
there could be no doubt.

This was Kazmah, "the dream reader," and although Mrs. Irvin had seen
him before, his statuesque repose and the weirdness of his unfaltering
gaze thrilled her uncannily.

Kazmah slightly raised his hand in greeting: the big ring glittered in
the subdued light.

"Tell me your dream," came a curious mocking voice; "and I will read its
portent."

Such was the set formula with which Kazmah opened all interviews. He
spoke with a slight and not unmusical accent. He lowered his hand again.
The gaze of those brilliant eyes remained fixed upon the woman's face.
Moistening her lips, Mrs. Irvin spoke.

"Dreams! What I have to say does not belong to dreams, but to reality!"
She laughed unmirthfully. "You know well enough why I am here."

She paused.

"Why are you here?"

"You know! You know!" Suddenly into her voice had come the unmistakable
note of hysteria. "Your theatrical tricks do not impress me. I know what
you are! A spy--an eavesdropper who watches--watches, and listens! But
you may go too far! I am nearly desperate--do you understand?--nearly
desperate. Speak! Move! Answer me!"

But Kazmah preserved his uncanny repose.

"You are distracted," he said. "I am sorry for you. But why do you come
to me with your stories of desperation? You have insisted upon seeing
me. I am here."

"And you play with me--taunt me!"

"The remedy is in your hands."

"For the last time, I tell you I will never do it! Never, never, never!"

"Then why do you complain? If you cannot afford to pay for your
amusements, and you refuse to compromise in a simple manner, why do you
approach me?"

"Oh, my God!" She moaned and swayed dizzily--"have pity on me! Who are
you, what are you, that you can bring ruin on a woman because--" She
uttered a choking sound, but continued hoarsely, "Raise your head. Let
me see your face. As heaven is my witness, I am ruined--ruined!"

"Tomorrow--"

"I cannot wait for tomorrow--"

That quivering, hoarse cry betrayed a condition of desperate febrile
excitement. Mrs. Irvin was capable of proceeding to the wildest
extremities. Clearly the mysterious Egyptian recognized this to be the
case, for slowly raising his hand:

"I will communicate with you," he said, and the words were spoken almost
hurriedly. "Depart in peace--"; a formula wherewith he terminated every
seance. He lowered his hand.

The silver gong sounded again--and the dim light began to fade.

Thereupon the unhappy woman acted; the long suppressed outburst came at
last. Stepping rapidly to the green transparent veil behind which Kazmah
was seated, she wrenched it asunder and leapt toward the figure in the
black chair.

"You shall not trick me!" she panted. "Hear me out or I go straight to
the police--now--now!" She grasped the hands of Kazmah as they rested
motionless, on the chair-arms.

Complete darkness came.

Out of it rose a husky, terrified cry--a second, louder cry; and then a
long, wailing scream... horror-laden as that of one who has touched some
slumbering reptile....


CHAPTER IV. THE CLOSED DOOR

Rather less than five minutes later a taxicab drew up in old Bond
Street, and from it Quentin Gray leapt out impetuously and ran in at the
doorway leading to Kazmah's stairs. So hurried was his progress that
he collided violently with a little man who, carrying himself with a
pronounced stoop, was slinking furtively out.

The little man reeled at the impact and almost fell, but:

"Hang it all!" cried Gray irritably. "Why the devil don't you look where
you're going!"

He glared angrily into the face of the other. It was a peculiar and
rememberable face, notable because of a long, sharp, hooked nose
and very little, foxy, brown eyes; a sly face to which a small, fair
moustache only added insignificance. It was crowned by a wide-brimmed
bowler hat which the man wore pressed down upon his ears like a Jew
pedlar.

"Why!" cried Gray, "this is the second time tonight you have jostled
me!"

He thought he had recognized the man for the same who had been following
himself, Mrs. Irvin and Sir Lucien Pyne along old Bond Street.

A smile, intended to be propitiatory, appeared upon the pale face.

"No, sir, excuse me, sir--"

"Don't deny it!" said Gray angrily. "If I had the time I should give you
in charge as a suspicious loiterer."

Calling to the cabman to wait, he ran up the stairs to the second floor
landing. Before the painted door bearing the name of Kazmah he halted,
and as the door did not open, stamped impatiently, but with no better
result.

At that, since there was neither bell nor knocker, he raised his fist
and banged loudly.

No one responded to the summons.

"Hi, there!" he shouted. "Open the door! Pyne! Rita!"

Again he banged--and yet again. Then he paused, listening, his ear
pressed to the panel.

He could detect no sound of movement within. Fists clenched, he stood
staring at the closed door, and his fresh color slowly deserted him and
left him pale.

"Damn him!" he muttered savagely. "Damn him! he has fooled me!"

Passionate and self-willed, he was shaken by a storm of murderous anger.
That Pyne had planned this trick, with Rita Irvin's consent, he did not
doubt, and his passive dislike of the man became active hatred of the
woman he dared not think. He had for long looked upon Sir Lucien in
the light of a rival, and the irregularity of his own infatuation for
another's wife in no degree lessened his resentment.

Again he pressed his ear to the door, and listened intently. Perhaps
they were hiding within. Perhaps this charlatan, Kazmah, was an
accomplice in the pay of Sir Lucien. Perhaps this was a secret place of
rendezvous.

To the manifest absurdity of such a conjecture he was blind in his
anger. But that he was helpless, befooled, he recognized; and with a
final muttered imprecation he turned and slowly descended the stair.
A lingering hope was dispelled when, looking right and left along Bond
Street, he failed to perceive the missing pair.

The cabman glanced at him interrogatively. "I shall not require you,"
said Gray, and gave the man half-a-crown.

Busy with his poisonous conjectures, he remained all unaware of the
presence of a furtive, stooping figure which lurked behind the railings
of the arcade at this point linking old Bond Street to Albemarle Street.
Nor had the stooping stranger any wish to attract Gray's attention.
Most of the shops in the narrow lane were already closed, although the
florist's at the corner remained open, but of the shadow which lay along
the greater part of the arcade this alert watcher took every advantage.
From the recess formed by a shop door he peered out at Gray, where the
light of a street lamp fell upon him, studying his face, his movements,
with unrelaxing vigilance.

Gray, following some moments of indecision, strode off towards
Piccadilly. The little man came out cautiously from his hiding-place
and looked after him. Out of a dark porch, ten paces along Bond Street,
appeared a burly figure to fall into step a few yards behind Gray. The
little man licked his lips appreciatively and returned to the doorway
below the premises of Kazmah.

Reaching Piccadilly, Gray stood for a time on the corner, indifferent
to the jostling of passers-by. Finally he crossed, walked along to
the Prince's Restaurant, and entered the lobby. He glanced at his
wrist-watch. It registered the hour of seven-twenty-five.

He cancelled his order for a table and was standing staring moodily
towards the entrance when the doors swung open and a man entered who
stepped straight up to him, hand extended, and:

"Glad to see you, Gray," he said. "What's the trouble?"

Quentin Gray stared as if incredulous at the speaker, and it was with an
unmistakable note of welcome in his voice that he replied:

"Seton! Seton Pasha!"

The frown disappeared from Gray's forehead, and he gripped the other's
hand in hearty greeting. But:

"Stick to plain Seton!" said the new-comer, glancing rapidly about him.
"Ottoman titles are not fashionable."

The speaker was a man of arresting personality. Above medium height,
well but leanly built, the face of Seton "Pasha" was burned to a deeper
shade than England's wintry sun is capable of producing. He wore a
close-trimmed beard and moustache, and the bronze on his cheeks enhanced
the brightness of his grey eyes and rendered very noticeable a slight
frosting of the dark hair above his temples. He had the indescribable
air of a "sure" man, a sound man to have beside one in a tight place;
and looking into the rather grim face, Quentin Gray felt suddenly
ashamed of himself. From Seton Pasha he knew that he could keep nothing
back. He knew that presently he should find himself telling this quiet,
brown-skinned man the whole story of his humiliation--and he knew that
Seton would not spare his feelings.

"My dear fellow," he said, "you must pardon me if I sometimes fail to
respect your wishes in this matter. When I left the East the name of
Seton Pasha was on everybody's tongue. But are you alone?"

"I am. I only arrived in London tonight and in England this morning."

"Were you thinking of dining here?"

"No; I saw you through the doorway as I was passing. But this will do
as well as another place. I gather that you are disengaged. Perhaps you
will dine with me?"

"Splendid!" cried Gray. "Wait a moment. Perhaps my table hasn't gone!"

He ran off in his boyish, impetuous fashion, and Seton watched him,
smiling quietly.

The table proved to be available, and ere long the two were discussing
an excellent dinner. Gray lost much of his irritability and began to
talk coherently upon topics of general interest. Presently, following an
interval during which he had been covertly watching his companion:

"Do you know, Seton," he said, "you are the one man in London whose
company I could have tolerated tonight."

"My arrival was peculiarly opportune."

"Your arrivals are always peculiarly opportune." Gray stared at Seton
with an expression of puzzled admiration. "I don't think I shall ever
understand your turning up immediately before the Senussi raid in Egypt.
Do you remember? I was with the armored cars."

"I remember perfectly."

"Then you vanished in the same mysterious fashion, and the C. O. was
a sphinx on the subject. I next saw you strolling out of the gate at
Baghdad. How the devil you'd got to Baghdad, considering that you didn't
come with us and that you weren't with the cavalry, heaven only knows!"

"No," said Seton judicially, gazing through his uplifted wine-glass;
"when one comes to consider the matter without prejudice it is certainly
odd. But do I know the lady to whose non-appearance I owe the pleasure
of your company tonight?"

Quentin Gray stared at him blankly.

"Really, Seton, you amaze me. Did I say that I had an appointment with a
lady?"

"My dear Gray, when I see a man standing biting his nails and glaring
out into Piccadilly from a restaurant entrance I ask myself a question.
When I learn that he has just cancelled an order for a table for two I
answer it."

Gray laughed. "You always make me feel so infernally young, Seton."

"Good!"

"Yes, it's good to feel young, but bad to feel a young fool; and that's
what I feel--and what I am. Listen!"

Leaning across the table so that the light of the shaded lamp fell fully
upon his flushed, eager face, Gray, not without embarrassment, told his
companion of the "dirty trick"--so he phrased it--which Sir Lucien Pyne
had played upon him. In conclusion:

"What would you do, Seton?" he asked.

Seton sat regarding him in silence with a cool, calculating stare which
some men had termed insolent, absently tapping his teeth with the gold
rim of a monocle which he carried but apparently never used for any
other purpose; and it was at about this time that a long low car
passed near the door of the restaurant, crossing the traffic stream of
Piccadilly to draw up at the corner of old Bond Street.

From the car Monte Irvin alighted and, telling the man to wait, set out
on foot. Ten paces along Bond Street he encountered a small, stooping
figure which became detached from the shadows of a shop door. The light
of a street lamp shone down upon the sharp, hooked nose and into the
cunning little brown eyes of Brisley, of Spinker's Detective Agency.
Monte Irvin started.

"Ah, Brisley!" he said, "I was looking for you. Are they still there?"

"Probably, sir." Brisley licked his lips. "My colleague, Gunn, reports
no one came out whilst I was away 'phoning."

"But the whole thing seems preposterous. Are there no other offices in
the block where they might be?"

"I personally saw Mr. Gray, Sir Lucien Pyne and the lady go into
Kazmah's. At that time--roughly, ten to seven--all the other offices had
been closed, approximately, one hour."

"There is absolutely no possibility that they might have come out unseen
by you?"

"None, sir. I should not have troubled a client if in doubt. Here's
Gunn."

Old Bond Street now was darkened and deserted; the yellow mist had
turned to fine rain, and Gunn, his hands thrust in his pockets, was
sheltering under the porch of the arcade. Gunn possessed a purple
complexion which attained to full vigor of coloring in the nasal region.
His moustache of dirty grey was stained brown in the centre as if by
frequent potations of stout, and his bulky figure was artificially
enlarged by the presence of two overcoats, the outer of which was a
waterproof and the inner a blue garment appreciably longer both in
sleeve and skirt than the former. The effect produced was one of great
novelty. Gunn touched the brim of his soft felt hat, which he wore
turned down all round apparently in imitation of a flower-pot.

"All snug, sir," he said, hoarsely and confidentially, bending forward
and breathing the words into Irvin's ear. "Snug as a bee in a hive.
You're as good as a bachelor again."

Monte Irvin mentally recoiled.

"Lead the way to the door of this place," he said tersely.

"Yes, sir, this way, sir. Be careful of the step there. You may remark
that the outer door is not yet closed. I am informed upon reliable
authority as the last to go locks the door. Hence we perceive that the
last has not yet gone. It is likewise opened by the first to come of a
mornin'. Here we are, sir; door on the right."

The landing was in darkness, but as Gunn spoke he directed the ray of a
pocket lamp upon a bronze plate bearing the name "Kazmah." He rested one
hand upon his hip.

"All snug," he repeated; "as snug as a eel in mud. The decree nisi is
yours, sir. As an alderman of the City of London and a Justice of the
Peace you are entitled to call a police officer--"

"Hold your tongue!" rapped Irvin. "You've been drinking: and I place no
reliance whatever in your evidence. I do not believe that my wife or any
one else but ourselves is upon these premises."

The watery eyes of the insulted man protruded unnaturally. "Drinkin'!"
he whispered, "drink--"

But indignation now deprived Gunn of speech and:

"Excuse me, sir," interrupted the nasal voice of Brisley, "but I can
absolutely answer for Gunn. Reputation of the Agency at stake. Worked
with us for three years. Parties undoubtedly on the premises as
reported."

"Drink--" whispered Gunn.

"I shall be glad," said Monte Irvin, and his voice shook emotionally,
"if you will lend me your pocket lamp. I am naturally upset. Will you
kindly both go downstairs. I will call if I want you."

The two men obeyed, Gunn muttering hoarsely to Brisley; and Monte Irvin
was left standing on the landing, the lamp in his hand. He waited until
he knew from the sound of their footsteps that the pair had regained the
street, then, resting his arm against the closed door, and pressing
his forehead to the damp sleeve of his coat, he stood awhile, the lamp,
which he held limply, shining down upon the floor.

His lips moved, and almost inaudibly he murmured his wife's name.


CHAPTER V. THE DOOR IS OPENED

Quentin Gray and Seton strolled out of Prince's and both paused whilst
Seton lighted a long black cheroot.

"It seems a pity to waste that box," said Gray. "Suppose we look in at
the Gaiety for an hour?"

His humor was vastly improved, and he watched the passing throngs with
an expression more suited to his boyish good looks than that of anger
and mortification which had rested upon him an hour earlier.

Seton Pasha tossed a match into the road.

"My official business is finished for the day," he replied. "I place
myself unreservedly in your hands."

"Well, then," began Gray--and paused.

A long, low car, the chauffeur temporarily detained by the stoppage of a
motorbus ahead, had slowed up within three yards of the spot where they
were standing. Gray seized Seton's arm in a fierce grip.

"Seton," he said, his voice betraying intense excitement, "Look! There
is Monte Irvin!"

"In the car?"

"Yes, yes! But--he has two police with him! Seton, what can it mean?"

The car moved away, swinging to the right across the traffic stream
and clearly heading for old Bond Street. Quentin Gray's mercurial color
deserted him, and he turned to Seton a face grown suddenly pale.

"Good God," he whispered, "something has happened to Rita!"

Neglectful of his personal safety, he plunged out into the traffic,
dodging this way and that, and making after Monte Irvin's car. Of the
fact that his friend was close beside him he remained unaware until, on
the corner of old Bond Street, a firm grip settled upon his shoulder.
Gray turned angrily. But the grip was immovable, and he found himself
staring into the unemotional face of Seton Pasha.

"Seton, for God's sake, don't detain me! I must learn what's wrong."

"Pull up, Gray."

Quentin Gray clenched his teeth.

"Listen to me, Seton. This is no time for interference. I--"

"You are about to become involved in some very unsavory business; and I
repeat--pull up. In a moment we shall learn all there is to be learned.
But are you determined openly to thrust yourself into the family affairs
of Mr. Monte Irvin?"

"If anything has happened to Rita I'll kill that damned cur Pyne!"

"You are determined to intrude upon this man in your present frame of
mind at a time of evident trouble?"

But Gray was deaf to the promptings of prudence and good taste alike.

"I'm going to see the thing through," he said hoarsely.

"Quite so. Rely upon me. But endeavor to behave more like a man of
the world and less like a dangerous lunatic, or we shall quarrel
atrociously."

Quentin Gray audibly gnashed his teeth, but the cool stare of the
other's eyes was quelling, and now as their glances met and clashed, a
sympathetic smile softened the lines of Seton's grim mouth, and:

"I quite understand, old chap," he said, linking his arm in Gray's. "But
can't you see how important it is, for everybody's sake, that we should
tackle the thing coolly?"

"Seton"--Gray's voice broke--"I'm sorry. I know I'm mad; but I was with
her only an hour ago, and now--"

"And now 'her' husband appears on the scene accompanied by a police
inspector and a sergeant. What are your relations with Mr. Monte Irvin?"

They were walking rapidly again along Bond Street.

"What do you mean, Seton?" asked Gray.

"I mean does he approve of your friendship with his wife, or is it a
clandestine affair?"

"Clandestine?--certainly not. I was on my way to call at the house when
I met her with Pyne this evening."

"That is what I wanted to know. Very well; since you intend to follow
the thing up, it simplifies matters somewhat. Here is the car."

"At Kazmah's door! What in heaven's name does it mean?"

"It means that we shall get a very poor reception if we intrude.
Question the chauffeur."

But Gray had already approached the man, who touched his cap in
recognition.

"What's the trouble, Pattison?" he demanded breathlessly. "I saw police
in the car a moment ago."

"Yes, sir. I don't rightly know, sir, what's happened. But Mr. Irvin
drove from home to the corner of old Bond Street a quarter of an hour
ago and told me to wait, then came back again and drove round to Vine
Street to fetch the police. They're inside now."

Even as he spoke, with excitement ill-concealed, a police-sergeant came
out of the doorway, and:

"Move on, there," he said to Seton and Gray. "You mustn't hang about
this door."

"Excuse me, Sergeant," cried Gray, "but if the matter concerns Mrs.
Monte Irvin I can probably supply information."

The Sergeant stared at him hard, saw that both he and his friend wore
evening dress, and grew proportionately respectful.

"What is your name, sir?" he asked. "I'll mention it to the officer in
charge."

"Quentin Gray. Inform Mr. Monte Irvin that I wish to speak to him."

"Very good, sir." He turned to the chauffeur. "Hand me out the bag I
gave you at Vine Street." Pattison leaned over the door at the front
of the car, and brought out a big leather grip. With this in hand the
police-sergeant returned into the doorway.

"We're in for it now," said Seton grimly, "whatever it is."

Gray returned no answer, moving restlessly up and down before the door
in a fever of excitement and dread. Presently the Sergeant reappeared.

"Step this way, please," he said.

Followed by Seton and Gray he led the way up to the landing before
Kazmah's apartments. It was vaguely lighted by two police-lanterns. Four
men were standing there, and four pairs of eyes were focussed upon the
stair-head.

Monte Irvin, his features a distressing ashen color, spoke.

"That you, Gray?" Quentin Gray would not have recognized the voice.
"Thanks for offering your help. God knows I need all I can get. You were
with Rita tonight. What happened? Where is she?"

"Heaven knows where she is!" cried Gray. "I left her here with Pyne
shortly after seven o'clock."

He paused, fixing his gaze upon the face of Brisley, whose shifty eyes
avoided him and who was licking his lips in the manner of a dog who has
seen the whip.

"Why," said Gray, "I believe you are the fellow who has been following
me all night for some reason."

He stepped toward the foxy little man but:

"Never mind, Gray," interrupted Irvin. "I was to blame. But he was
following my wife, not you. Tell me quickly: Why did she come here?"

Gray raised his hand to his brow with a gesture of bewilderment.

"To consult this man, Kazmah. I actually saw her enter the inner room, I
went to get a cab, and when I returned the door was locked."

"You knocked?"

"Of course. I made no end of a row. But I could get no reply and went
away."

Monte Irvin turned, a pathetic figure, to the Inspector who stood beside
him.

"We may as well proceed, Inspector Whiteleaf," he said. "Mr. Gray's
evidence throws no light on the matter at all."

"Very well, sir," was the reply; "we have the warrant, and have given
the usual notice to whoever may be hiding inside. Burton!"

The Sergeant stepped forward, placed the leather bag on the floor,
and stooping, opened it, revealing a number of burglarious-looking
instruments.

"Shall I try to cut through the panel?" he asked.

"No, no!" cried Monte Irvin. "Waste no time. You have a crowbar there.
Force the door from its hinges. Hurry, man!"

"It doesn't work on hinges!" Gray interrupted excitedly. "It slides to
the right by means of some arrangement concealed under the mat."

"Pass that lantern," directed Burton, glancing over his shoulder to
Gunn.

Setting it beside him, the Sergeant knelt and examined the threshold of
the door.

"A metal plate," he said. "The weight moves a lever, I suppose, which
opens the door if it isn't locked. The lock will be on the left of the
door as it opens to the right. Let's see what we can do."

He stood up, crowbar in hand, and inserted the chisel blade of the
implement between the edge of the door and the doorcase.

"Hold steady!" said the Inspector, standing at his elbow.

The dull metallic sound of hammer blows on steel echoed queerly around
the well of the staircase. Brisley and Gunn, standing very close
together on the bottom step of the stair to the third floor, watched the
police furtively. Irvin and Gray found a common fascination in the door
itself, and Seton, cheroot in mouth, looked from group to group with
quiet interest.

"Right!" cried the Sergeant.

The blows ceased.

Firmly grasping the bar, Burton brought all his weight to bear upon it.
There was a dull, cracking sound and a sort of rasping. The door moved
slightly.

"There's where it locks!" said the Inspector, directing the light of
a lantern upon the crevice created. "Three inches lower. But it may be
bolted as well."

"We'll soon get at the bolts," replied Burton, the lust of destruction
now strong upon him.

Wrenching the crowbar from its place he attacked the lower panel of the
door, and amid a loud splintering and crashing created a hole big enough
to allow of the passage of a hand and arm.

The Inspector reached in, groped about, and then uttered an exclamation
of triumph.

"I've unfastened the bolt," he said. "If there isn't another at the top
you ought to be able to force the door now, Burton."

The jimmy was thrust back into position, and:

"Stand clear!" cried Burton.

Again he threw his weight upon the bar--and again.

"Drive it further in!" said Monte Irvin; and snatching up the heavy
hammer, he rained blows upon the steel butt. "Now try."

Burton exerted himself to the utmost.

"Take hold up here, someone!" he panted. "Two of us can pull."

Gray leapt forward, and the pair of them bent to the task.

There came a dull report of parting mechanism, more sounds of
splintering wood... and the door rolled open!

A moment of tense silence, then:

"Is anyone inside there?" cried the Inspector loudly.

Not a sound came from the dark interior.

"The lantern!" whispered Monte Irvin.

He stumbled into the room, from which a heavy smell of perfume swept out
upon the landing. Quentin Gray, snatching the lantern from the floor,
where it had been replaced, was the next to enter.

"Look for the switch, and turn the lights on!" called the Inspector,
following.

Even as he spoke, Gray had found the switch, and the apartment of Kazmah
became flooded with subdued light.

A glance showed it to be unoccupied.

Gray ran across to the mushrabiyeh cabinet and jerked the curtains
aside. There was no one in the cabinet. It contained a chair and a
table. Upon the latter was a telephone and some papers and books. "This
way!" he cried, his voice high pitched and unnatural.

He burst through the doorway into the inner room which he had seen Mrs.
Irvin enter. The air was laden with the smell of frankincense.

"A lantern!" he called. "I left one on the divan."

But Monte Irvin had caught it up and was already at his elbow. His hand
was shaking so that the light danced wildly now upon the carpet, now
upon the green walls. This room also was deserted. A black gap in the
curtain showed where the material had been roughly torn. Suddenly:

"My God, look!" muttered the Inspector, who, with the others, now stood
in the curious draped apartment.

A thin stream of blood was trickling out from beneath the torn hangings!

Monte Irvin staggered and fell back against the Inspector, clutching at
him for support. But Sergeant Burton, who carried the second lantern,
crossed the room and wrenched the green draperies bodily from their
fastenings.

They had masked a wooden partition or stout screen, having an aperture
in the centre which could be closed by means of another of the sliding
doors. A space some five feet deep was thus walled off from this second
room. It contained a massive ebony chair. Behind the chair, and dividing
the second room into yet a third section, extended another wooden
partition in one end of which was an ordinary office door; and
immediately at the back of the chair appeared a little opening or
window, some three feet up from the floor. The sound of a groan,
followed by that of a dull thud, came from the outer room.

"Hullo!" cried Inspector Whiteleaf. "Mr. Irvin has fainted. Lend a
hand."

"I am here," replied the quiet voice of Seton Pasha.

"My God!" whispered Gray. "Seton! Seton!"

"Touch nothing," cried the Inspector from outside, "until I come!"

And now the narrow apartment became filled with all the awe-stricken
company, only excepting Monte Irvin, and Brisley, who was attending to
the swooning man.

Flat upon the floor, between the door and the ebony chair, arms extended
and eyes staring upward at the ceiling, lay Sir Lucien Pyne, his white
shirt front redly dyed. In the hush which had fallen, the footsteps
of Inspector Whiteleaf sounded loudly as he opened the final door, and
swept the interior of an inner room with the rays of the lantern.

The room was barely furnished as an office. There was another
half-glazed door opening on to a narrow corridor. This door was locked.

"Pyne!" whispered Gray, pale now to the lips. "Do you understand, Seton?
It's Pyne! Look! He has been stabbed!"

Sergeant Burton knelt down and gingerly laid his hand upon the stained
linen over the breast of Sir Lucien.

"Dead?" asked the Inspector, speaking from the inner doorway.

"Yes."

"You say, sir," turning to Quentin Gray, "that this is Sir Lucien Pyne?"

"Yes."

Inspector Whiteleaf rather clumsily removed his cap. The odor of Seton's
cheroot announced itself above the oriental perfume with which the place
was laden.

"Burton!"

"Yes?"

"See if this telephone in the office is in order. It appears to be an
extension from the outer room."

While the others stood grouped about that still figure on the floor,
Sergeant Burton entered the little office.

"Hello!" he cried. "Yes?" A momentary interval, then: "It's all right,
sir. What number?"

"Gentlemen," said the Inspector, firmly and authoritatively, "I am about
to telephone to Vine Street for instructions. No one will leave the
premises."

Amid an intense hush:

"Regent 201," called Sergeant Burton.


CHAPTER VI. RED KERRY

Chief Inspector Kerry, of the Criminal Investigation Department, stood
before the empty grate of his cheerless office in New Scotland Yard,
one hand thrust into the pocket of his blue reefer jacket and the other
twirling a malacca cane, which was heavily silver-mounted and which
must have excited the envy of every sergeant-major beholding it. Chief
Inspector Kerry wore a very narrow-brimmed bowler hat, having two
ventilation holes conspicuously placed immediately above the band. He
wore this hat tilted forward and to the right.

"Red Kerry" wholly merited his sobriquet, for the man was as red
as fire. His hair, which he wore cropped close as a pugilist's, was
brilliantly red, and so was his short, wiry, aggressive moustache.
His complexion was red, and from beneath his straight red eyebrows he
surveyed the world with a pair of unblinking, intolerant steel-blue
eyes. He never smoked in public, as his taste inclined towards
Irish twist and a short clay pipe; but he was addicted to the use of
chewing-gum, and as he chewed--and he chewed incessantly--he revealed a
perfect row of large, white, and positively savage-looking teeth. High
cheek bones and prominent maxillary muscles enhanced the truculence
indicated by his chin.

But, next to this truculence, which was the first and most alarming
trait to intrude itself upon the observer's attention, the outstanding
characteristic of Chief Inspector Kerry was his compact neatness. Of no
more than medium height but with shoulders like an acrobat, he had slim,
straight legs and the feet of a dancing master. His attire, from the
square-pointed collar down to the neat black brogues, was spotless.
His reefer jacket fitted him faultlessly, but his trousers were cut so
unfashionably narrow that the protuberant thigh muscles and the line
of a highly developed calf could quite easily be discerned. The hand
twirling the cane was small but also muscular, freckled and covered with
light down. Red Kerry was built on the lines of a whippet, but carried
the equipment of an Irish terrier.

The telephone bell rang. Inspector Kerry moved his square shoulders in
a manner oddly suggestive of a wrestler, laid the malacca cane on the
mantleshelf, and crossed to the table. Taking up the telephone:

"Yes?" he said, and his voice was high-pitched and imperious.

He listened for a moment.

"Very good, sir."

He replaced the receiver, took up a wet oilskin overall from the back of
a chair and the cane from the mantleshelf. Then rolling chewing-gum
from one corner of his mouth into the other, he snapped off the electric
light and walked from the room.

Along the corridor he went with a lithe, silent step, moving from the
hips and swinging his shoulders. Before a door marked "Private" he
paused. From his waistcoat pocket he took a little silver convex mirror
and surveyed himself critically therein. He adjusted his neat tie,
replaced the mirror, knocked at the door and entered the room of the
Assistant Commissioner.

This important official was a man constructed on huge principles, a
man of military bearing, having tired eyes and a bewildered manner.
He conveyed the impression that the collection of documents, books,
telephones, and other paraphernalia bestrewing his table had reduced him
to a state of stupor. He looked up wearily and met the fierce gaze of
the chief inspector with a glance almost apologetic.

"Ah, Chief Inspector Kerry?" he said, with vague surprise. "Yes. I told
you to come. Really, I ought to have been at home hours ago. It's
most unfortunate. I have to do the work of three men. This is your
department, is it not, Chief Inspector?"

He handed Kerry a slip of paper, at which the Chief Inspector stared
fiercely.

"Murder!" rapped Kerry. "Sir Lucien Pyne. Yes, sir, I am still on duty."

His speech, in moments of interest, must have suggested to one
overhearing him from an adjoining room, for instance, the operation of a
telegraphic instrument. He gave to every syllable the value of a rap and
certain words he terminated with an audible snap of his teeth.

"Ah," murmured the Assistant Commissioner. "Yes. Divisional
Inspector--Somebody (I cannot read the name) has detained all the
parties. But you had better report at Vine Street. It appears to be a
big case."

He sighed wearily.

"Very good, sir. With your permission I will glance at Sir Lucien's
pedigree."

"Certainly--certainly," said the Assistant Commissioner, waving one
large hand in the direction of a bookshelf.

Kerry crossed the room, laid his oilskin and cane upon a chair, and
from the shelf where it reposed took a squat volume. The Assistant
Commissioner, hand pressed to brow, began to study a document which lay
before him.

"Here we are," said Kerry, sotto voce. "Pyne, Sir Lucien St. Aubyn,
fourth baronet, son of General Sir Christian Pyne, K.C.B. H'm! Born
Malta.... Oriel College; first in classics.... H'm. Blue.... India,
Burma.... Contested Wigan.... attached British Legation. ... H'm!..."

He returned the book to its place, took up his overall and cane, and:

"Very good, sir," he said. "I will proceed to Vine Street."

"Certainly--certainly," murmured the Assistant Commissioner, glancing up
absently. "Good night."

"Good night, sir."

"Oh, Chief Inspector!"

Kerry turned, his hand on the door-knob.

"Sir?"

"I--er--what was I going to say? Oh, yes! The social importance of
the murdered man raises the case from the--er--you follow me? Public
interest will become acute, no doubt. I have therefore selected you
for your well known discretion. I met Sir Lucien once. Very sad. Good
night."

"Good night, sir."

Kerry passed out into the corridor, closing the door quietly. The
Assistant Commissioner was a man for whom he entertained the highest
respect. Despite the bewildered air and wandering manner, he knew this
big, tired-looking soldier for an administrator of infinite capacity and
inexhaustive energy.

Proceeding to a room further along the corridor, Chief Inspector Kerry
opened the door and looked in.

"Detective-Sergeant Coombes." he snapped, and rolled chewing-gum from
side to side of his mouth.

Detective-Sergeant Coombes, a plump, short man having lank black hair
and a smile of sly contentment perpetually adorning his round face, rose
hurriedly from the chair upon which he had been seated. Another man who
was in the room rose also, as if galvanized by the glare of the fierce
blue eyes.

"I'm going to Vine Street," said Kerry succinctly; "you're coming with
me," turned, and went on his way.

Two taxicabs were standing in the yard, and into the first of these
Inspector Kerry stepped, followed by Coombes, the latter breathing
heavily and carrying his hat in his hand, since he had not yet found
time to put it on.

"Vine Street," shouted Kerry. "Brisk."

He leaned back in the cab, chewing industriously. Coombes, having
somewhat recovered his breath, essayed speech.

"Is it something big?" he asked.

"Sure," snapped Kerry. "Do they send me to stop dog-fights?"

Knowing the man and recognizing the mood, Coombes became silent,
and this silence he did not break all the way to Vine Street. At the
station:

"Wait," said Chief Inspector Kerry, and went swinging in, carrying his
overall and having the malacca cane tucked under his arm.

A few minutes later he came out again and reentered the cab.

"Piccadilly corner of Old Bond Street," he directed the man.

"Is it burglary?" asked Detective-Sergeant Coombes with interest.

"No," said Kerry. "It's murder; and there seems to be stacks of
evidence. Sharpen your pencil."

"Oh!" murmured Coombes.

They were almost immediately at their destination, and Chief Inspector
Kerry, dismissing the cabman, set off along Bond Street with his lithe,
swinging gait, looking all about him intently. Rain had ceased, but the
air was damp and chilly, and few pedestrians were to be seen.

A car was standing before Kazmah's premises, the chauffeur walking up
and down on the pavement and flapping his hands across his chest in
order to restore circulation. The Chief Inspector stopped, "Hi, my man!"
he said.

The chauffeur stood still.

"Whose car?"

"Mr. Monte Irvin's."

Kerry turned on his heel and stepped to the office door. It was ajar,
and Kerry, taking an electric torch from his overall pocket, flashed the
light upon the name-plate. He stood for a moment, chewing and looking up
the darkened stairs. Then, torch in hand he ascended.

Kazmah's door was closed, and the Chief Inspector rapped loudly. It
was opened at once by Sergeant Burton, and Kerry entered, followed by
Coombes.

The room at first sight seemed to be extremely crowded. Monte Irvin,
very pale and haggard, sat upon the divan beside Quentin Gray. Seton
was standing near the cabinet, smoking. These three had evidently been
conversing at the time of the detective's arrival with an alert-looking,
clean-shaven man whose bag, umbrella, and silk hat stood upon one of the
little inlaid tables. Just inside the second door were Brisley and Gunn,
both palpably ill at ease, and glancing at Inspector Whiteleaf, who had
been interrogating them.

Kerry chewed silently for a moment, bestowing a fierce stare upon each
face in turn, then:

"Who's in charge?" he snapped.

"I am," replied Whiteleaf.

"Why is the lower door open?"

"I thought--"

"Don't think. Shut the door. Post your Sergeant inside. No one is to go
out. Grab anybody who comes in. Where's the body?"

"This way," said Inspector Whiteleaf hurriedly; then, over his shoulder:
"Go down to the door, Burton."

He led Kerry towards the inner room, Coombes at his heels. Brisley and
Gunn stood aside to give them passage; Gray and Monte Irvin prepared to
follow. At the doorway Kerry turned.

"You will all be good enough to stay where you are," he said. He
directed the aggressive stare in Seton's direction. "And if the
gentleman smoking a cheroot is not satisfied that he has quite destroyed
any clue perceptible by the sense of smell I should be glad to send out
for some fireworks."

He tossed his oilskin and his cane on the divan and went into the room
of seance, savagely biting at a piece of apparently indestructible
chewing-gum.

The torn green curtain had been laid aside and the electric lights
turned on in the inside rooms. Pallid, Sir Lucien Pyne lay by the ebony
chair glaring horribly upward.

Always with the keen eyes glancing this way and that, Inspector Kerry
crossed the little audience room and entered the enclosure contained
between the two screens. By the side of the dead man he stood, looking
down silently. Then he dropped upon one knee and peered closely into the
white face. He looked up.

"He has not been moved?"

"No."

Kerry bent yet lower, staring closely at a discolored abrasion on Sir
Lucien's forehead. His glance wandered from thence to the carved ebony
chair. Still kneeling, he drew from his waistcoat pocket a powerful lens
contained in a washleather bag. He began to examine the back and sides
of the chair. Once he laid his finger lightly on a protruding point
of the carving, and then scrutinised his finger through the glass. He
examined the dead man's hands, his nails, his garments. Then he crawled
about, peering closely at the carpet.

He stood up suddenly. "The doctor," he snapped.

Inspector Whiteleaf retired, but returned immediately with the
clean-shaven man to whom Monte Irvin had been talking when Kerry
arrived.

"Good evening, doctor," said Kerry. "Do I know your name? Start your
notes, Coombes."

"My name is Dr. Wilbur Weston, and I live in Albemarle Street."

"Who called you?"

"Inspector Whiteleaf telephoned to me about half an hour ago."

"You examined the dead man?"

"I did."

"You avoided moving him?"

"It was unnecessary to move him. He was dead, and the wound was in the
left shoulder. I pulled his coat open and unbuttoned his shirt. That was
all."

"How long dead?"

"I should say he had been dead not more than an hour when I saw him."

"What had caused death?"

"The stab of some long, narrow-bladed weapon, such as a stiletto."

"Why a stiletto?" Kerry's fierce eyes challenged him. "Did you ever see
a wound made by a stiletto?"

"Several--in Italy, and one at Saffron Hill. They are characterised by
very little external bleeding."

"Right, doctor. It had reached his heart?"

"Yes. The blow was delivered from behind."

"How do you know?"

"The direction of the wound is forward. I have seen an almost identical
wound in the case of an Italian woman stabbed by a jealous rival."

"He would fall on his back."

"Oh, no. He would fall on his face, almost certainly."

"But he lies on his back."

"In my opinion he had been moved."

"Right. I know he had. Good night, doctor. See him out, Inspector."

Dr. Weston seemed rather startled by this abrupt dismissal, but the
steel-blue eyes of Inspector Kerry were already bent again upon the
dead man, and, murmuring "good night," the doctor took his departure,
followed by Whiteleaf.

"Shut this door," snapped Kerry after the Inspector. "I will call when I
want you. You stay, Coombes. Got it all down?"

Sergeant Coombes scratched his head with the end of a pencil, and:

"Yes," he said, with hesitancy. "That is, except the word after
'narrow-bladed weapon such as a' I've got what looks like 'steelhatto.'"

Kerry glared.

"Try taking the cotton-wool out of your ears," he suggested. "The word
was stiletto, s-t-i-l-e-t-t-o--stiletto."

"Oh," said Coombes, "thanks."

Silence fell between the two men from Scotland Yard. Kerry stood awhile,
chewing and staring at the ghastly face of Sir Lucien. Then:

"Go through all pockets," he directed.

Sergeant Coombes placed his notebook and pencil upon the seat of the
chair and set to work. Kerry entered the inside room or office. It
contained a writing-table (upon which was a telephone and a pile of old
newspapers), a cabinet, and two chairs. Upon one of the chairs lay
a crush-hat, a cane, and an overcoat. He glanced at some of the
newspapers, then opened the drawers of the writing-table. They were
empty. The cabinet proved to be locked, and a door which he saw must
open upon a narrow passage running beside the suite of rooms was locked
also. There was nothing in the pockets of the overcoat, but inside the
hat he found pasted the initials L. P. He rolled chewing-gum, stared
reflectively at the little window immediately above the table, through
which a glimpse might be obtained of the ebony chair, and went out
again.

"Nothing," reported Coombes.

"What do you mean--nothing?"

"His pockets are empty!"

"All of them?"

"Every one."

"Good," said Kerry. "Make a note of it. He wears a real pearl stud and a
good signet ring; also a gold wrist watch, face broken and hands stopped
at seven-fifteen. That was the time he died. He was stabbed from behind
as he stood where I'm standing now, fell forward, struck his head on the
leg of the chair, and lay face downwards."

"I've got that," muttered Coombes. "What stopped the watch?"

"Broken as he fell. There are tiny fragments of glass stuck in the
carpet, showing the exact position in which his body originally lay; and
for God's sake stop smiling."

Kerry threw open the door.

"Who first found the body?" he demanded of the silent company.

"I did," cried Quentin Gray, coming forward. "I and Seton Pasha."

"Seton Pasha!" Kerry's teeth snapped together, so that he seemed to bite
off the words. "I don't see a Turk present."

Seton smiled quietly.

"My friend uses a title which was conferred upon me some years ago by
the ex-Khedive," he said. "My name is Greville Seton."

Inspector Kerry glanced back across his shoulder.

"Notes," he said. "Unlock your ears, Coombes." He looked at Gray. "What
is your name?"

"Quentin Gray."

"Who are you, and in what way are you concerned in this case?"

"I am the son of Lord Wrexborough, and I--"

He paused, glancing helplessly at Seton. He had recognized that the
first mention of Rita Irvin's name in the police evidence must be made
by himself.

"Speak up, sir," snapped Kerry. "Sergeant Coombes is deaf."

Gray's face flushed, and his eyes gleamed angrily.

"I should be glad, Inspector," he said, "if you would remember that
the dead man was a personal acquaintance and that other friends are
concerned in this ghastly affair."

"Coombes will remember it," replied Kerry frigidly. "He's taking notes."

"Look here--" began Gray.

Seton laid his hand upon the angry man's shoulder.

"Pull up, Gray," he said quietly. "Pull up, old chap." He turned his
cool regard upon Chief Inspector Kerry, twirling the cord of his monocle
about one finger. "I may remark, Inspector Kerry--for I understand
this to be your name--that your conduct of the inquiry is not always
characterised by the best possible taste."

Kerry rolled chewing-gum, meeting Seton's gaze with a stare intolerant
and aggressive. He imparted that odd writhing movement to his shoulders.

"For my conduct I am responsible to the Commissioner," he replied. "And
if he's not satisfied the Commissioner can have my written resignation
at any hour in the twenty-four that he's short of a pipe-lighter. If
it would not inconvenience you to keep quiet for two minutes I will
continue my examination of this witness."


CHAPTER VII. FURTHER EVIDENCE

The examination of Quentin Gray was three times interrupted by telephone
messages from Vine Street; and to the unsatisfactory character of these
the growing irascibility of Chief Inspector Kerry bore testimony. Then
the divisional surgeon arrived, and Burton incurred the wrath of the
Chief Inspector by deserting his post to show the doctor upstairs.

"If inspired idiocy can help the law," shouted Kerry, "the man who
did this job is as good as dead!" He turned his fierce gaze in Gray's
direction. "Thank you, sir. I need trouble you no further."

"Do you wish me to remain?"

"No. Inspector Whiteleaf, see these two gentlemen past the Sergeant on
duty."

"But damn it all!" cried Gray, his pent-up emotions at last demanding an
outlet, "I won't submit to your infernal dragooning! Do you realize
that while you're standing here, doing nothing--absolutely nothing--an
unhappy woman is--"

"I realize," snapped Kerry, showing his teeth in canine fashion, "that
if you're not outside in ten seconds there's going to be a cloud of dust
on the stairs!"

White with passion, Gray was on the point of uttering other angry and
provocative words when Seton took his arm in a firm grip. "Gray!" he
said sharply. "You leave with me now or I leave alone."

The two walked from the room, followed by Whiteleaf. As they
disappeared:

"Read out all the times mentioned in the last witness's evidence,"
directed Kerry, undisturbed by the rencontre.

Sergeant Coombes smiled rather uneasily, consulting his notebook.

"'At about half-past six I drove to Bond Street,'" he began.

"I said the times," rapped Kerry. "I know to what they refer. Just give
me the times as mentioned."

"Oh," murmured Coombes, "Yes. 'About half-past six.'" He ran his finger
down the page. "'A quarter to seven.' 'Seven o'clock.' 'Twenty-five
minutes past seven.' 'Eight o'clock.'"

"Stop!" said Kerry. "That's enough." He fixed a baleful glance upon
Gunn, who from a point of the room discreetly distant from the terrible
red man was watching with watery eyes. "Who's the smart in all the
overcoats?" he demanded.

"My name is James Gunn," replied this greatly insulted man in a husky
voice.

"Who are you? What are you? What are you doing here?"

"I'm employed by Spinker's Agency, and--"

"Oh!" shouted Kerry, moving his shoulders. He approached the speaker and
glared menacingly into his purple face. "Ho, ho! So you're one of the
queer birds out of that roost, are you? Spinker's Agency! Ah, yes!" He
fixed his gaze now upon the pale features of Brisley. "I've seen you
before, haven't I?"

"Yes, Chief Inspector," said Brisley, licking his lips. "Hayward's
Heath. We have been retained by--"

"You have been retained!" shouted Kerry. "You have!"

He twisted round upon his heel, facing Monte Irvin. Angry words trembled
on his tongue. But at sight of the broken man who sat there alone,
haggard, a subtle change of expression crept into his fierce eyes, and
when he spoke again the high-pitched voice was almost gentle. "You had
employed these men, sir, to watch--"

He paused, glancing towards Whiteleaf, who had just entered again, and
then in the direction of the inner room where the divisional surgeon was
at work.

"To watch my wife, Inspector. Thank you, but all the world will know
tomorrow. I might as well get used to it."

Monte Irvin's pallor grew positively alarming. He swayed suddenly
and extended his hands in a significant groping fashion. Kerry sprang
forward and supported him.

"All right, Inspector--all right," muttered Irvin. "Thank you. It has
been a great shock. At first I feared--"

"You thought your wife had been attacked, I understand? Well--it's not
so bad as that, sir. I am going to walk downstairs to the car with you."

"But there is so much you will want to know--"

"It can keep until tomorrow. I've enough work in this peep-show here to
have me busy all night. Come along. Lean on my arm."

Monte Irvin rose unsteadily. He knew that there was cardiac trouble
in his family, but he had never realized before the meaning of his
heritage. He felt physically ill.

"Inspector"--his voice was a mere whisper--"have you any theory to
explain--"

"Mrs. Irvin's disappearance? Don't worry, sir. Without exactly having a
theory I think I may say that in my opinion she will turn up presently."

"God bless you," murmured Irvin, as Kerry assisted him out on to the
landing.

Inspector Whiteleaf held back the sliding door, the mechanism of which
had been broken so that the door now automatically remained half closed.

"Funny, isn't it," said Gunn, as the two disappeared and Inspector
Whiteleaf re-entered, "that a man should be so upset about the
disappearance of a woman he was going to divorce?"

"Damn funny!" said Whiteleaf, whose temper was badly frayed by contact
with Kerry. "I should have a good laugh if I were you."

He crossed the room, going in to where the surgeon was examining the
victim of this mysterious crime. Gunn stared after him dismally.

"A person doesn't get much sympathy from the police, Brisley," he
declared. "That one's almost as bad as him," jerking his thumb in the
direction of the landing.

Brisley smiled in a somewhat sickly manner.

"Red Kerry is a holy terror," he agreed, sotto voce, glancing aside to
where Coombes was checking his notes. "Look out! Here he comes."

"Now," cried Kerry, swinging into the room, "what's the game? Plotting
to defeat the ends of justice?"

He stood with hands thrust in reefer pockets, feet wide apart, glancing
fiercely from Brisley to Gunn, and from Gunn back again to Brisley.
Neither of the representatives of Spinker's Agency ventured any remark,
and:

"How long have you been watching Mrs. Monte Irvin?" demanded Kerry.

"Nearly a fortnight," replied Brisley.

"Got your evidence in writing?"

"Yes."

"Up to tonight?"

"Yes."

"Dictate to Sergeant Coombes."

He turned on his heel and crossed to the divan upon which his oilskin
overall was lying. Rapidly he removed his reefer and his waistcoat,
folded them, and placed them neatly beside his overall. He retained his
bowler at its jaunty angle.

A cud of presumably flavorless chewing-gum he deposited in a brass bowl,
and from a little packet which he had taken out of his jacket pocket he
drew a fresh piece, redolent of mint. This he put into his mouth, and
returned the packet to its resting-place. A slim, trim figure, he stood
looking round him reflectively.

"Now," he muttered, "what about it?"


CHAPTER VIII. KERRY CONSULTS THE ORACLE

The clock of Brixton Town Hall was striking the hour of 1 a.m. as Chief
Inspector Kerry inserted his key in the lock of the door of his house in
Spenser Road.

A light was burning in the hallway, and from the little dining-room on
the left the reflection of a cheerful fire danced upon the white paint
of the half-open door. Kerry deposited his hat, cane, and overall upon
the rack, and moving very quietly entered the room and turned on
the light. A modestly furnished and scrupulously neat apartment was
revealed. On the sheepskin rug before the fire a Manx cat was dozing
beside a pair of carpet slippers. On the table some kind of cold repast
was laid, the viands concealed under china covers. At a large bottle of
Guinness's Extra Stout Kerry looked with particular appreciation.

He heaved a long sigh of contentment, and opened the bottle of stout.
Having poured out a glass of the black and foaming liquid and satisfied
an evidently urgent thirst, he explored beneath the covers, and
presently was seated before a spread of ham and tongue, tomatoes, and
bread and butter.

A door opened somewhere upstairs, and:

"Is that yoursel', Dan?" inquired a deep but musical female voice.

"Sure it is," replied Kerry; and no one who had heard the high official
tones of the imperious Chief Inspector would have supposed that they
could be so softened and modulated. "You should have been asleep hours
ago, Mary."

"Have ye to go out again?"

"I have, bad luck; but don't trouble to come down. I've all I want and
more."

"If 'tis a new case I'll come down."

"It's the devil's own case; but you'll get your death of cold."

Sounds of movement in the room above followed, and presently footsteps
on the stairs. Mrs. Kerry, enveloped in a woollen dressing-gown, which
obviously belonged to the Inspector, came into the room. Upon her Kerry
directed a look from which all fierceness had been effaced, and which
expressed only an undying admiration. And, indeed, Mary Kerry was in
many respects a remarkable character. Half an inch taller than Kerry,
she fully merited the compliment designed by that trite apothegm, "a
fine woman." Large-boned but shapely, as she came in with her long dark
hair neatly plaited, it seemed to her husband--who had remained her
lover--that he saw before him the rosy-cheeked lass whom ten years
before he had met and claimed on the chilly shores of Loch Broom. By all
her neighbors Mrs. Kerry was looked upon as a proud, reserved person,
who had held herself much aloof since her husband had become Chief
Inspector; and the reputation enjoyed by Red Kerry was that of an
aggressive and uncompanionable man. Now here was a lover's meeting, not
lacking the shy, downward glance of dark eyes as steel-blue eyes flashed
frank admiration.

Kerry, who quarrelled with everybody except the Assistant Commissioner,
had only found one cause of quarrel with Mary. He was a devout Roman
Catholic, and for five years he had clung with the bull-dog tenacity
which was his to the belief that he could convert his wife to the
faith of Rome. She remained true to the Scottish Free Church, in whose
precepts she had been reared, and at the end of the five years Kerry
gave it up and admired her all the more for her Caledonian strength of
mind. Many and heated were the debates he had held with worthy Father
O'Callaghan respecting the validity of a marriage not solemnized by a
priest, but of late years he had grown reconciled to the parting of
the ways on Sunday morning; and as the early mass was over before
the Scottish service he was regularly to be seen outside a certain
Presbyterian chapel waiting for his heretical spouse.

He pulled her down on to his knee and kissed her.

"It's twelve hours since I saw you," he said.

She rested her arm on the back of the saddle-back chair, and her dark
head close beside Kerry's fiery red one.

"I kenned ye had a new case on," she said, "when it grew so late. How
long can ye stay?"

"An hour. No more. There's a lot to do before the papers come out in
the morning. By breakfast time all England, including the murderer, will
know I'm in charge of the case. I wish I could muzzle the Press."

"'Tis a murder, then? The Lord gi'e us grace. Ye'll be wishin' to tell
me?"

"Yes. I'm stumped!"

"Ye've time for a rest an' a smoke. Put ye're slippers on."

"I've no time for that, Mary."

She stood up and took the slippers from the hearth.

They labor under the false impression that unless they have telescopes
of large aperture and other costly apparatus, the pleasures attaching
to practical work are denied them.

The great observatories, to which every intelligent eye is directed,
are, in a measure, though innocently enough, responsible for this.
Anticipation is ever on tiptoe. People are naturally awaiting the
latest news from the giant refracting and reflecting telescopes of the
day. Under these circumstances, it may be that the services rendered,
and capable of being rendered, to science by smaller apertures
may be overlooked, and, therefore, I ask to be permitted to put in
a modest plea for the common telescope. What little I shall have to say
will be addressed to you more for the purpose of arousing interest
in the subject than for communicating to you any information of a
novel or special character.

When making use of the term "common telescope," I would like to be
understood as referring to good refractors with object glasses not
exceeding three or three and one-half inches in diameter.

In some works on the subject telescopes as large as five inches or even
five and one-half inches are included in the description "common," but
instruments of such apertures are not so frequently met with in this
country as to justify the classing of them with smaller ones, and,
perhaps, for my purpose, it is well that such is the fact, for the
expense connected with the purchase of first rate telescopes increases
very rapidly in proportion to the size of the object glass, and soon
becomes a serious matter. Should ever the larger apertures become
numerous on this continent, let us hope it shall be found to have been
as one of the results of societies like this, striving to make more
popular the study of astronomy.

It is not by any means proposed to inflict upon you a history of the
telescope, but your indulgence is asked for a few moments while
reference is made to one or two matters connected with its invention,
or, rather, its accidental discovery and subsequent improvement.

The opening years of the seventeenth century found the world without
a telescope, or, at least, such an instrument as was adapted for
astronomical work.

It is true that long years before, Arabian and some other eastern
astronomers, for the purpose, possibly, of enabling them to
concentrate their gaze upon celestial objects and follow their
motions, had been accustomed to use a kind of tube consisting of a
long cylinder without glasses of any kind and open at both ends.

For magnifying purposes, this tube was of no value. Still, it must have
been of some kind of service, or else the first telescopes, as constructed
by the spectacle makers, who had stumbled upon the principle
involved, were exceedingly sorry affairs, for, soon after their
introduction, the illustrious Kepler, in his work on "Optics,"
recommended the employment of plain apertures, without lenses,
because they were superior to the telescope on account of their
freedom from refraction.

But as soon as the principle by which distant objects could,
apparently, be brought nearer the eye became known and its value
recognized by philosophers, telescopes ceased to be regarded as
toys, and underwent material improvements in the hands of such men
as Galilei, and, later, even of Kepler himself, Cassini, Huyghens,
and others.

Galilei's first telescope magnified but three times, and his best
not much above thirty times.

If I comprehend aright what has been written upon the subject, I am justified
in saying that this little instrument in my hand, with an aperture
of one inch and one-quarter, and a focus, with an astronomical
eye-piece, of about ten inches, is a better magnifier than was
Galilei's best.

With it I can see the moons of Jupiter, some spots on the sun, the phases
of Venus, the composition, in some places, of the Milky Way, the seas,
the valleys, the mountains, and, when in bold relief upon the
terminator, even some of the craters and cones of the moon.

Indeed, I am of opinion I can see even more than he could, for I
can readily make out a considerable portion of the Great Nebula in
Orion, some double stars, and enough of the Saturnian system to
discern the disk of the planet and see that there is something
attached to its sides.

For nearly one hundred and fifty years all refracting telescopes labored
under one serious difficulty. The images formed by them were more or less
confused by rainbow tints, due to the bending, or refracting, by
the object glass of the rays of light.

To overcome this obstacle to clear vision, and also to secure
magnification, the focal lengths of the instruments were greatly
extended.

Telescopes 38, 50, 78, 130, 160, 210, 400, and even 600 feet long
were constructed.

I can, however, find nothing on record indicating that the object
glasses of these enormously attenuated instruments ever exceeded
in diameter two and one-half inches.

Yet, with unwieldy and ungainly telescopes, nearly always defining
badly, wonders were accomplished by the painstaking and indomitable
observers of the time.

In 1658, Huyghens, using a telescope twenty-three feet long and two
and one-third inches in diameter, with a power of 100, solved the
mystery of Saturn's rings, which had resisted all of Galilei's
efforts as well as his own with a shorter instrument, though he had
discovered Titan, Saturn's largest moon, and fixed correctly its
period of revolution at sixteen days.

Fifteen years later, Ball, with a telescope thirty-eight feet long,
discovered the principal division in the rings.

Ten years still later, Cassini, with an instrument twenty feet long
and an object glass two and one-half inches in diameter, rediscovered
the division, which was named after him, rather than after Ball,
who had taken no pains to make widely known his discovery, which,
in the meantime, had been forgotten.

Though we have no record, there is no doubt that the lamented
Horrocks and Crabtree, in England, in 1639, with glasses no better
than these, watched with exultant emotions the first transit of
Venus ever seen by human eyes.

In 1722, Bradley, with a telescope 223¼ feet long, succeeded in
measuring the diameter of the same planet.

Yet Grant assures us that, in spite of all their difficulties, such was
the industry of the astronomers that when, at the commencement of this
century, it became possible to construct larger refracting telescopes,
there was nothing to be discovered that could have been discovered
with the means at their disposal.

So far as we now know, a good three-inch telescope, nay, a first-rate
two inch one, will show far more than our great-grandfathers ever
saw, or dreamed of seeing, with their refractors.

Toward the middle of the seventeenth century the reflecting telescope had
been so much improved as nearly to crowd out its refracting rival,
but, just as its success seemed to be assured, Dollond, working
along lines partially followed up by Hall, found a combination of
lenses by which the chromatic aberration of the refractor could be
very perfectly corrected.

While Dollond's invention was of immense value, it remained that
flint object glasses larger than two and one-half inches in diameter
could not, for some years, be manufactured, but about the opening
of the nineteenth century, Guinand, a Swiss, discovered a process
of making masses of optical flint glass sufficiently large as to
admit of the construction from them of excellent lenses of sizes
gradually increasing as time and experimenting went on.

The making of three-inch objectives, achromatic and of short focus,
wrought a revolution in telescopes and renewed the demand for
refractors, though prices, as compared with those of the present
day, were very great.

But improvement was succeeded by improvement.

Larger and still larger objectives were made, yet progress was not so
rapid as not to justify Grant, in 1852, in declaring to be a "munificent
gift" the presentation, about 1838, to Greenwhich Observatory, of a six
and seven-tenths object glass alone, and so it was esteemed by Mr.

Airy, the astronomer royal.

Improvement is still the order of the day, and, as a result of keen
competition, very excellent telescopes of small aperture can be
purchased at reasonable prices.

Great telescopes are enormously expensive, and will probably be so
until they are superseded by some simple invention which shall be
as superior to them as they are to the "mighty" instruments which,
from time to time, caused such sensations in the days of Galilei,
Cassini, Huyghens, Bradley, Dollond, and those who came after them.

But, notable as are the services rendered to science by giant
telescopes, it remains that by far the greater bulk of useful work
has been done by apertures of less than twelve inches in diameter.

Indeed, it may be asserted that most of such work has been done by
instruments of six inches or less in size. After referring with some
detail to this, Denning tells us that "nearly all the comets,
planetoids, double stars, etc., owe their detection to small
instruments; that our knowledge of sun spots, lunar and planetary
features is also very largely derived from similar sources; that
there is no department which is not indebted to the services of
small telescopes, and that of some thousands of drawings of celestial
objects, made by observers employing instruments from three to
seventy-two inches in diameter, a careful inspection shows that the
smaller instruments have not been outdone in this interesting field
of observation, owing to their excellent defining powers and the
facility with which they are used."

Aperture for aperture, the record is more glorious for the "common
telescope" than for its great rivals.

Let us for a moment recall something of what has been done with
instruments which may be embraced under the designation "common"
as such a statement may serve to remove impressions that small
telescopes are but of little use in astronomical work.

In his unrivaled book, Webb declares that his observations were
chiefly made with a telescope five and one-half feet long, carrying
an object glass of a diameter of three and seven-tenths inches.

The instrument was of "fair defining quality," and one has but to
read his delightful pages in order to form an idea of the countless
pleasures Webb derived from observation with it.

Speaking of it, he says that smaller ones will, of course, do less,
especially with faint objects, but are often very perfect and distinct,
and that even diminutive glasses, if good, will, at least, show something
never seen without them. He adds: "I have a little hand telescope twenty-two
and one-quarter inches long, when fully drawn out, with a focus of
about fourteen inches, and one and one-third inches aperture; this, with
an astronomical eye-piece, will show the _existence_ of sun spots,
the mountains in the moon, Jupiter's satellites and Saturn's ring."

In another place, speaking of the sun, he says that an object glass
of only two inches will exhibit a curdled or marbled appearance
over the whole solar disk, caused by the intermixture of spaces of
different brightness.

And I may add here that Dawes recommends a small aperture for sun work,
including spectroscopic examinations, he himself, like Mr. Miller,
our librarian, preferring to use for that purpose a four inch refractor.

As you know, the North Star is a most beautiful double.

Its companion is of the ninth order of magnitude, that is, three
magnitudes smaller than the smallest star visible to the naked eye
on a dark night.

There was a time when Polaris, as a double, was regarded as an excellent
test for a good three inch telescope; that is any three inch
instrument in which the companion could be seen was pronounced to
be first-class.

But so persistently have instruments of small aperture been improved
that that star is no longer an absolute test for three inch objectives
of fine quality, or any first-rate objective exceeding two inches
for which Dawes proposed it as a standard of excellence, he having
found that if the eye and telescope be good, the companion to Polaris
may be seen with such an aperture armed with a power of eighty.

As a matter of fact, Dawes, who was, like Burnham, blessed with
most acute vision, saw the companion with an instrument no larger
than this small one in my hand--one inch and three-tenths.

Ward saw it with an inch and one-quarter objective, and Dawson with so
small an aperture as one inch. T.T. Smith has seen it with a reflector
stopped down to one inch and one-quarter, while in the instrument
still known as the "great Dorpat reflector," it has been seen in
broad daylight.

This historic telescope has, I believe, a twelve inch object glass,
but the difficulty of seeing in sunshine so minute a star is such
that the fact may fairly be mentioned here.

Another interesting feature is this. Objects once discovered, though
thought to be visible in large telescopes only, may often be seen
in much smaller ones.

The first Herschel said truly that less optical power will show an
object than was required for its discovery.

The rifts, or canals, in the Great Nebula in Andromeda is a case
in point, but two better illustrations may be taken from the planets.

Though Saturn was for many years subjected to most careful scrutiny
by skilled astronomers using the most powerful telescopes in
existence, the crape ring eluded discovery until November, 1850,
when it was independently seen by Dawes, in England, and Bond, in
the United States.

Both were capital observers and employed excellent instruments of
large aperture, and it was naturally presumed that only such
instruments could show the novel Saturnian feature.

Not so.

Once brought to the attention of astronomers, Webb saw the new ring
with his three and seven-tenths telescope and Ross with an aperture
not exceeding three and three-eighths in diameter.

Nay, I am permitted to say that a venerable member of this society
made drawings of it with a three inch refractor.

With a two inch objective, Grover not only saw the crape ring, but
Saturn's belts, as well, and the shadow cast by the ball of the
planet upon its system of rings.

Titan, Saturn's largest moon, is merely a point of light as
compared with the planet, as it appears in a telescope, yet it has
been seen, so it is said, with a one inch glass.

The shadow of this satellite, while crossing the face of Saturn,
has been observed by Banks with a two and seven-eighths objective.

By hiding the glare of the planet behind an occulting bar, some of Saturn's
smallest moons were seen by Kitchener with a two and seven-tenths aperture
and by Capron with a two and three-fourths one. Banks saw four of them
with a three and seven-eighths telescope, Grover two of them with
a three and three-quarter inch, and four inches of aperture will
show five of them, so Webb says.

Rhea, Dione and Tethys are more minute than Japetus, yet Cassini, with
his inferior means, discerned them and traced their periods. Take the
instance of Mars next.

It was long believed that Mars had no satellites.

But in 1877, during one of the highly favorable oppositions of that
planet which occur but once in about sixteen years, the able Hall,
using the great 26 inch refractor at Washington, discovered two
tiny moons which had never been seen before.

One of these, called Deimos, is only six miles in diameter, the other,
named Phobos, is only seven, and both are exceedingly close to the
primary and in rapid revolution.

The diameter of these satellites is really less than the distance
from High Park, on the west of Toronto, to Woodbine race course,
on the east of the city.

No wonder these minute objects--seldom, if ever, nearer to us than about
forty millions of miles--are difficult to see at all. Newcomb and
Holden tell us that they are invisible save at the sixteen year periods
referred to, when it happens that the earth and Mars, in their
respective orbits, approach each other more nearly than at any other
time.

But once discovered, the rule held good even in the case of the
satellites of Mars.

Pratt has seen Deimos, the outermost moon, with an eight and one-seventh
inch telescope; Erek has seen it with a seven and one-third inch
achromatic; Trouvellot, the innermost one, with a six and three-tenths
glass, while Common believes that any one who can make out Enceladus,
one of Saturn's smallest moons, can see those of Mars by hiding the
planet at or near the elongations, and that even our own moonlight
does not prevent the observations being made.

It chances for the benefit of observers, in the northern hemisphere
especially, that one of the sixteen year periods will culminate
in 1893, when Mars will be most advantageously situated for close
examination.

No doubt every one will avail himself of the opportunity, and may
we not reasonably hope that scores of amateur observers throughout
the United States and Canada will experience the delight of seeing
and studying the tiny moons of our ruddy neighbor?

And so I might proceed until I had wearied you with illustrations showing
what can be done with telescopes so small that they may fairly be
classed as "common," Webb says that such apertures, with somewhat
high powers, will reveal stars down to the eleventh magnitude.

The interesting celestial objects more conspicuous than stars of that
magnitude are sufficiently numerous to exhaust much more time than
any amateur can give to observing.

Indeed, the lot of the amateur is a happy one.

With a good, though small, telescope, he may have for subjects of
investigation the sun with his spots, his faculæ, his prominences
and spectra; the moon, a most superb object in nearly every optical
instrument, with her mountains, valleys, seas, craters, cones, and
ever-changing aspects renewed every month, her occupations of stars,
her eclipses, and all that; the planets, some with phases, and other
with markings, belts, rings, and moons with scores of occupations,
eclipses and transits due to their easily observed rotation around
their primaries; the nebulæ, the double, triple and multiple stars
with sometimes beautifully contrasted colors, and a thousand and
one other means of amusing and instructing himself.

Nature has opened in the heavens as interesting a volume as she has opened
on the earth, and with but little trouble any one may learn to
read in it.

I trust it has been shown that expensive telescopes are not necessarily
required for practical work.

My advice to an intending purchaser would be to put into the objective
for a refractor, or into the mirror for a reflector, all the money
he feels warranted in spending, leaving the mounting to be done in
the cheapest possible manner consistent with accuracy of adjustment,
because it is in the objective or in the mirror that the _value_
of the telescope alone resides.

In the shops may be found many telescopes gorgeous in polished tubes
and brass mountings which, for effective work, are absolutely worthless.
On this subject, I consulted the most eminent of all discoverers of
double stars, an observer who, even as an amateur, made a glorious
reputation by the work done with a six inch telescope.
I refer to Mr. S.W.

Burnham, of the Lick Observatory, who, in reply, kindly wrote: "You
will certainly have no difficulty in making out a strong case in
favor of the use of small telescopes in many departments of important
astronomical work.

Most of the early telescopic work was done with instruments which
would now be considered as inferior to modern instruments, in quality
as well as in size.

You are doubtless familiar with much of the amateur work, in this
country and elsewhere, done with comparatively small apertures.

_The most important condition is to have the refractor_, whatever its
size may be, _of the highest optical perfection_, and then the rest
will depend on the zeal and industry of the observer." The italics
are mine.

"Anything to report, constable?"

"Yes, sir."

"What?"

"The ambulance has been for the body, and another gentleman has been."

Kerry stared at the man.

"Another gentleman? Who the devil's the other gentleman?"

"I don't know, sir. He came with Inspector Whiteleaf, and was inside for
nearly an hour."

"Inspector Whiteleaf is off duty. What time was this?"

"Twelve-thirty, sir."

Kerry chewed reflectively ere nodding to the man and passing on.

"Another gentleman!" he muttered, entering the hallway. "Why didn't
Inspector Warley report this? Who the devil--" Deep in thought he walked
upstairs, finding his way by the light of the pocket torch which he
carried. A second constable was on duty at Kazmah's door. He saluted.

"Anything to report?" rapped Kerry.

"Yes, sir. The body has been removed, and the gentleman with
Inspector--"

"Damn that for a tale! Describe this gentleman."

"Rather tall, pale, dark, clean-shaven. Wore a fur-collared overcoat,
collar turned up. He was accompanied by Inspector Whiteleaf."

"H'm. Anything else?"

"Yes. About an hour ago I heard a noise on the next floor--"

"Eh!" snapped Kerry, and shone the light suddenly into the man's face so
that he blinked furiously.

"Eh? What kind of noise?"

"Very slight. Like something moving."

"Like something! Like what thing? A cat or an elephant?"

"More like, say, a box or a piece of furniture."

"And you did--what?"

"I went up to the top landing and listened."

"What did you hear?"

"Nothing at all."

Chief Inspector Kerry chewed audibly.

"All quiet?" he snapped.

"Absolutely. But I'm certain I heard something all the same."

"How long had Inspector Whiteleaf and this dark horse in the fur coat
been gone at the time you heard the noise?"

"About half an hour, sir."

"Do you think the noise came from the landing or from one of the offices
above?"

"An office I should say. It was very dim."

Chief Inspector Kerry pushed upon the broken door, and walked into the
rooms of Kazmah. Flashing the ray of his torch on the wall, he found the
switch and snapped up the lights. He removed his overall and tossed it
on a divan with his cane. Then, tilting his bowler further forward, he
thrust his hands into his reefer pockets, and stood staring toward the
door, beyond which lay the room of the murder, in darkness.

"Who is he?" he muttered. "What's it mean?"

Taking up the torch, he walked through and turned on the lights in
the inner rooms. For a long time he stood staring at the little square
window low down behind the ebony chair, striving to imagine uses for it
as his wife had urged him to do. The globular green lamp in the second
apartment was worked by three switches situated in the inside room,
and he had discovered that in this way the visitor who came to consult
Kazmah was treated to the illusion of a gradually falling darkness.
Then, the door in the first partition being opened, whoever sat in the
ebony chair would become visible by the gradual uncovering of a light
situated above the chair. On this light being covered again the figure
would apparently fade away.

It was ingenious, and, so far, quite clear. But two things badly puzzled
the inquirer; the little window down behind the chair, and the fact that
all the arrangements for raising and lowering the lights were situated
not in the narrow chamber in which Kazmah's chair stood, and in which
Sir Lucien had been found, but in the room behind it--the room with
which the little window communicated.

The table upon which the telephone rested was set immediately under this
mysterious window, the window was provided with a green blind, and the
switchboard controlling the complicated lighting scheme was also within
reach of anyone seated at the table.

Kerry rolled mint gum from side to side of his mouth, and absently tried
the handle of the door opening out from this interior room--evidently
the office of the establishment--into the corridor. He knew it to be
locked. Turning, he walked through the suite and out on to the landing,
passing the constable and going upstairs to the top floor, torch in
hand.

From the main landing he walked along the narrow corridor until he stood
at the head of the back stairs. The door nearest to him bore the name:
"Cubanis Cigarette Company." He tried the handle. The door was locked,
as he had anticipated. Kneeling down, he peered into the keyhole,
holding the electric torch close beside his face and chewing
industriously.

Ere long he stood up, descended again, but by the back stair, and stood
staring reflectively at the door communicating with Kazmah's inner room.
Then walking along the corridor to where the man stood on, the landing,
he went in again to the mysterious apartments, but only to get his cane
and his overall and to turn out the lights.

Five minutes later he was ringing the late Sir Lucien's door-bell.

A constable admitted him, and he walked straight through into the study
where Coombes, looking very tired but smiling undauntedly, sat at a
littered table studying piles of documents.

"Anything to report?" rapped Kerry.

"The man, Mareno, has gone to bed, and the expert from the Home office
has been--"

Inspector Kerry brought his cane down with a crash upon the table,
whereat Coombes started nervously.

"So that's it!" he shouted furiously, "an 'expert from the Home office'!
So that's the dark horse in the fur coat. Coombes! I'm fed up to the
back teeth with this gun from the Home office! If I'm not to have entire
charge of the case I'll throw it up. I'll stand for no blasted overseer
checking my work! Wait till I see the Assistant Commissioner! What the
devil has the job to do with the Home office!"

"Can't say," murmured Coombes. "But he's evidently a big bug from the
way Whiteleaf treated him. He instructed me to stay in the kitchen and
keep an eye on Mareno while he prowled about in here."

"Instructed you!" cried Kerry, his teeth gleaming and his steel-blue
eyes creating upon Coombes' mind an impression that they were emitting
sparks. "Instructed you! I'll ask you a question, Detective-Sergeant
Coombes: Who is in charge of this case?"

"Well, I thought you were."

"You thought I was?"

"Well, you are."

"I am? Very well--you were saying--?"

"I was saying that I went into the kitchen--"

"Before that! Something about 'instructed.'"

Poor Coombes smiled pathetically.

"Look here," he said, bravely meeting the ferocious glare of his
superior, "as man to man. What could I do?"

"You could stop smiling!" snapped Kerry. "Hell!" He paced several times
up and down the room. "Go ahead, Coombes."

"Well, there's nothing much to report. I stayed in the kitchen, and the
man from the Home office was in here alone for about half an hour."

"Alone?"

"Inspector Whiteleaf stayed in the dining-room."

"Had he been 'instructed' too?"

"I expect so. I think he just came along as a sort of guide."

"Ah!" muttered Kerry savagely, "a sort of guide! Any idea what the bogey
man did in here?"

"He opened the window. I heard him."

"That's funny. It's exactly what I'm going to do! This smart from
Whitehall hasn't got a corner in notions yet, Coombes."

The room was a large and lofty one, and had been used by a former tenant
as a studio. The toplights had been roofed over by Sir Lucien, however,
but the raised platform, approached by two steps, which had probably
been used as a model's throne, was a permanent fixture of the apartment.
It was backed now by bookcases, except where a blue plush curtain was
draped before a French window.

Kerry drew the curtain back, and threw open the folding leaves of the
window. He found himself looking out upon the leads of Albemarle Street.
No stars and no moon showed through the grey clouds draping the wintry
sky, but a dim and ghostly half-light nevertheless rendered the ugly
expanse visible from where he stood.

On one side loomed a huge tank, to the brink of which a rickety wooden
ladder invited the explorer to ascend. Beyond it were a series of iron
gangways and ladders forming part of the fire emergency arrangements of
the neighboring institution. Straight ahead a section of building jutted
up and revealed two small windows, which seemed to regard him like
watching eyes.

He walked out on to the roof, looking all about him. Beyond the tank
opened a frowning gully--the Arcade connecting Albemarle Street with
old Bond Street; on the other hand, the scheme of fire gangways was
continued. He began to cross the leads, going in the direction of Bond
Street. Coombes watched him from the study. When he came to the more
northerly of the two windows which had attracted his attention, he knelt
down and flashed the ray of his torch through the glass.

A kind of small warehouse was revealed, containing stacks of packages.
Immediately inside the window was a rough wooden table, and on
this table lay a number of smaller packages, apparently containing
cigarettes.

Kerry turned his attention to the fastening of the window. A glance
showed him that it was unlocked. Resting the torch on the leads, he
grasped the sash and gently raised the window, noting that it opened
almost noiselessly. Then, taking up the torch again, he stooped and
stepped in on to the table below.

It moved slightly beneath his weight. One of the legs was shorter
than its fellows. But he reached the floor as quietly as possible, and
instantly snapped off the light of the torch.

A heavy step sounded from outside--someone was mounting the stairs--and
a disk of light suddenly appeared upon the ground-glass panel of the
door.

Kerry stood quite still, chewing steadily.

"Who's there?" came the voice of the constable posted on Kazmah's
landing.

The inspector made no reply.

"Is there anyone here?" cried the man.

The disk of light disappeared, and the alert constable could be heard
moving along the corridor to inspect the other offices. But the ray had
shone upon the frosted glass long enough to enable Kerry to read the
words painted there in square black letters. They had appeared reversed,
of course, and had read thus:

.OC ETTERAGIC SINABUC


CHAPTER XI. THE DRUG SYNDICATE

At six-thirty that morning Margaret Halley was aroused by her maid--the
latter but half awake--and sitting up in bed and switching on the lamp,
she looked at the card which the servant had brought to her, and read
the following:

    CHIEF INSPECTOR KERRY,
    C.I.D.
    New Scotland Yard, S.W.I.

"Oh, dear," she said sleepily, "what an appallingly early visitor. Is
the bath ready yet, Janet?"

"I'm afraid not," replied the maid, a plain, elderly woman of the
old-fashioned useful servant type. "Shall I take a kettle into the
bathroom?"

"Yes--that will have to do. Tell Inspector Kerry that I shall not be
long."

Five minutes later Margaret entered her little consulting-room, where
Kerry, having adjusted his tie, was standing before the mirror in the
overmantle, staring at a large photograph of the charming lady doctor
in military uniform. Kerry's fierce eyes sparkled appreciatively as his
glance rested on the tall figure arrayed in a woollen dressing-gown, the
masculine style of which by no means disguised the beauty of Margaret's
athletic figure. She had hastily arranged her bright hair with
deliberate neglect of all affectation. She belonged to that ultra-modern
school which scorns to sue masculine admiration, but which cannot
dispense with it nevertheless. She aspired to be assessed upon an
intellectual basis, an ambition which her unfortunate good looks
rendered difficult of achievement.

"Good morning, Inspector," she said composedly. "I was expecting you."

"Really, miss?" Kerry stared curiously. "Then you know what I've come
about?"

"I think so. Won't you sit down? I am afraid the room is rather cold. Is
it about--Sir Lucien Pyne?"

"Well," replied Kerry, "it concerns him certainly. I've been in
communication by telephone with Hinkes, Mr. Monte Irvin's butler, and
from him I learned that you were professionally attending Mrs. Irvin."

"I was not her regular medical adviser, but--"

Margaret hesitated, glancing rapidly at the Inspector, and then down
at the writing-table before which she was seated. She began to tap the
blotting-pad with an ivory paper-knife. Kerry was watching her intently.

"Upon your evidence, Miss Halley," he said rapidly, "may depend the life
of the missing woman."

"Oh!" cried Margaret, "whatever can have happened to her? I rang up as
late as two o'clock this morning; after that I abandoned hope."

"There's something underlying the case that I don't understand, miss. I
look to you to put me wise."

She turned to him impulsively.

"I will tell you all I know, Inspector," she said. "I will be perfectly
frank with you."

"Good!" rapped Kerry. "Now--you have known Mrs. Monte Irvin for some
time?"

"For about two years."

"You didn't know her when she was on the stage?"

"No. I met her at a Red Cross concert at which she sang."

"Do you think she loved her husband?"

"I know she did."

"Was there any--prior attachment?"

"Not that I know of."

"Mr. Quentin Gray?"

Margaret smiled, rather mirthlessly.

"He is my cousin, Inspector, and it was I who introduced him to
Rita Irvin. I sincerely wish I had never done so. He lost his head
completely."

"There was nothing in Mrs. Irvin's attitude towards him to justify her
husband's jealousy?"

"She was always frightfully indiscreet, Inspector, but nothing more.
You see, she is greatly admired, and is used to the company of silly,
adoring men. Her husband doesn't really understand the ways of these
Bohemian folks. I knew it would lead to trouble sooner or later."

"Ah!"

Chief Inspector Kerry thrust his hands into the pockets of his jacket.

"Now--Sir Lucien?"

Margaret tapped more rapidly with the paper-knife.

"Sir Lucien belonged to a set of which Rita had been a member during her
stage career. I think--he admired her; in fact, I believe he had offered
her marriage. But she did not care for him in the least--in that way."

"Then in what way did she care for him?" rapped Kerry.

"Well--now we are coming to the point." Momentarily she hesitated, then:
"They were both addicted--"

"Yes?"

"--to drugs."

"Eh?" Kerry's eyes grew hard and fierce in a moment. "What drugs?"

"All sorts of drugs. Shortly after I became acquainted with Rita Irvin
I learned that she was a victim of the drug habit, and I tried to cure
her. I regret to say that I failed. At that time she had acquired a
taste for opium."

Kerry said not a word, and Margaret raised her head and looked at him
pathetically.

"I can see that you have no pity for the victims of this ghastly vice,
Inspector Kerry," she said.

"I haven't!" he snapped fiercely. "I admit I haven't, miss. It's bad
enough in the heathens, but for an Englishwoman to dope herself is
downright unchristian and beastly."

"Yet I have come across so many of these cases, during the war and
since, that I have begun to understand how easy, how dreadfully easy it
is, for a woman especially, to fall into the fatal habit. Bereavement or
that most frightful of all mental agonies, suspense, will too often lead
the poor victim into the path that promises forgetfulness. Rita Irvin's
case is less excusable. I think she must have begun drug-taking because
of the mental and nervous exhaustion resulting from late hours and
over-much gaiety. The demands of her profession proved too great for
her impaired nervous energy, and she sought some stimulant which would
enable her to appear bright on the stage when actually she should have
been recuperating, in sleep, that loss of vital force which can be
recuperated in no other way."

"But opium!" snapped Kerry.

"I am afraid her other drug habits had impaired her will, and shaken her
self-control. She was tempted to try opium by its promise of a new and
novel excitement."

"Her husband, I take it, was ignorant of all this?"

"I believe he was. Quentin--Mr. Gray--had no idea of it either."

"Then it was Sir Lucien Pyne who was in her confidence in the matter?"

Margaret nodded slowly, still tapping the blotting-pad.

"He used to accompany her to places where drugs could be obtained, and
on several occasions--I cannot say how many--I believe he went with her
to some den in Chinatown. It may have been due to Mr. Irvin's discovery
that his wife could not satisfactorily account for some of these
absences from home which led him to suspect her fidelity."

"Ah!" said Kerry hardly, "I shouldn't wonder. And now"--he thrust out a
pointing finger--"where did she get these drugs?"

Margaret met the fierce stare composedly.

"I have said that I shall be quite frank," she replied. "In my opinion
she obtained them from Kazmah."

"Kazmah!" shouted Kerry. "Excuse me, miss, but I see I've been wearing
blinkers without knowing it! Kazmah's was a dope-shop?"

"That has been my belief for a long time, Inspector. I may add that I
have never been able to obtain a shred of evidence to prove it. I am so
keenly interested in seeing the people who pander to this horrible vice
unmasked and dealt with as they merit, that I have tried many times to
find out if my suspicion was correct."

Inspector Kerry was writhing his shoulders excitedly. "Did you ever
visit Kazmah?" he asked.

"Yes. I asked Rita Irvin to take me, but she refused, and I could see
that the request embarrassed her. So I went alone."

"Describe exactly what took place."

Margaret Halley stared reflectively at the blotting-pad for a moment,
and then described a typical seance at Kazmah's. In conclusion:

"As I came away," she said, "I bought a bottle of every kind of perfume
on sale, some of the incense, and also a box of sweetmeat; but they all
proved to be perfectly harmless. I analyzed them."

Kerry's eyes glistened with admiration.

"We could do with you at the Yard, miss," he said. "Excuse me for saying
so."

Margaret smiled rather wanly.

"Now--this man Kazmah," resumed the Chief Inspector. "Did you ever see
him again?"

"Never. I have been trying for months and months to find out who he is."

Kerry's face became very grim.

"About ten trained men are trying to find that out at the present
moment!" he rapped. "Do you think he wore a make-up?"

"He may have done so," Margaret admitted. "But his features were
obviously undisguised, and his eyes one would recognize anywhere. They
were larger than any human eyes I have ever seen."

"He couldn't have been the Egyptian who looked after the shop, for
instance?"

"Impossible! He did not remotely resemble him. Besides, the man to whom
you refer remained outside to receive other visitors. Oh, that's out of
the question, Inspector."

"The light was very dim?"

"Very dim indeed, and Kazmah never once raised his head. Indeed, except
for a dignified gesture of greeting and one of dismissal, he never
moved. His immobility was rather uncanny."

Kerry began to pace up and down the narrow room, and:

"He bore no resemblance to the late Sir Lucien Pyne, for instance?" he
rapped.

Margaret laughed outright and her laughter was so inoffensive and so
musical that the Chief Inspector laughed also.

"That's more hopeless than ever!" she said. "Poor Sir Lucien had strong,
harsh features and rather small eyes. He wore a moustache, too. But Sir
Lucien, I feel sure, was one of Kazmah's clients."

"Ah!" said Kerry. "And what leads you to suppose Miss Halley, that this
Kazmah dealt in drugs?"

"Well, you see, Rita Irvin was always going there to buy perfumes, and
she frequently sent her maid as well."

"But"--Kerry stared--"you say that the perfume was harmless."

"That which was sold to casual visitors was harmless, Inspector. But I
strongly suspect that regular clients were supplied with something quite
different. You see, I know no fewer than thirty unfortunate women in
the West End of London alone who are simply helpless slaves to
various drugs, and I think it more than a coincidence that upon their
dressing-tables I have almost invariably found one or more of Kazmah's
peculiar antique flasks."

Chief Inspector Kerry's jaw muscles protruded conspicuously.

"You speak of patients?" he asked.

Margaret nodded her head.

"When a woman becomes addicted to the drug habit," she explained, "she
sometimes shuns her regular medical adviser. I have many patients who
came to me originally simply because they dared not face their family
doctor. In fact, since I gave up Army work, my little practice has
threatened to develop into that of a drug-habit specialist."

"Have you taxed any of these people with obtaining drugs from Kazmah?"

"Not directly. It would have been undiplomatic. But I have tried to
surprise them into telling me. Unfortunately, these poor people are as
cunning as any other kind of maniac, for, of course, it becomes a form
of mania. They recognize that confession might lead to a stoppage of
supplies--the eventuality they most dread."

"Did you examine the contents of any of these flasks found on
dressing-tables?"

"I rarely had an opportunity; but when I did they proved to contain
perfume when they contained anything."

"H'm," mused Kerry, and although in deference to Margaret, he had denied
himself chewing-gum, his jaws worked automatically. "I gather that Mrs.
Monte Irvin had expressed a wish to see you last night?"

"Yes. Apparently she was threatened with a shortage of cocaine."

"Cocaine was her drug?"

"One of them. She had tried them all, poor, silly girl! You must
understand that for a habitual drug-taker suddenly to be deprived of
drugs would lead to complete collapse, perhaps death. And during the
last few days I had noticed a peculiar nervous symptom in Rita Irvin
which had interested me. Finally, the day before yesterday, she
confessed that her usual source of supply had been closed to her. Her
words were very vague, but I gathered that some form of coercion was
being employed."

"With what object?"

"I have no idea. But she used the words, 'They will drive me mad,' and
seemed to be in a dangerously nervous condition. She said that she was
going to make a final attempt to obtain a supply of the poison which had
become indispensable to her. 'I cannot do without it!' she said. 'But if
they refuse, will you give me some?'"

"What did you say?"

"I begged of her, as I had done on many previous occasions, to place
herself in my hands. But she evaded a direct answer, as is the way of
one addicted to this vice. 'If I cannot get some by tomorrow,' she said,
'I shall go mad, or dead. Can I rely on you?'"

"I told her that I would prescribe cocaine for her on the distinct
understanding that from the first dose she was to place herself under my
care for a cure."

"She agreed?"

"She agreed. Yesterday afternoon, while I was away at an important case,
she came here. Poor Rita!" Margaret's soft voice trembled. "Look--she
left this note."

From a letter-rack she took a square sheet of paper and handed it to
the Chief Inspector. He bent his fierce eyes upon the writing--large,
irregular and shaky.

"'Dear Margaret,'" he read aloud. "'Why aren't you at home? I am wild
with pain, and feel I am going mad. Come to me directly you return, and
bring enough to keep me alive. I--', Hullo! there's no finish!"

He glanced up from the page. Margaret Halley's eyes were dim.

"She despaired of my coming and went to Kazmah," she said. "Can you
doubt that that was what she went for?"

"No!" snapped Kerry savagely, "I can't. But do you mean to tell me, Miss
Halley, that Mrs. Irvin couldn't get cocaine anywhere else? I know for
a fact that it's smuggled in regularly, and there's more than one
receiver."

Margaret looked at him strangely.

"I know it, too, Inspector," she said quietly. "Owing to the lack
of enterprise on the part of our British drug-houses, even reputable
chemists are sometimes dependent upon illicit stock from Japan and
America. But do you know that the price of these smuggled drugs has
latterly become so high as to be prohibitive in many cases?"

"I don't. What are you driving at, miss?"

"At this: Somebody had made a corner in contraband drugs. The most
wicked syndicate that ever was formed has got control of the lives of,
it may be, thousands of drug-slaves!"

Kerry's teeth closed with a sharp snap.

"At last," he said, "I see where the smart from the Home office comes
in."

"The Secretary of State has appointed a special independent commissioner
to inquire into this hellish traffic," replied Margaret quietly. "I
am glad to say that I have helped in getting this done by the
representations which I have made to my uncle, Lord Wrexborough. But I
give you my word, Inspector Kerry, that I have withheld nothing from you
any more than from him."

"Him!" snapped Kerry, eyes fiercely ablaze.

"From the Home Office representative--before whom I have already given
evidence."

Chief Inspector Kerry took up his hat, cane and overall from the chair
upon which he had placed them and, his face a savage red mask, bowed
with a fine courtesy. He burned to learn particulars; he disdained to
obtain them from a woman.

"Good morning, Miss Halley," he said. "I am greatly indebted to you."

He walked stiffly from the room and out of the flat without waiting for
a servant to open the door.


PART SECOND--MRS. SIN


CHAPTER XII. THE MAID OF THE MASQUE

The past life of Mrs. Monte Irvin, in which at this time three distinct
groups of investigators became interested--namely, those of Whitehall,
Scotland Yard, and Fleet Street--was of a character to have horrified
the prudish, but to have excited the compassion of the wise.

Daughter of a struggling suburban solicitor, Rita Esden, at the age of
seventeen, from a delicate and rather commonplace child began to develop
into a singularly pretty girl of an elusive and fascinating type of
beauty, almost ethereal in her dainty coloring, and possessed of large
and remarkably fine eyes, together with a wealth of copper-red hair, a
crown which seemed too heavy for her slender neck to support. Her father
viewed her increasing charms and ever-growing list of admirers with the
gloomy apprehension of a disappointed man who had come to look upon each
gift of the gods as a new sorrow cunningly disguised. Her mother, on the
contrary, fanned the girl's natural vanity and ambition with a success
which rarely attended the enterprises of this foolish old woman, and
Rita proving to be endowed with a moderately good voice, a stage career
was determined upon without reference to the contrary wishes of Mr.
Esden.

Following the usual brief "training" which is counted sufficient for an
aspirant to musical comedy honors, Rita, by the prefixing of two letters
to her name, set out to conquer the play-going world as Rita Dresden.

Two years of hard work and disappointment served to dispel the girl's
illusions. She learned to appreciate at its true value that masculine
admiration which, in an unusual degree, she had the power to
excite. Those of her admirers who were in a position to assist her
professionally were only prepared to use their influence upon terms
which she was unprepared to accept. Those whose intentions were strictly
creditable, by some malignancy of fate, possessed no influence whatever.
She came to regard herself as a peculiarly unlucky girl, being ignorant
of the fact that Fortune, an impish hierophant, imposes identical tests
upon every candidate who aspires to the throne of a limelight princess.

Matters stood thus when a new suitor appeared in the person of Sir
Lucien Pyne. When his card was brought up to Rita, her heart leaped
because of a mingled emotion of triumph and fear which the sight of the
baronet's name had occasioned. He was a director of the syndicate in
whose production she was playing--a man referred to with awe by
every girl in the company as having it in his power to make or mar a
professional reputation. Not that he took any active part in the affairs
of the concern; on the contrary, he was an aristocrat who held himself
aloof from all matters smacking of commerce, but at the same time one
who invested his money shrewdly. Sir Lucien's protegee of today was
London's idol of tomorrow, and even before Rita had spoken to him she
had fought and won a spiritual battle between her true self and that
vain, admiration-loving Rita Dresden who favored capitulation.

She knew that Sir Lucien's card represented a signpost at the
cross-roads where many a girl, pretty but not exceptionally talented,
had hesitated with beating heart. It was no longer a question of
remaining a member of the chorus (and understudy for a small part) or
of accepting promotion to "lead" in a new production; it was that of
accepting whatever Sir Lucien chose to offer--or of retiring from the
profession so far as this powerful syndicate was concerned.

Such was the reputation enjoyed at this time by Sir Lucien Pyne among
those who had every opportunity of forming an accurate opinion.

Nevertheless, Rita was determined not to succumb without a struggle. She
did not count herself untalented nor a girl to be lightly valued, and
Sir Lucien might prove to be less black than rumor had painted him. As
presently appeared, both in her judgment of herself and in that of Sir
Lucien, she was at least partially correct. He was very courteous, very
respectful, and highly attentive.

Her less favored companions smiled significantly when the familiar
Rolls-Royce appeared at the stage door night after night, never doubting
that Rita Dresden was chosen to "star" in the forthcoming production,
but, with rare exceptions, frankly envying her this good fortune.

Rita made no attempt to disillusion them, recognizing that it must fail.
She was resigned to being misjudged. If she could achieve success at
that price, success would have been purchased cheaply.

That Sir Lucien was deeply infatuated she was not slow to discover, and
with an address perfected by experience and a determination to avoid the
easy path inherited from a father whose scrupulous honesty had ruined
his professional prospects, she set to work to win esteem as well as
admiration.

Sir Lucien was first surprised, then piqued, and finally interested by
such unusual tactics. The second phase was the dangerous one for Rita,
and during a certain luncheon at Romanos her fate hung in the balance.
Sir Lucien realized that he was in peril of losing his head over this
tantalizingly pretty girl who gracefully kept him at a distance, fencing
with an adroitness which was baffling, and Sir Lucien Pyne had set out
with no intention of doing anything so preposterous as falling in love.
Keenly intuitive, Rita scented danger and made a bold move. Carelessly
rolling a bread-crumb along the cloth:

"I am giving up the stage when the run finishes," she said.

"Indeed," replied Sir Lucien imperturbably. "Why?"

"I am tired of stage life. I have been invited to go and live with my
uncle in New York and have decided to accept. You see"--she bestowed
upon him a swift glance of her brilliant eyes--"men in the theatrical
world are not all like you. Real friends, I mean. It isn't very nice,
sometimes."

Sir Lucien deliberately lighted a cigarette. If Rita was bluffing, he
mused, she had the pluck to make good her bluff. And if she did so? He
dropped the extinguished match upon a plate. Did he care? He glanced at
the girl, who was smiling at an acquaintance on the other side of
the room. Fortune's wheel spins upon a needle point. By an artistic
performance occupying less than two minutes, but suggesting that Rita
possessed qualities which one day might spell success, she had decided
her fate. Her heart was beating like a hammer in her breast, but
she preserved an attitude of easy indifference. Without for a moment
believing in the American uncle, Sir Lucien did believe, correctly,
that Rita Dresden was about to elude him. He realized, too, that he
was infinitely more interested than he had ever been hitherto, and more
interested than he had intended to become.

This seemingly trivial conversation was a turning point, and twelve
months later Rita Dresden was playing the title role in The Maid of the
Masque. Sir Lucien had discovered himself to be really in love with
her, and he might quite possibly have offered her marriage even if a
dangerous rival had not appeared to goad him to that desperate leap--for
so he regarded it. Monte Irvin, although considerably Rita's senior,
had much to commend him in the eyes of the girl--and in the eyes of her
mother, who still retained a curious influence over her daughter. He
was much more wealthy than Pyne, and although the latter was a baronet,
Irvin was certain to be knighted ere long, so that Rita would secure the
appendage of "Lady" in either case. Also, his reputation promised a more
reliable husband than Sir Lucien could be expected to make. Moreover,
Rita liked him, whereas she had never sincerely liked and trusted Sir
Lucien. And there was a final reason--of which Mrs. Esden knew nothing.

On the first night that Rita had been entrusted with a part of any
consequence--and this was shortly after the conversation at Romanos--she
had discovered herself to be in a state of hopeless panic. All her
scheming and fencing would have availed her nothing if she were to break
down at the critical moment. It was an eventuality which Sir Lucien had
foreseen, and he seized the opportunity at once of securing a new hold
upon the girl and of rendering her more pliable than he had hitherto
found her to be. At this time the idea of marriage had not presented
itself to Sir Lucien.

Some hours before the performance he detected her condition of abject
fright... and from his waistcoat pocket he took a little gold snuff-box.

At first the girl declined to follow advice which instinctively she
distrusted, and Sir Lucien was too clever to urge it upon her. But he
glanced casually at his wrist-watch--and poor Rita shuddered. The gold
box was hidden again in the baronet's pocket.

To analyze the process which thereupon took place in Rita's mind would
be a barren task, since its result was a foregone conclusion. Daring
ambition rather than any merely abstract virtue was the keynote of
her character. She had rebuffed the advances of Sir Lucien as she had
rebuffed others, primarily because her aim in life was set higher than
mere success in light comedy. This she counted but a means to a more
desirable end--a wealthy marriage. To the achievement of such an
alliance the presence of an accepted lover would be an obstacle;
and true love Rita Dresden had never known. Yet, short of this final
sacrifice which some women so lightly made, there were few scruples
which she was not prepared to discard in furtherance of her designs. Her
morality, then, was diplomatic, for the vice of ambition may sometimes
make for virtue.

Rita's vivacious beauty and perfect self-possession on the fateful night
earned her a permanent place in stageland: Rita Dresden became a "star."
She had won a long and hard-fought battle; but in avoiding one master
she had abandoned herself to another.

The triumph of her debut left her strangely exhausted. She dreaded
the coming of the second night almost as keenly as she had dreaded the
ordeal of the first. She struggled, poor victim, and only increased her
terrors. Not until the clock showed her that in twenty minutes she must
make her first entrance did she succumb. But Sir Lucien's gold snuff-box
lay upon her dressing-table--and she was trembling. When at last she
heard the sustained note of the oboe in the orchestra giving the pitch
to the answering violins, she raised the jewelled lid of the box.

So she entered upon the path which leads down to destruction, and
since to conjure with the drug which pharmacists know as methylbenzoyl
ecgonine is to raise the demon Insomnia, ere long she found herself
exploring strange by-paths in quest of sleep.

By the time that she was entrusted with the leading part in The Maid
of the Masque, she herself did not recognize how tenacious was the
hold which this fatal habit had secured upon her. In the company of Sir
Lucien Pyne she met other devotees, and for a time came to regard her
unnatural mode of existence as something inseparable from the Bohemian
life. To the horrible side of it she was blind.

It was her meeting with Monte Irvin during the run of this successful
play which first awakened a dawning comprehension; not because she
ascribed his admiration to her artificial vivacity, but because she
realized the strength of the link subsisting between herself and Sir
Lucien. She liked and respected Irvin, and as a result began to view her
conduct from a new standpoint. His life was so entirely open and free
from reproach while part of her own was dark and secret. She conceived a
desire to be done with that dark and secret life.

This was a shadow-land over which Sir Lucien Pyne presided, and which
must be kept hidden from Monte Irvin; and it was not until she thus
contemplated cutting herself adrift from it all that she perceived
the Gordian knot which bound her to the drug coterie. How far, yet how
smoothly, by all but imperceptible stages she had glided down the stream
since that night when the gold box had lain upon her dressing-table!
Kazmah's drug store in Bond Street had few secrets for her; or so she
believed. She knew that the establishment of the strange, immobile
Egyptian was a source from which drugs could always be obtained; she
knew that the dream-reading business served some double purpose; but she
did not know the identity of Kazmah.

Two of the most insidious drugs familiar to modern pharmacy were wooing
her to slavery, and there was no strong hand to hold her back. Even the
presence of her mother might have offered some slight deterrent at this
stage of Rita's descent, but the girl had quitted her suburban home as
soon as her salary had rendered her sufficiently independent to do so,
and had established herself in a small but elegant flat situated in the
heart of theatreland.

But if she had walked blindly into the clutches of cocaine and veronal,
her subsequent experiments with chandu were prompted by indefensible
curiosity, and a false vanity which urged her to do everything that
was "done" by the ultra-smart and vicious set of which she had become a
member.

Her first introduction to opium-smoking was made under the auspices of
an American comedian then appearing in London, an old devotee of the
poppy, and it took place shortly after Sir Lucien Pyne had proposed
marriage to Rita. This proposal she had not rejected outright; she had
pleaded time for consideration. Monte Irvin was away, and Rita secretly
hoped that on his return he would declare himself. Meanwhile she
indulged in every new craze which became fashionable among her
associates. A chandu party took place at the American's flat in Duke
Street, and Rita, who had been invited, and who had consented to go with
Sir Lucien Pyne, met there for the first time the woman variously known
as "Lola" and "Mrs. Sin."


CHAPTER XIII. A CHANDU PARTY

From the restaurant at which she had had supper with Sir Lucien, Rita
proceeded to Duke Street. Alighting from Pyne's car at the door, they
went up to the flat of the organizer of the opium party--Mr. Cyrus
Kilfane. One other guest was already present--a slender, fair woman, who
was introduced by the American as Mollie Gretna, but whose weakly pretty
face Rita recognized as that of a notorious society divorcee, foremost
in the van of every new craze, a past-mistress of the smartest vices.

Kilfane had sallow, expressionless features and drooping, light-colored
eyes. His straw-hued hair, brushed back from a sloping brow, hung lankly
down upon his coat-collar. Long familiarity with China's ruling vice and
contact with those who practiced it had brought about that mysterious
physical alteration--apparently reflecting a mental change--so often
to be seen in one who has consorted with Chinamen. Even the light eyes
seemed to have grown slightly oblique; the voice, the unimpassioned
greeting, were those of a son of Cathay. He carried himself with a stoop
and had a queer, shuffling gait.

"Ah, my dear daughter," he murmured in a solemnly facetious manner, "how
glad I am to welcome you to our poppy circle."

He slowly turned his half-closed eyes in Pyne's direction, and slowly
turned them back again.

"Do you seek forgetfulness of old joys?" he asked. "This is my own case
and Pyne's. Or do you, as Mollie does, seek new joys--youth's eternal
quest?"

Rita laughed with a careless abandon which belonged to that part of her
character veiled from the outer world.

"I think I agree with Miss Gretna," she said lightly. "There is not so
much happiness in life that I want to forget the little I have had."

"Happiness," murmured Kilfane. "There is no real happiness. Happiness is
smoke. Let us smoke."

"I am curious, but half afraid," declared Rita. "I have heard that opium
sometimes has no other effect than to make one frightfully ill."

"Oh, my dear!" cried Miss Gretna, with a foolish giggling laugh, "you
will love it! Such fascinating dreams! Such delightful adventures!"

"Other drugs," drawled Sir Lucien, "merely stimulate one's normal mental
activities. Chandu is a key to another life. Cocaine, for instance
enhances our capacity for work. It is only a heretic like De Quincey who
prostitutes the magic gum to such base purposes. Chandu is misunderstood
in Europe; in Asia it is the companion of the aesthete's leisure."

"But surely," said Rita, "one pipe of opium will not produce all these
wonders."

"Some people never experience them at all," interrupted Miss Gretna.
"The great idea is to get into a comfortable position, and just resign
yourself--let yourself go. Oh, it's heavenly!"

Cyrus Kilfane turned his dull eyes in Rita's direction.

"A question of temperament and adaptability," he murmured. "De Quincey,
Pyne"--slowly turning towards the baronet--"is didactic, of course; but
his Confessions may be true, nevertheless. He forgets, you see, that he
possessed an unusual constitution, and the temperament of a Norwegian
herring. He forgets, too, that he was a laudanum drinker, not an opium
smoker. Now you, my daughter"--the lustreless eyes again sought Rita's
flushed face--"are vivid--intensely vital. If you can succeed in
resigning yourself to the hypnosis induced your experiences will be
delightful. Trust your Uncle Cy."

Leaving Rita chatting with Miss Gretna, Kilfane took Pyne aside,
offering him a cigarette from an ornate, jewelled case.

"Hello," said the baronet, "can you still get these?"

"With the utmost difficulty," murmured Kilfane, returning the case to
his pocket. "Lola charges me five guineas a hundred for them, and only
supplies them as a favor. I shall be glad to get back home, Pyne. The
right stuff is the wrong price in London."

Sir Lucien laughed sardonically, lighting Kilfane's cigarette and then
his own.

"I find it so myself," he said. "Everything except opium is to be had at
Kazmah's, and nothing except opium interests me."

"He supplies me with cocaine," murmured the comedian. "His figure works
out, as nearly as I can estimate it, at 10s 7 1/2d. a grain. I saw him
about it yesterday afternoon, pointing out to the brown guy that as the
wholesale price is roughly 2 1/4d., I regarded his margin of profit as
somewhat broad."

"Indeed!"

"The first time I had ever seen him, Pyne. I brought an introduction
from Dr. Silver, of New York, and Kazmah supplied me without
question--at a price."

"You always saw Rashid?"

"Yes. If there were other visitors I waited. But yesterday I made a
personal appointment with Kazmah. He pretended to think I had come to
have a dream interpreted. He is clever, Pyne. He never moved a muscle
throughout the interview. But finally he assured me that all the
receivers in England had amalgamated, and that the price he charged
represented a very narrow margin of profit. Of course he is a liar. He
is making a fortune. Do you know him personally?"

"No," replied Sir Lucien, "outside his Bond Street home of mystery he is
unknown. A clever man, as you say. You obtain your opium from Lola?"

"Yes. Kazmah sent her to me. She keeps me on ridiculously low rations,
and if I had not brought my own outfit I don't think she would have
sold me one. Of course, her game is beating up clients for the Limehouse
dive."

"You have visited 'The House of a Hundred Raptures'?"

"Many times, at week-ends. Opium, like wine, is better enjoyed in
company."

"Does she post you the opium?"

"Oh, no; my man goes to Limehouse for it. Ah! here she is."

A woman came in, carrying a brown leather attache case. She had left her
hat and coat in the hall, and wore a smart blue serge skirt and a white
blouse. She was not tall, but she possessed a remarkably beautiful
figure which the cut of her garments was not intended to disguise, and
her height was appreciably increased by a pair of suede shoes having the
most wonderful heels which Rita ever remembered to have seen worn on or
off the stage. They seemed to make her small feet appear smaller, and
lent to her slender ankles an exaggerated frontal curve.

Her hair was of that true, glossy black which suggests the blue sheen of
raven's plumage, and her thickly fringed eyes were dark and southern as
her hair. She had full, voluptuous lips, and a bold self-assurance. In
the swift, calculating glance which she cast about the room there was
something greedy and evil; and when it rested upon Rita Dresden's dainty
beauty to the evil greed was added cruelty.

"Another little sister, dear Lola," murmured Kilfane. "Of course, you
know who it is? This, my daughter," turning the sleepy glance towards
Rita, "is our officiating priestess, Mrs. Sin."

The woman so strangely named revealed her gleaming teeth in a swift,
unpleasant smile, then her nostrils dilated and she glanced about her
suspiciously.

"Someone smokes the chandu cigarettes," she said, speaking in a low tone
which, nevertheless, failed to disguise her harsh voice, and with a very
marked accent.

"I am the offender, dear Lola," said Kilfane, dreamily waving his
cigarette towards her. "I have managed to make the last hundred spin
out. You have brought me a new supply?"

"Oh no, indeed," replied Mrs. Sin, tossing her head in a manner oddly
reminiscent of a once famous Spanish dancer. "Next Tuesday you get some
more. Ah! it is no good! You talk and talk and it cannot alter anything.
Until they come I cannot give them to you."

"But it appears to me," murmured Kilfane, "that the supply is always
growing less."

"Of course. The best goes all to Edinburgh now. I have only three sticks
of Yezd left of all my stock."

"But the cigarettes."

"Are from Buenos Ayres? Yes. But Buenos Ayres must get the opium before
we get the cigarettes, eh? Five cases come to London on Tuesday, Cy. Be
of good courage, my dear."

She patted the sallow cheek of the American with her jewelled fingers,
and turned aside, glancing about her.

"Yes," murmured Kilfane. "We are all present, Lola. I have had the room
prepared. Come, my children, let us enter the poppy portico."

He opened a door and stood aside, waving one thin yellow hand between
the first two fingers of which smouldered the drugged cigarette. Led by
Mrs. Sin the company filed into an apartment evidently intended for
a drawing-room, but which had been hastily transformed into an opium
divan.

Tables, chairs, and other items of furniture had been stacked against
one of the walls and the floor spread with rugs, skins, and numerous
silk cushions. A gas fire was alight, but before it had been placed an
ornate Japanese screen whereon birds of dazzling plumage hovered amid
the leaves of gilded palm trees. In the centre of the room stood a small
card-table, and upon it were a large brass tray and an ivory pedestal
exquisitely carved in the form of a nude figure having one arm upraised.
The figure supported a lamp, the light of which was subdued by a
barrel-shaped shade of Chinese workmanship.

Mollie Gretna giggled hysterically.

"Make yourself comfortable, dear," she cried to Rita, dropping down upon
a heap of cushions stacked in a recess beside the fireplace. "I am going
to take off my shoes. The last time, Cyrus, when I woke up my feet were
quite numb."

"You should come down to my place," said Mrs. Sin, setting the leather
case on the little card-table beside the lamp. "You have there your own
little room and silken sheets to lie in, and it is quiet--so quiet."

"Oh!" cried Mollie Gretna, "I must come! But I daren't go alone. Will
you come with me, dear?" turning to Rita.

"I don't know," was the reply. "I may not like opium."

"But if you do--and I know you will?"

"Why," said Rita, glancing rapidly at Pyne, "I suppose it would be a
novel experience."

"Let me arrange it for you," came the harsh voice of Mrs. Sin. "Lucy
will drive you both down--won't you, my dear?" The shadowed eyes glanced
aside at Sir Lucien Pyne.

"Certainly," he replied. "I am always at the ladies' service."

Rita Dresden settled herself luxuriously into a nest of silk and fur in
another corner of the room, regarding the baronet coquettishly through
her half-lowered lashes.

"I won't go unless it is my party, Lucy," she said. "You must let me
pay."

"A detail," murmured Pyne, crossing and standing beside her.

Interest now became centred upon the preparations being made by Mrs.
Sin. From the attache case she took out a lacquered box, silken-lined
like a jewel-casket. It contained four singular-looking pipes, the parts
of which she began to fit together. The first and largest of these had
a thick bamboo stem, an amber mouthpiece, and a tiny, disproportionate
bowl of brass. The second was much smaller and was of some dark,
highly-polished wood, mounted with silver conceived in an ornate Chinese
design representing a long-tailed lizard. The mouthpiece was of jade.
The third and fourth pipes were yet smaller, a perfectly matched pair in
figured ivory of exquisite workmanship, delicately gold-mounted.

"These for the ladies," said Mrs. Sin, holding up the pair.
"You"--glancing at Kilfane--"have got your own pipe, I know."

She laid them upon the tray, and now took out of the case a little
copper lamp, a smaller lacquered box and a silver spatula, her jewelled
fingers handling the queer implements with a familiarity bred of habit.

"What a strange woman!" whispered Rita to Pyne. "Is she an oriental?"

"Cuban-Jewess," he replied in a low voice.

Mrs. Sin carefully lighted the lamp, which burned with a short, bluish
flame, and, opening the lacquered box, she dipped the spatula into
the thick gummy substance which it contained and twisted the little
instrument round and round between her fingers, presently withdrawing it
with a globule of chandu, about the size of a bean, adhering to the end.
She glanced aside at Kilfane.

"Chinese way, eh?" she said.

She began to twirl the prepared opium above the flame of the lamp. From
it a slight, sickly smelling vapor arose. No one spoke, but all
watched her closely; and Rita was conscious of a growing, pleasurable
excitement. When by evaporation the chandu had become reduced to the
size of a small pea, and a vague spirituous blue flame began to dance
round the end of the spatula, Mrs. Sin pressed it adroitly into the tiny
bowl of one of the ivory pipes, having first held the bowl inverted for
a moment over the lamp. She turned to Rita.

"The guest of the evening," she said. "Do not be afraid. Inhale--oh, so
gentle--and blow the smoke from the nostrils. You know how to smoke?"

"The same as a cigarette?" asked Rita excitedly, as Mrs. Sin bent over
her.

"The same, but very, very gentle."

Rita took the pipe and raised the mouthpiece to the lips.


CHAPTER XIV. IN THE SHADE OF THE LONELY PALM

Persian opium of good quality contains from ten to fifteen percent
morphine, and chandu made from opium of Yezd would contain perhaps
twenty-five per cent of this potent drug; but because in the act of
smoking distillation occurs, nothing like this quantity of morphine
reaches the smoker. To the distilling process, also, may be due
the different symptoms resulting from smoking chandu and injecting
morphia--or drinking tincture of opium, as De Quincey did.

Rita found the flavor of the preparation to be not entirely unpleasant.
Having overcome an initial aversion, caused by its marked medicinal
tang, she grew reconciled to it and finished her first smoke without
experiencing any other effect than a sensation of placid contentment.
Deftly, Mrs. Sin renewed the pipe. Silence had fallen upon the party.

The second "pill" was no more than half consumed when a growing feeling
of nausea seized upon the novice, becoming so marked that she dropped
the ivory pipe weakly and uttered a faint moan.

Instantly, silently, Mrs. Sin was beside her.

"Lean forward--so," she whispered, softly, as if fearful of intruding
her voice upon these sacred rites. "In a moment you will be better.
Then, if you feel faint, lie back. It is the sleep. Do not fight against
it."

The influence of the stronger will prevailed. Self-control and judgment
are qualities among the first to succumb to opium. Rita ceased to think
longingly of the clean, fresh air, of escape from these sickly fumes
which seemed now to fill the room with a moving vacuum. She bent
forward, her chin resting upon her breast, and gradually the deathly
sickness passed. Mentally, she underwent a change, too. From an active
state of resistance the ego traversed a descending curve ending in
absolute passivity. The floor had seemingly begun to revolve and was
moving insidiously, so that the pattern of the carpet formed a series
of concentric rings. She found this imaginary phenomenon to be soothing
rather than otherwise, and resigned herself almost eagerly to the
delusion.

Mrs. Sin allowed her to fall back upon the cushions--so gently and so
slowly that the operation appeared to occupy several minutes and to
resemble that of sinking into innumerable layers of swansdown. The
sinuous figure bending over her grew taller with the passage of each
minute, until the dark eyes of Mrs. Sin were looking down at Rita from
a dizzy elevation. As often occurs in the case of a neurotic subject,
delusion as to time and space had followed the depression of the sensory
cells.

But surely, she mused, this could not be Mrs. Sin who towered so loftily
above her. Of course, how absurd to imagine that a woman could remain
motionless for so many hours. And Rita thought, now, that she had been
lying for several hours beneath the shadow of that tall, graceful, and
protective shape.

Why--it was a slender palm-tree, which stretched its fanlike foliage
over her! Far, far above her head the long, dusty green fronds projected
from the mast-like trunk. The sun, a ball of fiery brass, burned
directly in the zenith, so that the shadow of the foliage lay like a
carpet about her feet. That which she had mistaken for the ever-receding
eyes of Mrs. Sin, wondering with a delightful vagueness why they seemed
constantly to change color, proved to be a pair of brilliantly plumaged
parrakeets perched upon a lofty branch of the palm.

Silverware is cleansed by rubbing with a solution of sodium
hyposulphite.

BLACK PAINTS.

Carbon, in one form or another, is the base of all black pigments.
By far the most common of these, as used in structural plants, is
graphite. Other black pigments are lamp-black (including
carbon black) and bone-black, the former being produced in many grades,
varying in price from twopence to half a crown per pound. Bone-black,
which is refuse from the sugar-house black, varies in the percentage of
carbon contained, which is usually about 10 or 12 per cent, the remainder
being the mineral matter originally present in the bone, and containing
3 or 4 per cent of carbonate, whilst most of the remainder is phosphate
of lime. Lamp-black is an absolutely impalpable powder, which having a
small amount of greasy matter in it, greatly retards the drying of
the oil with which it may be mixed. For this reason it is not used by
itself, but is added in small quantity to other paints, which it affects
by changing their colour, and probably their durability.

For example, it is a common practice to add it to red lead, in order to
tone down its brilliant colour, and also to correct the tendency it has
to turn white, due to the conversion of the red oxide of lead into the
carbonate.

BLACK STAIN FOR IRON.

For colouring iron and steel a dead black of superior appearance and
permanency, the following is a good formula: 1 part bismuth chloride,
2 parts mercury bi-chloride, 1 part copper chloride, 6 parts hydrochloric
acid, 5 parts alcohol, and 50 parts lamp-black, these being all
well mixed.

To use this preparation successfully--the article to be blacked or bronzed
being first made clean and free from grease--it is applied with a swab
or brush, or, better still, the object may be dipped into it; the liquid
is allowed to dry on the metal, and the latter is then placed in
boiling water, the temperature being maintained for half an hour.

If, after this, the colour is not so dark as is desired, the operation
has simply to be repeated, and the result will be found satisfactory.
After obtaining the desired degree of colour, the latter is fixed, as
well as much improved generally, by placing for a few minutes in a
bath of boiling oil, or by coating the surface with oil, and heating the
object till the oil is completely driven off The intense black obtained
by this method is admirable.

Another black coating for ironwork, which is really a lacquer, is obtained
by melting ozokerite, which becomes a brown resinous mass, with a
melting-point at 140° F. The melted mass is then further heated to
212° F., the boiling-point of water.

The objects to be lacquered are scoured clean by rubbing with dry
sand, and are dipped in the melted mass. They are then allowed to drip,
and the ozokerite is ignited by the objects being held over a fire.

After the ozokerite has burned away, the flame is extinguished, and the
iron acquires a firmly adhering black coating, which resists atmospheric
influences, as well as acids and alkalies. If the black iron vessels
are to contain alkaline liquids, the above operation is repeated.

A good cheap stock black paint or varnish for ironwork is prepared,
as follows: Clear (solid) wood tar, 10 lb.; lamp black or mineral
black, 1-1/4 lb.; oil of turpentine, 5-1/2 quarts.

The tar is first heated in a large iron pot to boiling-point, or
nearly so, and the heat is continued for about 4 hours.

The pot is then removed from the fire out of doors, and while still
warm, and not hot, the turpentine, mixed with the black, is stirred in.
If the varnish is too thick to dry quickly, add more turpentine.

Benzine can be used instead of turpentine, but the results are not so
good.

Asphaltum is preferable to the cheap tar.

To make another good black varnish for ironwork, take 8 lb. of asphaltum
and fuse it in an iron kettle, then add 2 gallons of boiled linseed
oil, 1 lb. of litharge, 1/2 lb. of sulphate of zinc (add these slowly,
or the mixture will boil over), and boil them for about 3 hours. Then,
add 1-1/2 lb. of dark gum amber, and boil for 2 hours longer, or until
the mass will become quite thick when cool. After this it should be
thinned with turpentine to the proper consistency.

VARNISHES FOR IRONWORK.

A reliable authority gives the following as a very good recipe for
ironwork varnish.

Take 2 lb. of tar oil, 1/2 lb. of pounded resin, and 1/2 lb. of
asphaltum, and dissolve together, and then mix while hot in an iron
kettle, taking all care to prevent the flames getting into contact
with the mixture.

When cold the varnish is ready for application to outdoor ironwork.

Another recipe is to take 3 lb. of powdered resin, place it in a tin or
iron vessel, and add thereto 2-1/2 pints of spirits of turpentine, which
well shake, and then let it stand for a day or two, giving it an
occasional shake. Then add to it 5 quarts of boiled oil, shake it
thoroughly well all together, afterwards letting it stand in a
warm room till it gets clear.

The clear portion can then be drawn off and used, or reduced with
spirits of turpentine till of the requisite consistency. For making a
varnish suitable for iron patterns, take sufficient oil of turpentine
for the purpose of the job in hand, and drop into it, drop by drop,
some strong commercial oil of vitriol, when the acid will cause a
dark syrupy precipitate in the oil of turpentine, and continue to
add the drops of vitriol till the precipitate ceases to act, after
which pour off the liquid and wash the syrupy mass with water, when
it will be ready for use.

When the iron pattern is to be varnished, it must be heated to a
gentle degree, the syrupy product applied, and then the article
allowed to dry.

A fine black varnish suitable for the covering of broken places in
sewing machines and similar articles, where the japanned surface has
become injured or scratched, can be made by taking some fine
lamp-black or ivory-black, and thoroughly mixing it with copal varnish.
The black must be in a very fine powder, and to mix the more readily
it should be made into a pasty mass with turpentine.

For the ordinary repairing shop this will be found very handy.

The following is a simple way for tarring sheet-iron pipes to prevent
rusting. The sections as made should be coated with coal tar, and then
filled with light wood shavings, and the latter set alight. The effect
of this treatment will be to render the iron practically proof
against rust for an indefinite period, rendering future painting
unnecessary.

It is important, of course, that the iron should not be made too hot,
or kept hot for too long a time, lest the tar should be burnt off.

The following is a varnish for iron and steel given by a recognized
authority: 5 parts of camphor and elemi, 15 parts of sandarach,
and 10 parts of clear grains of mastic, are dissolved in the requisite
quantity of alcohol, and applied cold.

Another good black enamel for small articles can be made by mixing 1
lb. of asphaltum with 1 lb. of resin in 4 lb. of tar oil, well heating
the whole in an iron vessel before applying.

A good brown japan can be prepared by separately heating equal quantities
of amber and asphaltum, and adding to each one-half the quantity by
weight of boiled linseed oil. Both compounds are then mixed together.
Copal resin may be substituted for the amber, but it is not so durable.
Oil varnish made from amber is highly elastic. If it is used to protect
tin-plate printing, when the plates after stoving have been
subsequently rolled so as to distort the letters, the varnish has
in no way suffered, and its surface remains unbroken.

A bronzing composition for coating iron consists of 120 parts mercury,
10 parts tin, 20 parts green vitriol, 120 parts water, and 15 parts
hydrochloric acid of 1.2 specific gravity.

SECTION VI.

PROCESSES FOR TIN-PLATING.

In these days of making everything look what it is not, perhaps the
best and cheapest substitute for silver as a white coating for table
ware, culinary vessels, and the many articles requiring such a
coating, is pure tin.

It does not compare favourably with silver in point of hardness or
wearing qualities, but it costs very much less than silver, is readily
applied, and can be easily kept clean and bright. In tinning hollow
ware on the inside the metal article is first thoroughly cleansed by
pickling it in dilute muriatic or sulphuric acid and then scouring it
with fine sand.

It is then heated over a fire to about the melting-point of tin, sprinkled
with powdered resin, and partly filled with melted pure grain tin
covered with resin to prevent its oxidation. The vessel is then quickly
turned and rolled about in every direction, so as to bring every
part of the surface to be covered in contact with the molten metal.

The greater part of the tin is then thrown out and the surface rubbed over
with a brush of tow to equalize the coating; and if not satisfactory
the operation must be repeated. The vessels usually tinned in this
manner are of copper and brass, but with a little care in cleaning
and manipulating, iron can also be satisfactorily tinned by this means.
The vessels to be tinned must always be sufficiently hot to keep
the metal contained in them thoroughly fused.

This is covering by contact with melted tin.

The amalgam process is not so much used as it was formerly. It consists
in applying to the clean and dry metallic surface a film of a pasty
amalgam of tin with mercury, and then exposing the surface to heat,
which volatilizes the latter, leaving the tin adhering to the
metal.

The immersion process is the best adapted to coating articles of
brass or copper. When immersed in a hot solution of tin properly
prepared the metal is precipitated upon their surfaces. One of the
best solutions for this purpose is the following:--
Ammonia alum 17-1/4 oz.
Boiling 12-1/2 lb.

Protochloride of tin 1 oz.

The articles to be tinned must be first thoroughly cleansed, and then
kept in the hot solution until properly whitened. A better result
will be obtained by using the following bath, and placing the pieces
in contact with a strip of clean zinc, also immersed:--
Bitartrate of potassium 14 oz.
Soft water 24 " Protochloride of tin 1 "
It should be boiled for a few minutes before using.

The following is one of the best solutions for plating with tin by the
battery process:--
Potassium pyrophosphate 12 oz.
Protochloride of tin 4-1/2 " Water 20 "
The anode or feeding-plate used in this bath consists of pure Banca tin.
This plate is joined to the positive (copper or carbon) pole of
the battery, while the work is suspended from a wire connected with
the negative (zinc) pole.

A moderately strong battery is required, and the work is finished by
scratch-brushing.

In Weigler's process a bath is prepared by passing washed chlorine gas
into a concentrated aqueous solution of stannous chloride to
saturation, and expelling excess of gas by warming the solution,
which is then diluted with about ten volumes of water, and filtered,
if necessary.

The articles to be plated are pickled in dilute sulphuric acid, and
polished with fine sand and a scratch-brush, rinsed in water, loosely
wound round with zinc wire or tape, and immersed in the bath for
ten or fifteen minutes at ordinary temperatures.

The coating is finished with the scratch-brush and whiting.

By this process cast-or wrought-iron, steel, copper, brass, and
lead can be tinned without a separate battery.

The only disadvantage of the process is that the bath soon becomes
clogged up with zinc chloride, and the tin salt must be frequently
removed.

In Hern's process a bath composed of--
Tartaric acid 2 oz.

Water 100 " Soda 3 " Protochloride of tin 3 "
is employed instead of the preceding.

It requires a somewhat longer exposure to properly tin articles in
this than in Weigler's bath.

Either of these baths may be used with a separate battery.

SECTION VII.

GALVANIZING.

Galvanizing, as a protecting surface for large articles, such as enter
into the construction of bridges, roofs, and shipwork, has not
quite reached the point of appreciation that possibly the near
future may award to it.

Certain fallacies existed for a long time as to the relative merits of
the dry or molten and the wet or electrolytical methods of
galvanizing.

The latter was found to be costly and slow, and the results obtained
were erratic and not satisfactory, and soon gave place to the dry or
molten bath process, as in practice at the present day; but the
difficulty of management in connexion with large baths of molten
material, and the deterioration of the bath, and other mechanical
causes, limit the process to articles of comparatively small size
and weight.

The electro deposition of zinc has been subject to many patents, and
the efforts to introduce it have been lamentable in both a mechanical
and financial sense. Most authorities recommend a current density of
18 or 20 ampères per square foot of cathode surface, and aqueous solutions
of zinc sulphate, acetate or chloride, ammonia, chloride or tartrate,
as being the most suitable for deposition.

Electrolytes made by adding caustic potash or soda to a suitable
zinc salt have been found to be unworkable in practice on account
of the formation of an insoluble zinc oxide on the surface of the
anode and the resultant increased electrical resistance; the
electrolytes are also constantly getting out of order, as more metal
is taken out of the solution than could possibly be dissolved from
the anodes by the chemicals set free on account of this insoluble
scale or furring up of the anodes, which sometimes reaches one-eighth
of an inch in thickness.

To all intents and purposes the deposits obtained from acid solutions
under favourable circumstances are fairly adhesive when great care
has been exercised to thoroughly scale and clean the surface to be
coated, which is found to be the principal difficulty in the
application of any electro-chemical process for copper, lead, or
tin, as well as for zinc, and that renders even the application of
paint or other brush compounds to futile unless honestly complied
with.

Unfortunately these acid zinc coatings are of a transitory nature, Their
durability being incomparable with hot galvanizing, as the deposit
is porous and retains some of the acid salts, which cause a wasting
of the zinc, and consequently the rusting of the iron or steel.

Castings coated with acid zinc rust comparatively quickly, even
when the porosity has been reduced by oxidation, aggravated no doubt
by some of the corroding agents--sal-ammoniac, for instance--being
forced into the pores of the metal.

Other matters of serious moment in the electro-zincing process, apart
from the slowness of the operation, were the uncertain nature, thickness,
and extent of the coating on articles of irregular shape, and the
formation of loose, dark-coloured patches on the work; the unhealthy
and non-metallic look and want of brilliancy and the lustre prevented
engineers and the trade from accepting the process or its results,
except for the commoner articles of use.

To obviate any tendency of the paint to peel off from the zinc
surface, as it generally manifests a disposition to do, it is
recommended to coat all the zinc surfaces, previous to painting them,
with the following compound: 1 part chloride of copper, 1 part
nitrate of copper, 1 part sal-ammoniac, dissolved in 61 parts of
water, and then add 1 part commercial hydrochloric acid.

When the zinc is brushed over with this mixture it oxidizes the surface,
turns black, and dries in from twelve to twenty-four hours, and may then
be painted over without any danger of peeling. Another and more quickly
applied coating consists of, bi-chloride of platinum, 1 part dissolved
in 10 parts of distilled water, and applied either by a brush or
sponge. It oxidizes at once, turns black, and resists the weak acids,
rain, and the elements generally.

Zinc surfaces, after a brief exposure to the air, become coated
with a thin film of oxide--insoluble in water--which adheres
tenaciously, forming a protective coating to the underlying zinc.

So long as the zinc surface remains intact, the underlying metal is protected
from corrosive action, but a mechanical or other injury to the zinc
coating that exposes the metal beneath, in the presence of moisture
causes a very rapid corrosion to be started, the galvanic action being
changed from the zinc positive to zinc negative, and the iron, as the
positive element in the circuit, is corroded instead of the zinc.

When galvanized iron is immersed in a corrosive liquid, the zinc
is attacked in preference to the iron, provided both the exposed
parts of the iron and the protected parts are immersed in the liquid.

The zinc has not the same protective quality when the liquid is sprinkled
over the surface and remains in isolated drops. Sea air, being charged
with saline matters, is very destructive to galvanized surfaces, forming
a soluble chloride by its action. As zinc is one of the metals most
readily attacked by acids, ordinary galvanized iron is not suitable for
positions where it is to be much exposed to an atmosphere charged with
acids sent into the air by some manufactories, or to the sulphuric
acid fumes found in the products of combustion of rolling mills, iron,
glass, and gas works, etc., and yet we see engineers of note covering-in
important buildings with corrugated and other sheets of iron, and using
galvanized iron tie rods, angles, and other constructive shapes
in blind confidence of the protective power of the zinc coating;
also in supreme indifference as to the future consequences and
catastrophes that arise from their unexpected failure.

The comparative inertia of lead to the chemical action of many acids has
led to the contention that it should form as good, if not a better,
protection of iron than zinc, but in practice it is found to be deficient
as a protective coating against corrosion. A piece of lead-coated iron
placed in water will show decided evidences of corrosion in twenty-four
hours. This is to be attributed to the porous nature of the coating,
whether it is applied by the hot or wet (acid) process.

The lead does not bond to the plate as well as either of the other
metals--zinc, tin, copper, or any alloys of them. The following table
gives the increase in weight of different articles due to hot
galvanizing:--
+--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
| Description of | Weight of Zinc | Percentage |
| Article | per Square foot | of Increase |
| | | of Weight |
+--------------------------+--------------------------+-------------+
| Thin sheet-iron | 1.196 oz. | 18.2 |
| 5/16-in. plates | 1.76 " | 2.0 |
| 4-in. cut nails | 2.19 " | 6.72 |
| 7/8-in. die bolt and nut | approximately 1.206 oz

.
She had luncheon with Monte
Irvin, and had listened almost dazedly to his plans for the future.
His wealth was even greater than her mother had estimated it to be, and
Rita's most cherished dreams were dwarfed by the prospects which Monte
Irvin opened up before her. It almost seemed as though he knew and
shared her dearest ambitions. She was to winter beneath real Southern
palms and to possess a cruising yacht, not one of boards and canvas like
that which figured in The Maid of the Masque.

Real Southern palms, she mused guiltily, not those conjured up by
opium. That he was solicitous for her health the nature of his schemes
revealed. They were to visit Switzerland, and proceed thence to a villa
which he owned in Italy. Christmas they would spend in Cairo, explore
the Nile to Assouan in a private dahabiyeh, and return home via the
Riviera in time to greet the English spring. Rita's delicate, swiftly
changing color, her almost ethereal figure, her intense nervous energy
he ascribed to a delicate constitution.

She wondered if she would ever dare to tell him the truth; if she ought
to tell him.

Pyne came to her dressing-room just before the performance began. He
had telephoned at an early hour in the morning, and had learned from her
maid that Rita had come home safely and was asleep. Rita had expected
him; but the influence of Monte Irvin, from whom she had parted at the
stage-door, had prevailed until she actually heard Sir Lucien's voice
in the corridor. She had resolutely refrained from looking at the little
jewelled casket, engraved "From Lucy to Rita," which lay in her make-up
box upon the table. But the imminence of an ordeal which she dreaded
intensely weakened her resolution. She swiftly dipped a little nail-file
into the white powder which the box contained, and when Pyne came in she
turned to him composedly.

"I am so sorry if I gave you a scare last night, Lucy," she said. "But I
woke up feeling sick, and I had to go out into the fresh air."

"I was certainly alarmed," drawled Pyne, whose swarthy face looked more
than usually worn in the hard light created by the competition between
the dressing-room lamps and the grey wintry daylight which crept through
the windows. "Do you feel quite fit again?"

"Quite, thanks." Rita glanced at a ring which she had not possessed
three hours before. "Oh, Lucy--I don't know how to tell you--"

She turned in her chair, looking up wistfully at Pyne, who was standing
behind her. His jaw hardened, and his glance sought the white hand upon
which the costly gems glittered. He coughed nervously.

"Perhaps"--his drawling manner of speech temporarily deserted him; he
spoke jerkily--"perhaps--I can guess."

She watched him in a pathetic way, and there was a threat of tears in
her beautiful eyes; for whatever his earlier intentions may have
been, Sir Lucien had proved a staunch friend and, according to his own
peculiar code, an honorable lover.

"Is it--Irvin?" he asked jerkily.

Rita nodded, and a tear glistened upon her darkened lashes.

Sir Lucien cleared his throat again, then coolly extended his hand, once
more master of his emotions.

"Congratulations, Rita," he said. "The better man wins. I hope you will
be very happy."

He turned and walked quietly out of the dressing-room.


CHAPTER XVI. LIMEHOUSE

It was on the following Tuesday evening that Mrs. Sin came to the
theatre, accompanied by Mollie Gretna. Rita instructed that she should
be shown up to the dressing-room. The personality of this singular
woman interested her keenly. Mrs. Sin was well known in certain Bohemian
quarters, but was always spoken of as one speaks of a pet vice. Not
to know Mrs. Sin was to be outside the magic circle which embraced the
exclusively smart people who practiced the latest absurdities.

The so-called artistic temperament is compounded of great strength and
great weakness; its virtues are whiter than those of ordinary people and
its vices blacker. For such a personality Mrs. Sin embodied the idea of
secret pleasure. Her bold good looks repelled Rita, but the knowledge in
her dark eyes was alluring.

"I arrange for you for Saturday night," she said. "Cy Kilfane is coming
with Mollie, and you bring--"

"Oh," replied Rita hesitatingly, "I am sorry you have gone to so much
trouble."

"No trouble, my dear," Mrs. Sin assured her. "Just a little matter of
business, and you can pay the bill when it suits you."

"I am frightfully excited!" cried Mollie Gretna. "It is so nice of you
to have asked me to join your party. Of course Cy goes practically every
week, but I have always wanted another girl to go with. Oh, I shall
be in a perfectly delicious panic when I find myself all among funny
Chinamen and things! I think there is something so magnificently
wicked-looking about a pigtail--and the very name of Limehouse thrills
me to the soul!"

That fixity of purpose which had enabled Rita to avoid the cunning
snares set for her feet and to snatch triumph from the very cauldron of
shame without burning her fingers availed her not at all in dealing with
Mrs. Sin. The image of Monte receded before this appeal to the secret
pleasure-loving woman, of insatiable curiosity, primitive and unmoral,
who dwells, according to a modern cynic philosopher, within every
daughter of Eve touched by the fire of genius.

She accepted the arrangement for Saturday, and before her visitors had
left the dressing-room her mind was busy with plausible deceits to
cover the sojourn in Chinatown. Something of Mollie Gretna's foolish
enthusiasm had communicated itself to Rita.

Later in the evening Sir Lucien called, and on hearing of the scheme
grew silent. Rita glancing at his reflection in the mirror, detected a
black and angry look upon his face. She turned to him.

"Why, Lucy," she said, "don't you want me to go?"

He smiled in his sardonic fashion.

"Your wishes are mine, Rita," he replied.

She was watching him closely.

"But you don't seem keen," she persisted. "Are you angry with me?"

"Angry?"

"We are still friends, aren't we?"

"Of course. Do you doubt my friendship?"

Rita's maid came in to assist her in changing for the third act, and
Pyne went out of the room. But, in spite of his assurances, Rita could
not forget that fierce, almost savage expression which had appeared upon
his face when she had told him of Mrs. Sin's visit.

Later she taxed him on the point, but he suffered her inquiry with
imperturbable sangfroid, and she found herself no wiser respecting the
cause of his annoyance. Painful twinges of conscience came during the
ensuing days, when she found herself in her fiance's company, but she
never once seriously contemplated dropping the acquaintance of Mrs. Sin.

She thought, vaguely, as she had many times thought before, of cutting
adrift from the entire clique, but there was no return of that sincere
emotional desire to reform which she had experienced on the day that
Monte Irvin had taken her hand, in blind trust, and had asked her to be
his wife. Had she analyzed, or been capable of analyzing, her intentions
with regard to the future, she would have learned that daily they
inclined more and more towards compromise. The drug habit was sapping
will and weakening morale, insidiously, imperceptibly. She was caught in
a current of that "sacred river" seen in an opium-trance by Coleridge,
and which ran--

    "Through caverns measureless to man Down to a sunless sea."

Pyne's big car was at the stage-door on the fateful Saturday night, for
Rita had brought her dressing-case to the theatre, and having called for
Kilfane and Mollie Gretna they were to proceed direct to Limehouse.

Rita, as she entered the car, noticed that Juan Mareno, Sir Lucien's
man, and not the chauffeur with whom she was acquainted, sat at the
wheel. As they drove off:

"Why is Mareno driving tonight, Lucy?" she asked.

Sir Lucien glanced aside at her.

"He is in my confidence," he replied. "Fraser is not."

"Oh, I see. You don't want Fraser to know about the Limehouse journey?"

"Naturally I don't. He would talk to all the men at the garage, and from
South Audley Street the tit-bit of scandal would percolate through every
stratum of society."

Rita was silent for a few moments, then:

"Were you thinking about Monte?" she asked diffidently.

Pyne laughed.

"He would scarcely approve, would he?"

"No," replied Rita. "Was that why you were angry when I told you I was
going?"

"This 'anger,' to which you constantly revert, had no existence outside
your own imagination, Rita. But" he hesitated--"you will have to
consider your position, dear, now that you are the future Mrs. Monte."
Rita felt her cheeks flush, and she did not reply immediately.

"I don't understand you, Lucy," she declared at last. "How odd you are."

"Am I? Well, never mind. We will talk about my eccentricity later. Here
is Cyrus."

Kilfane was standing in the entrance to the stage door of the theatre at
which he was playing. As the car drew up he lifted two leather grips on
to the step, and Mareno, descending, took charge of them.

"Come along, Mollie," said Kilfane, looking back.

Miss Gretna, very excited, ran out and got into the car beside Rita.
Pyne lowered two of the collapsible seats for Kilfane and himself, and
the party set out for Limehouse.

"Oh!" cried the fair-haired Mollie, grasping Rita's hand, "my heart
began palpitating with excitement the moment I woke up this morning! How
calm you are, dear."

"I am only calm outside," laughed Rita.

The joie de vivre and apparently unimpaired vitality, of this woman, for
whom (if half that which rumor whispered were true) vice had no secrets,
astonished Rita. Her physical resources were unusual, no doubt, because
the demand made upon them by her mental activities was slight.

As the car sped along the Strand, where theatre-goers might still be
seen making for tube, omnibus, and tramcar, and entered Fleet Street,
where the car and taxicab traffic was less, a mutual silence fell upon
the party. Two at least of the travellers were watching the lighted
windows of the great newspaper offices with a vague sense of foreboding,
and thinking how, bound upon a secret purpose, they were passing along
the avenue of publicity. It is well that man lacks prescience. Neither
Rita nor Sir Lucien could divine that a day was shortly to come when the
hidden presses which throbbed about them that night should be busy with
the story of the murder of one and disappearance of the other.

Around St. Paul's Churchyard whirled the car, its engine running
strongly and almost noiselessly. The great bell of St. Paul's boomed out
the half-hour.

"Oh!" cried Mollie Gretna, "how that made me jump! What a beautifully
gloomy sound!"

Kilfane murmured some inaudible reply, but neither Pyne nor Rita spoke.

Cornhill and Leadenhall Street, along which presently their route lay,
offered a prospect of lamp-lighted emptiness, but at Aldgate they found
themselves amid East End throngs which afforded a marked contrast to
those crowding theatreland; and from thence through Whitechapel and the
seemingly endless Commercial Road it was a different world into which
they had penetrated.

Rita hitherto had never seen the East End on a Saturday night, and the
spectacle afforded by these busy marts, lighted by naphtha flames, in
whose smoky glare Jews and Jewesses, Poles, Swedes, Easterns, dagoes,
and halfcastes moved feverishly, was a fascinating one. She thought how
utterly alien they were, the men and women of a world unknown to that
society upon whose borders she dwelled; she wondered how they lived,
where they lived, why they lived. The wet pavements were crowded with
nondescript humanity, the night was filled with the unmusical voices of
Hebrew hucksters, and the air laden with the smoky odor of their lamps.
Tramcars and motorbuses were packed unwholesomely with these children of
shadowland drawn together from the seven seas by the magnet of London.

She glanced at Pyne, but he was seemingly lost in abstraction, and
Kilfane appeared to be asleep. Mollie Gretna was staring eagerly out
on the opposite side of the car at a group of three dago sailors, whom
Mareno had nearly run down, but she turned at that moment and caught
Rita's glance.

"Don't you simply love it!" she cried. "Some of those men were really
handsome, dear. If they would only wash I am sure I could adore them!"

"Even such charms as yours can be bought at too high a price," drawled
Sir Lucien. "They would gladly do murder for you, but never wash."

Crossing Limehouse Canal, the car swung to the right into West India
Dock Road. The uproar of the commercial thoroughfare was left far
behind. Dark, narrow streets and sinister-looking alleys lay right and
left of them, and into one of the narrowest and least inviting of all
Mareno turned the car.

In the dimly-lighted doorway of a corner house the figure of a Chinaman
showed as a motionless silhouette.

"Oh!" sighed Mollie Gretna rapturously, "a Chinaman! I begin to feel
deliciously sinful!"

The car came to a standstill.

"We get out here and walk," said Sir Lucien. "It would not be wise to
drive further. Mareno will deliver our baggage by hand presently."

"But we shall all be murdered," cried Mollie, "murdered in cold blood! I
am dreadfully frightened!"

"Something of the kind is quite likely," drawled Sir Lucien, "if you
draw attention to our presence in the neighborhood so deliberately.
Walk ahead, Kilfane, with Mollie. Rita and I will follow at a discreet
distance. Leave the door ajar."

Temporarily subdued by Pyne's icy manner, Miss Gretna became silent, and
went on ahead with Cyrus Kilfane, who had preserved an almost unbroken
silence throughout the journey. Rita and Sir Lucien followed slowly.

"What a creepy neighborhood," whispered Rita. "Look! Someone is standing
in that doorway over there, watching us."

"Take no notice," he replied. "A cat could not pass along this street
unobserved by the Chinese, but they will not interfere with us provided
we do not interfere with them."

Kilfane had turned to the right into a narrow court, at the entrance
to which stood an iron pillar. As he and his companion passed under the
lamp in a rusty bracket which projected from the wall, they vanished
into a place of shadows. There was a ceaseless chorus of distant
machinery, and above it rose the grinding and rattling solo of a steam
winch. Once a siren hooted apparently quite near them, and looking
upward at a tangled, indeterminable mass which overhung the street at
this point, Rita suddenly recognized it for a ship's bow-sprit.

"Why," she said, "we are right on the bank of the river!"

"Not quite," answered Pyne. "We are skirting a dock basin. We are nearly
at our destination."

Passing in turn under the lamp, they entered the narrow court, and from
a doorway immediately on the left a faint light shone out upon the wet
pavement. Pyne pushed the door fully open and held it for Rita to enter.
As she did so:

"Hello! hello!" croaked a harsh voice. "Number one p'lice chop, lo! Sin
Sin Wa!"

The uncanny cracked voice proceeded to give an excellent imitation of a
police whistle, and concluded with that of the clicking of castanets.

"Shut the door, Lucy," came the murmurous tones of Kilfane from the
gloom of the stuffy little room, in the centre of which stood a stove
wherefrom had proceeded the dim light shining out upon the pavement.
"Light up, Sin Sin."

"Sin Sin Wa! Sin Sin Wa!" shrieked the voice, and again came the
rattling of imaginary castanets. "Smartest leg in Buenos Ayres--Buenos
Ayres--p'lice chop--p'lice chop, lo!"

"Oh," whispered Mollie Gretna, in the darkness, "I believe I am going to
scream!"

Pyne closed the door, and a dimly discernible figure on the opposite
side of the room stooped and opened a little cupboard in which was a
lighted ship's lantern. The lantern being lifted out and set upon a
rough table near the stove, it became possible to view the apartment and
its occupants.

It was a small, low-ceiled place, having two doors, one opening upon the
street and the other upon a narrow, uncarpeted passage. The window was
boarded up. The ceiling had once been whitewashed and a few limp,
dark fragments of paper still adhering to the walls proved that some
forgotten decorator had exercised his art upon them in the past. A piece
of well-worn matting lay upon the floor, and there were two chairs, a
table, and a number of empty tea-chests in the room.

Upon one of the tea-chests placed beside the cupboard which had
contained the lantern a Chinaman was seated. His skin was of so light
a yellow color as to approximate to dirty white, and his face was
pock-marked from neck to crown. He wore long, snake-like moustaches,
which hung down below his chin. They grew from the extreme outer edges
of his upper lip, the centre of which, usually the most hirsute, was
hairless as the lip of an infant. He possessed the longest and thickest
pigtail which could possibly grow upon a human scalp, and his left eye
was permanently closed, so that a smile which adorned his extraordinary
countenance seemed to lack the sympathy of his surviving eye, which,
oblique, beady, held no mirth in its glittering depths.

The garments of the one-eyed Chinaman, who sat complacently smiling at
the visitors, consisted of a loose blouse, blue trousers tucked into
grey socks, and a pair of those native, thick-soled slippers which
suggest to a Western critic the acme of discomfort. A raven, black as
a bird of ebony, perched upon the Chinaman's shoulder, head a-tilt,
surveying the newcomers with a beady, glittering left eye which
strangely resembled the beady, glittering right eye of the Chinaman.
For, singular, uncanny circumstance, this was a one-eyed raven which sat
upon the shoulder of his one-eyed master!

Mollie Gretna uttered a stifled cry. "Oh!" she whispered. "I knew I was
going to scream!"

The eye of Sin Sin Wa turned momentarily in her direction, but otherwise
he did not stir a muscle.

"Are you ready for us, Sin?" asked Sir Lucien.

"All ready. Lola hate gotchee topside loom ready," replied the Chinaman
in a soft, crooning voice.

"Go ahead, Kilfane," directed Sir Lucien.

He glanced at Rita, who was standing very near him, surveying the evil
little room and its owner with ill-concealed disgust.

"This is merely the foyer, Rita," he said, smiling slightly. "The state
apartments are upstairs and in the adjoining house."

"Oh," she murmured--and no more.

Kilfane and Mollie Gretna were passing through the inner doorway, and
Mollie turned.

"Isn't it loathsomely delightful?" she cried.

"Smartest leg in Buenos Ayres!" shrieked the raven. "Sin Sin, Sin Sin!"

Uttering a frightened exclamation, Mollie disappeared along the passage.
Sir Lucien indicated to Rita that she was to follow; and he, passing
through last of the party, closed the door behind him.

Sin Sin Wa never moved, and the raven, settling down upon the Chinaman's
shoulder, closed his serviceable eye.


CHAPTER XVII. THE BLACK SMOKE

Up an uncarpeted stair Cyrus Kilfane led the party, and into a kind of
lumber-room lighted by a tin oil lamp and filled to overflowing with
heterogeneous and unsavory rubbish. Here were garments, male and female,
no less than five dilapidated bowler hats, more tea-chests, broken
lamps, tattered fragments of cocoanut-matting, steel bed-laths and
straw mattresses, ruins of chairs--the whole diffusing an indescribably
unpleasant odor.

Opening a cupboard door, Kilfane revealed a number of pendent, ragged
garments, and two more bowler hats. Holding the garments aside, he
banged upon the back of the cupboard--three blows, a pause, and then two
blows.

Following a brief interval, during which even Mollie Gretna was held
silent by the strangeness of the proceedings.

"Who is it?" inquired a muffled voice.

"Cy and the crowd," answered Kilfane.

Thereupon ensued a grating noise, and hats and garments swung suddenly
backward, revealing a doorway in which Mrs. Sin stood framed. She wore
a Japanese kimona of embroidered green silk and a pair of green and gold
brocaded slippers which possessed higher heels than Rita remembered to
have seen even Mrs. Sin mounted upon before. Her ankles were bare, and
it was impossible to determine in what manner she was clad beneath the
kimona. Undoubtedly she had a certain dark beauty, of a bold, abandoned
type.

"Come right in," she directed. "Mind your head, Lucy."

The quartette filed through into a carpeted corridor, and Mrs. Sin
reclosed the false back of the cupboard, which, viewed from the other
side, proved to be a door fitted into a recess in the corridor of the
adjoining house. This recess ceased to exist when a second and heavier
door was closed upon the first.

"You know," murmured Kilfane, "old Sin Sin has his uses, Lola. Those
doors are perfectly made."

"Pooh!" scoffed the woman, with a flash of her dark eyes; "he is half a
ship's carpenter and half an ape!"

She moved along the passage, her arm linked in that of Sir Lucien. The
others followed, and:

"Is she truly married to that dreadful Chinaman?" whispered Mollie
Gretna.

"Yes, I believe so," murmured Kilfane. "She is known as Mrs. Sin Sin
Wa."

"Oh!" Mollie's eyes opened widely. "I almost envy her! I have read that
Chinamen tie their wives to beams in the roof and lash them with leather
thongs until they swoon. I could die for a man who lashed me with
leather thongs. Englishmen are so ridiculously gentle to women."

Opening a door on the left of the corridor, Mrs. Sin displayed a room
screened off into three sections. One shaded lamp high up near the
ceiling served to light all the cubicles, which were heated by small
charcoal stoves. These cubicles were identical in shape and appointment,
each being draped with quaint Chinese tapestry and containing rugs, a
silken divan, an armchair, and a low, Eastern table.

"Choose for yourself," said Mrs. Sin, turning to Rita and Mollie Gretna.
"Nobody else come tonight. You two in this room, eh? Next door each
other for company."

She withdrew, leaving the two girls together. Mollie clasped her hands
ecstatically.

"Oh, my dear!" she said. "What do you think of it all?"

"Well," confessed Rita, looking about her, "personally I feel rather
nervous."

"My dear!" cried Mollie. "I am simply quivering with delicious terror!"

Rita became silent again, looking about her, and listening. The harsh
voice of the Cuban-Jewess could be heard from a neighboring room, but
otherwise a perfect stillness reigned in the house of Sin Sin Wa. She
remembered that Mrs. Sin had said, "It is quiet--so quiet."

"The idea of undressing and reclining on these divans in real oriental
fashion," declared Mollie, giggling, "makes me feel that I am an
odalisque already. I have dreamed that I was an odalisque, dear--after
smoking, you know. It was heavenly. At least, I don't know that
'heavenly' is quite the right word."

And now that evil spirit of abandonment came to Rita--communicated to
her, possibly, by her companion. Dread, together with a certain sense
of moral reluctance, departed, and she began to enjoy the adventure at
last. It was as though something in the faintly perfumed atmosphere of
the place had entered into her blood, driving out reserve and stifling
conscience.

When Sir Lucien reappeared she ran to him excitedly, her charming face
flushed and her eyes sparkling.

"Oh, Lucy," she cried, "how long will our things be? I'm keen to smoke!"

His jaw hardened, and when he spoke it was with a drawl more marked than
usual.

"Mareno will be here almost immediately," he answered.

The tone constituted a rebuff, and Rita's coquetry deserted her, leaving
her mortified and piqued. She stared at Pyne, biting her lip.

"You don't like me tonight," she declared. "If I look ugly, it's your
fault; you told me to wear this horrid old costume!"

He laughed in a forced, unnatural way.

"You are quite well aware that you could never look otherwise than
maddeningly beautiful," he said harshly. "Do you want me to recall the
fact to you again that you are shortly to be Monte Irvin's wife--or
should you prefer me to remind you that you have declined to be mine?"

Turning slowly, he walked away, but:

"Oh, Lucy!" whispered Rita.

He paused, looking back.

"I know now why you didn't want me to come," she said. "I--I'm sorry."

The hard look left Sir Lucien's face immediately and was replaced by
a curious, indefinable expression, an expression which rarely appeared
there.

"You only know half the reason," he replied softly.

At that moment Mrs. Sin came in, followed by Mareno carrying two
dressing-cases. Mollie Gretna had run off to Kilfane, and could be
heard talking loudly in another room; but, called by Mrs. Sin, she now
returned, wide-eyed with excitement.

Mrs. Sin cast a lightning glance at Sir Lucien, and then addressed Rita.

"Which of these three rooms you choose?" she asked, revealing her teeth
in one of those rapid smiles which were mirthless as the eternal smile
of Sin Sin Wa.

"Oh," said Rita hurriedly, "I don't know. Which do you want, Mollie?"

"I love this end one!" cried Mollie. "It has cushions which simply reek
of oriental voluptuousness and cruelty. It reminds me of a delicious
book I have been reading called Musk, Hashish, and Blood."

"Hashish!" said Mrs. Sin, and laughed harshly. "One night you shall eat
the hashish, and then--"

She snapped her fingers, glancing from Rita to Pyne.

"Oh, really? Is that a promise?" asked Mollie eagerly.

"No, no!" answered Mrs. Sin. "It is a threat!"

Something in the tone of her voice as she uttered the last four words
in mock dramatic fashion caused Mollie and Rita to stare at one another
questioningly. That suddenly altered tone had awakened an elusive
memory, but neither of them could succeed in identifying it.

Mareno, a lean, swarthy fellow, his foreign cast of countenance
accentuated by close-cut side-whiskers, deposited Miss Gretna's case in
the cubicle which she had selected and, Rita pointing to that adjoining
it, he disposed the second case beside the divan and departed silently.
As the sound of a closing door reached them:

"You notice how quiet it is?" asked Mrs. Sin.

"Yes," replied Rita. "It is extraordinarily quiet."

"This an empty house--'To let,'" explained Mrs. Sin. "We watch it stay
so. Sin the landlord, see? Windows all boarded up and everything padded.
No sound outside, no sound inside. Sin call it the 'House of a Hundred
Raptures,' after the one he have in Buenos Ayres."

The voice of Cyrus Kilfane came, querulous, from a neighboring room.

"Lola, my dear, I am almost ready."

"Ho!" Mrs. Sin uttered a deep-toned laugh. "He is a glutton for chandu!
I am coming, Cy."

She turned and went out. Sir Lucien paused for a moment, permitting her
to pass, and:

"Good night, Rita," he said in a low voice. "Happy dreams!"

He moved away.

"Lucy!" called Rita softly.

"Yes?"

"Is it--is it really safe here?"

Pyne glanced over his shoulder towards the retreating figure of Mrs.
Sin, then:

"I shall be awake," he replied. "I would rather you had not come, but
since you are here you must go through with it." He glanced again along
the narrow passage created by the presence of the partitions, and spoke
in a voice lower yet. "You have never really trusted me, Rita. You were
wise. But you can trust me now. Good night, dear."

He walked out of the room and along the carpeted corridor to a little
apartment at the back of the house, furnished comfortably but in
execrably bad taste. A cheerful fire was burning in the grate, the flue
of which had been ingeniously diverted by Sin Sin Wa so that the smoke
issued from a chimney of the adjoining premises. On the mantelshelf,
which was garishly draped, were a number of photographs of Mrs. Sin in
Spanish dancing costume.

Pyne seated himself in an armchair and lighted a cigarette. Except for
the ticking of a clock the room was silent as a padded cell. Upon
a little Moorish table beside a deep, low settee lay a complete
opium-smoking outfit.

Lolling back in the chair and crossing his legs, Sir Lucien became lost
in abstraction, and he was thus seated when, some ten minutes later,
Mrs. Sin came in.

"Ah!" she said, her harsh voice softened to a whisper. "I wondered. So
you wait to smoke with me?" Pyne slowly turned his head, staring at her
as she stood in the doorway, one hand resting on her hip and her shapely
figure boldly outlined by the kimono.

"No," he replied. "I don't want to smoke. Are they all provided for?"

Mrs. Sin shook her head.

"Not Cy," she said. "Two pipes are nothing to him. He will need two
more--perhaps three. But you are not going to smoke?"

"Not tonight, Lola."

She frowned, and was about to speak, when:

"Lola, my dear," came a distant, querulous murmur. "Give me another
pipe."

Sin tossed her head, turned, and went out again. Sir Lucien lighted
another cigarette. When finally the woman came back, Cyrus Kilfane had
presumably attained the opium-smoker's paradise, for Lola closed the
door and seated herself upon the arm of Sir Lucien's chair. She bent
down, resting her dusky cheek against his.

"You smoke with me?" she whispered coaxingly.

"No, Lola, not tonight," he said, patting her jewel-laden hand and
looking aside into the dark eyes which were watching him intently.

Mrs. Sin became silent for a few moments.

"Something has changed in you," she said at last. "You are
different--lately."

"Indeed!" drawled Sir Lucien. "Possibly you are right. Others have said
the same thing."

"You have lots of money now. Your investments have been good. You want
to become respectable, eh?"

Pyne smiled sardonically.

"Respectability is a question of appearance," he replied. "The change to
which you refer would seem to go deeper."

"Very likely," murmured Mrs. Sin. "I know why you don't smoke. You have
promised your pretty little friend that you will stay awake and see that
nobody tries to cut her sweet white throat."

Sir Lucien listened imperturbably.

"She is certainly nervous," he admitted coolly. "I may add that I am
sorry I brought her here."

"Oh," said Mrs. Sin, her voice rising half a note. "Then why do you
bring her to the House?"

"She made the arrangement herself, and I took the easier path. I am
considering your interests as much as my own, Lola. She is about to
marry Monte Irvin, and if his suspicions were aroused he is quite
capable of digging down to the 'Hundred Raptures.'"

"You brought her to Kazmah's."

"She was not at that time engaged to Irvin."

"Ah, I see. And now everybody says you are changed. Yes, she is a
charming friend."

Pyne looked up into the half-veiled dark eyes.

"She never has been and never can be any more to me, Lola," he said.

At those words, designed to placate, the fire which smouldered in Lola's
breast burst into sudden flame. She leapt to her feet, confronting Sir
Lucien.

"I know! I know!" she cried harshly. "Do you think I am blind? If she
had been like any of the others, do you suppose it would have mattered
to me? But you respect her--you respect her!"

Eyes blazing and hands clenched, she stood before him, a woman mad with
jealousy, not of a successful rival but of a respected one. She quivered
with passion, and Pyne, perceiving his mistake too late, only preserved
his wonted composure by dint of a great effort. He grasped Lola and drew
her down on to the arm of the chair by sheer force, for she resisted
savagely. His ready wit had been at work, and:

"What a little spitfire you are," he said, firmly grasping her arms,
which felt rigid to the touch. "Surely you can understand? Rita amused
me, at first. Then, when I found she was going to marry Monte Irvin I
didn't bother about her any more. In fact, because I like and admire
Irvin, I tried to keep her away from the dope. We don't want trouble
with a man of that type, who has all sorts of influence. Besides, Monte
Irvin is a good fellow."

Gradually, as he spoke, the rigid arms relaxed and the lithe body ceased
to quiver. Finally, Lola sank back against his shoulder, sighing.

"I don't believe you," she whispered. "You are telling me lies. But
you have always told me lies; one more does not matter, I suppose. How
strong you are. You have hurt my wrists. You will smoke with me now?"

For a moment Pyne hesitated, then:

"Very well," he said. "Go and lie down. I will roast the chandu."


CHAPTER XVIII. THE DREAM OF SIN SIN WA

For a habitual opium-smoker to abstain when the fumes of chandu actually
reach his nostrils is a feat of will-power difficult adequately to
appraise. An ordinary tobacco smoker cannot remain for long among those
who are enjoying the fragrant weed without catching the infection and
beginning to smoke also. Twice to redouble the lure of my lady Nicotine
would be but loosely to estimate the seductiveness of the Spirit of the
Poppy; yet Sir Lucien Pyne smoked one pipe with Mrs. Sin, and perceiving
her to be already in a state of dreamy abstraction, loaded a second, but
in his own case with a fragment of cigarette stump which smouldered in a
tray upon the table. His was that rare type of character whose possessor
remains master of his vices.

Following the fourth pipe--Pyne, after the second, had ceased to trouble
to repeat his feat of legerdemain, "The sleep" claimed Mrs. Sin. Her
languorous eyes closed, and her face assumed that rapt expression
of Buddha-like beatitude which Rita had observed at Kilfane's flat.
According to some scientific works on the subject, sleep is not
invariably induced in the case of Europeans by the use of chandu.
Loosely, this is true. But this type of European never becomes an
habitue; the habitue always sleeps. That dream-world to which opium
alone holds the key becomes the real world "for the delights of which
the smoker gladly resigns all mundane interests." The exiled Chinaman
returns again to the sampan of his boyhood, floating joyously on the
waters of some willow-lined canal; the Malay hears once more the mystic
whispering in the mangrove swamps, or scents the fragrance of nutmeg and
cinnamon in the far-off golden Chersonese. Mrs. Sin doubtless lived anew
the triumphs of earlier days in Buenos Ayres, when she had been La Belle
Lola, the greatly beloved, and before she had met and married Sin Sin
Wa. Gives much, but claims all, and he who would open the poppy-gates
must close the door of ambition and bid farewell to manhood.

Sir Lucien stood looking at the woman, and although one pipe had
affected him but slightly, his imagination momentarily ran riot and a
pageant of his life swept before him, so that his jaw grew hard and grim
and he clenched his hands convulsively. An unbroken stillness prevailed
in the opium-house of Sin Sin Wa.

Recovering from his fit of abstraction, Pyne, casting a final keen
glance at the sleeper, walked out of the room. He looked along the
carpeted corridor in the direction of the cubicles, paused, and then
opened the heavy door masking the recess behind the cupboard. Next
opening the false back of the cupboard, he passed through to the
lumber-room beyond, and partly closed the second door.

He descended the stair and went along the passage; but ere he reached
the door of the room on the ground floor:

"Hello! hello! Sin Sin! Sin Sin Wa!" croaked the raven. "Number one
p'lice chop, lo!" The note of a police whistle followed, rendered with
uncanny fidelity.

Pyne entered the room. It presented the same aspect as when he had left
it. The ship's lantern stood upon the table, and Sin Sin Wa sat upon the
tea-chest, the great black bird perched on his shoulder. The fire in the
stove had burned lower, and its downcast glow revealed less mercilessly
the dirty condition of the floor. Otherwise no one, nothing, seemed to
have been disturbed. Pyne leaned against the doorpost, taking out and
lighting a cigarette. The eye of Sin Sin Wa glanced sideways at him.

"Well, Sin Sin," said Sir Lucien, dropping a match and extinguishing it
under his foot, "you see I am not smoking tonight."

"No smokee," murmured the Chinaman. "Velly good stuff."

"Yes, the stuff is all right, Sin."

"Number one proper," crooned Sin Sin Wa, and relapsed into smiling
silence.

"Number one p'lice," croaked the raven sleepily. "Smartest--" He even
attempted the castanets imitation, but was overcome by drowsiness.

For a while Sir Lucien stood watching the singular pair and smiling in
his ironical fashion. The motive which had prompted him to leave the
neighboring house and to seek the companionship of Sin Sin Wa was so
obscure and belonged so peculiarly to the superdelicacies of chivalry,
that already he was laughing at himself. But, nevertheless, in this
house and not in its secret annex of a Hundred Raptures he designed to
spend the night. Presently:

"Hon'lable p'lice patrol come 'long plenty soon," murmured Sin Sin Wa.

"Indeed?" said Sir Lucien, glancing at his wristwatch. "The door is open
above."

Sin Sin Wa raised one yellow forefinger, without moving either hand from
the knee upon which it rested, and shook it slightly to and fro.

"Allee lightee," he murmured. "No bhobbery. Allee peaceful fellers."

"Will they want to come in?"

"Wantchee dlink," replied Sin Sin Wa.

"Oh, I see. If I go out into the passage it will be all right?"

"Allee lightee."

Even as he softly crooned the words came a heavy squelch of rubbers upon
the wet pavement outside, followed by a rapping on the door. Sin Sin Wa
glanced aside at Sir Lucien, and the latter immediately withdrew,
partly closing the door. The Chinaman shuffled across and admitted two
constables. The raven, remaining perched upon his shoulder, shrieked,
"Smartest leg in Buenos Ayres," and, fully awakened, rattled invisible
castanets.

The police strode into the stuffy little room without ceremony, a pair
of burly fellows, fresh-complexioned, and genial as men are wont to be
who have reached a welcome resting-place on a damp and cheerless night.
They stood by the stove, warming their hands; and one of them stooped,
took up the little poker, and stirred the embers to a brighter glow.

"Been havin' a pipe, Sin?" he asked, winking at his companion. "I can
smell something like opium!"

"No smokee opium," murmured Sin Sin Wa complacently. "Smokee Woodbine."

"Ho, ho!" laughed the other constable. "I don't think."

"You likee tly one piecee pipee one time?" inquired the Chinaman.
"Gotchee fliend makee smokee."

The man who had poked the fire slapped his companion on the back.

"Now's your chance, Jim!" he cried. "You always said you'd like to have
a cut at it."

"H'm!" muttered the other. "A 'double' o' that fifteen over-proof
Jamaica of yours, Sin, would hit me in a tender spot tonight."

"Lum?" murmured Sin Sin blandly. "No hate got."

He resumed his seat on the tea-chest, and the raven muttered sleepily,
"Sin Sin--Sin."

"H'm!" repeated the constable.

He raised the skirt of his heavy top-coat, and from his trouser-pocket
drew out a leather purse. The eye of Sin Sin Wa remained fixed upon
a distant corner of the room. From the purse the constable took a
shilling, ringing it loudly upon the table.

"Double rum, miss, please!" he said, facetiously. "There's no treason
allowed nowadays, so my pal's--"

"I stood yours last night Jim, anyway!" cried the other, grinning. "Go
on, stump up!"

Jim rang a second shilling on the table.

"Two double rums!" he called.

Sin Sin Wa reached a long arm into the little cupboard beside him and
withdrew a bottle and a glass. Leaning forward he placed bottle and
glass on the table, and adroitly swept the coins into his yellow palm.

"Number one p'lice chop," croaked the raven.

"You're right, old bird!" said Jim, pouring out a stiff peg of the
spirit and disposing of it at a draught. "We should freeze to death on
this blasted riverside beat if it wasn't for Sin Sin."

He measured out a second portion for his companion, and the latter drank
the raw spirit off as though it had been ale, replaced the glass on the
table, and having adjusted his belt and lantern in that characteristic
way which belongs exclusively to members of the Metropolitan Police
Force, turned and departed.

"Good night, Sin," he said, opening the door.

"So-long," murmured the Chinaman.

"Good night, old bird," cried Jim, following his colleague.

"So-long."

The door closed, and Sin Sin Wa, shuffling across, rebolted it. As Sir
Lucien came out from his hiding-place Sin Sin Wa returned to his seat
on the tea-chest, first putting the glass, unwashed, and the rum bottle
back in the cupboard.

To the ordinary observer the Chinaman presents an inscrutable mystery.
His seemingly unemotional character and his racial inability to express
his thoughts intelligibly in any European tongue stamp him as a creature
apart, and one whom many are prone erroneously to classify very low in
the human scale and not far above the ape. Sir Lucien usually spoke to
Sin Sin Wa in English, and the other replied in that weird jargon known
as "pidgin." But the silly Sin Wa who murmured gibberish and the Sin Sin
Wa who could converse upon many and curious subjects in his own language
were two different beings--as Sir Lucien was aware. Now, as the one-eyed
Chinaman resumed his seat and the one-eyed raven sank into slumber,
Pyne suddenly spoke in Chinese, a tongue which he understood as it is
understood by few Englishmen; that strange, sibilant speech which is
alien from all Western conceptions of oral intercourse as the Chinese
institutions and ideals are alien from those of the rest of the
civilized world.

"So you make a profit on your rum, Sin Sin Wa," he said ironically, "at
the same time that you keep in the good graces of the police?"

Sin Sin Wa's expression underwent a subtle change at the sound of his
native language. He moved his hands and became slightly animated.

"A great people of the West, most honorable sir," he replied in the
pure mandarin dialect, "claim credit for having said that 'business is
business.' Yet he who thus expressed himself was a Chinaman."

"You surprise me."

"The wise man must often find occasion for surprise most honorable sir."

Sir Lucien lighted a cigarette.

"I sometimes wonder, Sin Sin Wa," he said slowly, "what your aim in life
can be. Your father was neither a ship's carpenter nor a shopkeeper.
This I know. Your age I do not know and cannot guess, but you are no
longer young. You covet wealth. For what purpose, Sin Sin Wa?"

Standing behind the Chinaman, Sir Lucien's dark face, since he made no
effort to hide his feelings, revealed the fact that he attached to this
seemingly abstract discussion a greater importance than his tone of
voice might have led one to suppose. Sin Sin Wa remained silent for some
time, then:

"Most honorable sir," he replied, "when I have smoked the opium, before
my eyes--for in dreams I have two--a certain picture arises. It is
that of a farm in the province of Ho-Nan. Beyond the farm stretch
paddy-fields as far as one can see. Men and women and boys and girls
move about the farm, happy in their labors, and far, far away dwell the
mountain gods, who send the great Yellow River sweeping down through the
valleys where the poppy is in bloom. It is to possess that farm, most
honorable sir, and those paddy-fields that I covet wealth."

"And in spite of the opium which you consume, you have never lost sight
of this ideal?"

"Never."

"But--your wife?"

Sin Sin Wa performed a curious shrugging movement, peculiarly racial.

"A man may not always have the same wife," he replied cryptically. "The
honorable wife who now attends to my requirements, laboring unselfishly
in my miserable house and scorning the love of other men as she has
always done--and as an honorable and upright woman is expected to
do--may one day be gathered to her ancestors. A man never knows. Or she
may leave me. I am not a good husband. It may be that some little maiden
of Ho-Nan, mild-eyed like the musk-deer and modest and tender, will
consent to minister to my old age. Who knows?"

Sir Lucien blew a thick cloud of tobacco smoke into the room, and:

"She will never love you, Sin Sin Wa," he said, almost sadly. "She will
come to your house only to cheat you."

Sin Sin Wa repeated the eloquent shrug.

"We have a saying in Ho-Nan, most honorable sir," he answered, "and it
is this: 'He who has tasted the poppy-cup has nothing to ask of love.'
She will cook for me, this little one, and stroke my brow when I am
weary, and light my pipe. My eye will rest upon her with pleasure. It is
all I ask."

There came a soft rapping on the outer door--three raps, a pause, and
then two raps. The raven opened his beady eye.

"Sin Sin Wa," he croaked, "number one p'lice chop, lo!"

Sin Sin Wa glanced aside at Sir Lucien.

"The traffic. A consignment of opium," he said. "Sam Tuk calls."

Sir Lucien consulted his watch, and:

"I should like to go with you, Sin Sin Wa," he said. "Would it be safe
to leave the house--with the upper door unlocked?"

Sin Sin Wa glanced at him again.

"All are sleeping, most honorable sir?"

"All."

"I will lock the room above and the outer door. It is safe."

He raised a yellow hand, and the raven stepped sedately from his
shoulder on to his wrist.

"Come, Tling-a-Ling," crooned Sin Sin Wa, "you go to bed, my little
black friend, and one day you, too, shall see the paddy-fields of
Ho-Nan."

Opening the useful cupboard, he stooped, and in hopped the raven. Sin
Sin Wa closed the cupboard, and stepped out into the passage.

"I will bring you a coat and a cap and scarf," he said. "Your
magnificent apparel would be out of place among the low pigs who wait
in my other disgusting cellar to rob me. Forgive my improper absence for
one moment, most honorable sir."


CHAPTER XIX. THE TRAFFIC

Sir Lucien came out into the alley wearing a greasy cloth cap pulled
down over his eyes and an old overall, the collar turned up about a red
woollen muffler which enveloped the lower part of his face. The odor of
the outfit was disgusting, but this man's double life had brought him so
frequently in contact with all forms of uncleanness, including that of
the Far East, compared with which the dirt of the West is hygienic, that
he suffered it without complaint.

A Chinese "boy" of indeterminable age, wearing a slop-shop suit and
a cap, was waiting outside the door, and when Sin Sin Wa appeared,
carefully locking up, he muttered something rapidly in his own sibilant
language.

Sin Sin Wa made no reply. To his indoor attire he had added a pea-jacket
and a bowler hat; and the oddly assorted trio set off westward,
following the bank of the Thames in the direction of Limehouse Basin.
The narrow, ill-lighted streets were quite deserted, but from the river
and the riverside arose that ceaseless jangle of industry which belongs
to the great port of London. On the Surrey shore whistles shrieked, and
endless moving chains sent up their monstrous clangor into the night.
Human voices sometimes rose above the din of machinery.

In silence the three pursued their way, crossing inlets and circling
around basins dimly divined, turning to the right into a lane flanked
by high, eyeless walls, and again to the left, finally to emerge nearly
opposite a dilapidated gateway giving access to a small wharf, on the
rickety gates bills were posted announcing, "This Wharf to Let." The
annexed building appeared to be a mere shell. To the right again they
turned, and once more to the left, halting before a two-story brick
house which had apparently been converted into a barber's shop. In
one of the grimy windows were some loose packets of cigarettes, a
soapmaker's advertisement, and a card:

    SAM TUK
    BARBER

Opening the door with a key which he carried, the boy admitted Sir
Lucien and Sin Sin Wa to the dimly-lighted interior of a room the
pretensions of which to be regarded as a shaving saloon were supported
by the presence of two chairs, a filthy towel, and a broken mug. Sin
Sin Wa shuffled across to another door, and, followed by Sir Lucien,
descended a stone stair to a little cellar apparently intended for
storing coal. A tin lamp stood upon the bottom step.

Removing the lamp from the step, Sin Sin Wa set it on the cellar floor,
which was black with coal dust, then closed and bolted the door. A heap
of nondescript litter lay piled in a corner of the cellar. This Sin Sin
Wa disturbed sufficiently to reveal a movable slab in the roughly paved
floor. It was so ingeniously concealed by coal dust that one who had
sought it unaided must have experienced great difficulty in detecting
it. Furthermore, it could only be raised in the following manner:

A piece of strong iron wire, which lay among the other litter, was
inserted in a narrow slot, apparently a crack in the stone. About an
inch of the end of the wire being bent outward to form a right angle,
when the seemingly useless piece of scrap-iron had been thrust through
the slab and turned, it formed a handle by means of which the trap could
be raised.

Again Sin Sin Wa took up the lamp, placing it at the brink of the
opening revealed. A pair of wooden steps rested below, and Sir Lucien,
who evidently was no stranger to the establishment, descended awkwardly,
since there was barely room for a big man to pass. He found himself in
the mouth of a low passage, unpaved and shored up with rough timbers in
the manner of a mine-working. Sin Sin Wa followed with the lamp, drawing
the slab down into its place behind him.

Stooping forward and bending his knees, Sir Lucien made his way along
the passage, the Chinaman following. It was of considerable length,
and terminated before a strong door bearing a massive lock. Sin Sin Wa
reached over the stooping figure of Sir Lucien and unfastened the lock.
The two emerged in a kind of dug-out. Part of it had evidently been in
existence before the ingenious Sin Sin Wa had exercised his skill upon
it, and was of solid brickwork and stone-paved; palpably a storage
vault. But it had been altered to suit the Chinaman's purpose, and one
end--that in which the passage came out--was timbered. It contained a
long counter and many shelves; also a large oil-stove and a number
of pots, pans, and queer-looking jars. On the counter stood a ship's
lantern. The shelves were laden with packages and bottles. Behind the
counter sat a venerable and perfectly bald Chinaman. The only trace of
hair upon his countenance grew on the shrunken upper lip--mere wisps of
white down. His skin was shrivelled like that of a preserved fig, and he
wore big horn-rimmed spectacles. He never once exhibited the slightest
evidence of life, and his head and face, and the horn-rimmed spectacles,
might quite easily have passed for those of an unwrapped mummy. This was
Sam Tuk.

Bending over a box upon which rested a canvas-bound package was a burly
seaman engaged in unknotting the twine with which the canvas was kept
in place. As Sin Sin Wa and Sir Lucien came in he looked up, revealing a
red-bearded, ugly face, very puffy under the eyes.

"Wotcher, Sin Sin!" he said gruffly. "Who's your long pal?"

"Friend," murmured Sin Sin Wa complacently. "You gotchee pukka stuff
thisee time, George?"

"I allus brings the pukka stuff!" roared the seaman, ceasing to fumble
with the knots and glaring at Sin Sin Wa. "Wotcher mean--pukka stuff?"

"Gotchee no use for bran," murmured Sin Sin Wa. "Gotchee no use for
tin-tack. Gotchee no use for glue."

"Bran!" roared the man, his glance and pose very menacing. "Tin-tacks
and glue! Who the flamin' 'ell ever tried to sell you glue?"

"Me only wantchee lemindee you," said Sin Sin Wa. "No pidgin."

"George" glared for a moment, breathing heavily; then he stooped and
resumed his task, Sin Sin Wa and Sir Lucien watching him in silence. A
sound of lapping water was faintly audible.

Opening the canvas wrappings, the man began to take out and place upon
the counter a number of reddish balls of "leaf" opium, varying in weight
from about eight ounces to a pound or more.

"H'm!" murmured Sin Sin Wa. "Smyrna stuff."

From a pocket of his pea-jacket he drew a long bodkin, and taking up one
of the largest balls he thrust the bodkin in and then withdrew it,
the steel stained a coffee color. Sin Sin Wa smelled and tasted the
substance adhering to the bodkin, weighed the ball reflectively in his
yellow palm, and then set it aside. He took up a second, whereupon:

"'Alf a mo', guvnor!" cried the seaman furiously. "D'you think I'm going
to wait 'ere while you prods about in all the blasted lot? It's damn
near high tide--I shan't get out. 'Alf time! Savvy? Shove it on the
scales!"

Sin Sin Wa shook his head.

"Too muchee slick. Too muchee bhobbery," he murmured. "Sin Sin Wa
gotchee sabby what him catchee buy or no pidgin."

"What's the game?" inquired George menacingly. "Don't you know a cake o'
Smyrna when you smells it?"

"No sabby lead chop till ploddem withee dipper," explained the Chinaman,
imperturbably.

"Lead!" shouted the man. "There ain't no bloody lead in 'em!"

"H'm," murmured Sin Sin Wa smilingly. "So fashion, eh? All velly
proper."

He calmly inserted the bodkin in the second cake; seemed to meet with
some obstruction, and laid the ball down upon the counter. From
beneath his jacket he took out a clasp-knife attached to a steel chain.
Undeterred by a savage roar from the purveyor, he cut the sticky mass in
half, and digging his long nails into one of the halves, brought out two
lead shots. He directed a glance of his beady eye upon the man.

"Bloody liar," he murmured sweetly. "Lobber."

"Who's a robber?" shouted George, his face flushing darkly, and
apparently not resenting the earlier innuendo; "Who's a robber?"

"One sarcee Smyrna feller packee stuff so fashion," murmured Sin Sin Wa.
"Thief-feller lobbee poor sailorman."

George jerked his peaked cap from his head, revealing a tangle of
unkempt red hair. He scratched his skull with savage vigor.

"Blimey!" he said pathetically. "'Ere's a go! I been done brown,
guv'nor."

"Lough luck," murmured Sin Sin Wa, and resumed his examination of the
cakes of opium.

The man watched him now in silence, only broken by exclamations of
"Blimey" and "Flaming hell" when more shot was discovered. The tests
concluded:

"Gotchee some more?" asked Sin Sin Wa.

From the canvas wrapping George took out and tossed on the counter a
square packet wrapped in grease-paper.

"H'm," murmured Sin Sin Wa, "Patna. Where you catchee?"

"Off of a lascar," growled the man.

The cake of Indian opium was submitted to the same careful scrutiny as
that which the balls of Turkish had already undergone, but the Patna
opium proved to be unadulterated. Reaching over the counter Sin Sin Wa
produced a pair of scales, and, watched keenly by George, weighed the
leaf and then the cake.

"Ten-six Smyrna; one 'leben Patna," muttered Sin Sin Wa. "You catchee
eighty jimmies."

"Eh?" roared George. "Eighty quid! Eighty quid! Flamin' blind o' Riley!
D'you think I'm up the pole? Eighty quid? You're barmy!"

"Eighty-ten," murmured Sin Sin Wa. "Eighty jimmies opium; ten bob lead."

"I give more'n that for it!" cried the seaman. "An' I damn near hit a
police boat comin' in, too!"

Sir Lucien spoke a few words rapidly in Chinese. Sin Sin Wa performed
his curious oriental shrug, and taking a fat leather wallet from his
hip-pocket, counted out the sum of eighty-five pounds upon the counter.

"You catchee eighty-five," he murmured. "Too muchee price."

The man grabbed the money and pocketed it without a word of
acknowledgment. He turned and strode along the room, his heavy,
iron-clamped boots ringing on the paved floor.

"Fetch a grim, Sin Sin," he cried. "I'll never get out if I don't jump
to it."

Sin Sin Wa took the lantern from the counter and followed. Opening a
door at the further end of the place, he set the lantern at the head of
three descending wooden steps discovered. With the opening of the
door the sound of lapping water had grown perceptibly louder. George
clattered down the steps, which led to a second but much stouter door.
Sin Sin Wa followed, nearly closing the first door, so that only a faint
streak of light crept down to them.

The second door was opened, and the clangor of the Surrey shore suddenly
proclaimed itself. Cold, damp air touched them, and the faint light of
the lantern above cast their shadows over unctuous gliding water, which
lapped the step upon which they stood. Slimy shapes uprose dim and
ghostly from its darkly moving surface.

A boat was swinging from a ring beside the door, and into it George
tumbled. He unhitched the lashings, and strongly thrust the boat out
upon the water. Coming to the first of the dim shapes, he grasped it and
thereby propelled the skiff to another beyond. These indistinct shapes
were the piles supporting the structure of a wharf.

"Good night, guv'nor!" he cried hoarsely

"So-long," muttered Sin Sin Wa.

He waited until the boat was swallowed in the deeper shadows, then
reclosed the water-gate and ascended to the room where Sir Lucien
awaited. Such was the receiving office of Sin Sin Wa. While the
wharf remained untenanted it was not likely to be discovered by the
authorities, for even at low tide the river-door was invisible from
passing craft. Prospective lessees who had taken the trouble to inquire
about the rental had learned that it was so high as to be prohibitive.

Sin Sin Wa paid fair prices and paid cash. This was no more than a
commercial necessity. For those who have opium, cocaine, veronal, or
heroin to sell can always find a ready market in London and elsewhere.
But one sufficiently curious and clever enough to have solved the riddle
of the vacant wharf would have discovered that the mysterious owner who
showed himself so loath to accept reasonable offers for the property
could well afford to be thus independent. Those who control "the
traffic" control El Dorado--a city of gold which, unlike the fabled
Manoa, actually exists and yields its riches to the unscrupulous
adventurer.

Smiling his mirthless, eternal smile, Sin Sin Wa placed the newly
purchased stock upon a shelf immediately behind Sam Tuk; and Sam
Tuk exhibited the first evidence of animation which had escaped him
throughout the progress of the "deal." He slowly nodded his hairless
head.


CHAPTER XX. KAZMAH'S METHODS

Rita Dresden married Monte Irvin in the spring and bade farewell to
the stage. The goal long held in view was attained at last. But another
farewell which at one time she had contemplated eagerly no longer
appeared desirable or even possible. To cocamania had been added a
tolerance for opium, and at the last party given by Cyrus Kilfane she
had learned that she could smoke nearly as much opium as the American
habitue.

The altered attitude of Sir Lucien surprised and annoyed her. He, who
had first introduced her to the spirit of the coca leaf and to the
goddess of the poppy, seemed suddenly to have determined to convince
her of the folly of these communions. He only succeeded in losing her
confidence. She twice visited the "House of a Hundred Raptures" with
Mollie Gretna, and once with Mollie and Kilfane, unknown to Sir Lucien.

Urgent affairs of some kind necessitated his leaving England a few weeks
before the date fixed for Rita's wedding, and as Kilfane had already
returned to America, Rita recognized with a certain dismay that she
would be left to her own resources--handicapped by the presence of a
watchful husband. This subtle change in her view of Monte Irvin she was
incapable of appreciating, for Rita was no psychologist. But the effect
of the drug habit was pointedly illustrated by the fact that in a period
of little more than six months, from regarding Monte Irvin as a rock of
refuge--a chance of salvation--she had come to regard him in the light
of an obstacle to her indulgence. Not that her respect had diminished.
She really loved at last, and so well that the idea of discovery by this
man whose wholesomeness was the trait of character which most potently
attracted her, was too appalling to be contemplated. The chance of
discovery would be enhanced, she recognized, by the absence of her
friends and accomplices.

Of course she was acquainted with many other devotees. In fact, she met
so many of them that she had grown reconciled to her habits, believing
them to be common to all "smart" people--a part of the Bohemian life.
The truth of the matter was that she had become a prominent member of a
coterie closely knit and associated by a bond of mutual vice--a kind
of masonry whereof Kazmah of Bond Street was Grand Master and Mrs. Sin
Grand Mistress.

The relations existing between Kazmah and his clients were of a most
peculiar nature, too, and must have piqued the curiosity of anyone but
a drug-slave. Having seen him once, in his oracular cave, Rita had been
accepted as one of the initiated. Thereafter she had had no occasion to
interview the strange, immobile Egyptian, nor had she experienced any
desire to do so. The method of obtaining drugs was a simple one. She
had merely to present herself at the establishment in Bond Street and
to purchase either a flask of perfume or a box of sweetmeats. There
were several varieties of perfume, and each corresponded to a particular
drug. The sweetmeats corresponded to morphine. Rashid, the attendant,
knew all Kazmah's clients, and with the box or flask he gave them a
quantity of the required drug. This scheme was precautionary. For if a
visitor should chance to be challenged on leaving the place, there was
the legitimate purchase to show in evidence of the purpose of the visit.

No conversation was necessary, merely the selection of a scent and the
exchange of a sum of money. Rashid retired to wrap up the purchase, and
with it a second and smaller package was slipped into the customer's
hand. That the prices charged were excessive--nay, ridiculous--did not
concern Rita, for, in common with the rest of her kind, she was careless
of expenditure.

Opium, alone, Kazmah did not sell. He sold morphine, tincture of opium,
and other preparations; but those who sought the solace of the pipe were
compelled to deal with Mrs. Sin. She would arrange parties, or would
prepare the "Hundred Raptures" in Limehouse for visitors; but, except in
the form of opiated cigarettes, she could rarely be induced to part with
any of the precious gum. Thus she cleverly kept a firm hold upon the
devotees of the poppy.

Drug-takers form a kind of brotherhood, and outside the charmed
circle they are secretive as members of the Mafia, the Camorra, or the
Catouse-Menegant.

In this secrecy, which, indeed, is a recognized symptom of drug mania,
lay Kazmah's security. Rita experienced no desire to peer behind the
veil which, literally and metaphorically, he had placed between himself
and the world. At first she had been vaguely curious, and had questioned
Sir Lucien and others, but nobody seemed to know the real identity of
Kazmah, and nobody seemed to care provided that he continued to
supply drugs. They all led secret, veiled lives, these slaves of the
laboratory, and that Kazmah should do likewise did not surprise them. He
had excellent reasons.

During this early stage of faint curiosity she had suggested to Sir
Lucien that for Kazmah to conduct a dream-reading business seemed to be
to add to the likelihood of police interference.

The baronet had smiled sardonically.

"It is an additional safeguard," he had assured her. "It corresponds to
the method of a notorious Paris assassin who was very generally
regarded by the police as a cunning pickpocket. Kazmah's business of
'dreamreading' does not actually come within the Act. He is clever
enough for that. Remember, he does not profess to tell fortunes. It also
enables him to balk idle curiosity."

At the time of her marriage Rita was hopelessly in the toils, and
had been really panic-stricken at the prospect--once so golden--of a
protracted sojourn abroad. The war, which rendered travel impossible,
she regarded rather in the light of a heaven-sent boon. Irvin, though
personally favoring a quiet ceremony, recognized that Rita cherished
a desire to quit theatreland in a chariot of fire, and accordingly the
wedding was on a scale of magnificence which outshone that of any other
celebrated during the season. Even the lugubrious Mr. Esden, who gave
his daughter away, was seen to smile twice. Mrs. Esden moved in a
rarified atmosphere of gratified ambition and parental pride, which no
doubt closely resembled that which the angels breathe.

It was during the early days of her married life, and while Sir Lucien
was still abroad, that Rita began to experience difficulty in obtaining
the drugs which she required. She had lost touch to a certain extent
with her former associates; but she had retained her maid, Nina, and the
girl regularly went to Kazmah's and returned with the little flasks of
perfume. When an accredited representative was sent upon such a mission,
Kazmah dispatched the drugs disguised in a scent flask; but on each
successive occasion that Nina went to him the prices increased,
and finally became so exorbitant that even Rita grew astonished and
dismayed.

She mentioned the matter to another habitue, a lady of title addicted to
the use of the hypodermic syringe, and learned that she (Rita) was being
charged nearly twice as much as her friend.

"I should bring the man to his senses, dear," said her ladyship. "I know
a doctor who will be only too glad to supply you. When I say a doctor,
he is no longer recognized by the B.M.A., but he's none the less clever
and kind for all that."

To the clever and kind medical man Rita repaired on the following
day, bearing a written introduction from her friend. The discredited
physician supplied her for a short time, charging only moderate fees.
Then, suddenly, this second source of supply was closed. The man
declared that he was being watched by the police, and that he dared not
continue to supply her with cocaine and veronal. His shifty eyes gave
the lie to his words, but he was firm in his resolution, whatever may
have led him to it, and Rita was driven back to Kazmah. His charges
had become more exorbitant than ever, but her need was imperative.
Nevertheless, she endeavored to find another drug dealer, and after a
time was again successful.

At a certain supper club she was introduced to a suave little man, quite
palpably an uninterned alien, who smilingly offered to provide her
with any drug to be found in the British Pharmacopeia, at most moderate
charges. With this little German-Jew villain she made a pact, reflecting
that, provided that his wares were of good quality, she had triumphed
over Kazmah.

The craving for chandu seized her sometimes and refused to be exorcised
by morphia, laudanum, or any other form of opium; but she had not
dared to spend a night at the "House of a Hundred Raptures" since her
marriage. Her new German friend volunteered to supply the necessary gum,
outfit, and to provide an apartment where she might safely indulge in
smoking. She declined--at first. But finally, on Mollie Gretna's return
from France, where she had been acting as a nurse, Rita and Mollie
accepted the suave alien's invitation to spend an evening in his private
opium divan.

Many thousands of careers were wrecked by the war, and to the war and
the consequent absence of her husband Rita undoubtedly owed her relapse
into opium-smoking. That she would have continued secretly to employ
cocaine, veronal, and possibly morphine was probable enough; but the
constant society of Monte Irvin must have made it extremely difficult
for her to indulge the craving for chandu. She began to regret the
gaiety of her old life. Loneliness and monotony plunged her into a state
of suicidal depression, and she grasped eagerly at every promise of
excitement.

It was at about this time that she met Margaret Halley, and between
the two, so contrary in disposition, a close friendship arose. The girl
doctor ere long discovered Rita's secret, of course, and the discovery
was hastened by an event which occurred shortly after they had become
acquainted.

The suave alien gentleman disappeared.

That was the entire story in five words--or all of the story that Rita
ever learned. His apartments were labelled "To Let," and the night clubs
knew him no more. Rita for a time was deprived of drugs, and the
nervous collapse which resulted revealed to Margaret Halley's trained
perceptions the truth respecting her friend.

Kazmah's terms proved to be more outrageous than ever, but Rita found
herself again compelled to resort to the Egyptian. She went personally
to the rooms in old Bond Street and arranged with Rashid to see Kazmah
on the following day, Friday, for Kazmah only received visitors by
appointment. As it chanced, Sir Lucien Pyne returned to England on
Thursday night and called upon Rita at Prince's Gate. She welcomed him
as a friend in need, unfolding the pitiful story, to the truth of which
her nervous condition bore eloquent testimony.

Sir Lucien began to pace up and down the charming little room in which
Rita had received him. She watched him, haggard-eyed. Presently:

"Leave Kazmah to me," he said. "If you visit him he will merely shield
himself behind the mystical business, or assure you that he is making no
profit on his sales. Kilfane had similar trouble with him."

"Then you will see him?" asked Rita.

"I will make a point of interviewing him in the morning. Meanwhile, if
you will send Nina around to Albemarle Street in about an hour I will
see what can be done."

"Oh, Lucy," whispered Rita, "what a pal you are."

Sir Lucien smiled in his cold fashion.

"I try to be," he said enigmatically; "but I don't always succeed."
He turned to her. "Have you ever thought of giving up this doping?"
he asked. "Have you ever realized that with increasing tolerance the
quantities must increase as well, and that a day is sure to come when--"

Rita repressed a nervous shudder.

"You are trying to frighten me," she replied. "You have tried before; I
don't know why. But it's no good, Lucy. You know I cannot give it up."

"You can try."

"I don't want to try!" she cried irritably. "It will be time enough when
Monte is back again, and we can really 'live.' This wretched existence,
with everything restricted and rationed, and all one's friends in
Flanders or Mesopotamia or somewhere, drives me mad! I tell you I should
die, Lucy, if I tried to do without it now."

The hollow presence of reform contemplated in a hazy future did not
deceive Sir Lucien. He suppressed a sigh, and changed the topic of
conversation.


CHAPTER XXI. THE CIGARETTES FROM BUENOS AYRES

Sir Lucien's intervention proved successful. Kazmah's charges became
more modest, and Rita no longer found it necessary to deprive herself of
hats and dresses in order to obtain drugs. But, nevertheless, these were
not the halcyon days of old. She was now surrounded by spies. It was
necessary to resort to all kinds of subterfuge in order to cover her
expenditures at the establishment in old Bond Street. Her husband never
questioned her outlay, but on the other hand it was expedient to be
armed against the possibility of his doing so, and Rita's debts were
accumulating formidably.

Then there was Margaret Halley to consider. Rita had never hitherto
given her confidence to anyone who was not addicted to the same
practices as herself, and she frequently experienced embarrassment
beneath the grave scrutiny of Margaret's watchful eyes. In another this
attitude of gentle disapproval would have been irritating, but Rita
loved and admired Margaret, and suffered accordingly.

As for Sir Lucien, she had ceased to understand him. An impalpable
barrier seemed to have arisen between them. The inner man had became
inaccessible. Her mind was not subtle enough to grasp the real
explanation of this change in her old lover. Being based upon wrong
premises, her inferences were necessarily wide of the truth, and she
believed that Sir Lucien was jealous of Margaret's cousin, Quentin Gray.

Gray met Rita at Margaret Halley's flat shortly after he had returned
home from service in the East, and he immediately conceived a violent
infatuation for this pretty friend of his cousin's. In this respect his
conduct was in no way peculiar. Few men were proof against the seductive
Mrs. Monte Irvin, not because she designedly encouraged admiration, but
because she was one of those fortunately rare characters who inspire
it without conscious effort. Her appeal to men was sweetly feminine and
quite lacking in that self-assertive and masculine "take me or leave me"
attitude which characterizes some of the beauties of today. There was
nothing abstract about her delicate loveliness, yet her charm was not
wholly physical. Many women disliked her.

At dance, theatre, and concert Quentin Gray played the doting cavalier;
and Rita, who was used to at least one such adoring attendant, accepted
his homage without demur. Monte Irvin returned to civil life, but Rita
showed no disposition to dispense with her new admirer. Both Gray and
Sir Lucien had become frequent visitors at Prince's Gate, and Irvin, who
understood his wife's character up to a point, made them his friends.

Shortly after Monte Irvin's return Sir Lucien taxed Rita again with her
increasing subjection to drugs. She was in a particularly gay humor,
as the supplies from Kazmah had been regular, and she laughingly fenced
with him when he reminded her of her declared intention to reform when
her husband should return.

"You are really as bad as Margaret," she declared. "There is nothing the
matter with me. You talk of 'curing' me as though I were ill. Physician,
heal thyself."

The sardonic smile momentarily showed upon Pyne's face, and:

"I know when and where to pull up, Rita," he said. "A woman never knows
this. If I were deprived of opium tomorrow I could get along without
it."

"I have given up opium," replied Rita. "It's too much trouble, and the
last time Mollie and I went--"

She paused, glancing quickly at Sir Lucien.

"Go on," he said grimly. "I know you have been to Sin Sin Wa's. What
happened the last time?"

"Well," continued Rita hurriedly, "Monte seemed to be vaguely
suspicious. Besides, Mrs. Sin charged me most preposterously. I really
cannot afford it, Lucy."

"I am glad you cannot. But what I was about to say was this: Suppose you
were to be deprived, not of 'chard', but of cocaine and veronal, do you
know what would happen to you?"

"Oh!" whispered Rita, "why will you persist in trying to frighten me! I
am not going to be deprived of them."

"I persist, dear, because I want you to try, gradually, to depend less
upon drugs, so that if the worst should happen you would have a chance."

Rita stood up and faced him, biting her lip.

"Lucy," she said, "do you mean that Kazmah--"

"I mean that anything might happen, Rita. After all, we do possess a
police service in London, and one day there might be an accident. Kazmah
has certain influence, but it may be withdrawn. Rita, won't you try?"

She was watching him closely, and now the pupils of her beautiful eyes
became dilated.

"You know something," she said slowly, "which you are keeping from me."

He laughed and turned aside.

"I know that I am compelled to leave England again, Rita, for a time;
and I should be a happier man if I knew that you were not so utterly
dependent upon Kazmah."

"Oh, Lucy, are you going away again?"

"I must. But I shall not be absent long, I hope."

Rita sank down upon the settee from which she had risen, and was silent
for some time; then:

"I will try, Lucy," she promised. "I will go to Margaret Halley, as she
is always asking me to do."

"Good girl," said Pyne quietly. "It is just a question of making the
effort, Rita. You will succeed, with Margaret's help."

A short time later Sir Lucien left England, but throughout the last week
that he remained in London Rita spent a great part of every day in his
company. She had latterly begun to experience an odd kind of remorse
for her treatment of the inscrutably reserved baronet. His earlier
intentions she had not forgotten, but she had long ago forgiven them,
and now she often felt sorry for this man whom she had deliberately used
as a stepping-stone to fortune.

Gray was quite unable to conceal his jealousy. He seemed to think that
he had a proprietary right to Mrs. Monte Irvin's society, and during
the week preceding Sir Lucien's departure Gray came perilously near to
making himself ridiculous on more than one occasion.

One night, on leaving a theatre, Rita suggested to Pyne that they should
proceed to a supper club for an hour. "It will be like old times," she
said.

"But your husband is expecting you," protested Sir Lucien.

"Let's ring him up and ask him to join us. He won't, but he cannot very
well object then."

As a result they presently found themselves descending a broad carpeted
stairway. From the rooms below arose the strains of an American melody.
Dancing was in progress, or, rather, one of those orgiastic ceremonies
which passed for dancing during this pagan period. Just by the foot of
the stairs they paused and surveyed the scene.

"Why," said Rita, "there is Quentin--glaring insanely, silly boy."

"Do you see whom he is with?" asked Sir Lucien.

"Mollie Gretna."

"But I mean the woman sitting down."

Rita stood on tiptoe, trying to obtain a view, and suddenly:

"Oh!" she exclaimed, "Mrs. Sin!"

The dance at that moment concluding, they crossed the floor and joined
the party. Mrs. Sin greeted them with one of her rapid, mirthless
smiles. She was wearing a gown noticeable, but not for quantity, even in
that semi-draped assembly. Mollie Gretna giggled rapturously. But Gray's
swiftly changing color betrayed a mood which he tried in vain to conceal
by his manner. Having exchanged a few words with the new arrivals, he
evidently realized that he could not trust himself to remain longer,
and:

"Now I must be off," he said awkwardly. "I have an
appointment--important business. Good night, everybody."

He turned away and hurried from the room. Rita flushed slightly and
exchanged a glance with Sir Lucien. Mrs. Sin, who had been watching
the three intently, did not fail to perceive this glance. Mollie Gretna
characteristically said a silly thing.

"Oh!" she cried. "I wonder whatever is the matter with him! He looks as
though he had gone mad!"

"It is perhaps his heart," said Mrs. Sin harshly, and she raised her
bold dark eyes to Sir Lucien's face.

"Oh, please don't talk about hearts," cried Rita, willfully
misunderstanding. "Monte has a weak heart, and it frightens me."

"So?" murmured Mrs. Sin. "Poor fellow."

"I think a weak heart is most romantic," declared Mollie Gretna.

But Gray's behavior had cast a shadow upon the party which even Mollie's
empty light-hearted chatter was powerless to dispel, and when, shortly
after midnight, Sir Lucien drove Rita home to Prince's Gate, they were
very silent throughout the journey. Just before the car reached the
house:

"Where does Mrs. Sin live?" asked Rita, although it was not of Mrs. Sin
that she had been thinking.

"In Limehouse, I believe," replied Sir Lucien; "at The House. But I
fancy she has rooms somewhere in town also."

He stayed only a few minutes at Prince's Gate, and as the car returned
along Piccadilly, Sir Lucien, glancing upward towards the windows of a
tall block of chambers facing the Green Park, observed a light in one of
them. Acting upon a sudden impulse, he raised the speaking-tube.

"Pull up, Fraser," he directed.

The chauffeur stopped the car and Sir Lucien alighted, glancing at the
clock inside as he did so, and smiling at his own quixotic behavior.
He entered an imposing doorway and rang one of the bells. There was an
interval of two minutes or so, when the door opened and a man looked
out.

"Is that you, Willis?" asked Pyne.

"Oh, I beg pardon, Sir Lucien. I didn't know you in the dark."

"Has Mr. Gray retired yet?"

"Not yet. Will you please follow me, Sir Lucien. The stairway lights are
off."

A few moments later Sir Lucien was shown into the apartment of Gray's
which oddly combined the atmosphere of a gymnasium with that of a
study. Gray, wearing a dressing-gown and having a pipe in his mouth,
was standing up to receive his visitor, his face rather pale and the
expression of his lips at variance with that in his eyes. But:

"Hello, Pyne," he said quietly. "Anything wrong--or have you just looked
in for a smoke?"

Sir Lucien smiled a trifle sadly.

"I wanted a chat, Gray," he replied. "I'm leaving town tomorrow, or I
should not have intruded at such an unearthly hour."

"No intrusion," muttered Gray; "try the armchair, no, the big one. It's
more comfortable." He raised his voice: "Willis, bring some fluid!"

Sir Lucien sat down, and from the pocket of his dinner jacket took out a
plain brown packet of cigarettes and selected one.

"Here," said Gray, "have a cigar!"

"No, thanks," replied Pyne. "I rarely smoke anything but these."

"Never seen that kind of packet before," declared Gray. "What brand are
they?"

"No particular brand. They are imported from Buenos Ayres, I believe."

Willis having brought in a tray of refreshments and departed again, Sir
Lucien came at once to the point.

"I really called, Gray," he said, "to clear up any misunderstanding
there may be in regard to Rita Irvin."

Quentin Gray looked up suddenly when he heard Rita's name, and:

"What misunderstanding?" he asked.

"Regarding the nature of my friendship with her," answered Sir Lucien
coolly. "Now, I am going to speak quite bluntly, Gray, because I like
Rita and I respect her. I also like and respect Monte Irvin; and I don't
want you, or anybody else, to think that Rita and I are, or ever have
been, anything more than pals. I have known her long enough to have
learned that she sails straight, and has always sailed straight.
Now--listen, Gray, please. You embarrassed me tonight, old chap, and you
embarrassed Rita. It was unnecessary." He paused, and then added slowly:
"She is as sacred to me, Gray, as she is to you--and we are both friends
of Monte Irvin."

For a moment Quentin Gray's fiery temper flickered up, as his heightened
color showed, but the coolness of the older and cleverer man prevailed.
Gray laughed, stood up, and held out his hand.

"You're right, Pyne!" he said. "But she's damn pretty!" He uttered a
loud sigh. "If only she were not married!"

Sir Lucien gripped the outstretched hand, but his answering smile had
much pathos in it.

"If only she were not, Gray," he echoed.

He took his departure shortly afterwards, absently leaving a brown
packet of cigarettes upon the table. It was an accident. Yet there were
few, when the truth respecting Sir Lucien Pyne became known, who did not
believe it to have been a deliberate act, designed to lure Quentin Gray
into the path of the poppy.


CHAPTER XXII. THE STRANGLE-HOLD

Less than a month later Rita was in a state of desperation again.
Kazmah's prices had soared above anything that he had hitherto extorted.
Her bank account, as usual, was greatly overdrawn, and creditors of all
kinds were beginning to press for payment. Then, crowning catastrophe,
Monte Irvin, for the first time during their married life, began to take
an interest in Rita's reckless expenditure. By a combination of adverse
circumstances, she, the wife of one of the wealthiest aldermen of the
City of London, awakened to the fact that literally she had no money.

She pawned as much of her jewellery as she could safely dispose of,
and temporarily silenced the more threatening tradespeople; but Kazmah
declined to give credit, and cheques had never been acceptable at the
establishment in old Bond Street.

Rita feverishly renewed her old quest, seeking in all directions
for some less extortionate purveyor. But none was to be found. The
selfishness and secretiveness of the drug slave made it difficult for
her to learn on what terms others obtained Kazmah's precious goods; but
although his prices undoubtedly varied, she was convinced that no one of
all his clients was so cruelly victimized as she.

Mollie Gretna endeavored to obtain an extra supply to help Rita, but
Kazmah evidently saw through the device, and the endeavor proved a
failure.

She demanded to see Kazmah, but Rashid, the Egyptian, blandly assured
her that "the Sheikh-el-Kazmah" was away. She cast discretion to the
winds and wrote to him, protesting that it was utterly impossible for
her to raise so much ready money as he demanded, and begging him to
grant her a small supply or to accept the letter as a promissory note to
be redeemed in three months. No answer was received, but when Rita again
called at old Bond Street, Rashid proposed one of the few compromises
which the frenzied woman found herself unwilling to accept.

"The Sheikh-el-Kazmah say, my lady, your friend Mr. Gray never come to
him. If you bring him it will be all right."

Rita found herself stricken dumb by this cool proposal. The degradation
which awaits the drug slave had never been more succinctly expounded
to her. She was to employ Gray's foolish devotion for the commercial
advantage of Kazmah. Of course Gray might any day become one of the
three wealthiest peers in the realm. She divined the meaning of Kazmah's
hitherto incomprehensible harshness (or believed that she did); she saw
what was expected of her. "My God!" she whispered. "I have not come to
that yet."

Rashid she knew to be incorruptible or powerless, and she turned away,
trembling, and left the place, whose faint perfume of frankincense had
latterly become hateful to her.

She was at this time bordering upon a state of collapse. Insomnia, which
latterly had defied dangerously increased doses of veronal, was telling
upon nerve and brain. Now, her head aching so that she often wondered
how long she could retain sanity, she found herself deprived not only of
cocaine, but also of malourea. Margaret Halley was her last hope, and to
Margaret she hastened on the day before the tragedy which was destined
to bring to light the sinister operations of the Kazmah group.

Although, perhaps mercifully, she was unaware of the fact,
representatives of Spinker's Agency had been following her during the
whole of the preceding fortnight. That Rita was in desperate trouble of
some kind her husband had not failed to perceive, and her reticence had
quite naturally led him to a certain conclusion. He had sought to win
her confidence by every conceivable means and had failed. At last had
come doubt--and the hateful interview with Spinker.

As Rita turned in at the doorway below Margaret's flat, then, Brisley
was lighting a cigarette in the shelter of a porch nearly opposite, and
Gunn was not far away.

Margaret immediately perceived that her friend's condition was alarming.
But she realized that whatever the cause to which it might be due, it
gave her the opportunity for which she had been waiting. She wrote a
prescription containing one grain of cocaine, but declined firmly to
issue others unless Rita authorized her, in writing, to undertake a cure
of the drug habit.

Rita's disjointed statements pointed to a conspiracy of some kind on the
part of those who had been supplying her with drugs, but Margaret knew
from experience that to exhibit curiosity in regard to the matter would
be merely to provoke evasions.

A hopeless day and a pain-racked, sleepless night found Kazmah's unhappy
victim in the mood for any measure, however desperate, which should
promise even temporary relief. Monte Irvin went out very early, and at
about eleven o'clock Rita rang up Kazmah's, but only to be informed by
Rashid, who replied, that Kazmah was still away. "This evening he tell
me that he see your friend if he come, my lady." As if the Fates
sought to test her endurance to the utmost, Quentin Gray called shortly
afterwards and invited her to dine with him and go to a theatre that
evening.

For five age-long seconds Rita hesitated. If no plan offered itself
by nightfall she knew that her last scruple would be conquered. "After
all," whispered a voice within her brain, "Quentin is a man. Even if
I took him to Kazmah's and he was in some way induced to try opium, or
even cocaine, he would probably never become addicted to drug-taking.
But I should have done my part--"

"Very well, Quentin," she heard herself saying aloud. "Will you call for
me?"

But when he had gone Rita sat for more than half an hour, quite still,
her hands clenched and her face a tragic mask. (Gunn, of Spinker's
Agency, reported telephonically to Monte Irvin in the City that the Hon.
Quentin Gray had called and had remained about twenty-five minutes; that
he had proceeded to the Prince's Restaurant, and from there to Mudie's,
where he had booked a box at the Gaiety Theatre.)

Towards the fall of dusk the more dreadful symptoms which attend upon
a sudden cessation of the use of cocaine by a victim of cocainophagia
began to assert themselves again. Rita searched wildly in the lining of
her jewel-case to discover if even a milligram of the drug had by chance
fallen there from the little gold box. But the quest was in vain.

As a final resort she determined to go to Margaret Halley again.

She hurried to Dover Street, and her last hope was shattered. Margaret
was out, and Janet had no idea when she was likely to return. Rita had
much ado to prevent herself from bursting into tears. She scribbled a
few lines, without quite knowing what she was writing, sealed the paper
in an envelope, and left it on Margaret's table.

Of returning to Prince's Gate and dressing for the evening she had only
a hazy impression. The hammer-beats in her head were depriving her of
reasoning power, and she felt cold, numbed, although a big fire blazed
in her room. Then as she sat before her mirror, drearily wondering if
her face really looked as drawn and haggard as the image in the glass,
or if definite delusions were beginning, Nina came in and spoke to her.
Some moments elapsed before Rita could grasp the meaning of the girl's
words.

"Sir Lucien Pyne has rung up, Madam, and wishes to speak to you."

Sir Lucien! Sir Lucien had come back? Rita experienced a swift return of
feverish energy. The action of fluorine on _platinum_ has been studied
with special care.

It is evident, in view of the corrosion of the positive platinum terminal
of the electrolysis apparatus, that nascent fluorine rapidly attacks
platinum at a temperature of -23°. At 100°, however, fluorine gas appears
to be without action on platinum. At 500°-600° it is attacked strongly,
with formation of the tetrafluoride. PtF_{4}, and a small quantity of the
protofluoride, PtF_{2}.
Quentin Gray she had quite forgotten, until, as she was about to leave:

"Is there any message for Mr. Gray, Madam?" inquired Nina naively.

"Oh!" cried Rita. "Of course! Quick! Give me some paper and a pencil."

She wrote a hasty note, merely asking Gray to proceed to the restaurant,
where she promised to join him, left it in charge of the maid, and
hurried off to Albemarle Street.

Mareno, the silent, yellow-faced servant who had driven the car on the
night of Rita's first visit to Limehouse, admitted her. He showed her
immediately into the lofty study, where Sir Lucien awaited.

"Oh, Lucy--Lucy!" she cried, almost before the door had closed behind
Mareno. "I am desperate--desperate!"

Sir Lucien placed a chair for her. His face looked very drawn and grim.
But Rita was in too highly strung a condition to observe this fact, or
indeed to observe anything.

"Tell me," he said gently.

And in a torrent of disconnected, barely coherent language, the tortured
woman told him of Kazmah's attempt to force her to lure Quentin Gray
into the drug coterie. Sir Lucien stood behind her chair, and the icy
reserve which habitually rendered his face an impenetrable mask deserted
him as the story of Rita's treatment at the hands of the Egyptian of
Bond Street was unfolded in all its sordid hideousness. Rita's soft,
musical voice, for which of old she had been famous, shook and wavered;
her pose, her twitching gestures, all told of a nervous agony bordering
on prostration or worse. Finally:

"He dare not refuse you!" she cried. "Ring him up and insist upon him
seeing me tonight!"

"I will see him, Rita."

She turned to him, wild-eyed.

"You shall not! You shall not!" she said. "I am going to speak to that
man face to face, and if he is human he must listen to me. Oh! I have
realized the hold he has upon me, Lucy! I know what it means, this
disappearance of all the others who used to sell what Kazmah sells. If
I am to suffer, he shall not escape! I swear it. Either he listens to me
tonight or I go straight to the police!"

"Be calm, little girl," whispered Sir Lucien, and he laid his hand upon
her shoulder.

But she leapt up, her pupils suddenly dilating and her delicate nostrils
twitching in a manner which unmistakably pointed to the impossibility of
thwarting her if sanity were to be retained.

"Ring him up, Lucy," she repeated in a low voice. "He is there. Now that
I have someone behind me I see my way at last!"

"There may, nevertheless, be a better way," said Sir Lucien; but he
added quickly: "Very well, dear, I will do as you wish. I have a little
cocaine, which I will give you."

He went out to the telephone, carefully closing the study door.

That he had counted upon the influence of the drug to reduce Rita to a
more reasonable frame of mind was undoubtedly the fact, for presently as
they proceeded on foot towards old Bond Street he reverted to something
like his old ironical manner. But Rita's determination was curiously
fixed. Unmoved by every kind of appeal, she proceeded to the appointment
which Sir Lucien had made--ignorant of that which Fate held in store for
her--and Sir Lucien, also humanly blind, walked on to meet his death.


PART THIRD--THE MAN FROM WHITEHALL


CHAPTER XXIII. CHIEF INSPECTOR KERRY RESIGNS

"Come in," said the Assistant Commissioner. The door opened and Chief
Inspector Kerry entered. His face was as fresh-looking, his attire as
spruce and his eyes were as bright, as though he had slept well, enjoyed
his bath and partaken of an excellent breakfast. Whereas he had not
been to bed during the preceding twenty-four hours, had breakfasted
upon biscuits and coffee, and had spent the night and early morning in
ceaseless toil. Nevertheless he had found time to visit a hairdressing
saloon, for he prided himself upon the nicety of his personal
appearance.

He laid his hat, cane and overall upon a chair, and from a pocket of his
reefer jacket took out a big notebook.

"Good morning, sir," he said.

"Good morning, Chief Inspector," replied the Assistant Commissioner.
"Pray be seated. No doubt"--he suppressed a weary sigh--"you have a long
report to make. I observe that some of the papers have the news of Sir
Lucien Pyne's death."

Chief Inspector Kerry smiled savagely.

"Twenty pressmen are sitting downstairs," he said "waiting for
particulars. One of them got into my room." He opened his notebook. "He
didn't stay long."

The Assistant Commissioner gazed wearily at his blotting-pad, striking
imaginary chords upon the table-edge with his large widely extended
fingers. He cleared his throat.

"Er--Chief Inspector," he said, "I fully recognize the difficulties
which--you follow me? But the Press is the Press. Neither you nor I
could hope to battle against such an institution even if we desired
to do so. Where active resistance is useless, a little tact--you quite
understand?"

"Quite, sir. Rely upon me," replied Kerry. "But I didn't mean to open
my mouth until I had reported to you. Now, sir, here is a precis of
evidence, nearly complete, written out clearly by Sergeant Coombes. You
would probably prefer to read it?"

"Yes, yes, I will read it. But has Sergeant Coombes been on duty all
night?"

"He has, sir, and so have I. Sergeant Coombes went home an hour ago."

"Ah," murmured the Assistant Commissioner

He took the notebook from Kerry, and resting his head upon his hand
began to read. Kerry sat very upright in his chair, chewing slowly and
watching the profile of the reader with his unwavering steel-blue
eyes. The reading was twice punctuated by telephone messages, but the
Assistant Commissioner apparently possessed the Napoleonic faculty of
doing two things at once, for his gaze travelled uninterruptedly along
the lines of the report throughout the time that he issued telephonic
instructions.

When he had arrived at the final page of Coombes' neat, schoolboy
writing, he did not look up for a minute or more, continuing to rest his
head in the palm of his hand. Then:

"So far you have not succeeded in establishing the identity of the
missing man, Kazmah?" he said.

"Not so far, sir," replied Kerry, enunciating the words with
characteristic swift precision, each syllable distinct as the rap of
a typewriter. "Inspector Whiteleaf, of Vine Street, has questioned
all constables in the Piccadilly area, and we have seen members of the
staffs of many shops and offices in the neighborhood, but no one is
familiar with the appearance of the missing man."

"Ah--now, the Egyptian servant?"

Inspector Kerry moved his shoulders restlessly.

"Rashid is his name. Many of the people in the neighborhood knew him
by sight, and at five o'clock this morning one of my assistants had the
good luck to find out, from an Arab coffee-house keeper named Abdulla,
where Rashid lived. He paid a visit to the place--it's off the West
India Dock Road--half an hour later. But Rashid had gone. I regret to
report that all traces of him have been lost."

"Ah--considering this circumstance side by side with the facts that no
scrap of evidence has come to light in the Kazmah premises and that the
late Sir Lucien's private books and papers cannot be found, what do you
deduce, Chief Inspector?"

"My report indicates what I deduce, sir! An accomplice of Kazmah's must
have been in Sir Lucien's household! Kazmah and Mrs. Irvin can only have
left the premises by going up to the roof and across the leads to Sir
Lucien's flat in Albemarle Street. I shall charge the man Juan Mareno."

"What has he to say?" murmured the Assistant Commissioner, absently
turning over the pages of the notebook. "Ah, yes. 'Claims to be a
citizen of the United States but has produced no papers. Engaged by Sir
Lucien Pyne in San Francisco. Professes to have no evidence to offer.
Admitted Mrs. Monte Irvin to Sir Lucien's flat on night of murder. Sir
Lucien and Mrs. Irvin went out together shortly afterwards, and Sir
Lucien ordered him (Mareno) to go for the car to garage in South Audley
Street and drive to club, where Sir Lucien proposed to dine. Mareno
claims to have followed instructions. After waiting near club for an
hour, learned from hall porter that Sir Lucien had not been there that
evening. Drove car back to garage and returned to Albemarle Street
shortly after eight o'clock.' H'm. Is this confirmed in any way?"

Kerry's teeth snapped together viciously.

"Up to a point it is, sir. The club porter remembers Mareno inquiring
about Sir Lucien, and the people at the garage testify that he took out
the car and returned it as stated."

"No one has come forward who actually saw him waiting outside the club?"

"No one. But unfortunately it was a dark, misty night, and cars waiting
for club members stand in a narrow side turning. Mareno is a surly
brute, and he might have waited an hour without speaking to a soul.
Unless another chauffeur happened to notice and recognize the car nobody
would be any wiser."

The Assistant Commissioner sighed, glancing up for the first time.

"You don't think he waited outside the club at all?" he said.

"I don't, sir!" rapped Kerry.

The Assistant Commissioner rested his head upon his hand again.

"It doesn't seem to be germane to your case, Chief Inspector, in any
event. There is no question of an alibi. Sir Lucien's wrist-watch was
broken at seven-fifteen--evidently at the time of his death; and this
man Mareno does not claim to have left the flat until after that hour."

"I know it, sir," said Kerry. "He took out the car at half-past seven.
What I want to know is where he went to!"

The Assistant Commissioner glanced rapidly into the speaker's fierce
eyes.

"From what you have gathered respecting the appearance of Kazmah, does
it seem possible that Mareno may be Kazmah?"

"It does not, sir. Kazmah has been described to me, at first hand and
at second hand. All descriptions tally in one respect: Kazmah has
remarkably large eyes. In Miss Halley's evidence you will note that she
refers to them as 'larger than any human eyes I have ever seen.' Now,
Mareno has eyes like a pig!"

"Then I take it you are charging him as accessory?"

"Exactly, sir. Somebody got Kazmah and Mrs. Irvin away, and it can only
have been Mareno. Sir Lucien had no other resident servant; he was a
man who lived almost entirely at restaurants and clubs. Again, somebody
cleaned up his papers, and it was somebody who knew where to look for
them."

"Quite so--quite so," murmured the Assistant Commissioner. "Of course,
we shall learn today something of his affairs from his banker. He must
have banked somewhere. But surely, Chief Inspector, there is a safe or
private bureau in his flat?"

"There is, sir," said Kerry grimly; "a safe. I had it opened at six
o'clock this morning. It had been hastily cleaned out; not a doubt
of it. I expect Sir Lucien carried the keys on his person. You will
remember, sir, that his pockets had been emptied?"

"H'm," mused the Assistant Commissioner. "This Cubanis Cigarette
Company, Chief Inspector?"

"Dummy goods!" rapped Kerry. "A blind. Just a back entrance to Kazmah's
office. Premises were leased on behalf of an agent. This agent--a
reputable man of business--paid the rent quarterly. I've seen him."

"And who was his client?" asked the Assistant Commissioner, displaying a
faint trace of interest.

"A certain Mr. Isaacs!"

"Who can be traced?"

"Who can't be traced!"

"His checks?"

Chief Inspector Kerry smiled, so that his large white teeth gleamed
savagely.

"Mr. Isaacs represented himself as a dealer in Covent Garden who was
leasing the office for a lady friend, and who desired, for domestic
reasons, to cover his tracks. As ready money in large amounts changes
hands in the market, Mr. Isaacs paid ready money to the agent. Beyond
doubt the real source of the ready money was Kazmah's."

"But his address?"

"A hotel in Covent Garden."

"Where he lives?"

"Where he is known to the booking-clerk, a girl who allowed him to
have letters addressed there. A man of smoke, sir, acting on behalf of
someone in the background."

"Ah! and these Bond Street premises have been occupied by Kazmah for the
past eight years?"

"So I am told. I have yet to see representatives of the landlord. I may
add that Sir Lucien Pyne had lived in Albemarle Street for about the
same time."

Wearily raising his head:

"The point is certainly significant," said the Assistant Commissioner.
"Now we come to the drug traffic, Chief Inspector. You have found no
trace of drugs on the premises?"

"Not a grain, sir!"

"In the office of the cigarette firm?"

"No."

"By the way, was there no staff attached to the latter concern?"

Kerry chewed viciously.

"No business of any kind seems to have been done there," he replied.
"An office-boy employed by the solicitor on the same floor as Kazmah
has seen a man and also a woman, go up to the third floor on several
occasions, and he seems to think they went to the Cubanis office. But
he's not sure, and he can give no useful description of the parties,
anyway. Nobody in the building has ever seen the door open before this
morning."

The Assistant Commissioner sighed yet more wearily.

"Apart from the suspicions of Miss Margaret Halley, you have no sound
basis for supposing that Kazmah dealt in prohibited drugs?" he inquired.

"The evidence of Miss Halley, the letter left for her by Mrs. Irvin, and
the fact that Mrs. Irvin said, in the presence of Mr. Quentin Gray,
that she had 'a particular reason' for seeing Kazmah, point to it
unmistakably, sir. Then, I have seen Mrs. Irvin's maid. (Mr. Monte Irvin
is still too unwell to be interrogated.) The girl was very frightened,
but she admitted outright that she had been in the habit of going
regularly to Kazmah for certain perfumes. She wouldn't admit that she
knew the flasks contained cocaine or veronal, but she did admit that her
mistress had been addicted to the drug habit for several years. It began
when she was on the stage."

"Ah, yes," murmured the Assistant Commissioner; "she was Rita Dresden,
was she not--'The Maid of the Masque' A very pretty and talented
actress. A pity--a great pity. So the girl, characteristically, is
trying to save herself?"

"She is," said Kerry grimly. "But it cuts no ice. There is another
point. After this report was made out, a message reached me from Miss
Halley, as a result of which I visited Mr. Quentin Gray early this
morning."

"Dear, dear," sighed the Assistant Commissioner, "your intense zeal and
activity are admirable, Chief Inspector, but appalling. And what did you
learn?"

From an inside pocket Chief Inspector Kerry took out a plain brown paper
packet containing several cigarettes and laid the packet on the table.

"I got these, sir," he said grimly. "They were left at Mr. Gray's some
weeks ago by the late Sir Lucien. They are doped."

The Assistant Commissioner, his head resting upon his hand, gazed
abstractedly at the packet. "If only you could trace the source of
supply," he murmured.

"That brings me to my last point, sir. From Mrs. Irvin's maid I learned
that her mistress was acquainted with a certain Mrs. Sin."

"Mrs. Sin? Incredible name."

"She's a woman reputed to be married to a Chinaman. Inspector Whiteleaf,
of Vine Street, knows her by sight as one of the night-club birds--a
sort of mysterious fungus, sir, flowering in the dark and fattening on
gilded fools. Unless I'm greatly mistaken, Mrs. Sin is the link between
the doped cigarettes and the missing Kazmah."

"Does anyone know where she lives?"

"Lots of 'em know!" snapped Kerry. "But it's making them speak."

"To whom do you more particularly refer, Chief Inspector?"

"To the moneyed asses and the brainless women belonging to a certain
West End set, sir," said Kerry savagely. "They go in for every
monstrosity from Buenos Ayres, Port Said and Pekin. They get up dances
that would make a wooden horse blush. They eat hashish and they smoke
opium. They inject morphine, and they would have their hair dyed blue if
they heard it was 'being done.'"

"Ah," sighed the Assistant Commissioner, "a very delicate and complex
case, Chief Inspector. The agony of mind which Mr. Irvin must be
suffering is too horrible for one to contemplate. An admirable man,
too; honorable and generous. I can conceive no theory to account for
the disappearance of Mrs. Irvin other than that she was a party to the
murder."

"No, sir," said Kerry guardedly. "But we have the dope clue to work on.
That the Chinese receive stuff in the East End and that it's sold in
the West End every constable in the force is well aware. Leman Street is
getting busy, and every shady case in the Piccadilly area will be beaten
up within the next twenty-four hours, too. It's purely departmental,
sir, from now onwards, and merely a question of time. Therefore I don't
doubt the issue."

Kerry paused, cleared his throat, and produced a foolscap envelope which
he laid upon the table before the Assistant Commissioner.

"With very deep regret, sir," he said, "after a long and agreeable
association with the Criminal Investigation Department, I have to tender
you this."

The Assistant Commissioner took up the envelope and stared at it
vaguely.

"Ah, yes, Chief Inspector," he murmured. "Perhaps I fail entirely to
follow you; I am somewhat over-worked, as you know. What does this
envelope contain?"

"My resignation, sir," replied Kerry.


CHAPTER XXIV. TO INTRODUCE 719

Some moments of silence followed. Sounds of traffic from the Embankment
penetrated dimly to the room of the Assistant Commissioner; ringing
of tram bells and that vague sustained noise which is created by the
whirring of countless wheels along hard pavements. Finally:

"You have selected a curious moment to retire, Chief Inspector," said
the Assistant Commissioner. "Your prospects were never better. No doubt
you have considered the question of your pension?"

"I know what I'm giving up, sir," replied Kerry.

The Assistant Commissioner slowly revolved in his chair and gazed sadly
at the speaker. Chief Inspector Kerry met his glance with that fearless,
unflinching stare which lent him so formidable an appearance.

"You might care to favor me with some explanation which I can lay before
the Chief Commissioner?"

Kerry snapped his white teeth together viciously.

"May I take it, sir, that you accept my resignation?"

"Certainly not. I will place it before the responsible authority. I can
do no more."

"Without disrespect, sir, I want to speak to you as man to man. As a
private citizen I could do it. As your subordinate I can't."

The Assistant Commissioner sighed, stroking his neatly brushed hair with
one large hand.

"Equally without disrespect, Chief Inspector," he murmured, "it is news
for me to learn that you have ever refrained from speaking your mind
either in my presence or in the presence of any man."

Kerry smiled, unable wholly to conceal a sense of gratified vanity.

"Well, sir," he said, "you have my resignation before you, and I'm
prepared to abide by the consequences. What I want to say is this: I'm a
man that has worked hard all his life to earn the respect and the
trust of his employers. I am supposed to be Chief Inspector of this
department, and as Chief Inspector I'll kow-tow to nothing on two legs
once I've been put in charge of a case. I work right in the sunshine.
There's no grafting about me. I draw my salary every week, and any man
that says I earn sixpence in the dark is at liberty to walk right in
here and deposit his funeral expenses. If I'm supposed to be under a
cloud--there's my reply. But I demand a public inquiry."

At ever increasing speed, succinctly, viciously he rapped out the words.
His red face grew more red, and his steel-blue eyes more fierce. The
Assistant Commissioner exhibited bewilderment. As the high tones ceased:

"Really, Chief Inspector," he said, "you pain and surprise me. I do not
profess to be ignorant of the cause of your--annoyance. But perhaps if I
acquaint you with the facts of my own position in the matter you will be
open to reconsider your decision."

Kerry cleared his throat loudly.

"I won't work in the dark, sir," he declared truculently. "I'd rather be
a pavement artist and my own master than Chief Inspector with an unknown
spy following me about."

"Quite so--quite so." The Assistant Commissioner was wonderfully
patient. "Very well, Chief Inspector. It cannot enhance my personal
dignity to admit the fact, but I'm nearly as much in the dark as
yourself."

"What's that, sir?" Kerry sat bolt upright, staring at the speaker.

"At a late hour last night the Secretary of State communicated in
person with the Chief Commissioner--at the latter's town residence. He
instructed him to offer every facility to a newly appointed agent of the
Home office who was empowered to conduct an official inquiry into the
drug traffic. As a result Vine Street was advised that the Home office
investigator would proceed at once to Kazmah's premises, and from thence
wherever available clues might lead him. For some reason which has not
yet been explained to me, this investigator chooses to preserve a strict
anonymity."

Traces of irritation became perceptible in the weary voice. Kerry
staring, in silence, the Assistant Commissioner continued:

"I have been advised that this nameless agent is in a position to
establish his bona fides at any time, as he bears a number of these
cards. You see, Chief Inspector, I am frank with you."

From a table drawer the Assistant Commissioner took a visiting-card,
which he handed to Kerry. The latter stared at it as one stares at
a rare specimen. It was the card of Lord Wrexborough, His Majesty's
Principal Secretary of State for the Home Department, and in the cramped
caligraphy of his lordship it bore a brief note, initialled, thus:

    Lord Wrexborough
    Great Cumberland Place, V. 1
    "To introduce 719. W."

Some moments of silence followed; then:

"Seven-one-nine," said Kerry in a high, strained voice. "Why
seven-one-nine? And why all this hocus-pocus? Am I to understand, sir,
that not only myself but all the Criminal Investigation Department is
under a cloud?"

The Assistant Commissioner stroked his hair.

"You are to understand, Chief Inspector, that for the first time
throughout my period of office I find myself out of touch with the Chief
Commissioner. It is not departmental for me to say so, but I believe
the Chief Commissioner finds himself similarly out of touch with the
Secretary of State. Apparently very powerful influences are at work, and
the line of conduct taken up by the Home office suggests to my mind that
collusion between the receivers and distributors of drugs and the police
is suspected by someone. That being so, possibly out of a sense of
fairness to all officially concerned, the committee which I understand
has been appointed to inquire into the traffic has decided to treat
us all alike, from myself down to the rawest constable. It's highly
irritating and preposterous, of course, but I cannot disguise from you
or from myself that we are on trial, Chief Inspector!"

Kerry stood up and slowly moved his square shoulders in the manner of
an athlete about to attempt a feat of weight-lifting. From the
Assistant Commissioner's table he took the envelope which contained his
resignation, and tore it into several portions. These he deposited in a
waste-paper basket.

"That's that!" he said. "I am very deeply indebted to you, sir. I know
now what to tell the Press."

The Assistant Commissioner glanced up.

"Not a word about 719," he said, "of course, you understand this?"

"If we don't exist as far as 719 is concerned, sir," said Kerry in his
most snappy tones, "719 means nothing to me!"

"Quite so--quite so. Of course, I may be wrong in the motives which
I ascribe to this Whitehall agent, but misunderstanding is certain to
arise out of a system of such deliberate mystification, which can only
be compared to that employed by the Russian police under the Tsars."

Half an hour later Chief Inspector Kerry came out of New Scotland Yard,
and, walking down on to the Embankment, boarded a Norwood tramcar.
The weather remained damp and gloomy, but upon the red face of Chief
Inspector Kerry, as he mounted to the upper deck of the car, rested an
expression which might have been described as one of cheery truculence.
Where other passengers, coat collars upturned, gazed gloomily from the
windows at the yellow murk overhanging the river, Kerry looked briskly
about him, smiling pleasurably.

He was homeward bound, and when he presently alighted and went swinging
along Spenser Road towards his house, he was still smiling. He regarded
the case as having developed into a competition between himself and
the man appointed by Whitehall. And it was just such a position,
disconcerting to one of less aggressive temperament, which stimulated
Chief Inspector Kerry and put him in high good humor.

Mrs. Kerry, arrayed in a serviceable rain-coat, and wearing a plain felt
hat, was standing by the dining-room door as Kerry entered. She had a
basket on her arm. "I was waiting for ye, Dan," she said simply.

He kissed her affectionately, put his arm about her waist, and the two
entered the cosy little room. By no ordinary human means was it possible
that Mary Kerry should have known that her husband would come home at
that time, but he was so used to her prescience in this respect that he
offered no comment. She "kenned" his approach always, and at times
when his life had been in danger--and these were not of infrequent
occurrence--Mary Kerry, if sleeping, had awakened, trembling, though the
scene of peril were a hundred miles away, and if awake had blanched and
known a deadly sudden fear.

"Ye'll be goin' to bed?" she asked.

"For three hours, Mary. Don't fail to rouse me if I oversleep."

"Is it clear to ye yet?"

"Nearly clear. The dark thing you saw behind it all, Mary, was dope!
Kazmah's is a secret drug-syndicate. They've appointed a Home office
agent, and he's working independently of us, but..."

His teeth came together with a snap.

"Oh, Dan," said his wife, "it's a race? Drugs? A Home office agent? Dan,
they think the Force is in it?"

"They do!" rapped Kerry. "I'm for Leman Street in three hours. If
there's double-dealing behind it, then the mugs are in the East End,
and it's folly, not knavery, I'm looking for. It's a race, Mary, and the
credit of the Service is at stake! No, my dear, I'll have a snack when I
wake. You're going shopping?"

"I am, Dan. I'd ha' started, but I wanted to see ye when ye came hame.
If ye've only three hours go straight up the now. I'll ha' something hot
a' ready when ye waken."

Ten minutes later Kerry was in bed, his short clay pipe between his
teeth, and The Meditations of Marcus Aurelius in his hand. Such was his
customary sleeping-draught, and it had never been known to fail. Half
a pipe of Irish twist and three pages of the sad imperial author
invariably plunged Chief Inspector Kerry into healthy slumber.


CHAPTER XXV. NIGHT-LIFE OF SOHO

It was close upon midnight when Detective-Sergeant Coombes appeared in a
certain narrow West End thoroughfare, which was lined with taxicabs and
private cars. He wore a dark overcoat and a tweed cap, and although his
chin was buried in the genial folds of a woollen comforter, and his cap
was pulled down over his eyes, his sly smile could easily be detected
even in the dim light afforded by the car lamps. He seemed to have
business of a mysterious nature among the cabmen; for with each of them
in turn he conducted a brief conversation, passing unobtrusively
from cab to cab, and making certain entries in a notebook. Finally he
disappeared. No one actually saw him go, and no one had actually seen
him arrive. At one moment, however, he was there; in the next he was
gone.

Five minutes later Chief Inspector Kerry entered the street. His dark
overcoat and white silk muffler concealed a spruce dress suit, a fact
betrayed by black, braided trousers, unusually tight-fitting, and boots
which almost glittered. He carried the silver-headed malacca cane, and
had retained his narrow-brimmed howler at its customary jaunty angle.

Passing the lines of waiting vehicles, he walked into the entrance of
a popular night-club which faced the narrow street. On a lounge
immediately inside the doorway a heated young man was sitting fanning
his dancing partner and gazing into her weakly pretty face in vacuous
adoration.

Kerry paused for a moment, staring at the pair. The man returned his
stare, looking him up and down in a manner meant to be contemptuous.
Kerry's fierce, intolerant gaze became transferred to the face and then
the figure of the woman. He tilted his hat further forward and turned
aside. The woman's glance followed him, to the marked disgust of her
companion.

"Oh," she whispered, "what a delightfully savage man! He looks
positively uncivilized. I have no doubt he drags women about by their
hair. I do hope he's a member!"

Mollie Gretna spoke loudly enough for Kerry to hear her, but unmoved
by her admiration he stepped up to the reception office. He was in high
good humor. He had spent the afternoon agreeably, interviewing certain
officials charged with policing the East End of London, and had
succeeded, to quote his own language, "in getting a gale up."
Despite the coldness of the weather, he had left two inspectors and a
speechlessly indignant superintendent bathed in perspiration.

"Are you a member, sir?" inquired the girl behind the desk.

Kerry smiled genially. A newsboy thrust open the swing-door, yelling:
"Bond Street murder! A fresh development. Late speshul!"

"Oh!" cried Mollie Gretna to her companion, "get me a paper. Be quick! I
am so excited!"

Kerry took up a pen, and in large bold hand-writing inscribed the
following across two pages of the visitors' book:

"Chief Inspector Kerry. Criminal Investigation Department."

He laid a card on the open book, and, thrusting his cane under his arm,
walked to the head of the stairs.

"Cloak-room on the right, sir," said an attendant.

Kerry paused, glancing over his shoulder and chewing audibly. Then he
settled his hat more firmly upon his red head and descended the stairs.
The attendant went to inspect the visitors' book, but Mollie Gretna was
at the desk before him, and:

"Oh, Bill!" she cried to her annoyed cavalier, "it's Inspector
Kerry--who is in charge of poor Lucy's murder! Oh, Bill! this is lovely!
Something is going to happen! Do come down!"

Followed by the obedient but reluctant "Bill," Mollie ran downstairs,
and almost into the arms of a tall dark girl, who, carrying a purple
opera cloak, was coming up.

"You're not going yet, Dickey?" said Mollie, throwing her arm around the
other's waist.

"Ssh!" whispered "Dickey." "Inspector Kerry is here! You don't want to
be called as a witness at nasty inquests and things, do you?"

"Good heavens, my dear, no! But why should I be?"

"Why should any of us? But don't you see they are looking for the people
who used to go to Kazmah's? It's in the paper tonight. We shall all be
served with subpoenas. I'm off!"

Escaping from Mollie's embrace, the tall girl ran up the stairs, kissing
her hand to Bill as she passed. Mollie hesitated, looking all about the
crowded room for Chief Inspector Kerry. Presently she saw him, standing
nearly opposite the stairway, his intolerant blue eyes turning right and
left, so that the fierce glance seemed to miss nothing and no one in the
room. Hands thrust in his overcoat pockets and his cane held under
his arm, he inspected the place and its occupants as a very aggressive
country cousin might inspect the monkey-house at the Zoo. To Mollie's
intense disappointment he persistently avoided looking in her direction.

Although a popular dance was on the point of commencing, several
visitors had suddenly determined to leave. Kerry pretended to be
ignorant of the sensation which his appearance had created, passing
slowly along the room and submitting group after group to deliberate
scrutiny; but as news flies through an Eastern bazaar the name of the
celebrated detective, whose association with London's latest crime
was mentioned by every evening paper in the kingdom, sped now on magic
wings, so that there was a muted charivari out of which, in every key
from bass to soprano, arose ever and anon the words "Chief Inspector
Kerry."

"It's perfectly ridiculous but characteristically English," drawled
one young man, standing beside Mollie Gretna, "to send out a bally
red-headed policeman in preposterous glad-rags to look for a clever
criminal. Kerry is well known to all the crooks, and nobody could
mistake him. Damn silly--damn silly!"

As "damn silly" Kerry's open scrutiny of the members and visitors must
have appeared to others, but it was a deliberate policy very popular
with the Chief Inspector, and termed by him "beating." Possessed of
an undisguisable personality, Kerry had found a way of employing his
natural physical peculiarities to his professional advantage. Where
other investigators worked in the dark, secretly, Red Kerry sought the
limelight--at the right time. That every hour lost in getting on
the track of the mysterious Kazmah was a point gained by the equally
mysterious man from Whitehall he felt assured, and although the
elaborate but hidden mechanism of New Scotland Yard was at work seeking
out the patrons of the Bond Street drug-shop, Kerry was indisposed to
await the result.

He had been in the night club only about ten minutes, but during those
ten minutes fully a dozen people had more or less hurriedly departed.
Because of the arrangements already made by Sergeant Coombes, the
addresses of many of these departing visitors would be in Kerry's
possession ere the night was much older. And why should they have fled,
incontinent, if not for the reason that they feared to become involved
in the Kazmah affair? All the cabmen had been warned, and those
fugitives who had private cars would be followed.

It was a curious scene which Kerry surveyed, a scene to have interested
philosopher and politician alike. For here were representatives of every
stratum of society, although some of those standing for the lower strata
were suitably disguised. The peerage was well represented, so was Judah;
there were women entitled to wear coronets dancing with men entitled to
wear the broad arrow, and men whose forefathers had signed Magna Charta
dancing with chorus girls from the revues and musical comedies.

Waiting until the dance was fully in progress, Inspector Kerry walked
slowly around the room in the direction of the stair. Parties seated at
tables were treated each to an intolerant stare, alcoves were inspected,
and more than one waiter meeting the gaze of the steely eyes, felt a
prickling of conscience and recalled past peccadilloes.

Bill had claimed Mollie Gretna for the dance, but:

"No, Bill," she had replied, watching Kerry as if enthralled; "I don't
want to dance. I am watching Chief Inspector Kerry."

"That's evident," complained the young man. "Perhaps you would like to
spend the rest of the night in Bow Street?"

"Oh," whispered Mollie, "I should love it! I have never been arrested,
but if ever I am I hope it will be by Chief Inspector Kerry. I am
positive he would haul me away in handcuffs!"

When Kerry came to the foot of the stairs, Mollie quite deliberately got
in his way, murmured an apology, and gave him a sidelong gaze through
lowered lashes, which was more eloquent than any thesis. He smiled with
fierce geniality, looked her up and down, and proceeded to mount the
stairs, with never a backward glance.

His genius for criminal investigation possessed definite limitations. He
could not perhaps have been expected in tactics so completely opposed to
those which he had anticipated to recognize the presence of a valuable
witness. Student of human nature though undoubtedly he was, he had
not solved the mystery of that outstanding exception which seems to be
involved in every rule.

Thus, a fellow with a low forehead and a weakly receding chin, Kerry
classified as a dullard, a witling, unaware that if the brow were but
low enough and the chin virtually absent altogether he might stand in
the presence of a second Daniel. Physiognomy is a subtle science, and
the exceptions to its rules are often of a sensational character. In the
same way Kerry looked for evasion, and, where possible, flight, on
the part of one possessing a guilty conscience. Mollie Gretna was a
phenomenal exception to a rule otherwise sound. And even one familiar
with criminal psychology might be forgiven for failing to detect guilt
in a woman anxious to make the acquaintance of a prominent member of the
Criminal Investigation Department.

Pausing for a moment in the entrance of the club, and chewing
reflectively, Kerry swung open the door and walked out into the street.
He had one more cover to "beat," and he set off briskly, plunging into
the mazes of Soho crossing Wardour Street into old Compton Street, and
proceeding thence in the direction of Shaftesbury Avenue. Turning to
the right on entering the narrow thoroughfare for which he was bound,
he stopped and whistled softly. He stood in the entrance to a court; and
from further up the court came an answering whistle.

Kerry came out of the court again, and proceeded some twenty paces along
the street to a restaurant. The windows showed no light, but the door
remained open, and Kerry entered without hesitation, crossed a darkened
room and found himself in a passage where a man was seated in a little
apartment like that of a stage-door keeper. He stood up, on hearing
Kerry's tread, peering out at the newcomer.

"The restaurant is closed, sir."

"Tell me a better one," rapped Kerry. "I want to go upstairs."

"Your card, sir."

Kerry revealed his teeth in a savage smile and tossed his card on to the
desk before the concierge. He passed on, mounting the stairs at the end
of the passage. Dimly a bell rang; and on the first landing Kerry met a
heavily built foreign gentleman, who bowed.

"My dear Chief Inspector," he said gutturally, "what is this, please? I
trust nothing is wrong, eh?"

"Nothing," replied Kerry. "I just want to look round."

"A few friends," explained the suave alien, rubbing his hands together
and still bowing, "remain playing dominoes with me."

"Very good," rapped Kerry. "Well, if you think we have given them time
to hide the 'wheel' we'll go in. Oh, don't explain. I'm not worrying
about sticklebacks tonight. I'm out for salmon."

He opened a door on the left of the landing and entered a large
room which offered evidence of having been hastily evacuated by a
considerable company. A red and white figured cloth of a type much
used in Continental cafes had been spread upon a long table, and three
foreigners, two men and an elderly woman, were bending over a row of
dominoes set upon one corner of the table. Apparently the men were
playing and the woman was watching. But there was a dense cloud of cigar
smoke in the room, and mingled with its pungency were sweeter scents. A
number of empty champagne bottles stood upon a sideboard and an elegant
silk theatre-bag lay on a chair.

"H'm," said Kerry, glaring fiercely from the bottles to the players, who
covertly were watching him. "How you two smarts can tell a domino from a
door-knocker after cracking a dozen magnums gets me guessing."

He took up the scented bag and gravely handed it to the old woman.

"You have mislaid your bag, madam," he said. "But, fortunately, I
noticed it as I came in."

He turned the glance of his fierce eyes upon the man who had met him on
the landing, and who had followed him into the room.

"Third floor, von Hindenburg," he rapped. "Don't argue. Lead the way."

For one dangerous moment the man's brow lowered and his heavy face grew
blackly menacing. He exchanged a swift look with his friends seated at
the disguised roulette table. Kerry's jaw muscles protruded enormously.

"Give me another answer like that," he said in a tone of cold ferocity,
"and I'll kick you from here to Paradise."

"No offense--no offense," muttered the man, quailing before the savagery
of the formidable Chief Inspector. "You come this way, please. Some
ladies call upon me this evening, and I do not want to frighten them."

"No," said Kerry, "you wouldn't, naturally." He stood aside as a door
at the further end of the room was opened. "After you, my friend. I said
'lead the way.'"

They mounted to the third floor of the restaurant. The room which they
had just quitted was used as an auxiliary dining and supper-room before
midnight, as Kerry knew. After midnight the centre table was unmasked,
and from thence onward to dawn, sometimes, was surrounded by roulette
players. The third floor he had never visited, but he had a shrewd idea
that it was not entirely reserved for the private use of the proprietor.

A babel of voices died away as the two men walked into a room rather
smaller than that below and furnished with little tables, cafe fashion.
At one end was a grand piano and a platform before which a velvet
curtain was draped. Some twenty people, men and women, were in the
place, standing looking towards the entrance. Most of the men and all
the women but one were in evening dress; but despite this common armor
of respectability, they did not all belong to respectable society.

Two of the women Kerry recognized as bearers of titles, and one was
familiar to him as a screen-beauty. The others were unclassifiable, but
all were fashionably dressed with the exception of a masculine-looking
lady who had apparently come straight off a golf course, and who later
was proved to be a well-known advocate of woman's rights. The men all
belonged to familiar types. Some of them were Jews.

Kerry, his feet widely apart and his hands thrust in his overcoat
pockets, stood staring at face after face and chewing slowly. The
proprietor glanced apologetically at his patrons and shrugged. Silence
fell upon the company. Then:

"I am a police officer," said Kerry sharply. "You will file out past me,
and I want a card from each of you. Those who have no cards will write
name and address here."

He drew a long envelope and a pencil from a pocket of his dinner jacket.
Laying the envelope and pencil on one of the little tables:

"Quick march!" he snapped. "You, sir!" shooting out his forefinger in
the direction of a tall, fair young man, "step out!"

Glancing helplessly about him, the young man obeyed, and approaching
Kerry:

"I say, officer," he whispered nervously, "can't you manage to keep
my name out of it? I mean to say, my people will kick up the deuce.
Anything up to a tenner...."

The whisper faded away. Kerry's expression had grown positively
ferocious.

"Put your card on the table," he said tersely, "and get out while my
hands stay in my pockets!"

Hurriedly the noble youth (he was the elder son of an earl) complied,
and departed. Then, one by one, the rest of the company filed past the
Chief Inspector. He challenged no one until a Jew smilingly laid a card
on the table bearing the legend: "Mr. John Jones, Lincoln's Inn Fields."

"Hi!" rapped Kerry, grasping the man's arm. "One moment, Mr. 'Jones'!
The card I want is in the other case. D'you take me for a mug? That
'Jones' trick was tried on Noah by the blue-faced baboon!"

His perception of character was wonderful. At some of the cards he did
not even glance; and upon the women he wasted no time at all. He took it
for granted that they would all give false names, but since each of them
would be followed it did not matter. When at last the room was emptied,
he turned to the scowling proprietor, and:

"That's that!" he said. "I've had no instructions about your
establishment, my friend, and as I've seen nothing improper going on I'm
making no charge, at the moment. I don't want to know what sort of show
takes place on your platform, and I don't want to know anything about
you that I don't know already. You're a Swiss subject and a dark horse."

He gathered up the cards from the table, glancing at them carelessly.
He did not expect to gain much from his possession of these names and
addresses. It was among the women that he counted upon finding patrons
of Kazmah and Company. But as he was about to drop the cards into his
overcoat pocket, one of them, which bore a written note, attracted his
attention.

At this card he stared like a man amazed; his face grew more and more
red, and:

"Hell!" he said--"Hell! which of 'em was it?"

The card contained the following:--

    Lord Wrexborough
    Great Cumberland Place, V. 1
    "To introduce 719. W."


CHAPTER XXVI. THE MOODS OF MOLLIE

Early the following morning Margaret Halley called upon Mollie Gretna.

Mollie's personality did not attract Margaret. The two had nothing in
common, but Margaret was well aware of the nature of the tie which had
bound Rita Irvin to this empty and decadent representative of English
aristocracy. Mollie Gretna was entitled to append the words "The
Honorable" to her name, but not only did she refrain from doing so but
she even preferred to be known as "Gretna"--the style of one of the
family estates.

This pseudonym she had adopted shortly after her divorce, when she had
attempted to take up a stage career. But although the experience had
proved disastrous, she had retained the nom de guerre, and during the
past four years had several times appeared at war charity garden-parties
as a classical dancer--to the great delight of the guests and greater
disgust of her family. Her maternal uncle, head of her house, said to
be the most blase member of the British peerage and known as "the noble
tortoise," was generally considered to have pronounced the final verdict
upon his golden-haired niece when he declared "she is almost amusing."

Mollie received her visitor with extravagant expressions of welcome.

"My dear Miss Halley," she cried, "how perfectly sweet of you to come to
see me! of course, I can guess what you have called about. Look! I
have every paper published this morning in London! Every one! Oh! poor,
darling little Rita! What can have become of her!"

Tears glistened upon her carefully made-up lashes, and so deep did her
grief seem to be that one would never have suspected that she had spent
the greater part of the night playing bridge at a "mixed" club in Dover
Street, and from thence had proceeded to a military "breakfast-dance."

"It is indeed a ghastly tragedy," said Margaret. "It seems incredible
that she cannot be traced."

"Absolutely incredible!" declared Mollie, opening a large box of
cigarettes. "Will you have one, dear?"

"No, thanks. By the way, they are not from Buenos Ayres, I suppose?"

Mollie, cigarette in hand, stared, round-eyed, and:

"Oh, my dear Miss Halley!" she cried, "what an idea! Such a funny thing
to suggest."

Margaret smiled coolly.

"Poor Sir Lucien used to smoke cigarettes of that kind," she explained,
"and I thought perhaps you smoked them, too."

Mollie shook her head and lighted the cigarette.

"He gave me one once, and it made me feel quite sick," she declared.

Margaret glanced at the speaker, and knew immediately that Mollie had
determined to deny all knowledge of the drug coterie. Because there is
no problem of psychology harder than that offered by a perverted mind,
Margaret was misled in ascribing this secrecy to a desire to avoid
becoming involved in a scandal. Therefore:

"Do you quite realize, Miss Gretna," she said quietly, "that every hour
wasted now in tracing Rita may mean, must mean, an hour of agony for
her?"

"Oh, don't! please don't!" cried Mollie, clasping her hands. "I cannot
bear to think of it."

"God knows in whose hands she is. Then there is poor Mr. Irvin. He is
utterly prostrated. One shudders to contemplate his torture as the hours
and the days go by and no news comes of Rita."

"Oh, my dear! you are making me cry!" exclaimed Mollie. "If only I could
do something to help...."

Margaret was studying her closely, and now for the first time she
detected sincere emotion in Mollie's voice--and unforced tears in her
eyes. Hope was reborn.

"Perhaps you can," she continued, speaking gently. "You knew all Rita's
friends and all Sir Lucien's. You must have met the woman called Mrs.
Sin?"

"Mrs. Sin," whispered Mollie, staring in a frightened way so that the
pupils of her eyes slowly enlarged. "What about Mrs. Sin?"

"Well, you see, they seem to think that through Mrs. Sin they will be
able to trace Kazmah; and wherever Kazmah is one would expect to find
poor Rita."

Mollie lowered her head for a moment, then glanced quickly at the
speaker, and quickly away again.

"Please let me explain just what I mean," continued Margaret. "It seems
to be impossible to find anybody in London who will admit having known
Mrs. Sin or Kazmah. They are all afraid of being involved in the case,
of course. Now, if you can help, don't hesitate for that reason. A
special commission has been appointed by Lord Wrexborough to deal with
the case, and their agent is working quite independently of the
police. Anything which you care to tell him will be treated as strictly
confidential; but think what it may mean to Rita."

Mollie clasped her hands about her right knee and rocked to and fro in
her chair.

"No one knows who Kazmah is," she said.

"But a number of people seem to know Mrs. Sin. I am sure you must have
met her?"

"If I say that I know her, shall I be called as a witness?"

"Certainly not. I can assure you of that."

Mollie continued to rock to and fro.

"But if I were to tell the police I should have to go to court, I
suppose?"

"I suppose so," replied Margaret. "I am afraid I am dreadfully ignorant
of such matters. It might depend upon whether you spoke to a high
official or to a subordinate one; an ordinary policeman for instance.
But the Home office agent has nothing whatever to do with Scotland
Yard."

Mollie stood up in order to reach an ash-tray, and:

"I really don't think I have anything to say, Miss Halley," she
declared. "I have certainly met Mrs. Sin, but I know nothing whatever
about her, except that I believe she is a Jewess."

Margaret sighed, looking up wistfully into Mollie's face. "Are you
quite sure?" she pleaded. "Oh, Miss Gretna, if you know
anything--anything--don't hide it now. It may mean so much."

"Oh, I quite understand that," cried Mollie. "My heart simply aches and
aches when I think of poor, sweet little Rita. But--really I don't think
I can be of the least tiny bit of use."

Their glances met, and Margaret read hostility in the shallow eyes.
Mollie, who had been wavering, now for some reason had become confirmed
in her original determination to remain silent. Margaret stood up.

"It is no good, then," she said. "We must hope that Rita will be traced
by the police. Good-bye, Miss Gretna. I am so sorry you cannot help."

"And so am I!" declared Mollie. "It is perfectly sweet of you to take
such an interest, and I feel a positive worm. But what can I do?"

As Margaret was stepping into her little runabout car, which awaited her
at the door, a theory presented itself to account for Mollie's sudden
hostility. It had developed, apparently, as a result of Margaret's
reference to the Home office inquiry. Of course! Mollie would naturally
be antagonistic to a commission appointed to suppress the drug traffic.

Convinced that this was the correct explanation, Margaret drove away,
reflecting bitterly that she had been guilty of a strategical error
which it was now too late to rectify.

In common with others, Kerry among them, who had come in contact with
that perverted intelligence, she misjudged Mollie's motives. In the
first place, the latter had no wish to avoid publicity, and in the
second place--although she sometimes wondered vaguely what she should
do when her stock of drugs became exhausted--Mollie was prompted by
no particular animosity toward the Home office inquiry. She had merely
perceived a suitable opportunity to make the acquaintance of the fierce
red Chief Inspector, and at the same time to secure notoriety for
herself.

Ere Margaret's car had progressed a hundred yards from the door, Mollie
was at the telephone.

"City 400, please," she said.

An interval elapsed, then:

"Is that the Commissioner's office, New Scotland Yard?" she asked.

A voice replied that it was.

"Could you put me through to Chief Inspector Kerry?"

"What name?" inquired the voice.

Mollie hesitated for three seconds, and then gave her family name.

"Very well, madam," said the voice respectfully. "Please hold on, and I
will enquire if the Chief Inspector is here."

Mollie's heart was beating rapidly with pleasurable excitement, and she
was as confused as a maiden at her first rendezvous. Then:

"Hello," said the voice.

"Yes?"

"I am sorry, madam. But Chief Inspector Kerry is off duty."

"Oh, dear!" sighed Mollie, "what a pity. Can you tell me where I could
find him?"

"I am afraid not, madam. It is against the rules to give private
addresses of members of any department."

"Oh, very well." She sighed again. "Thank you."

She replaced the receiver and stood biting her finger thoughtfully. She
was making a mental inventory of her many admirers and wondering which
of them could help her. Suddenly she came to a decision on the point.
Taking up the receiver:

"Victoria 8440, please," she said.

Still biting one finger she waited, until:

"Foreign office," announced a voice.

"Please put me through to Mr. Archie Boden-Shaw," she said.

Ere long that official's secretary was inquiring her name, and a moment
later:

"Is that you, Archie?" said Mollie. "Yes! Mollie speaking. No, please
listen, Archie! You can get to know everything at the Foreign office,
and I want you to find out for me the private address of Chief Inspector
Kerry, who is in charge of the Bond Street murder case. Don't be silly!
I've asked Scotland Yard, but they won't tell me. You can find out....
It doesn't matter why I want to know.... Just ring me up and tell me.
I must know in half an hour. Yes, I shall be seeing you tonight.
Good-bye...."

Less than half an hour later, the obedient Archie rang up, and Mollie,
all excitement, wrote the following address in a dainty scented notebook
which she carried in her handbag.

    CHIEF INSPECTOR KERRY,
    67 Spenser Road, Brixton.


CHAPTER XXVII. CROWN EVIDENCE

The appearance of the violet-enamelled motor brougham upholstered in
cream, and driven by a chauffeur in a violet and cream livery, created
some slight sensation in Spenser Road, S.E. Mollie Gretna's conspicuous
car was familiar enough to residents in the West End of London, but to
lower middle-class suburbia it came as something of a shock. More than
one window curtain moved suspiciously, suggesting a hidden but watchful
presence, when the glittering vehicle stopped before the gate of number
67; and the lady at number 68 seized an evidently rare opportunity to
come out and polish her letter-box.

She was rewarded by an unobstructed view of the smartest woman in London
(thus spake society paragraphers) and of the most expensive set of
furs in Europe, also of a perfectly gowned slim figure. Of Mollie's
disdainful face, with its slightly uptilted nose, she had no more than a
glimpse.

A neat maid, evidently Scotch, admitted the dazzling visitor to number
67; and Spenser Road waited and wondered. It was something to do with
the Bond Street murder! Small girls appeared from doorways suddenly
opened and darted off to advise less-watchful neighbors.

Kerry, who had been at work until close upon dawn in the mysterious
underworld of Soho was sleeping, but Mrs. Kerry received Mollie in a
formal little drawing-room, which, unlike the cosy, homely dining-room,
possessed that frigid atmosphere which belongs to uninhabited
apartments. In a rather handsome cabinet were a number of trophies
associated with the detective's successful cases. The cabinet itself
was a present from a Regent Street firm for whom Kerry had recovered
valuable property.

Mary Kerry, dressed in a plain blouse and skirt, exhibited no trace of
nervousness in the presence of her aristocratic and fashionable caller.
Indeed, Mollie afterwards declared that "she was quite a ladylike
person. But rather tin tabernacley, my dear."

"Did ye wish to see Chief Inspector Kerry parteecularly?" asked Mary,
watching her visitor with calm, observant eyes.

"Oh, most particularly!" cried Mollie, in a flutter of excitement. "Of
course I don't know what you must think of me for calling at such a
preposterous hour, but there are some things that simply can't wait."

"Aye," murmured Mrs. Kerry. "'Twill be yon Bond Street affair?"

"Oh, yes, it is, Mrs. Kerry. Doesn't the very name of Bond Street turn
your blood cold? I am simply shivering with fear!"

"As the wife of a Chief Inspector I am maybe more used to tragedies than
yoursel', madam. But it surely is a sair grim business. My husband
is resting now. He was hard at work a' the night. Nae doubt ye'll be
wishin' tee see him privately?"

"Oh, if you please. I am so sorry to disturb him. I can imagine that he
must be literally exhausted after spending a whole night among dreadful
people."

Mary Kerry stood up.

"If ye'll excuse me for a moment I'll awaken him," she said. "Our
household is sma'."

"Oh, of course! I quite understand, Mrs. Kerry! So sorry. But so good of
you."

"Might I offer ye a glass o' sherry an' a biscuit?"

"I simply couldn't dream of troubling you! Please don't suggest such a
thing. I feel covered with guilt already. Many thanks nevertheless."

Mary Kerry withdrew, leaving Mollie alone. As soon as the door closed
Mollie stood up and began to inspect the trophies in the cabinet. She
was far too restless and excited to remain sitting down. She looked
at the presentation clock on the mantelpiece and puzzled over the
signatures engraved upon a large silver dish which commemorated the joy
displayed by the Criminal Investigation Department upon the occasion of
Kerry's promotion to the post of Chief Inspector.

The door opened and Kerry came in. He had arisen and completed his
toilet in several seconds less than five minutes. But his spotlessly
neat attire would have survived inspection by the most lynx-eyed
martinet in the Brigade of Guards. As he smiled at his visitor with
fierce geniality, Mollie blushed like a young girl.

Chief Inspector Kerry was a much bigger man than she had believed him to
be. The impression left upon her memory by his brief appearance at the
night club had been that of a small, dapper figure. Now, as he stood in
the little drawing-room, she saw that he was not much if anything below
the average height of Englishmen, and that he possessed wonderfully
broad shoulders. In fact, Kerry was deceptive. His compact neatness and
the smallness of his feet and hands, together with those swift, lithe
movements which commonly belong to men of light physique, curiously
combined to deceive the beholder, but masked eleven stones (*note: 1
stone = 14 pounds) of bone and muscle.

"Very good of you to offer information, miss," he said. "I'm willing to
admit that I can do with it."

He opened a bureau and took out a writing-block and a fountain pen. Then
he turned and stared hard at Mollie. She quickly lowered her eyes.

"Excuse me," said Kerry, "but didn't I see you somewhere last night?"

"Yes," she said. "I was sitting just inside the door at--"

"Right! I remember," interrupted Kerry. He continued to stare. "Before
you say any more, miss, I have to remind you that I am a police officer,
and that you may be called upon to swear to the truth of any information
you may give me."

"Oh, of course! I know."

"You know? Very well, then; we can get on. Who gave you my address?"

At the question, so abruptly asked, Mollie felt herself blushing again.
It was delightful to know that she could still blush. "Oh--I... that is,
I asked Scotland Yard "

She bestowed a swift, half-veiled glance at her interrogator, but he
offered her no help, and:

"They wouldn't tell me," she continued. "So--I had to find out. You see,
I heard you were trying to get information which I thought perhaps I
could give."

"So you went to the trouble to find my private address rather than to
the nearest police station," said Kerry. "Might I ask you from whom you
heard that I wanted this information?"

"Well--it's in the papers, isn't it?"

"It is certainly. But it occurred to me that someone... connected might
have told you as well."

"Actually, someone did: Miss Margaret Halley."

"Good!" rapped Kerry. "Now we're coming to it. She told you to come to
me?"

"Oh, no!" cried Mollie--"she didn't. She told me to tell her so that she
could tell the Home office."

"Eh?" said Kerry, "eh?" He bent forward, staring fiercely. "Please tell
me exactly what Miss Halley wanted to know."

The intensity of his gaze Mollie found very perturbing, but:

"She wanted me to tell her where Mrs. Sin lived," she replied.

Kerry experienced a quickening of the pulse. In the failure of the
C.I.D. to trace the abode of the notorious Mrs. Sin he had suspected
double-dealing. He counted it unbelievable that a figure so conspicuous
in certain circles could evade official quest even for forty-eight
hours. K Division's explanation, too, that there were no less than
eighty Chinamen resident in and about Limehouse whose names either began
or ended with Sin, he looked upon as a paltry evasion. That very morning
he had awakened from a species of nightmare wherein 719 had affected
the arrest of Kazmah and Mrs. Sin and had rescued Mrs. Irvin from the
clutches of the former. Now--here was hope. 719 would seem to be as
hopelessly in the dark as everybody else.

"You refused?" he rapped.

"Of course I did, Inspector," said Mollie, with a timid, tender glance.
"I thought you were the proper person to tell."

"Then you know?" asked Kerry, unable to conceal his eagerness.

"Yes," sighed Mollie. "Unfortunately--I know. Oh Inspector, how can I
explain it to you?"

"Don't trouble, miss. Just give me the address and I'll ask no
questions!"

His keenness was thrilling, infectious. As a result of the night's
"beating" he had a list of some twenty names whose owners might have
been patrons of Kazmah and some of whom might know Mrs. Sin. But he
had learned from bitter experience how difficult it was to induce
such people to give useful evidence. There was practically no means of
forcing them to speak if they chose, from selfish motives, to be silent.
They could be forced to appear in court, but anything elicited in public
was worse than useless. Furthermore, Kerry could not afford to wait.
Mollie replied excitedly:

"Oh, Inspector, I know you will think me simply an appalling person when
I tell you; but I have been to Mrs. Sin's house--'The House of a Hundred
Raptures' she calls it--"

"Yes, yes! But--the address?"

"However can I tell you the address, Inspector? I could drive you there,
but I haven't the very haziest idea of the name of the horrible street!
One drives along dreadful roads where there are stalls and Jews for
quite an interminable time, and then over a sort of canal, and then
round to the right all among ships and horrid Chinamen. Then, there is
a doorway in a little court, and Mrs. Sin's husband sits inside a
smelly room with a positively ferocious raven who shrieks about legs and
policemen! Oh! Can I ever forget it!"

"One moment, miss, one moment," said Kerry, keeping an iron control upon
himself. "What is the name of Mrs. Sin's husband?"

"Oh, let me think! I can always remember it by recalling the croak of
the raven." She raised one hand to her brow, posing reflectively, and
began to murmur:

"Sin Sin Ah... Sin Sin Jar... Sin Sin--Oh! I have it! Sin Sin Wa!"

"Good!" rapped Kerry, and made a note on the block. "Sin Sin Wa, and he
has a pet raven, you say, who talks?"

Of this I have absorbed 23 ft., leaving 20 ft.
for the distance from the door to the corner of the room.

As we are not told anything about the position of the door my
estimate of the size of the room cannot be carried further.

A similar arrangement obtained in the library of Anne de France,
daughter of Louis XI., or as she is usually called Anne de Beaujeu[531].

Her catalogue made 19 September, 1523, records 314 titles, which I
need hardly say represent a far larger number of books.

They were arranged like those of the Duchess Margaret, on eleven
desks (_poulpitres_).

These were set round a room, with the exception of two which were placed
in the middle of it.

It is interesting to note respecting one of these, that it had a cupboard
at the end, for the contents are entered as follows: _au bout dudit
poulpitre sont enclos les livres qui s'ensuivent_, and sixteen
volumes are enumerated.

There was also a shelf set against the wall, described as _le
plus hault poulpitre le long de la dite muraille_, which contained
fifty-five volumes.

This desk was probably high up, like the one in the library of the
Duchess Margaret.

The books upon it are noted as being all covered with red velvet,
and ornamented with clasps, bosses, and corner-pieces of metal.

There were also in this library an astrolabe, and a sphere with the
signs of the Zodiac.

[Illustration: Fig. 139. S. John writing his Gospel.

From a MS.

_Hours_ in the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge.]

A desk, similar in general character to that figured in the _Ship
of Fools_, but of a curiously modern type, occurs in an Hours in
the Fitzwilliam Museum, Cambridge, executed about 1445 for Isabel,
Duchess of Brittany.

The picture (fig. 139) represents S.

John writing his Gospel.

A modification of this form of desk was common in Italy.

It is often used by painters of the fifteenth century in pictures
of the Annunciation, where it does duty as a prie-dieu.

The example I have selected (fig. 140) is from a painting by Benedetto
Bonfigli, in the church of S.

Peter at Perugia. It represents S. Jerome writing. A small circular
revolving desk, at the left-hand corner of the larger desk, holds the
work he is copying or referring to.

On the desk near the inkstand lies the pointed _stylus_ mentioned
above.

Below the cupboard containing books is a drawer.

Projecting from the top of the revolving desk, there is a vertical
rod of iron with a long horizontal arm.

This is no doubt intended to carry a lantern. I shall shortly give an
example of one in such a position.

[Illustration: Fig. 141. Circular book-desk.

From a MS. of _Fais et Gestes du Roi Alexandre_, in the British
Museum.]

[Illustration: Fig. 140. S.

Jerome writing.

From an oil painting by Benedetto Bonfigli, in the Church of S. Peter
at Perugia.]
I now return to the wheel-desk, of which I have already figured one specimen
(fig. 135). A piece of furniture consisting of one or more tables which
could be raised or depressed by means of a central screw, was very generally
used by scholars in the Middle Ages. I shall present a few of the most
common forms.

[Illustration: Fig. 142. S.

Luke writing his Gospel.

From the Dunois _Horæ_, a MS. in the possession of H. Y. Thompson, Esq.]

My first specimen is from a manuscript in the British Museum, written
and illuminated in England in the middle of the fifteenth century.

It is called _Fais et Gestes du Roi Alexandre_[532].

The picture (fig. 141) represents Alexander as a little child, standing
in front of his tutor, who is seated in one of the chairs I described
above. On the learned man's right is his book-desk. A circular table
with a rim round it to prevent the books falling off, is supported
on a central pedestal, which contains the screw.

The top of the said screw is concealed by the little Gothic turret
in the centre of the table.

This turret also supports the book which the reader has in use.

[Illustration: Fig. 143. A lady seated in her chair reading.

From a MS. written in France, early in the fifteenth century.]

My next example is from a miniature in a volume of Hours known as
the Dunois _Horæ_, also written in the middle of the fifteenth
century.

It has been slightly enlarged in order to bring out the details
more clearly.

The subject is S. Luke writing his Gospel, but the background represents
a scholar's room. There is a bookcase of a very modern type, a table
with two folio volumes lying upon it, and in the centre a hexagonal
book-desk, with a little Gothic turret as in the last example.

Round the screw under the table are four cylindrical supports, the
use of which I fail to understand, but they occur frequently on
desks of this type.

The whole piece of furniture rests on a heavy cylindrical base, and
that again on a square platform.

I now pass to a variety of the screw-desk, which has a small book-rest
above the table. The whole structure rests upon a prolongation of the
solid platform on which the reader's chair is placed, so that it
is really exactly in front of the reader.

My illustration (fig. 143) is from "The booke of the noble ladyes in
frensh," a work by Boccacio; it was written in France early in the
fifteenth century[533].

[Illustration: Fig. 144. Screw-desk.

From a fifteenth century MS. in the Bibliothèque de l'Arsenal, Paris.]
[Illustration: Fig. 145. Hexagonal desk, with central spike, probably
for a candle.

From a French MS. of _Le Miroir Historial_.]

These double desks are exceedingly common, and I might fill a large
number of pages with figures and descriptions of the variety which
the ingenuity of the cabinet-makers of the fifteenth century managed
to impart to combinations of a screw and two or more tables.

I will content myself with one more example (fig. 144) which shews
the screw exceedingly well, and the two tables above it.

The uppermost of these serves as a ledge to rest the books on, as
does also the hexagonal block above it which conceals the top of
the screw[534].

We meet occasionally with a solid desk, by which I mean one the
level of which cannot be altered.

In the example here given (fig. 145) from a French MS. of _Le Miroir
Historial_, there is a central spike which I suspect to have been
intended to carry a candle[535].

In some examples of these book-desks the pedestal is utilized as a
book-cupboard (fig. 146).

The picture which I have selected as shewing a desk of this peculiarity
is singularly beautiful, and finished in the highest style of art
available at the end of the fifteenth century in France.

It forms half of the frontispiece to a fine manuscript of Boccacio's
_Livre des cas des malheureux nobles hommes et femmes_[536].

The central figure is apparently lecturing on that moving theme,
for in front of him, in the other half of the picture, is a crowd
of men exhibiting their interest by the violence of their gestures.

On his left is the desk I mentioned; it stands on an unusually firm
base, and one side of the vertical portion is pierced by an arch,
so as to make the central cavity available for putting books in.

From the centre of the table rises a tall spike, apparently of iron,
to which is attached a horizontal arm, bearing a lighted lantern.

On the table, in addition to three books, is an inkstand and pen-case.
In front of the lecturer is a carved chest, probably one of those
book-coffers which I have already mentioned. The chair and canopy
are richly carved, and the back of the seat is partially covered by
a piece of tapestry. Further, the lecturer is allowed the unusual luxury
of a cushion.

I will next deal with the appliances for reading and writing directly
connected with the chairs in which scholars sat, and I will begin
with the desk.

[Illustration: Fig. 146. A lecturer addressing an audience.

From a MS. of _Livre des cas des malheureux nobles hommes et femmes_,
written in France at end of fifteenth century.]

[Illustration: Fig. 148.

The author of _The Chronicles of Hainault_ in his study (1446).]
[Illustration: Fig. 150.

A writer with his desk and table.

From a MS. of _Le Livre des Propriétés des Choses_ in the British
Museum.]

The simplest form of desk is a plain board, set at a suitable angle
by means of a chain or cord extending from one of its corners to
the back of the chair, while the opposite corner rests against a
peg driven into the arm of the chair.

This arrangement, variously modified, occurs very frequently;
sometimes there are two pegs and two chains, but what I may term
the normal form is shewn in my illustration (fig. 147)[537].

It is difficult to understand how the desk was kept steady.

[Illustration: Fig. 147. S. Mark writing his Gospel.

From a MS. _Hours_ written in France in the fifteenth century.]
The author whose study I shall figure next (fig. 148) is engaged in
writing the Chronicles of Hainault[538].

His desk rests securely on two irons fastened to the arms of his
chair.

On his right is a plain lectern with an open volume on each side
of it, and behind are two or more shelves set against the wall with
books lying on their sides.

On his left is a chest, presumably a book-chest, with books lying on its
closed lid. One of these is open. He has prudently placed his chair
near the window in such a position that the light falls upon his work
from the left.

It should be noted that the upper part of the window only is glazed,
the lower part being closed by shutters.

When these are thrown back, the lights are seen to be filled to
half their height with a trellis, such as was ordered for the French
king's library.

My third example of a chair fitted with a desk (fig. 149) is taken
from _Les Miracles de Notre Dame_[539], a manuscript which belonged
to Philip the Good, Duke of Burgundy, and was written for him at
the Hague in 1456.

The illustration represents S. Jerome seated in his study. From arm to
arm of the chair extends a desk of a very firm and solid construction.
The ends of this desk apparently drop into the heads of the small columns
with which the arms of the chair terminate. The saint has in his left
hand a pointed _stylus_, and in his right a pen, which he is holding
up to the light.

On the desk beside the manuscript lies an ink-horn. To the right of the
saint's chair is a hexagonal table with a high ledge round it.

There is no evidence that this table has a screw; but the small subsidiary
desk above it seems to be provided with one. It will be observed that
the support of this desk is not directly over that of the table beneath
it.
The desk is provided with two slits--an ingenious contrivance for
dealing with a roll.

On the table, besides an open book, are a pair of spectacles, four
pens, a small box which may contain French chalk for pouncing, and
what looks like a piece of sponge.

[Illustration: Fig. 149. S. Jerome in his study.

From _Les Miracle de Nostre Dame_, written at the Hague in 1456.]
I now figure two different sets of library appliances. The first
(fig.
150) is from a manuscript of the _Livre des Propriétés des Choses_,
in the British Museum, written in the fifteenth century[540].

The writer is seated in one of those low chairs which occur very
frequently in miniatures, and look as if they were cut out of a
single block of wood.

His desk, which is quite independent of the chair, is of the simplest
design, consisting of a piece of wood supported at an angle on two
carved uprights.

On his left stands a very elegant piece of furniture, a table with
a desk at a considerable height above it--so high, in fact, that
it could only be used standing.

This upper desk is fitted with a little door as though it served as a
receptacle for small objects.

[Illustration: Fig. 151. S. Luke writing his Gospel.

MSS. Douce, Bodl. Lib. Oxf., No. 381.]
The second example (fig. 151) shews S.

Luke sitting on a bench writing at a table[541]. The top, which is
very massive, rests on four legs, morticed into a frame.

In front of this table is a desk of peculiar form; the lower part resembles
a reversed cone, and the upper part a second cone of smaller
diameter, so as to leave space enough between the two bases for a
ledge to rest books on.

Round the base of the desk three quaint lions do duty as feet.

These lions occur again beneath the frame of the picture, and may
be connected with a former possessor of the manuscript.

The pedestal of the desk is a twisted column, which, like the base,
and indeed the whole structure, looks as though it were made of
brass.

[Illustration: Fig. 152. S. Augustine at his desk.

From a painting by Fra Filippo Lippi at Florence.]
[Illustration: Fig. 153. S.

Jerome reading.

From an oil painting by Catena, in the National Gallery, London.]

[Illustration: Fig. 154.

A writer at work.

From a French translation of Valerius Maximus, written and illuminated
in Flanders in 1479, for King Edward IV.]

I now pass to a totally different way of fitting up a study, which
seems to have been common in Italy, to judge by the number of
paintings in which it occurs.

It consists of a massive desk of wood, one part of which is set at
right angles to the other, and is connected in various ways with
shelves, drawers, pigeon-holes, and other contrivances for holding
books and papers.

In the example I here figure (fig. 152), from a painting by Fra Filippo
Lippi (1412-1469) representing S. Augustine's vision of the Trinity,
there are two small recesses above the desk on the saint's right,
both containing books, and behind the shorter portion of the desk,
three shelves also with books on them.

Attached to the end of the desk is a small tray, probably to contain
pens.

A similar desk occurs in the beautiful picture by Catena in the National
Gallery[542], representing S.

Jerome reading, of which I give a reproduction on a reduced scale
(fig. 153).

This picture also contains an excellent example of a cupboard in
the thickness of the wall, a contrivance for taking care of books
as common in the Middle Ages as it had been in Roman times[543].

Cupboards in the thickness of the wall are also to be seen in the
frontispiece (fig. 154) to a copy of a French translation of
Valerius Maximus[544], written in Flanders in 1479 for King Edward
IV.

The writer--probably intended for the author or the translator of
the book--is seated at a desk, consisting of a plank set at an angle
and capable of being turned aside by means of a central bracket,
like that used by the Carmelite (fig. 136).

Observe the two weights hanging over the edge of the desk and the
ends of the two horns, intended to hold ink, projecting through it.

The window, as in the picture representing the author of the
Chronicles of Hainault at work, is glazed in the upper part only,
while in the lower are two framed trellises of wire-work.

Behind the writer are two cupboards in the thickness of the wall.

One of these is open, and shews books lying on their sides, upon
which are some pomegranates.

I cannot suggest any reason for the introduction of these fruits,
except that from their colour they make a pleasing variety; but I
ought to mention that they occur very frequently in miniatures
representing a writer at work.

On the other side of the window is a small hanging cupboard.

Here again a fruit is introduced on the lowest shelf. Round the room is a
settle, raised above the floor on blocks at intervals.

The seat is probably a chest, as in the settles described above in the
Vatican Library.

The last picture (fig. 155) in this series of illustrations represents
what I like to call a scholar's room, at the beginning of the fifteenth
century[545].

The owner of the apartment is busily writing at a desk supported
on a trestle-table.

He holds a _stylus_ in his left hand, and a pen in his right.

The ink-horn he is using is inserted into the desk.

Above it are holes for two others, in case he should require ink of different
colours. Above the inkstand is a pen stuck in a hole, with vacant
holes beside it.

The page on the desk is kept flat by a weight.
Above this desk is a second desk, of nearly equal size, on which
lies an open book, kept open by a large weight, extending over
two-thirds of the open pages.

Behind the writer's chair is his book-chest.

The background represents a well-appointed chamber.

With a piece of chamois leather,
which he sometimes dipped into a little square tin, he began to polish
the hideous figure.


CHAPTER XXIX. DOUBTS AND FEARS

Monte Irvin raised his head and stared dully at Margaret Halley. It was
very quiet in the library of the big old-fashioned house at Prince's
Gate. A faint crackling sound which proceeded from the fire was clearly
audible. Margaret's grey eyes were anxiously watching the man whose
pose as he sat in the deep, saddle-back chair so curiously suggested
collapse.

"Drugs," he whispered. "Drugs."

Few of his City associates would have recognized the voice; all would
have been shocked to see the change which had taken place in the man.

"You really understand why I have told you, Mr. Irvin, don't you?" said
Margaret almost pleadingly. "Dr. Burton thought you should not be told,
but then Dr. Burton did not know you were going to ask me point blank.
And I thought it better that you should know the truth, bad as it is,
rather than--"

"Rather than suspect--worse things," whispered Irvin. "Of course, you
were right, Miss Halley. I am very, very grateful to you for telling
me. I realize what courage it must have called for. Believe me, I shall
always remember--"

He broke off, staring across the room at his wife's portrait. Then:

"If only I had known," he added.

Irvin exhibited greater composure than Margaret had ventured to
anticipate. She was confirmed in her opinion that he should be told the
truth.

"I would have told you long ago," she said, "if I had thought that any
good could result from my doing so. Frankly, I had hoped to cure Rita of
the habit, and I believe I might have succeeded in time."

"There has been no mention of drugs in connection with the case," said
Monte Irvin, speaking monotonously. "In the Press, I mean."

"Hitherto there has not," she replied. "But there is a hint of it in one
of this evening's papers, and I determined to give you the exact facts
so far as they are known to me before some garbled account came to your
ears."

"Thank you," he said, "thank you. I had felt for a long time that I was
getting out of touch with Rita, that she had other confidants. Have you
any idea who they were, Miss Halley?"

He raised his eyes, looking at her pathetically. Margaret hesitated,
then:

"Well," she replied, "I am afraid Nina knew."

"Her maid?"

"I think she must have known."

He sighed.

"The police have interrogated her," he said. "Probably she is being
watched."

"Oh, I don't think she knows anything about the drug syndicate,"
declared Margaret. "She merely acted as confidential messenger. Poor Sir
Lucien Pyne, I am sure, was addicted to drugs."

"Do you think"--Irvin spoke in a very low voice--"do you think he led
her into the habit?"

Margaret bit her lip, staring down at the red carpet.

"I would hate to slander a man who can never defend himself," she
replied finally. "But--I have sometimes thought he did."

Silence fell. Both were contemplating a theory which neither dared to
express in words.

"You see," continued Margaret, "it is evident that this man Kazmah was
patronized by people so highly placed that it is hopeless to look
for information from them. Again, such people have influence. I don't
suggest that they are using it to protect Kazmah, but I have no doubt
they are doing so to protect themselves."

Monte Irvin raised his eyes to her face. A weary, sad look had come into
them.

"You mean that it may be to somebody's interest to hush up the matter as
much as possible?"

Margaret nodded her head.

"The prevalence of the drug habit in society--especially in London
society--is a secret which has remained hidden so long from the general
public," she replied, "that one cannot help looking for bribery and
corruption. The stage is made the scapegoat whenever the voice of
scandal breathes the word 'dope,' but we rarely hear the names of the
worst offenders even whispered. I have thought for a long time that the
authorities must know the names of the receivers and distributors of
cocaine, veronal, opium, and the other drugs, huge quantities of
which find their way regularly to the West End of London. Pharmacists
sometimes experience the greatest difficulty in obtaining the drugs
which they legitimately require, and the prices have increased
extraordinarily. Cocaine, for instance, has gone up from five and
sixpence an ounce to eighty-seven shillings, and heroin from three and
sixpence to over forty shillings, while opium that was once about twenty
shillings a pound is now eight times the price."

Monte Irvin listened attentively.

"In the course of my Guildhall duties," he said slowly, "I have been
brought in contact frequently with police officers of all ranks. If
influential people are really at work protecting these villains who deal
illicitly in drugs, I don't think, and I am not prepared to believe,
that they have corrupted the police."

"Neither do I believe so, Mr. Irvin!" said Margaret eagerly.

"But," Irvin pursued, exhibiting greater animation, "you inform me that
a Home office commissioner has been appointed. What does this mean, if
not that Lord Wrexborough distrusts the police?"

"Well, you see, the police seemed to be unable, or unwilling, to do
anything in the matter. Of course, this may have been due to the
fact that the traffic was so skilfully handled that it defied their
inquiries."

"Take, as an instance, Chief Inspector Kerry," continued Irvin. "He has
exhibited the utmost delicacy and consideration in his dealings with me,
but I'll swear that a whiter man never breathed."

"Oh, really, Mr. Irvin, I don't think for a moment that men of that
class are suspected of being concerned. Indeed, I don't believe any
active collusion is suspected at all."

"Lord Wrexborough thinks that Scotland Yard hasn't got an officer clever
enough for the dope people?"

"Quite possibly."

"I take it that he has put up a secret service man?"

"I believe--that is, I know he has."

Monte Irvin was watching Margaret's face, and despite the dull misery
which deadened his usually quick perceptions, he detected a heightened
color and a faint change of expression. He did not question her further
upon the point, but:

"God knows I welcome all the help that offers," he said. "Lord
Wrexborough is your uncle, Miss Halley; but do you think this secret
commission business quite fair to Scotland Yard?"

Margaret stared for some moments at the carpet, then raised her grey
eyes and looked earnestly at the speaker. She had learned in the brief
time that had elapsed since this black sorrow had come upon him to
understand what it was in the character of Monte Irvin which had
attracted Rita. It afforded an illustration of that obscure law
governing the magnetism which subsists between diverse natures. For not
all the agony of mind which he suffered could hide or mar the cleanness
and honesty of purpose which were Monte Irvin's outstanding qualities.

"No," Margaret replied, "honestly, I don't. And I feel rather guilty
about it, too, because I have been urging uncle to take such a step
for quite a long time. You see"--she glanced at Irvin wistfully--"I am
brought in contact with so many victims of the drug habit. I believe the
police are hampered; and these people who deal in drugs manage in some
way to evade the law. The Home office agent will report to a committee
appointed by Lord Wrexborough, and then, you see, if it is found
necessary to do so, there will be special legislation."

Monte Irvin sighed wearily, and his glance strayed in the direction of
the telephone on the side-table. He seemed to be constantly listening
for something which he expected but dreaded to hear. Whenever the toy
spaniel which lay curled up on the rug before the fire moved or looked
towards the door, Irvin started and his expression changed.

"This suspense," he said jerkily, "this suspense is so hard to bear."

"Oh, Mr. Irvin, your courage is wonderful," replied Margaret earnestly.
"But he"--she hastily corrected herself--"everybody is convinced that
Rita is safe. Under some strange misapprehension regarding this awful
tragedy she has run away into hiding. Probably she has been induced to
do so by those interested in preventing her from giving evidence."

Monte Irvin's eyes lighted up strangely. "Is that the opinion of the
Home office agent?" he asked.

"Yes."

"Inspector Kerry shares it," declared Irvin. "Please God they are
right."

"It is the only possible explanation," said Margaret. "Any hour now we
may expect news of her."

"You don't think," pursued Monte Irvin, "that anybody--anybody--suspects
Rita of being concerned in the death of Sir Lucien?"

He fixed a gaze of pathetic inquiry upon her face.

"Of course not!" she cried. "How ridiculous it would be."

"Yes," he murmured, "it would be ridiculous."

Margaret stood up.

"I am quite relieved now that I have done what I conceived to be my
duty, Mr. Irvin," she said. "And, bad as the truth may be, it is better
than doubt, after all. You must look after yourself, you know. When Rita
comes back we shall have a big task before us to wean her from her old
habits." She met his glance frankly. "But we shall succeed."

"How you cheer me," whispered Monte Irvin emotionally. "You are the
truest friend that Rita ever had, Miss Halley. You will keep in touch
with me, will you not?"

"Of course. Next to yourself there is no one so sincerely interested
as I am. I love Rita as I should have loved a sister if I had had one.
Please don't stand up. Dr. Burton has told you to avoid all exertion for
a week or more, I know."

Monte Irvin grasped her outstretched hand.

"Any news which reaches me," he said, "I will communicate immediately.
Thank you. In times of trouble we learn to know our real friends."


CHAPTER XXX. THE FIGHT IN THE DARK

Towards eleven o'clock at night the fog began slightly to lift. As Kerry
crossed the bridge over Limehouse Canal he could vaguely discern the
dirty water below, and street lamps showed dimly, surrounded each by a
halo of yellow mist. Fog signals were booming on the railway, and from
the great docks in the neighborhood mechanical clashings and hammerings
were audible.

Turning to the right, Kerry walked on for some distance, and then
suddenly stepped into the entrance to a narrow cul-de-sac and stood
quite still.

A conviction had been growing upon him during the past twelve hours
that someone was persistently and cleverly dogging his footsteps. He
had first detected the presence of this mysterious follower outside the
house of Sin Sin Wa, but the density of the fog had made it impossible
for him to obtain a glimpse of the man's face. He was convinced, too,
that he had been followed back to Leman Street, and from there to New
Scotland Yard. Now, again he became aware of this persistent presence,
and hoped at last to confront the spy.

Below footsteps, the footsteps of someone proceeding with the utmost
caution, came along the pavement. Kerry stood close to the wall of the
court, one hand in a pocket of his overall, waiting and chewing.

Nearer came the footsteps--and nearer. A shadowy figure appeared only a
yard or so away from the watchful Chief Inspector. Thereupon he acted.

With one surprising spring he hurled himself upon the unprepared man,
grasped him by his coat collar, and shone the light of an electric torch
fully into his face.

"Hell!" he snapped. "The smart from Spinker's!"

The ray of the torch lighted up the mean, pinched face of Brisley,
blanched now by fright, gleamed upon the sharp, hooked nose and into the
cunning little brown eyes. Brisley licked his lips. In Kerry's muscular
grip he bore quite a remarkable resemblance to a rat in the jaws of a
terrier.

"Ho, ho!" continued the Chief Inspector, showing his teeth savagely. "So
we let Scotland Yard make the pie, and then we steal all the plums, do
we?"

He shook the frightened man until Brisley's broad-brimmed bowler was
shaken off, revealing the receding brow and scanty neutral-colored hair.

"We let Scotland Yard work night and day, and then we present our
rat-faced selves to Mr. Monte Irvin and say we have 'found the lady' do
we?" Another vigorous shake followed. "We track Chief Inspectors of
the Criminal Investigation Department, do we? We do, eh? We are dirty,
skulking mongrels, aren't we? We require to be kicked from Limehouse to
Paradise, don't we?" He suddenly released Brisley. "So we shall be!" he
shouted furiously.

Hot upon the promise came the deed.

Brisley sent up a howl of pain as Kerry's right brogue came into violent
contact with his person. The assault almost lifted him off his feet, and
hatless as he was he set off, running as a man runs whose life depends
upon his speed. The sound of his pattering footsteps was echoed from
wall to wall of the cul-de-sac until finally it was swallowed up in the
fog.

Kerry stood listening for some moments, then, directing a furious kick
upon the bowler which lay at his feet, he snapped off the light of
the torch and pursued his way. The lesser mystery was solved, but the
greater was before him.

He had made a careful study of the geography of the neighborhood, and
although the fog was still dense enough to be confusing, he found his
way without much difficulty to the street for which he was bound.
Some fifteen paces along the narrow thoroughfare he came upon someone
standing by a closed door set in a high brick wall. The street contained
no dwelling houses, and except for the solitary figure by the door was
deserted and silent. Kerry took out his torch and shone a white ring
upon the smiling countenance of Detective-Sergeant Coombes.

"If that smile gets any worse," he said irritably, "they'll have to move
your ears back. Anything to report?"

"Sin Sin Wa went to bed an hour ago."

"Any visitors?"

"No."

"Has he been out?"

"No."

"Got the ladder?"

"Yes."

"All quiet in the neighborhood?"

"All quiet."

"Good."

The street in which this conversation took place was one running roughly
parallel with that in which the house of Sin Sin Wa was situated. A
detailed search of the Chinaman's premises had failed to bring to light
any scrap of evidence to show that opium had ever been smoked there. Of
the door described by Mollie Gretna, and said to communicate with the
adjoining establishment, not a trace could be found. But the fact that
such a door had existed did not rest solely upon Mollie's testimony.
From one of the "beat-ups" interviewed that day, Kerry had succeeded in
extracting confirmatory evidence.

Inquiries conducted in the neighborhood of Poplar had brought to light
the fact that four of the houses in this particular street, including
that occupied by Sin Sin Wa and that adjoining it, belonged to a certain
Mr. Jacobs, said to reside abroad. Mr. Jacob's rents were collected
by an estate agent, and sent to an address in San Francisco. For some
reason not evident to this man of business, Mr. Jacobs demanded a rental
for the house next to Sin Sin Wa's, which was out of all proportion to
the value of the property. Hence it had remained vacant for a number of
years. The windows were broken and boarded up, as was the door.

Kerry realized that the circumstance of the landlord of "The House of
a Hundred Raptures" being named Jacobs, and the lessee of the Cubanis
Cigarette Company's premises in old Bond Street being named Isaacs,
might be no more than a coincidence. Nevertheless it was odd. He
had determined to explore the place without unduly advertising his
intentions.

Two modes of entrance presented themselves. There was a trap on the
roof, but in order to reach it access would have to be obtained to one
of the other houses in the row, which also possessed a roof-trap; or
there were four windows overlooking a little back yard, two upstairs and
two down.

By means of a short ladder which Coombes had brought for the purpose
Kerry climbed on to the wall and dropped into the yard.

"The jemmy!" he said softly.

Coombes, also mounting, dropped the required implement. Kerry caught it
deftly, and in a very few minutes had wrenched away the rough planking
nailed over one of the lower windows, without making very much noise.

"Shall I come down?" inquired Coombes in muffled tones from the top of
the wall.

"No," rapped Kerry. "Hide the ladder again. If I want help I'll whistle.
Catch!"

He tossed the jemmy up to Coombes, and Coombes succeeded in catching it.
Then Kerry raised the glass-less sash of the window and stepped into a
little room, which he surveyed by the light of his electric torch. It
was filthy and littered with rubbish, but showed no sign of having been
occupied for a long time. The ceiling was nearly black, and so were the
walls. He went out into a narrow passage similar to that in the house of
Sin Sin Wa and leading to a stair.

Walking quietly, he began to ascend. Mollie Gretna's description of the
opium-house had been most detailed and lurid, and he was prepared for
some extravagant scene.

He found three bare, dirty rooms, having all the windows boarded up.

"Hell!" he said succinctly.

Resting his torch upon a dust-coated ledge of the room, which
presumably was situated in the front of the house, he deposited a cud of
chewing-gum in the empty grate and lovingly selected a fresh piece from
the packet which he always carried. Once more chewing he returned to the
narrow passage, which he knew must be that in which the secret doorway
had opened.

It was uncarpeted and dirty, and the walls were covered with faded
filthy paper, the original color and design of which were quite lost.
There was not the slightest evidence that a door had ever existed in any
part of the wall. Following a detailed examination Kerry returned his
magnifying glass to the washleather bag and the bag to his waistcoat
pocket.

"H'm," he said, thinking aloud, "Sin Sin Wa may have only one eye, but
it's a good eye."

He raised his glance to the blackened ceiling of the passage, and saw
that the trap giving access to the roof was situated immediately above
him. He directed the ray of the torch upon it. In the next moment he had
snapped off the light and was creeping silently towards the door of the
front room.

The trap had moved slightly!

Gaining the doorway, Kerry stood just inside the room and waited. He
became conscious of a kind of joyous excitement, which claimed him at
such moments; an eagerness and a lust of action. But he stood perfectly
still, listening and waiting.

There came a faint creaking sound, and a new damp chilliness was added
to the stale atmosphere of the passage. Someone had quietly raised the
trap.

Cutting through the blackness like a scimitar shone a ray of light
from above, widening as it descended and ending in a white patch on
the floor. It was moved to and fro. Then it disappeared. Another vague
creaking sound followed--that caused by a man's weight being imposed
upon a wooden framework.

Finally came a thud on the bare boards of the floor.

Complete silence ensued. Kerry waited, muscles tense and brain alert. He
even suspended the chewing operation. A dull, padding sound reached his
ears.

From the quality of the thud which had told of the intruder's drop
from the trap to the floor, Kerry had deduced that he wore rubber-soled
shoes. Now, the sound which he could hear was that of the stranger's
furtive footsteps. He was approaching the doorway in which Kerry was
standing.

Just behind the open door Kerry waited. And unheralded by any further
sound to tell of his approach, the intruder suddenly shone a ray of
light right into the room. He was on the threshold; only the door
concealed him from Kerry, and concealed Kerry from the new-comer.

The disc of light cast into the dirty room grew smaller. The man with
the torch was entering. A hand which grasped a magazine pistol appeared
beyond the edge of the door, and Kerry's period of inactivity came to an
end. Leaning back he adroitly kicked the weapon from the hand of the man
who held it!

There was a smothered cry of pain, and the pistol fell clattering on
the floor. The light went out, too. As it vanished Kerry leapt from his
hiding-place. Snapping on the light of his own pocket lamp, he ran out
into the passage.

Crack! came the report of a pistol.

Kerry dropped flat on the floor. He had not counted on the intruder
being armed with two pistols! His pocket lamp, still alight, fell beside
him, and he lay in a curiously rigid attitude on his side, one knee
drawn up and his arm thrown across his face.

Carefully avoiding the path of light cast by the fallen torch, the
unseen stranger approached silently. Pistol in hand, he bent, nearer and
nearer, striving to see the face of the prostrate man. Kerry lay deathly
still. The other dropped on one knee and bent closely over him....

Swiftly as a lash Kerry's arm was whipped around the man's neck, and
helpless he pitched over on to his head! Uttering a dull groan, he lay
heavy and still across Kerry's body.

"Flames!" muttered the Chief Inspector, extricating himself; "I didn't
mean to break his neck."

He took up the electric torch, and shone it upon the face of the man on
the floor. It was a dirty, unshaven face, unevenly tanned, as though
the man had worn a beard until quite recently and had come from a hot
climate. He was attired in a manner which suggested that he might be a
ship's fireman save that he wore canvas shoes having rubber soles.

Kerry stood watching him for some moments. Then he groped behind him
with one foot until he found the pistol, the second pistol which the man
had dropped as he pitched on his skull. Kerry picked it up, and resting
the electric torch upon the crown of his neat bowler hat--which lay upon
the floor--he stooped, pistol in hand, and searched the pockets of the
prostrate man, who had begun to breathe stertorously. In the breast
pocket he found a leather wallet of good quality; and at this he stared,
a curious expression coming into his fierce eyes. He opened it, and
found Treasury notes, some official-looking papers, and a number of
cards. Upon one of these cards be directed the light, and this is what
he read:

    Lord Wrexborough
    Great Cumberland Place, V. 1
    "To introduce 719. W."

"God's truth!" gasped Kerry. "It's the man from Whitehall!"

The stertorous breathing ceased, and a very dirty hand was thrust up to
him.

"I'm glad you spoke, Chief Inspector Kerry," drawled a vaguely familiar
voice. "I was just about to kick you in the back of the neck!"

Kerry dropped the wallet and grasped the proffered hand. "719" stood
up, smiling grimly. Footsteps were clattering on the stairs. Coombes had
heard the shot.

"Sir," said Kerry, "if ever you need a testimonial to your efficiency
at this game, my address is Sixty-seven Spenser Road, Brixton. We've met
before."

"We have, Chief Inspector," was the reply. "We met at Kazmah's, and
later at a certain gambling den in Soho."

The pseudo fireman dragged a big cigar-case from his hip-pocket.

"I'm known as Seton Pasha. Can I offer you a cheroot?"


CHAPTER XXXI. THE STORY OF 719

In a top back room of the end house in the street which also boasted the
residence of Sin Sin Wa, Seton Pasha and Chief Inspector Kerry sat one
on either side of a dirty deal table. Seton smoked and Kerry chewed. A
smoky oil-lamp burned upon the table, and two notebooks lay beside it.

"It is certainly odd," Seton was saying, "that you failed to break my
neck. But I have made it a practice since taking up my residence here
to wear a cap heavily padded. I apprehend sandbags and pieces of loaded
tubing."

"The tube is not made," declared Kerry, "which can do the job. You're
harder to kill than a Chinese-Jew."

"Your own escape is almost equally remarkable," added Seton. "I rarely
miss at such short range. But you had nearly broken my wrist with that
kick."

"I'm sorry," said Kerry. "You should always bang a door wide open
suddenly before you enter into a suspected room. Anybody standing behind
usually stops it with his head."

"I am indebted for the hint, Chief Inspector. We all have something to
learn."

"Well, sir, we've laid our cards on the table, and you'll admit we've
both got a lot to learn before we see daylight. I'll be obliged if
you'll put me wise to your game. I take it you began work on the very
night of the murder?"

"I did. By a pure accident--the finding of an opiated cigarette in Mr.
Gray's rooms--I perceived that the business which had led to my recall
from the East was involved in the Bond Street mystery. Frankly, Chief
Inspector, I doubted at that time if it were possible for you and me to
work together. I decided to work alone. A beard which I had worn in the
East, for purposes of disguise, I shaved off; and because the skin was
whiter where the hair had grown than elsewhere, I found it necessary
after shaving to powder my face heavily. This accounts for the
description given to you of a man with a pale face. Even now the
coloring is irregular, as you may notice.

"Deciding to work anonymously, I went post haste to Lord Wrexhorough
and made certain arrangements whereby I became known to the responsible
authorities as 719. The explanation of these figures is a simple one. My
name is Greville Seton. G is the seventh letter in the alphabet, and S
the nineteenth; hence--'seven-nineteen.'

"The increase of the drug traffic and the failure of the police to cope
with it had led to the institution of a Home office inquiry, you see.
It was suspected that the traffic was in the hands of orientals, and in
looking about for a confidential agent to make certain inquiries my name
cropped up. I was at that time employed by the Foreign office, but Lord
Wrexborough borrowed me." Seton smiled at his own expression. "Every
facility was offered to me, as you know. And that my investigations led
me to the same conclusion as your own, my presence as lessee of this
room, in the person of John Smiles, seaman, sufficiently demonstrates."

"H'm," said Kerry, "and I take it your investigations have also led you
to the conclusion that our hands are clean?"

Seton Pasha fixed his cool regard upon the speaker.

"Personally, I never doubted this, Chief Inspector," he declared. "I
believed, and I still believe, that the people who traffic in drugs are
clever enough to keep in the good books of the local police. It is a
case of clever camouflage, rather than corruption."

"Ah," snapped Kerry. "I was waiting to hear you mention it. So long as
we know. I'm not a man that stands for being pointed at. I've got a
boy at a good public school, but if ever he said he was ashamed of his
father, the day he said it would be a day he'd never forget!"

Seton Pasha smiled grimly and changed the topic.

"Let us see," he said, "if we are any nearer to the heart of the mystery
of Kazmah. You were at the Regent Street bank today, I understand, at
which the late Sir Lucien Pyne had an account?"

"I was," replied Kerry. "Next to his theatrical enterprises his chief
source of income seems to have been a certain Jose Santos Company, of
Buenos Ayres. We've traced Kazmah's account, too. But no one at the bank
has ever seen him. The missing Rashid always paid in. Checks were signed
'Mohammed el-Kazmah,' in which name the account had been opened. From
the amount standing to his credit there it's evident that the proceeds
of the dope business went elsewhere."

"Where do you think they went?" asked Seton quietly, watching Kerry.

"Well," rapped Kerry, "I think the same as you. I've got two eyes and I
can see out of both of them."

"And you think?"

"I think they went to the Jose Santos Company, of Buenos Ayres!"

"Right!" cried Seton. "I feel sure of it. We may never know how it was
all arranged or who was concerned, but I am convinced that Mr. Isaacs,
lessee of the Cubanis Cigarette Company offices, Mr. Jacobs (my
landlord!), Mohammed el-Kazmah--whoever he may be--the untraceable
Mrs. Sin Sin Wa, and another, were all shareholders of the Jose Santos
company."

"I'm with you. By 'another' you mean?"

"Sir Lucien! It's horrible, but I'm afraid it's true."

They became silent for a while. Kerry chewed and Seton smoked. Then:

"The significance of the fact that Sir Lucien's study window was no
more than forty paces across the leads from a well-oiled window of the
Cubanis Company will not have escaped you," said Seton. "I performed
the journey just ahead of you, I believe. Then Sir Lucien had lived in
Buenos Ayres; that was before he came into the title, and at a time, I
am told, when he was not overburdened with wealth. His man, Mareno,
is indisputably some kind of a South American, and he can give no
satisfactory account of his movements on the night of the murder.

"That we have to deal with a powerful drug syndicate there can be no
doubt. The late Sir Lucien may not have been a director, but I feel sure
he was financially interested. Kazmah's was the distributing office, and
the importer--"

"Was Sin Sin Wa!" cried Kerry, his eyes gleaming savagely. "He's as
clever and cunning as all the rest of Chinatown put together. Somewhere
not a hundred miles from this spot where we are now there's a store of
stuff big enough to dope all Europe!"

"And there's something else," said Seton quietly, knocking a cone of
grey ash from his cheroot on to the dirty floor. "Kazmah is hiding there
in all probability, if he hasn't got clear away--and Mrs. Monte Irvin is
being held a prisoner!"

"If they haven't--"

"For Irvin's sake I hope not, Chief Inspector. There are two very
curious points in the case--apart from the mystery which surrounds the
man Kazmah: the fact that Mareno, palpably an accomplice, stayed to face
the music, and the fact that Sin Sin Wa likewise has made no effort to
escape. Do you see what it means? They are covering the big man--Kazmah.
Once he and Mrs. Irvin are out of the way, we can prove nothing against
Mareno and Sin Sin Wa! And the most we could do for Mrs. Sin would be to
convict her of selling opium."

"To do even that we should have to take a witness to court," said Kerry
gloomily; "and all the satisfaction we'd get would be to see her charged
ten pounds!"

Silence fell between them again. It was that kind of sympathetic silence
which is only possible where harmony exists; and, indeed, of all the
things strange and bizarre which characterized the inquiry, this sudden
amity between Kerry and Seton Pasha was not the least remarkable. It
represented the fruit of a mutual respect.

There was something about the lean, unshaven face of Seton Pasha, and
something, too, in his bright grey eyes which, allowing for difference
of coloring, might have reminded a close observer of Kerry's fierce
countenance. The tokens of iron determination and utter indifference to
danger were perceptible in both. And although Seton was dark and turning
slightly grey, while Kerry was as red as a man well could be, that
they possessed several common traits of character was a fact which the
dissimilarity of their complexions wholly failed to conceal. But while
Seton Pasha hid the grimness of his nature beneath a sort of humorous
reserve, the dangerous side of Kerry was displayed in his open
truculence.

Seated there in that Limehouse attic, a smoky lamp burning on the table
between them, and one gripping the stump of a cheroot between his teeth,
while the other chewed steadily, they presented a combination which none
but a fool would have lightly challenged.

"Sin Sin Wa is cunning," said Seton suddenly. Born on Nov. 9, 1841, second
of the offspring of Queen Victoria by her marriage with the late Prince
Consort, Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, inherited the greatest blessing
of humanity, that of having good parents and wise guardians of his
childhood and youth. His instruction at home was, no doubt, wider in
range of studies than that of ordinary English boys, including an
acquaintance with several European languages and with modern
history, needful to qualify him for the duties of a prince.

He was further educated at Christ Church, Oxford, and at Trinity
College, Cambridge; was enrolled a law student of the Middle Temple
and held a commission in the army.

His earliest appearance in a leading part on any public occasion was
in 1858 or 1859, we think at the laying of the foundation stone of the
Lambeth School of Art at Vauxhall; but after the lamented death of his
father, in December, 1861, the Prince of Wales naturally became the
most eminent and desirable performer of all ceremonies in which
beneficent or useful undertakings were to be recognized by royal
approval. This work has occupied a very large share of his time during
thirty years; and we can all testify that it has been discharged
with such frank good will, cordiality, and unaffected graciousness,
with such patient attention, diligence, and punctuality, as to
deserve the gratitude of large numbers of her Majesty's subjects
in almost every part of the kingdom.

No prince of any country in any age has ever personally exerted
himself more constantly and faithfully, in rendering services of
this kind to the community, than the Prince of Wales.

The multiplicity and variety of his engagements, on behalf of local
and special objects of utility, would make a surprising list, and
they must have involved a sacrifice of ease and leisure, and
endurance of self-imposed restraint, a submission to tedious
repetitions of similar acts and scenes, and to continual requests
and importunities, which few men of high rank would like to undergo.

[Illustration: THE PRINCE OF WALES AND FAMILY--FROM THE PHOTOGRAPH OF
MESSRS. BYRNE, RICHMOND.]

The marriage of his Royal Highness to Princess Alexandra of Denmark,
on March 10, 1863, was one of the happiest events within the memory
of this generation.

It tended visibly, of course, to raise and confirm his position as
leader of English society, and as the active dispenser of that encouragement
which royalty can bestow on commendable public objects.

Charity, education, science, art, music, industry, agriculture, and
local improvements are in no small measure advanced by this patronage.

The Prince of Wales may not be so learned in some of these matters
as his accomplished father, but he has taken as much trouble to assist
the endless labors of the immediate agents, in doing which he has shown
good judgment and discretion, and a considerable degree of business
talent--notably, in the British preparations for the Paris Exhibition
of 1867, the Indian and Colonial Exhibition of 1886 in London, and
the organization of the Imperial Institute.

The last-named institution and the Royal College of Music will be
permanent memorials of the directing energy of the Prince of Wales.

These are but a few examples or slight indications of the work he
has actually done for us all.

It is unnecessary to mention the incidental salutary influences of his
visits to Canada and to India, which have left an abiding favorable
impression of English royalty in those provinces of the empire. Nor
can it be requisite to observe the manner in which the prince's country
estate and mansion at Sandringham, with his care of agricultural
improvement, of stock breeding, studs, and other rural concerns,
has set an example to landowners, the value of which is already felt.

We refrain upon this occasion from speaking of the Princess of Wales,
or of the sons and daughters, whose lives, we trust, will be always good
and happy. It is on the personal merits and services of the head of their
illustrious house, with reference only to public interests, that we
have thought it needful to dwell, in view of the fiftieth birthday of
his Royal Highness; and very heartily to wish him, in homely English
phrase, "Many happy returns of the day!"--_Illustrated London News._

* * * * *

DEVELOPMENT WITH SUCRATE OF LIME.

I have experimented with carbonate of lithia as an accelerator, and I
have obtained with it rather favorable results. However, in opposition
to Mr.
Climbing this, they were
on damp waste ground, pathless and uninviting.

"Dougal's is being watched," said Kerry. "I think I told you?"

"Yes," replied Seton. "But I have formed the opinion that the dope gang
is too clever for the ordinary type of man. Sin Sin Wa is an instance
of what I mean. Neither you nor I doubt that he is a receiver of
drugs--perhaps the receiver; but where is our case? The only real
link connecting him with the West-End habitue is his wife. And she has
conveniently deserted him! We cannot possibly prove that she hasn't
while he chooses to maintain that she has."

"H'm," grunted Kerry, abruptly changing the subject. "I hope I'm not
recognized here."

"Have you visited the place before?"

"Some years ago. Unless there are any old hands on view tonight, I don't
think I shall be spotted."

He wore a heavy and threadbare overcoat, which was several sizes too
large for him, a muffler, and a weed cap--the outfit supplied by Seton
Pasha; and he had a very vivid and unpleasant recollection of his
appearance as viewed in his little pocket-mirror before leaving Seton's
room. As they proceeded across the muddy wilderness towards the light
which marked the site of Dougal's, they presented a picture of a
sufficiently villainous pair.

The ground was irregular, and the path wound sinuously about mounds of
rubbish; so that often the guiding light was lost, and they stumbled
blindly among nondescript litter, which apparently represented the
accumulation of centuries. But finally they turned a corner formed by a
stack of rusty scrap iron, and found a long, low building before them.
From a ground-floor window light streamed out upon the fragments of
rubbish strewing the ground, from amid which sickly weeds uprose as if
in defiance of nature's laws. Seton paused, and:

"What is Dougal's exactly?" he asked; "a public house?"

"No," rapped Kerry. "It's a coffee-shop used by the dockers. You'll see
when we get inside. The place never closes so far as I know, and if we
made 'em close there would be a dock strike."

He crossed and pushed open the swing door. As Seton entered at his
heels, a babel of coarse voices struck upon his ears and he found
himself in a superheated atmosphere suggestive of shag, stale spirits,
and imperfectly washed humanity.

Dougal's proved to be a kind of hut of wood and corrugated iron, not
unlike an army canteen. There were two counters, one at either end,
and two large American stoves. Oil lamps hung from the beams, and the
furniture was made up of trestle tables, rough wooden chairs, and empty
barrels. Coarse, thick curtains covered all the windows but one. The
counter further from the entrance was laden with articles of food, such
as pies, tins of bully-beef, and "saveloys," while the other was devoted
to liquid refreshment in the form of ginger-beer and cider (or so the
casks were conspicuously labelled), tea, coffee, and cocoa.

The place was uncomfortably crowded; the patrons congregating more
especially around the two stoves. There were men who looked like dock
laborers, seamen, and riverside loafers; lascars, Chinese, Arabs, and
dagoes; and at the "solid" counter there presided a red-armed, brawny
woman, fierce of mien and ready of tongue, while a huge Irishman,
possessing a broken nose and deficient teeth, ruled the "liquid"
department with a rod of iron and a flow of language which shocked
even Kerry. This formidable ruffian, a retired warrior of the ring, was
Dougal, said to be the strongest man from Tower Hill to the River Lea.

As they entered, several of the patrons glanced at them curiously, but
no one seemed to be particularly interested. Kerry wore his cap pulled
well down over his fierce eyes, and had the collar of his topcoat turned
up.

He looked about him, as if expecting to recognize someone; and as they
made their way to Dougal's counter, a big fellow dressed in the manner
of a dock laborer stepped up to the Chief Inspector and clapped him on
the shoulder.

"Have one with me, Mike," he said, winking. "The coffee's good."

Kerry bent towards him swiftly, and:

"Anybody here, Jervis?" he whispered.

"George Martin is at the bar. I've had the tip that he 'traffics.'
You'll remember he figured in my last report, sir."

Kerry nodded, and the trio elbowed their way to the counter. The
pseudo-dock hand was a detective attached to Leman Street, and one who
knew the night birds of East End London as few men outside their own
circles knew them.

"Three coffees, Pat," he cried, leaning across the shoulder of a heavy,
red-headed fellow who lolled against the counter. "And two lumps of
sugar in each."

"To hell wid yer sugar!" roared Dougal, grasping three cups deftly in
one hairy hand and filling them from a steaming urn. "There's no more
sugar tonight."

"Not any brown sugar?" asked the customer.

"Yez can have one tayspoon of brown, and no more tonight," cried Dougal.

He stooped rapidly below the counter, then pushed the three cups of
coffee towards the detective. The latter tossed a shilling down, at
which Dougal glared ferociously.

"'Twas wid sugar ye said!" he roared.

A second shilling followed. Dougal swept both coins into a drawer and
turned to another customer, who was also clamoring for coffee. Securing
their cups with difficulty, for the red-headed man surlily refused to
budge, they retired to a comparatively quiet spot, and Seton tasted the
hot beverage.

"H'm," he said. "Rum! Good rum, too!"

"It's a nice position for me," snapped Kerry. "I don't think I would
remind you that there's a police station actually on this blessed
island. If there was a dive like Dougal's anywhere West it would be
raided as a matter of course. But to shut Dougal's would be to raise
hell. There are two laws in England, sir; one for Piccadilly and the
other for the Isle of Dogs!" He sipped his coffee with appreciation.
Jervis looked about him cautiously, and:

"That's George--the red-headed hooligan against the counter," he said.
"He's been liquoring up pretty freely, and I shouldn't be surprised to
find that he's got a job on tonight. He has a skiff beached below here,
and I think he's waiting for the tide."

"Good!" rapped Kerry. "Where can we find a boat?"

"Well," Jervis smiled. "There are several lying there if you didn't come
in an R.P. boat."

"We did. But I'll dismiss it. We want a small boat."

"Very good, sir. We shall have to pinch one!"

"That doesn't matter," declared Kerry glancing at Seton with a sudden
twinkle discernible in his steely eyes. "What do you say, sir?"

"I agree with you entirely," replied Seton quietly. "We must find a
boat, and lie off somewhere to watch for George. He should be worth
following."

"We'll be moving, then," said the Leman Street detective. "It will be
high tide in an hour."

They finished their coffee as quickly as possible; the stuff was not far
below boiling-point. Then Jervis returned the cups to the counter. "Good
night, Pat!" he cried, and rejoined Seton and Kerry.

As they came out into the desolation of the scrap heaps, the last traces
of fog had disappeared and a steady breeze came up the river, fresh
and salty from the Nore. Jervis led them in a north-easterly direction,
threading a way through pyramids of rubbish, until with the wind in
their teeth they came out upon the river bank at a point where the shore
shelved steeply downwards. A number of boats lay on the shingle.

"We're pretty well opposite Greenwich Marshes," said Jervis. "You can
just see one of the big gasometers. The end boat is George's."

"Have you searched it?" rapped Kerry, placing a fresh piece of
chewing-gum between his teeth.

"I have, sir. Oh, he's too wise for that!"

"I propose," said Seton briskly, "that we borrow one of the other boats
and pull down stream to where that short pier juts out. We can hide
behind it and watch for our man. I take it he'll be bound up-stream, and
the tide will help us to follow him quietly."

"Right," said Kerry. "We'll take the small dinghy. It's big enough."

He turned to Jervis.

"Nip across to the wooden stairs," he directed, "and tell Inspector
White to stand by, but to keep out of sight. If we've started before you
return, go back and join him."

"Very good, sir."

Jervis turned and disappeared into the mazes of rubbish, as Seton and
Kerry grasped the boat and ran it down into the rising tide. Kerry
boarding, Seton thrust it out into the river and climbed in over the
stern.

"Phew! The current drags like a tow-boat!" said Kerry.

They were being drawn rapidly up-stream. But as Kerry seized the oars
and began to pull steadily, this progress was checked. He could make
little actual headway, however.

"The tide races round this bend like fury," he said. "Bear on the oars,
sir."

Seton thereupon came to Kerry's assistance, and gradually the dinghy
crept upon its course, until, below the little pier, they found a
sheltered spot, where it was possible to run in and lie hidden. As they
won this haven:

"Quiet!" said Seton. "Don't move the oars. Look! We were only just in
time!"

Immediately above them, where the boats were beached, a man was coming
down the slope, carrying a hurricane lantern. As Kerry and Seton
watched, the man raised the lantern and swung it to and fro.

"Watch!" whispered Seton. "He's signalling to the Greenwich bank!"

Kerry's teeth snapped savagely together, and he chewed but made no
reply, until:

"There it is!" he said rapidly. "On the marshes!"

A speck of light in the darkness it showed, a distant moving lantern on
the curtain of the night. Although few would have credited Kerry with
the virtue, he was a man of cultured imagination, and it seemed to him,
as it seemed to Seton Pasha, that the dim light symbolized the life of
the missing woman, of the woman who hovered between the gay world from
which tragically she had vanished and some Chinese hell upon whose brink
she hovered. Neither of the watchers was thinking of the crime and
the criminal, of Sir Lucien Pyne or Kazmah, but of Mrs. Monte Irvin,
mysterious victim of a mysterious tragedy. "Oh, Dan! ye must find her!
ye must find her! Puir weak hairt--dinna ye ken how she is suffering!"
Clairvoyantly, to Kerry's ears was borne an echo of his wife's words.

"The traffic!" he whispered. "If we lose George Martin tonight we
deserve to lose the case!"

"I agree, Chief Inspector," said Seton quietly.

The grating sound made by a boat thrust out from a shingle beach came to
their ears above the whispering of the tide. A ghostly figure in the dim
light, George Martin clambered into his craft and took to the oars.

"If he's for the Greenwich bank," said Seton grimly, "he has a stiff
task."

But for the Greenwich bank the boat was headed; and pulling mightily
against the current, the man struck out into mid-stream. They watched
him for some time, silently, noting how he fought against the tide,
sturdily heading for the point at which the signal had shown. Then:

"What do you suggest?" asked Seton. "He may follow the Surrey bank
up-stream."

"I suggest," said Kerry, "that we drift. Once in Limehouse Reach we'll
hear him. There are no pleasure parties punting about that stretch."

"Let us pull out, then. I propose that we wait for him at some
convenient point between the West India Dock and Limehouse Basin."

"Good," rapped Kerry, thrusting the boat out into the fierce current.
"You may have spent a long time in the East, sir, but you're fairly wise
on the geography of the lower Thames."

Gripped in the strongly running tide they were borne smoothly up-stream,
using the oars merely for the purpose of steering. The gloomy mystery
of the London river claimed them and imposed silence upon them, until
familiar landmarks told of the northern bend of the Thames, and the
light above the Lavender Pond shone out upon the unctuously moving
water.

Each pulling a scull they headed in for the left bank.

"There's a wharf ahead," said Seton, looking back over his shoulder. "If
we put in beside it we can wait there unobserved."

"Good enough," said Kerry.

They bent to the oars, stealing stroke by stroke out of the grip of the
tide, and presently came to a tiny pool above the wharf structure, where
it was possible to lie undisturbed by the eager current.

Those limitations which are common to all humanity and that guile which
is peculiar to the Chinese veiled the fact from their ken that the
deserted wharf, in whose shelter they lay, was at once the roof and the
gateway of Sin Sin Wa's receiving office!

As the boat drew in to the bank, a Chinese boy who was standing on the
wharf retired into the shadows. From a spot visible down-stream but
invisible to the men in the boat, he signalled constantly with a
hurricane lantern.

Three men from New Scotland Yard were watching the house of Sin Sin Wa,
and Sin Sin Wa had given no sign of animation since, some hours earlier,
he had extinguished his bedroom light. Yet George, drifting noiselessly
up-stream, received a signal to the effect "police" while Seton Pasha
and Chief Inspector Kerry lay below the biggest dope cache in London.
Seton sometimes swore under his breath. Kerry chewed incessantly. But
George never came.

At that eerie hour of the night when all things living, from the lowest
to the highest, nor excepting Mother Earth herself, grow chilled, when
all Nature's perishable handiwork feels the touch of death--a wild,
sudden cry rang out, a wailing, sorrowful cry, that seemed to come from
nowhere, from everywhere, from the bank, from the stream; that rose and
fell and died sobbing into the hushed whisper of the tide.

Seton's hand fastened like a vise on to Kerry's shoulder, and:

"Merciful God!" he whispered; "what was it? Who was it?"

"If it wasn't a spirit it was a woman," replied Kerry hoarsely; "and a
woman very near to her end."

"Kerry!"--Seton Pasha had dropped all formality--"Kerry--if it calls
for all the men that Scotland Yard can muster, we must search every
building, down to the smallest rathole in the floor, on this bank--and
do it by dawn!"

"We'll do it," rapped Kerry.


PART FOURTH--THE EYE OF SIN SIN WA


CHAPTER XXXIII. CHINESE MAGIC

Detective-Sergeant Coombes and three assistants watched the house of Sin
Sin Wa, and any one of the three would have been prepared to swear "on
the Book" that Sin Sin Wa was sleeping. But he who watches a Chinaman
watches an illusionist. He must approach his task in the spirit of a
psychical inquirer who seeks to trap a bogus medium. The great Robert
Houdin, one of the master wizards of modern times, quitted Petrograd
by two gates at the same hour according to credible witnesses; but
his performance sinks into insignificance beside that of a Chinese
predecessor who flourished under one of the Ming emperors. The palace
of this potentate was approached by gates, each having twelve locks, and
each being watched by twelve guards. Nevertheless a distinguished member
of the wizard family not only gained access to the imperial presence
but also departed again unseen by any of the guards, and leaving all the
gates locked behind him! If Detective-Sergeant Coombes had known this
story he might not have experienced such complete confidence.

That door of Sin Sin Wa's establishment which gave upon a little
backyard was oiled both lock and hinge so that it opened noiselessly.
Like a shadow, like a ghost, Sin Sin Wa crept forth, closing the door
behind him. He carried a sort of canvas kit-bag, so that one observing
him might have concluded that he was "moving."

Resting his bag against the end wall, he climbed up by means of holes in
the neglected brickwork until he could peer over the top. A faint smell
of tobacco smoke greeted him: a detective was standing in the lane
below. Soundlessly, Sin Sin Wa descended again. Raising his bag he
lifted it lovingly until it rested upright upon the top of the wall
and against the side of the house. The night was dark and still. Only
a confused beating sound on the Surrey bank rose above the murmur of
sleeping London.

From the rubbish amid which he stood, Sin Sin Wa selected a piece of
rusty barrel-hoop. Cautiously he mounted upon a wooden structure built
against the end wall and raised himself upright, surveying the prospect.
Then he hurled the fragment of iron far along the lane, so that it
bounded upon a strip of corrugated roofing in a yard twice removed from
his own, and fell clattering among a neighbor's rubbish.

A short exclamation came from the detective in the lane. He could be
heard walking swiftly away in the direction of the disturbance. And ere
he had gone six paces, Sin Sin Wa was bending like an inverted U over
the wall and was lowering his precious bag to the ground. Like a cat he
sprang across and dropped noiselessly beside it.

"Hello! Who's there?" cried the detective, standing by the wall of the
house which Sin Sin Wa had selected as a target.

Sin Sin Wa, bag in hand, trotted, soft of foot, across the lane and into
the shadow of the dock-building. By the time that the C.I.D. man had
decided to climb up and investigate the mysterious noise, Sin Sin Wa was
on the other side of the canal and rapping gently upon the door of Sam
Tuk's hairdressing establishment.

The door was opened so quickly as to suggest that someone had been
posted there for the purpose. Sin Sin Wa entered and the door was closed
again.

"Light, Ah Fung," he said in Chinese. "What news?"

The boy who had admitted him took a lamp from under a sort of rough
counter and turned to Sin Sin Wa.

"George came with the boat, master, but I signalled to him that the red
policeman and the agent who has hired the end room were watching."

"They are gone?"

"They gather men at the head depot and are searching house from house.
She who sleeps below awoke and cried out. They heard her cry."

"George waits?"

"He waits, master. He will wait long if the gain is great."

"Good."

Sin Sin Wa shuffled across to the cellar stairs, followed by Ah Fung
with the lamp. He descended, and, brushing away the carefully spread
coal dust, inserted the piece of bent wire into the crevice and raised
the secret trap. Bearing his bag upon his shoulder he went down into the
tunnel.

"Reclose the door, Ah Fung," he said softly; "and be watchful."

As the boy replaced the stone trap, Sin Sin Wa struck a match. Then,
having the lighted match held in one hand and carrying the bag in the
other, he crept along the low passage to the door of the cache. Dropping
the smouldering match-end, he opened the door and entered that secret
warehouse for which so many people were seeking.

Seated in a cane chair by the oil-stove was the shrivelled figure of
Sam Tuk, his bald head lolling sideways so that his big horn-rimmed
spectacles resembled a figure 8. On the counter was set a ship's
lantern. As Sin Sin Wa came in Sam Tuk slowly raised his head.

No greetings were exchanged, but Sin Sin Wa untied the neck of his
kit-bag and drew out a large wicker cage. Thereupon: "Hello! hello!"
remarked the occupant drowsily. "Number one p'lice chop lo! Sin Sin
Wa--Sin Sin...."

"Come, my Tling-a-Ling," crooned Sin Sin Wa.

He opened the front of the cage and out stepped the raven onto his
wrist. Sin Sin Wa raised his arm and Tling-a-Ling settled himself
contentedly upon his master's shoulder.

Placing the empty cage on the counter. Sin Sin Wa plunged his hand down
into the bag and drew out the gleaming wooden joss. This he set beside
the cage. With never a glance at the mummy figure of Sam Tuk, he walked
around the counter, raven on shoulder, and grasping the end of the laden
shelves, he pulled the last section smoothly to the left, showing that
it was attached to a sliding door. The establishments of Sin Sin Wa were
as full of surprises as a Sicilian trinketbox.

The double purpose of the timbering which had been added to this old
storage vault was now revealed. It not only served to enlarge the
store-room, but also shut off from view a second portion of the cellar,
smaller than the first, and containing appointments which indicated that
it was sometimes inhabited.

There was an oil-stove in the room, which, like that adjoining it,
was evidently unprovided with any proper means of ventilation. A
paper-shaded lamp hung from the low roof. The floor was covered
with matting, and there were arm-chairs, a divan and other items
of furniture, which had been removed from Mrs. Sin's sanctum in the
dismantled House of a Hundred Raptures. In a recess a bed was placed,
and as Sin Sin Wa came in Mrs. Sin was standing by the bed looking down
at a woman who lay there.

Mrs. Sin wore her kimona of embroidered green silk and made a
striking picture in that sordid setting. Her black hair she had dyed a
fashionable shade of red. She glanced rapidly across her shoulder at Sin
Sin Wa--a glance of contempt with which was mingled faint distrust.

"So," she said, in Chinese, "you have come at last." Sin Sin Wa smiled.
"They watched the old fox," he replied. "But their eyes were as the eyes
of the mole."

Still aside, contemptuously, the woman regarded him, and:

"Suppose they are keener than you think?" she said. "Are you sure you
have not led them--here?"

"The snail may not pursue the hawk," murmured Sin Sin Wa; "nor the eye
of the bat follow his flight."

"Smartest leg," remarked the raven.

"Yes, yes, my little friend," crooned Sin Sin Wa, "very soon now you
shall see the paddy-fields of Ho-Nan and watch the great Yellow River
sweeping eastward to the sea."

"Pah!" said Mrs. Sin. "Much--very much--you care about the paddy-fields
of Ho-Nan, and little, oh, very little, about the dollars and the
traffic! You have my papers?"

"All are complete. With those dollars for which I care not, a man might
buy the world--if he had but enough of the dollars. You are well known
in Poplar as 'Mrs. Jacobs,' and your identity is easily established--as
'Mrs. Jacobs.' You join the Mahratta at the Albert Dock. I have bought
you a post as stewardess."

Mrs. Sin tossed her head. "And Juan?"

"What can they prove against your Juan if you are missing?"

Mrs. Sin nodded towards the bed.

With slow and shuffling steps Sin Sin Wa approached. He continued
to smile, but his glittering eye held even less of mirth than usual.
Tucking his hands into his sleeves, he stood and looked down--at Rita
Irvin.

Her face had acquired a waxen quality, but some of her delicate coloring
still lingered, lending her a ghastly and mask-like aspect. Her nostrils
and lips were blanched, however, and possessed a curiously pinched
appearance. It was impossible to detect the fact that she breathed, and
her long lashes lay motionless upon her cheeks.

Sin Sin Wa studied her silently for some time, then:

"Yes," he murmured, "she is beautiful. But women are like adder's eggs.
He is a fool who warms them in his bosom." He turned his slow regard
upon Mrs. Sin. "You have stained your hair to look even as hers. It was
discreet, my wife. But one is beautiful and many-shadowed like a copper
vase, and the other is like a winter sunset on the poppy-fields. You
remind me of the angry red policeman, and I tremble."

"Tremble as much as you like," said Mrs. Sin scornfully, "but
do something, think; don't leave everything to me. She screamed
tonight--and someone heard her. They are searching the river bank from
door to door."

"Lo!" murmured Sin Sin Wa, "even this I had learned, nor failed to heed
the beating of a distant drum. And why did she scream?"

"I was--keeping her asleep; and the prick of the needle woke her."

"Tchee, tchee," crooned Sin Sin Wa, his voice sinking lower and lower
and his eye nearly closing. "But still she lives--and is beautiful."

"Beautiful!" mocked Mrs. Sin. "A doll-woman, bloodless and nerveless!"

"So--so. Yet she, so bloodless and nerveless, unmasked the secret of
Kazmah, and she, so bloodless and nerveless, struck down--"

Mrs. Sin ground her teeth together audibly.

"Yes, yes!" she said in sibilant Chinese. "She is a robber, a thief, a
murderess." She bent over the unconscious woman, her jewel-laden fingers
crooked and menacing. "With my bare hands I would strangle her, but--"

"There must be no marks of violence when she is found in the river.
Tchee, chee--it is a pity."

"Number one p'lice chop, lo!" croaked the raven, following this remark
with the police-whistle imitation.

Mrs. Sin turned and stared fiercely at the one-eyed bird.

"Why do you bring that evil, croaking thing here?" she demanded. "Have
we not enough risks?"

Sin Sin Wa smiled patiently.

"Too many," he murmured. "For failure is nothing but the taking of
seven risks when six were enough. Come--let us settle our affairs. The
'Jacobs' account is closed, but it is only a question of hours or days
before the police learn that the wharf as well as the house belongs to
someone of that name. We have drawn our last dollar from the traffic, my
wife. Our stock we are resigned to lose. So let us settle our affairs."

"Smartest--smartest," croaked Tling-a-Ling, and rattled ghostly
castanets.


CHAPTER XXXIV. ABOVE AND BELOW

"Thank the guid God I see ye alive, Dan," said Mary Kerry.

Having her husband's dressing-gown over her night attire, and her
usually neat hair in great disorder, she stood just within the doorway
of the little dining-room at Spenser Road, her face haggard and the fey
light in her eyes. Kerry, seated in the armchair dressed as he had come
in from the street, a parody of his neat self with mud on his shoes and
streaks of green slime on his overall, raised his face from his hands
and stared at her wearily.

"I awakened wi' a cry at some hour afore the dawn," she whispered
stretching out her hands and looking like a wild-eyed prophetess of old.
"My hairt beat sair fast and then grew caud. I droppit on my knees and
prayed as I ha' ne'er prayed afore. Dan, Dan, I thought ye were gene
from me."

"I nearly was," said Kerry, a faint spark of his old truculency lighting
up the weary eyes. "The man from Whitehall only missed me by a miracle."

"'Twas the miracle o' prayer, Dan," declared his wife in a low,
awe-stricken voice. "For as I prayed, a great comfort came to me an'
a great peace. The second sight was wi' me, Dan, and I saw, no'
yersel'--whereby I seemed to ken that ye were safe--but a puir dying
soul stretched on a bed o' sorrow. At the fuit o' the bed was standing a
fearsome figure o' a man--yellow and wicked, wi' his hands tuckit in his
sleeves. I thought 'twas a veesion that was opening up tee me and that
a' was about to be made clear, when as though a curtain had been droppit
before my een, it went awe' an' I kenned it nae more; but plain--plain,
I heerd the howling o' a dog."

Kerry started and clutched the arms of the chair.

"A dog!" he said. "A dog!"

"The howling o' a sma' dog," declared his wife; "and I thought 'twas a
portent, an' the great fear came o'er me again. But as I prayed 'twas
unfolder to me that the portent was no' for yersel' but for her--the
puir weak hairt ye ha' tee save."

She ceased speaking and the strange fey light left her eyes. She dropped
upon her knees beside Kerry, bending her head and throwing her arms
about him. He glanced down at her tenderly and laid his hands upon her
shoulders; but he was preoccupied, and the next moment, his jaws moving
mechanically, he was staring straight before him.

"A dog," he muttered, "a dog!"

Mary Kerry did not move; until, a light of understanding coming into
Kerry's fierce eyes, he slowly raised her and stood upright himself.

"I have it!" he said. "Mary, the case is won! Twenty men have spent the
night and early morning beating the river bank so that the very rats
have been driven from their holes. Twenty men have failed where a dog
would have succeeded. Mary, I must be off."

"Ye're no goin' out again, Dan. Ye're weary tee death."

"I must, my dear, and it's you who send me."

"But, Dan, where are ye goin'?"

Kerry grabbed his hat and cane from the sideboard upon which they lay,
and:

"I'm going for the dog!" he rapped.

Weary as he was and travel-stained, for once neglectful of that neatness
upon which he prided himself, he set out, hope reborn in his heart. His
assertion that the very rats had been driven from their holes was scarce
an exaggeration. A search-party of twenty men, hastily mustered and
conducted by Kerry and Seton Pasha, had explored every house, every
shop, every wharf, and, as Kerry believed, every cellar adjoining the
bank, between Limehouse Basin and the dock gates. Where access had been
denied them or where no one had resided they had never hesitated to
force an entrance. But no trace had they found of those whom they
sought.

For the first time within Kerry's memory, or, indeed, within the
memory of any member of the Criminal Investigation Department,
Detective-Sergeant Coombes had ceased to smile when the appalling truth
was revealed to him that Sin Sin Wa had vanished--that Sin Sin Wa had
mysteriously joined that invisible company which included Kazmah,
Mrs. Sin and Mrs. Monte Irvin. Not a word of reprimand did the Chief
Inspector utter, but his eyes seemed to emit sparks. Hands plunged
deeply in his pockets he had turned away, and not even Seton Pasha had
dared to speak to him for fully five minutes.

Kerry began to regard the one-eyed Chinaman with a superstitious fear
which he strove in vain to stifle. That any man could have succeeded in
converting a chandu-khan such as that described by Mollie Gretna into a
filthy deserted dwelling such as that visited by Kerry, within the
space of some thirty-six hours, was well nigh incredible. But the Chief
Inspector had deduced (correctly) that the exotic appointments depicted
by Mollie were all of a detachable nature--merely masking the filthiness
beneath; so that at the shortest notice the House of a Hundred Raptures
could be dismantled. The communicating door was a larger proposition,
but that it was one within the compass of Sin Sin Wa its effectual
disappearance sufficiently demonstrated.

Doubtless (Kerry mused savagely) the appointments of the opium-house had
been smuggled into that magically hidden cache which now concealed the
conjurer Sin Sin Wa as well as the other members of the Kazmah company.
How any man of flesh and blood could have escaped from a six-roomed
house surrounded by detectives surpassed Kerry's powers of imagination.
How any apartment large enough to contain a mouse, much less half a
dozen human beings, could exist anywhere within the area covered by the
search-party he failed to understand, nor was he prepared to admit it
humanly possible.

Kerry chartered a taxicab by Brixton Town Hall and directed the man
to drive to Prince's Gate. To the curious glances of certain of his
neighbors who had never before seen the Chief Inspector otherwise than
a model of cleanliness and spruceness he was indifferent. But the manner
in which the taxi-driver looked him up and down penetrated through the
veil of abstraction which hitherto had rendered Kerry impervious to all
external impressions, and:

"Give me another look like that, my lad," he snapped furiously, "and
I'll bash your head through your blasted wind-screen."

A ready retort trembled upon the cabman's tongue, but a glance into the
savage blue eyes reduced him to fearful silence. Kerry entered the cab
and banged the door; and the man drove off positively trembling with
indignation.

Deep in reflection the Chief Inspector was driven westward through the
early morning traffic. Fine rain was falling, and the streets presented
that curiously drab appearance which only London streets can present
in all its dreary perfection. Workers bound Cityward fought for places
inside trams and buses. A hundred human comedies and tragedies were to
be witnessed upon the highways; but to all of them Kerry was blind as
he was deaf to the din of workaday Babylon. In spirit he was roaming
the bank of old Father Thames where the river sweeps eastward below
Limehouse Causeway--wonder-stricken before the magic of the one-eyed
wizard who could at will efface himself as an artist rubs out a drawing,
who could camouflage a drug warehouse so successfully that human skill,
however closely addressed to the task, failed utterly to detect its
whereabouts. Above the discord of the busy streets he heard again and
again that cry in the night which had come from a hapless prisoner whom
they were powerless to succor. He beat his cane upon the floor of the
cab and swore savagely and loudly. The intimidated cabman, believing
these demonstrations designed to urge him to a greater speed, performed
feats of driving calculated to jeopardize his license. But still the
savage passenger stamped and cursed, so that the cabby began to believe
that a madman was seated behind him.

At the corner of Kennington Oval Kerry was effectually aroused to the
realities. A little runabout car passed his cab, coming from a southerly
direction. It is supposed that the announcement made by the British
Government that they mean to send a strong force to punish the
rebellious tribes has had a good effect.

The Afridis are reported to have held a council of war, and have
decided to return to their homes and gather in their harvests.

The head men of the tribe are said to be responsible for this decision,
because they made a strong stand against the continuation of the war.

It is probable that the reason of their return to their homes is not
altogether because of their harvests, but that other tribes which had
agreed to join in the uprising have become alarmed at the action
of the British, and, fearful lest they too may come in for punishment,
have refused to take any part in the border war.

Haddah Mullah, the mad priest who is accused of having incited the tribes
to rebel in the first instance, has also given in. It is said that he
has dispersed his followers of the Swati tribe, and that they have
returned to their homes.

The Mullah had been gathering forces together for an attack on
Peshawar, a strong British fort.

To make his attempt successful he needed more men than he had under his
command; he therefore ordered a tribe called the Mohmands to join him,
and marched toward Peshawar, expecting to meet them on the way.

When he and his followers arrived at the meeting-place, he found to his
dismay that instead of the host of warriors he had expected, there was
only a messenger from the chief of the Mohmands, who told him in
very plain terms that they would have nothing to do with either the
revolt or the attack on Peshawar.
On hearing this it is said that the Mullah was so discouraged that
he refused to lead the Swatis anymore, and ordered his followers
to go back to their homes.Sin Sin Wa placidly pursued his arrangements for
immediate departure to the paddyfields of Ho-Nan, and sometimes in the
weird crooning voice with which he addressed the raven he would sing a
monotonous chant dealing with the valley of the Yellow River where the
opium-poppy grows. Hidden in the cunning vault, the search had passed
above him; and watchful on a quay on the Surrey shore whereto his dinghy
was fastened, George Martin awaited the signal which should tell him
that Kazmah and Company were ready to leave. Any time after dark he
expected to see the waving lantern and to collect his last payment from
the traffic.

At the very hour that Kerry was hastening to Prince's Gate, Sin Sin Wa
sat before the stove in the drug cache, the green-eyed joss upon his
knee. With a fragment of chamois leather he lovingly polished the
leering idol, crooning softly to himself and smiling his mirthless
smile. Perched upon his shoulder the raven studied this operation with
apparent interest, his solitary eye glittering bead-like. Upon the
opposite side of the stove sat the ancient Sam Tuk and at intervals of
five minutes or more he would slowly nod his hairless head.

The sliding door which concealed the inner room was partly open,
and from the opening there shone forth a dim red light, cast by the
paper-shaded lamp which illuminated the place. The coarse voice of
the Cuban-Jewess rose and fell in a ceaseless half-muttered soliloquy,
indescribably unpleasant but to which Sin Sin Wa was evidently
indifferent.



§ 187. Materially the copula is expressed by some part of the verb 'to
be,' with or without the negative, or else is wrapped up in some
inflexional form of a verb.
§ 188. The material form of the copula is an accident of language,
and a matter of indifference to logic.Buddha-like immobility was claiming
her, but it had not yet effaced that expression of murderous malice with
which the smoker contemplated the unconscious woman who lay upon the bed
at the other end of the room.

As the moments passed the eyes of Mrs. Sin grew more and more glazed.
Her harsh voice became softened, and presently: "Ah!" she whispered; "so
you wait to smoke with me?"

Immobile she sat propped up amid the cushions, and only her full lips
moved.

"Two pipes are nothing to Cy," she murmured. "He smokes five. But you
are not going to smoke?"

Again she paused, then:

"Ah, my Lucy. You smoke with me?" she whispered coaxingly.

Chandu had opened the poppy gates. Mrs. Sin was conversing with her dead
lover.

"Something has changed you," she sighed. "You are different--lately.
You have lots of money now. Your investments have been good. You want to
become--respectable, eh?"

Slightly--ever so slightly--the red lips curled upwards. No sound of
life came from the woman lying white and still in the bed. But through
the partly open door crept snatches of Sin Sin Wa's crooning melody.

"Yet once," she murmured, "yet once I seemed beautiful to you, Lucy. For
La Belle Lola you forgot that English pride." She laughed softly.
"You forgot Sin Sin Wa. If there had been no Lola you would never have
escaped from Buenos Ayres with your life, my Lucy. You forgot that
English pride, and did not ask me where I got them from--the ten
thousand dollars to buy your 'honor' back."

She became silent, as if listening to the dead man's reply. Finally:

"No--I do not reproach you, my dear," she whispered. "You have paid me
back a thousand fold, and Sin Sin Wa, the old fox, grows rich and fat.
Today we hold the traffic in our hands, Lucy. The old fox cares only for
his money. Before it is too late let us go--you and I. Do you remember
Havana, and the two months of heaven we spent there? Oh, let us go back
to Havana, Lucy. Kazmah has made us rich. Let Kazmah die.... You smoke
with me?"

Again she became silent, then:

"Very likely," she murmured; "very likely I know why you don't smoke.
You have promised your pretty little friend that you will stay awake and
see that nobody tries to cut her sweet white throat."

Link bolted out to the street in the midst of her announcement.
And, so occupied was he in trying to swallow a lump in his own
throat, he failed to hear the sound of stifled sobbing from behind
a locked door somewhere in the upper reaches of the house.

As the night wore on, the sleepless girl sought to comfort herself in
the thought that Link had not definitely refused her terms. A night's
reflection and an attitude of unbending aloofness on her own part
might well bring him to a surrender.

Perhaps it was something in Link Ferris's dejected gait, as he turned
into his own lane that night, perhaps it was the instinct which
tells a collie when a loved human is unhappy--but Chum was at once
aware of his master's woe.

How strong you are. You have hurt my wrists. You
will smoke with me now?"

She ceased speaking abruptly, and abruptly resumed again:

"And I do as you wish--I do as you wish. How can I keep her from it
except by making the price so high that she cannot afford to buy it? I
tell you I do it. I bargain for the pink and white boy, Quentin, because
I want her to be indebted to him--because I want her to be so sorry for
him that she lets him take her away from you! Why should you respect
her--"

Silence fell upon the drugged speaker. Sin Sin Wa could be heard
crooning softly about the Yellow River and the mountain gods who sent it
sweeping down through the valleys where the opium-poppy grows.

"Go, Juan," hissed Mrs. Sin. "I say--go!"

Her voice changed eerily to a deep, mocking bass; and Rita Irvin lying,
a pallid wraith of her once lovely self, upon the untidy bed, stirred
slightly--her lashes quivering. Her eyes opened and stared straightly
upward at the low, dirty ceiling, horror growing in their shadowy
depths.



CHAPTER XXXV. BEYOND THE VEIL

Rita Irvin's awakening was no awakening in the usually accepted sense of
the word; it did not even represent a lifting of the veil which cut
her off from the world, but no more than a momentary perception of the
existence of such a veil and of the existence of something behind it.
Upon the veil, in grey smoke, the name "Kazmah" was written in moving
characters. Beyond the veil, dimly divined, was life.

As of old the victims of the Inquisition, waking or dreaming, beheld
ever before them the instrument of their torture, so before this woman's
racked and half-numbed mind panoramically passed, an endless pageant,
the incidents of the night which had cut her off from living men
and women. She tottered on the border-line which divides sanity from
madness. She was learning what Sir Lucien had meant when, once, long
long ago, in some remote time when she was young and happy and had
belonged to a living world, he had said "a day is sure to come." It
had come, that "day." It had dawned when she had torn the veil before
Kazmah--and that veil had enveloped her ever since. All that had
preceded the fatal act was blotted out, blurred and indistinct; all that
had succeeded it lived eternally, passing, an endless pageant, before
her tortured mind.

The horror of the moment when she had touched the hands of the man
seated in the big ebony chair was of such kind that no subsequent
terrors had supplanted it. For those long, slim hands of the color of
old ivory were cold, rigid, lifeless--the hands of a corpse! Thus the
pageant began, and it continued as hereafter, memory and delusion taking
the stage in turn.