    It hath been told, that when the first delight
  That flashed upon me from this novel show                          205
  Had failed, the mind returned into herself;
  Yet true it is, that I had made a change
  In climate, and my nature's outward coat
  Changed also slowly and insensibly.
  Full oft the quiet and exalted thoughts                            210
  Of loneliness gave way to empty noise
  And superficial pastimes; now and then
  Forced labour, and more frequently forced hopes;
  And, worst of all, a treasonable growth
  Of indecisive judgments, that impaired                             215
  And shook the mind's simplicity.--And yet
  This was a gladsome time. Could I behold--
  Who, less insensible than sodden clay
  In a sea-river's bed at ebb of tide,
  Could have beheld,--with undelighted heart,                        220
  So many happy youths, so wide and fair
  A congregation in its budding-time
  Of health, and hope, and beauty, all at once
  So many divers samples from the growth
  Of life's sweet season--could have seen unmoved                    225
  That miscellaneous garland of wild flowers
  Decking the matron temples of a place
  So famous through the world? To me, at least,
  It was a goodly prospect: for, in sooth,
  Though I had learnt betimes to stand unpropped,                    230
  And independent musings pleased me so
  That spells seemed on me when I was alone,
  Yet could I only cleave to solitude
  In lonely places; if a throng was near
  That way I leaned by nature; for my heart                          235
  Was social, and loved idleness and joy.

    Not seeking those who might participate
  My deeper pleasures (nay, I had not once,
  Though not unused to mutter lonesome songs,
  Even with myself divided such delight,                             240
  Or looked that way for aught that might be clothed
  In human language), easily I passed
  From the remembrances of better things,
  And slipped into the ordinary works
  Of careless youth, unburthened, unalarmed.                         245
  _Caverns_ there were within my mind which sun
  Could never penetrate, yet did there not
  Want store of leafy _arbours_ where the light
  Might enter in at will. Companionships,
  Friendships, acquaintances, were welcome all.                      250
  We sauntered, played, or rioted; we talked
  Unprofitable talk at morning hours;
  Drifted about along the streets and walks,
  Read lazily in trivial books, went forth
  To gallop through the country in blind zeal                        255
  Of senseless horsemanship, or on the breast
  Of Cam sailed boisterously, and let the stars
  Come forth, perhaps without one quiet thought.

    Such was the tenor of the second act
  In this new life. Imagination slept,                               260
  And yet not utterly. I could not print
  Ground where the grass had yielded to the steps
  Of generations of illustrious men,
  Unmoved. I could not always lightly pass
  Through the same gateways, sleep where they had slept,             265
  Wake where they waked, range that inclosure old,
  That garden of great intellects, undisturbed.
  Place also by the side of this dark sense
  Of noble feeling, that those spiritual men,
  Even the great Newton's own ethereal self,                         270
  Seemed humbled in these precincts thence to be
  The more endeared. Their several memories here
  (Even like their persons in their portraits clothed
  With the accustomed garb of daily life)
  Put on a lowly and a touching grace                                275
  Of more distinct humanity, that left
  All genuine admiration unimpaired.

    Beside the pleasant Mill of Trompington [D]
  I laughed with Chaucer in the hawthorn shade;
  Heard him, while birds were warbling, tell his tales               280
  Of amorous passion. And that gentle Bard,
  Chosen by the Muses for their Page of State--
  Sweet Spenser, moving through his clouded heaven
  With the moon's beauty and the moon's soft pace,
  I called him Brother, Englishman, and Friend!                      285
  Yea, our blind Poet, who, in his later day,
  Stood almost single; uttering odious truth--
  Darkness before, and danger's voice behind,
  Soul awful--if the earth has ever lodged
  An awful soul--I seemed to see him here                            290
  Familiarly, and in his scholar's dress
  Bounding before me, yet a stripling youth--
  A boy, no better, with his rosy cheeks
  Angelical, keen eye, courageous look,
  And conscious step of purity and pride.                            295
  Among the band of my compeers was one
  Whom chance had stationed in the very room
  Honoured by Milton's name. HOLLOWAY, having
  purchased the whole of the impressions and
  plates, now offers the Sets in a Folio Volume, bound in cloth, and
  including Biographical Letter-press
  to each subject, at the greatly reduced
  price of _£_2 12s. 6d., and _£_4 4s.
  0d., for Proofs before Letters, of
  which but 18 copies remain.
  
  The Collection consists of the following
  Portraits:--
  KING HENRY VIII. and the EMPEROR CHARLES
  V., from the Original, formerly in the Strawberry Hill Gallery.
  
  QUEEN KATHARINE OF ARRAGON, from a Miniature by
  HOLBEIN, in the possession of the Duke of
  Buccleugh.
  
  SIR ANTHONY BROWNE, K.G., from the Original
  in the possession of Thomas Baylis, Esq.,
  F.S.A.
  
  ANTHONY BROWNE, VISCOUNT MONTAGUE, K.G., from the Collection of the
  Marquess of Exeter.
  
  EDWARD VERE, EARL OF OXFORD, from
  the Original Picture
                            in the Collection
  of the Duke of Portland.
  
  SIR WILLIAM RUSSELL, BARON THORNHAUGH,
  LORD DEPUTY OF IRELAND, from the Original
  Picture in the Collection of the Duke of
  Bedford.
  
  WILLIAM CAMDEN, CLARENCEUX KING OF ARMS,
  from the Picture in the possession of the
  Earl of Clarendon.
  
  SIR ANTHONY SHIRLEY, AMBASSADOR FROM THE
  COURT OF PERSIA TO JAMES I., from the
  Original Miniature by Peter Oliver.
  
  HENRY CAREY, LORD FALKLAND, LORD DEPUTY OF IRELAND, from the Original
  by VANSOMER, formerly in the Strawberry
  Hill Collection.
  
  SIR ROBERT DUDLEY, SON OF THE EARL OF
  LEICESTER, from the Original Miniature by N. HILLIARD, in the possession
  of Lord De l'Isle and Dudley.
  
  THE RIGHT HON. WILLIAM LENTHALL, SPEAKER
  OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS, from a Miniature
  by J. COOPER, in the possession of R.S. Holford, Esq.
  
  MARGARET CAVENDISH, DUCHESS OF NEWCASTLE,
  from the Original Picture in the Collection
  of F. Vernon Wentworth, Esq.
  
  SIR THOMAS BROWNE, M.D., of NORWICH,
  from an Original Picture in the College of
  Physicians, London.
  
  SIR CHARLES SCARBOROUGH, M.D., PHYSICIAN TO CHARLES II., JAMES II., and
  WILLIAM III., from the Original Picture
  in the Barber-Surgeons' Hall.
  
  FLORA MACDONALD, from the Original by A. RAMSAY,
  1749, in the Picture Gallery, Oxford.
  M.M. HOLLOWAY, 25. BEDFORD STREET, COVENT GARDEN.
* * * * *
Originally published at 6l. 6s., now re-issued by WASHBOURNE, New
Bridge Street, in 12 vols. 8vo., at 3l. 3s.
THE COMPLETE WORKS OF VENERABLE BEDE,
Collected and edited by the Rev. Dr. GILES, comprising the COMMENTARY
ON HOLY SCRIPTURE, ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, HOMILIES, TRACTS, LETTERS,
POEMS, LIFE, &c. &c., in Latin and English.--Also,
THE MISCELLANEOUS WORKS AND LIFE OF BEDE,
Published at 3l. 3s., may, for a short period, be had at 1l. 11s.
6d., in 6 vols. 8vo., cloth, lettered Contents.
It is intended to raise the price of these immediately on the
disposal of a moiety of the small Stock now on hand.
"A new edition of Bede's Works is now published by Dr. Giles, who
has made a discovery amongst the MS. treasures which can scarcely
fail of presenting the venerable Anglo-Saxon's Homilies in a far
more trustworthy form than the press has hitherto produced
them."--_Soames's Edition of Mosheim's Note_, vol. ii. p 142.
* * * * * 
PREPARING FOR PUBLICATION,
With the Sanction of the Society of Arts, and the Committee of the
Ancient and Mediæval Exhibition,
A Description of the Works of Ancient and Mediæval Art
COLLECTED AT THE SOCIETY OF ARTS IN 1850; WITH HISTORICAL INTRODUCTIONS
ON THE VARIOUS ARTS, AND NOTICES OF THE ARTISTS.
By AUGUSTUS W. FRANKS, Honorary Secretary.Not that I slighted books, [H]--that were to lack
  All sense,--but other passions in me ruled,
  Passions more fervent, making me less prompt
  To in-door study than was wise or well,                            370
  Or suited to those years. Yet I, though used
  In magisterial liberty to rove,
  Culling such flowers of learning as might tempt
  A random choice, could shadow forth a place
  (If now I yield not to a flattering dream)                         375
  Whose studious aspect should have bent me down
  To instantaneous service; should at once
  Have made me pay to science and to arts
  And written lore, acknowledged my liege lord,
  A homage frankly offered up, like that                             380
  Which I had paid to Nature. Toil and pains
  In this recess, by thoughtful Fancy built,
  Should spread from heart to heart; and stately groves,
  Majestic edifices, should not want
  A corresponding dignity within.                                    385
  The congregating temper that pervades
  Our unripe years, not wasted, should be taught
  To minister to works of high attempt--
  Works which the enthusiast would perform with love.
  Youth should be awed, religiously possessed                        390
  With a conviction of the power that waits
  On knowledge, when sincerely sought and prized
  For its own sake, on glory and on praise
  If but by labour won, and fit to endure
  The passing day; should learn to put aside                         395
  Her trappings here, should strip them off abashed
  Before antiquity and stedfast truth
  And strong book-mindedness; and over all
  A healthy sound simplicity should reign,
  A seemly plainness, name it what you will,                         400
  Republican or pious.
                         If these thoughts
  Are a gratuitous emblazonry
  That mocks the recreant age _we_ live in, then
  Be Folly and False-seeming free to affect
  Whatever formal gait of discipline                                 405
  Shall raise them highest in their own esteem--
  Let them parade among the Schools at will,
  But spare the House of God. Was ever known
  The witless shepherd who persists to drive
  A flock that thirsts not to a pool disliked?                       410
  A weight must surely hang on days begun
  And ended with such mockery. Be wise,
  Ye Presidents and Deans, and, till the spirit
  Of ancient times revive, and youth be trained
  At home in pious service, to your bells                            415
  Give seasonable rest, for 'tis a sound
  Hollow as ever vexed the tranquil air;
  And your officious doings bring disgrace
  On the plain steeples of our English Church,
  Whose worship, 'mid remotest village trees,                        420
  Suffers for this. Even Science, too, at hand
  In daily sight of this irreverence,
  Is smitten thence with an unnatural taint,
  Loses her just authority, falls beneath
  Collateral suspicion, else unknown.                                425
  This truth escaped me not, and I confess,
  That having 'mid my native hills given loose
  To a schoolboy's vision, I had raised a pile
  Upon the basis of the coming time,
  That fell in ruins round me. Oh, what joy                          430
  To see a sanctuary for our country's youth
  Informed with such a spirit as might be
  Its own protection; a primeval grove,
  Where, though the shades with cheerfulness were filled,
  Nor indigent of songs warbled from crowds                          435
  In under-coverts, yet the countenance
  Of the whole place should bear a stamp of awe;
  A habitation sober and demure
  For ruminating creatures; a domain
  For quiet things to wander in; a haunt                             440
  In which the heron should delight to feed
  By the shy rivers, and the pelican
  Upon the cypress spire in lonely thought
  Might sit and sun himself.--Alas! Alas!
  In vain for such solemnity I looked;                               445
  Mine eyes were crossed by butterflies, ears vexed
  By chattering popinjays; the inner heart
  Seemed trivial, and the impresses without
  Of a too gaudy region.
                            Different sight
  Those venerable Doctors saw of old,                                450
  When all who dwelt within these famous walls
  Led in abstemiousness a studious life;
  When, in forlorn and naked chambers cooped
  And crowded, o'er the ponderous books they hung
  Like caterpillars eating out their way                             455
  In silence, or with keen devouring noise
  Not to be tracked or fathered. Princes then
  At matins froze, and couched at curfew-time,
  Trained up through piety and zeal to prize
  Spare diet, patient labour, and plain weeds.                       460
  O seat of Arts! renowned throughout the world!
  Far different service in those homely days
  The Muses' modest nurslings underwent
  From their first childhood: in that glorious time
  When Learning, like a stranger come from far,                      465
  Sounding through Christian lands her trumpet, roused
  Peasant and king; when boys and youths, the growth
  Of ragged villages and crazy huts,
  Forsook their homes, and, errant in the quest
  Of Patron, famous school or friendly nook,                         470
  Where, pensioned, they in shelter might sit down,
  From town to town and through wide scattered realms
  Journeyed with ponderous folios in their hands;
  And often, starting from some covert place,
  Saluted the chance comer on the road,                              475
  Crying, "An obolus, a penny give
  To a poor scholar!" [I]--when illustrious men,
  Lovers of truth, by penury constrained,
  Bucer, Erasmus, or Melancthon, read
  Before the doors or windows of their cells                         480
  By moonshine through mere lack of taper light.

    But peace to vain regrets! We see but darkly
  Even when we look behind us, and best things
  Are not so pure by nature that they needs
  Must keep to all, as fondly all believe,                           485
  Their highest promise. If the mariner,
  When at reluctant distance he hath passed
  Some tempting island, could but know the ills
  That must have fallen upon him had he brought
  His bark to land upon the wished-for shore,                        490
  Good cause would oft be his to thank the surf
  Whose white belt scared him thence, or wind that blew
  Inexorably adverse: for myself
  I grieve not; happy is the gownèd youth,
  Who only misses what I missed, who falls                           495
  No lower than I fell.

                           I did not love,
  Judging not ill perhaps, the timid course
  Of our scholastic studies; could have wished
  To see the river flow with ampler range
  And freer pace; but more, far more, I grieved                      500
  To see displayed among an eager few,
  Who in the field of contest persevered,
  Passions unworthy of youth's generous heart
  And mounting spirit, pitiably repaid,
  When so disturbed, whatever palms are won.                         505
  From these I turned to travel with the shoal
  Of more unthinking natures, easy minds
  And pillowy; yet not wanting love that makes
  The day pass lightly on, when foresight sleeps,
  And wisdom and the pledges interchanged                            510
  With our own inner being are forgot.

    Yet was this deep vacation not given up
  To utter waste. Hitherto I had stood
  In my own mind remote from social life,
  (At least from what we commonly so name,)                          515
  Like a lone shepherd on a promontory
  Who lacking occupation looks far forth
  Into the boundless sea, and rather makes
  Than finds what he beholds. And sure it is,
  That this first transit from the smooth delights                   520
  And wild outlandish walks of simple youth
  To something that resembles an approach
  Towards human business, to a privileged world
  Within a world, a midway residence
  With all its intervenient imagery,                                 525
  Did better suit my visionary mind,
  Far better, than to have been bolted forth;
  Thrust out abruptly into Fortune's way
  Among the conflicts of substantial life;
  By a more just gradation did lead on                               530
  To higher things; more naturally matured,
  For permanent possession, better fruits,
  Whether of truth or virtue, to ensue.
  In serious mood, but oftener, I confess,
  With playful zest of fancy did we note                             535
  (How could we less?) the manners and the ways
  Of those who lived distinguished by the badge
  Of good or ill report; or those with whom
  By frame of Academic discipline
  We were perforce connected, men whose sway                         540
  And known authority of office served
  To set our minds on edge, and did no more.
  Nor wanted we rich pastime of this kind,
  Found everywhere, but chiefly in the ring
  Of the grave Elders, men unsecured, grotesque                      545
  In character, tricked out like aged trees
  Which through the lapse of their infirmity
  Give ready place to any random seed
  That chooses to be reared upon their trunks.

    Here on my view, confronting vividly                             550
  Those shepherd swains whom I had lately left,
  Appeared a different aspect of old age;
  How different! yet both distinctly marked,
  Objects embossed to catch the general eye,
  Or portraitures for special use designed,                          555
  As some might seem, so aptly do they serve
  To illustrate Nature's book of rudiments--
  That book upheld as with maternal care
  When she would enter on her tender scheme
  Of teaching comprehension with delight,                            560
  And mingling playful with pathetic thoughts.

    The surfaces of artificial life
  And manners finely wrought, the delicate race
  Of colours, lurking, gleaming up and down
  Through that state arras woven with silk and gold;                 565
  This wily interchange of snaky hues,
  Willingly or unwillingly revealed,
  I neither knew nor cared for; and as such
  Were wanting here, I took what might be found
  Of less elaborate fabric. At this day                              570
  I smile, in many a mountain solitude
  Conjuring up scenes as obsolete in freaks
  Of character, in points of wit as broad,
  As aught by wooden images performed
  For entertainment of the gaping crowd                              575
  At wake or fair. And oftentimes do flit
  Remembrances before me of old men--
  Old humourists, who have been long in their graves,
  And having almost in my mind put off
  Their human names, have into phantoms passed                       580
  Of texture midway between life and books.

    I play the loiterer: 'tis enough to note
  That here in dwarf proportions were expressed
  The limbs of the great world; its eager strifes
  Collaterally pourtrayed, as in mock fight,                         585
  A tournament of blows, some hardly dealt
  Though short of mortal combat; and whate'er
  Might in this pageant be supposed to hit
  An artless rustic's notice, this way less,
  More that way, was not wasted upon me--590
  And yet the spectacle may well demand
  A more substantial name, no mimic show,
  Itself a living part of a live whole,
  A creek in the vast sea; for, all degrees
  And shapes of spurious fame and short-lived praise                 595
  Here sate in state, and fed with daily alms
  Retainers won away from solid good;
  And here was Labour, his own bond-slave; Hope,
  That never set the pains against the prize;
  Idleness halting with his weary clog,                              600
  And poor misguided Shame, and witless Fear,
  And simple Pleasure foraging for Death;
  Honour misplaced, and Dignity astray;
  Feuds, factions, flatteries, enmity, and guile
  Murmuring submission, and bald government,                         605
  (The idol weak as the idolater),
  And Decency and Custom starving Truth,
  And blind Authority beating with his staff
  The child that might have led him; Emptiness
  Followed as of good omen, and meek Worth                           610
  Left to herself unheard of and unknown.

    Of these and other kindred notices
  I cannot say what portion is in truth
  The naked recollection of that time,
  And what may rather have been called to life                       615
  By after-meditation. But delight
  That, in an easy temper lulled asleep,
  Is still with Innocence its own reward,
  This was not wanting. Carelessly I roamed
  As through a wide museum from whose stores                         620
  A casual rarity is singled out
  And has its brief perusal, then gives way
  To others, all supplanted in their turn;
  Till 'mid this crowded neighbourhood of things
  That are by nature most unneighbourly,                             625
  The head turns round and cannot right itself;
  And though an aching and a barren sense
  Of gay confusion still be uppermost,
  With few wise longings and but little love,
  Yet to the memory something cleaves at last,                       630
  Whence profit may be drawn in times to come.

    Thus in submissive idleness, my Friend!
  The labouring time of autumn, winter, spring,
  Eight months! rolled pleasingly away; the ninth
  Came and returned me to my native hills.                           635


       *       *       *       *       *

FOOTNOTES ON THE TEXT

[Footnote A: Wordsworth went from York to Cambridge, entering it by the
coach road from the north-west. This was doubtless the road which now
leads to the city from Girton. "The long-roofed chapel of King's
College" must have been seen from that road.--Ed.]


[Footnote B: The Hoop Inn still exists, not now so famous as in the end
of last century.--Ed.]


[Footnote C: He entered St. John's College in October 1787. His rooms in
the College were unknown to the officials a dozen years ago, although
they are pretty clearly indicated by Wordsworth in this passage. They
were in the first of the three courts of St. John's; they were above the
College kitchens; and from the window of his bedroom he could look into
the antechapel of Trinity, with its statue of Newton. They have been
recently removed in connection with sundry improvements in the college
kitchen. For details, see the 'Life of Wordsworth' which will follow
this edition of his Works.--Ed.]


[Footnote D: A village two and a half miles south of Cambridge.

  "There are still some remains of the mill here celebrated by Chaucer
  in his Reve's Tale."

(Lewis' 'Topographical Dictionary of England', vol. iv. p. 390.)--Ed.]


[Footnote E: S. T. C., who entered Cambridge when Wordsworth left
it.--Ed.]


[Footnote F: On certain days a surplice is worn, instead of a gown, by
the undergraduates.--Ed.]


[Footnote G: Compare the poem 'Floating Island', by Dorothy
Wordsworth.--Ed.]


[Footnote H: The following extract from a letter of Dorothy Wordsworth's
illustrates the above and other passages of this book. It was written
from Forncett, on the 26th of June, 1791. She is speaking of her two
brothers, William and Christopher. Of Christopher she says:

  "His abilities, though not so great, perhaps, as his brother's, may be
  of more use to him, as he has not fixed his mind upon any particular
  species of reading or conceived an aversion to any. He is not fond of
  mathematics, but has resolution sufficient to study them; because it
  will be impossible for him to obtain a fellowship without them.
  William lost the chance, indeed the certainty, of a fellowship, by not
  combating his inclinations. He gave way to his natural dislike to
  studies so dry as many parts of the mathematics, consequently could
  not succeed in Cambridge. He reads Italian, Spanish, French, Greek,
  Latin, and English; but never opens a mathematical book.... Do not
  think from what I have said that he reads not at all; for he does read
  a great deal, and not only poetry, in these languages he is acquainted
  with, but History also," etc. etc.

Ed.]


[Footnote I: 'Date obolum Belisario'. Belisarius, a general of the
Emperor Justinian's, died 564 A.D. The story of his begging charity is
probably a legend, but the "begging scholar" was common in Christendom
throughout the Middle Ages, and was met with in the last century.--Mr.

       C.R.

TAYLOR respectfully invites the attention of Collectors and others
to his extensive Stock of ANCIENT and MODERN COINS and MEDALS, which
will be found to be generally fine in condition, at prices unusually
moderate.

This collection includes a magnificent specimen of the famous
Decadrachm, or Medallion of Syracuse: the extremely rare Fifty-shilling
piece and other Coins of Cromwell; many fine Proofs and Pattern
Pieces of great rarity and interest; also, some choice Cabinets,
Numismatic works, &c. orders, however small, punctually attended to.

  Articles forwarded to any part of the Country for
  inspection, and every information desired
  promptly furnished,. Coins, &c., bought, sold, or
  exchanged; and Commissions faithfully
  executed.
  I bounded down the hill shouting amain
  For the old Ferryman; to the shout the rocks
  Replied, and when the Charon of the flood
  Had staid his oars, and touched the jutting pier, [B]               15
  I did not step into the well-known boat
  Without a cordial greeting. Thence with speed
  Up the familiar hill I took my way [C]
  Towards that sweet Valley [D] where I had been reared;
  'Twas but a short hour's walk, ere veering round                    20
  I saw the snow-white church upon her hill [E]
  Sit like a thronèd Lady, sending out
  A gracious look all over her domain. [F]
  Yon azure smoke betrays the lurking town;
  With eager footsteps I advance and reach                            25
  The cottage threshold where my journey closed.
  Glad welcome had I, with some tears, perhaps,
  From my old Dame, so kind and motherly, [G]
  While she perused me with a parent's pride.
  The thoughts of gratitude shall fall like dew                       30
  Upon thy grave, good creature! While my heart
  Can beat never will I forget thy name.
  Heaven's blessing be upon thee where thou liest
  After thy innocent and busy stir
  In narrow cares, thy little daily growth                            35
  Of calm enjoyments, after eighty years,
  And more than eighty, of untroubled life, [H]
  Childless, yet by the strangers to thy blood
  Honoured with little less than filial love.
  What joy was mine to see thee once again,                           40
  Thee and thy dwelling, and a crowd of things
  About its narrow precincts all beloved, [I]
  And many of them seeming yet my own!
  Why should I speak of what a thousand hearts
  Have felt, and every man alive can guess?                           45
  The rooms, the court, the garden were not left
  Long unsaluted, nor the sunny seat
  Round the stone table under the dark pine, [K]
  Friendly to studious or to festive hours;
  Nor that unruly child of mountain birth,                            50
  The famous brook, who, soon as he was boxed
  Within our garden, [L] found himself at once,
  As if by trick insidious and unkind,
  Stripped of his voice [M] and left to dimple down
  (Without an effort and without a will)                              55
  A channel paved by man's officious care. [N]
  I looked at him and smiled, and smiled again,
  And in the press of twenty thousand thoughts, [O]
  "Ha," quoth I, "pretty prisoner, are you there!"
  Well might sarcastic Fancy then have whispered,                     60
  "An emblem here behold of thy own life;
  In its late course of even days with all
  Their smooth enthralment;" but the heart was full,
  Too full for that reproach. My aged Dame
  Walked proudly at my side: she guided me;                           65
  I willing, nay--nay, wishing to be led.
--The face of every neighbour whom I met
  Was like a volume to me; some were hailed
  Upon the road, some busy at their work,
  Unceremonious greetings interchanged                                70
  With half the length of a long field between.
  Among my schoolfellows I scattered round
  Like recognitions, but with some constraint
  Attended, doubtless, with a little pride,
  But with more shame, for my habiliments,                            75
  The transformation wrought by gay attire.
  Not less delighted did I take my place
  At our domestic table: and, [P] dear Friend
  In this endeavour simply to relate
  A Poet's history, may I leave untold                                80
  The thankfulness with which I laid me down
  In my accustomed bed, more welcome now
  Perhaps than if it had been more desired
  Or been more often thought of with regret;
  That lowly bed whence I had heard the wind                          85
  Roar and the rain beat hard, where I so oft
  Had lain awake on summer nights to watch
  The moon in splendour couched among the leaves
  Of a tall ash, that near our cottage stood; [Q]
  Had watched her with fixed eyes while to and fro                    90
  In the dark summit of the waving tree
  She rocked with every impulse of the breeze.

