transcription by Michael Ciesielski, Melissa Er-Raqabi and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


HOW TO TELL STORIES
TO CHILDREN

AND SOME STORIES TO TELL


BY
SARA CONE BRYANT

[Illustration]

LONDON

GEORGE G. HARRAP & CO. LTD.

2 & 3 PORTSMOUTH STREET KINGSWAY W.C.

1918


=Books for Story-Tellers=

_UNIFORM WITH THIS VOLUME_

=How to Tell Stories to Children=
  And Some Stories to Tell. By SARA CONE BRYANT. Tenth Impression.

=Stories to Tell to Children=
  With Fifty-Three Stories to Tell. By SARA CONE BRYANT. Seventh Impression.

=The Book of Stories for the Story-Teller=
  By FANNY COE. Fourth Impression.

=Songs and Stories for the Little Ones=
  By E. GORDON BROWNE, M.A. With Melodies chosen and arranged by EVA BROWNE.
  New and Enlarged Edition.

=Character Training=
  A Graded Series of Lessons in Ethics, largely through Story-telling.
  By E.L. CABOT and E. EYLES. Third Impression. 384 pages.

=Stories for the Story Hour=
  From January to December. By ADA M. MARZIALS. Second Impression.

=Stories for the History Hour=
  From Augustus to Rolf. By NANNIE NIEMEYER. Second Impression.

=Stories for the Bible Hour=
  By R. BRIMLEY JOHNSON, B.A.

=Nature Stories to Tell to Children=
  By H. WADDINGHAM SEERS.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISS MAUD LINDSAY'S POPULAR BOOKS

=Mother Stories=
  With 16 Line Illustrations.

=More Mother Stories=
  With 20 Line Illustrations.

THE RIVERSIDE PRESS LIMITED, EDINBURGH
GREAT BRITAIN


_To My Mother_

THE FIRST, BEST STORY-TELLER
THIS LITTLE BOOK IS
DEDICATED


PREFACE


The stories which are given in the following pages are for the most part
those which I have found to be best liked by the children to whom I have
told these and others. I have tried to reproduce the form in which I
actually tell them,--although that inevitably varies with every
repetition,--feeling that it would be of greater value to another
story-teller than a more closely literary form.

For the same reason, I have confined my statements of theory as to method,
to those which reflect my own experience; my "rules" were drawn from
introspection and retrospection, at the urging of others, long after the
instinctive method they exemplify had become habitual.

These facts are the basis of my hope that the book may be of use to those
who have much to do with children.

It would be impossible, in the space of any pardonable preface, to name
the teachers, mothers, and librarians who have given me hints and helps
during the past few years of story-telling. But I cannot let these pages
go to press without recording my especial indebtedness to the few persons
without whose interested aid the little book would scarcely have come to
be. They are: Mrs Elizabeth Young Rutan, at whose generous instance I
first enlarged my own field of entertaining story-telling to include hers,
of educational narrative, and from whom I had many valuable suggestions at
that time; Miss Ella L. Sweeney, assistant superintendent of schools,
Providence, R.I., to whom I owe exceptional opportunities for
investigation and experiment; Mrs Root, children's librarian of Providence
Public Library, and Miss Alice M. Jordan, Boston Public Library,
children's room, to whom I am indebted for much gracious and efficient
aid.

My thanks are due also to Mr David Nutt for permission to make use of
three stories from _English Fairy Tales_, by Mr Joseph Jacobs, and
_Raggylug_, from _Wild Animals I have Known_, by Mr Ernest Thompson Seton;
to Messrs Frederick A. Stokes Company for _Five Little White Heads_, by
Walter Learned, and for _Bird Thoughts_; to Messrs Kegan Paul, Trench,
Trübner & Co. Ltd. for _The Burning of the Ricefields_, from _Gleanings in
Buddha-Fields_, by Mr Lafcadio Hearn; to Messrs H.R. Allenson Ltd. for
three stories from _The Golden Windows_, by Miss Laura E. Richards; and to
Mr Seumas McManus for _Billy Beg and his Bull_, from _In Chimney Corners_.

S.C.B.


CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
                                                        PAGE
The Story-teller's Art
Recent Revival
The Difference between telling a Story and reading it aloud
Some Reasons why the Former is more effective             11


CHAPTER I

THE PURPOSE OF STORY-TELLING IN SCHOOL

Its immediate Advantages to the Teacher
Its ultimate Gifts to the Child                           19


CHAPTER II

SELECTION OF STORIES TO TELL

The Qualities Children like, and why
Qualities necessary for Oral Delivery
Examples: _The Three Bears_, _The Three Little Pigs_,
  _The Old Woman and her Pig_
Suggestions as to the Type of Story
  especially useful in the several primary Grades
Selected List of familiar Fairy Tales                     43


CHAPTER III

ADAPTATION OF STORIES FOR TELLING

How to make a long Story short
How to fill out a short Story
General Changes commonly desirable
Examples: _The Nürnberg Stove_, by Ouida;
  _The King of the Golden River_, by Ruskin;
  _The Red Thread of Courage_,
  _The Elf and the Dormouse_
Analysis of Method                                        67


CHAPTER IV

HOW TO TELL THE STORY

Essential Nature of the Story
Kind of Appreciation necessary
Suggestions for gaining Mastery of Facts
Arrangement of Children
The Story-teller's Mood
A few Principles of Method, Manner and Voice,
  from the psychological Point of View                    93


CHAPTER V

SOME SPECIFIC SCHOOLROOM USES

Exercise in Retelling
Illustrations cut by the Children as Seat-work
Dramatic Games
Influence of Games on Reading Classes                    117


STORIES SELECTED AND ADAPTED FOR TELLING

ESPECIALLY FOR KINDERGARTEN AND CLASS I.

Nursery Rhymes                                           133
Five Little White Heads                                  134
Bird Thoughts                                            134
How we came to have Pink Roses                           135
Raggylug                                                 135
The Golden Cobwebs                                       138
Why the Morning-Glory climbs                             142
The Story of Little Tavwots                              143
The Pig Brother                                          145
The Cake                                                 148
The Pied Piper of Hamelin Town                           149
Why the Evergreen Trees keep their Leaves in Winter      156
The Star Dollars                                         159
The Lion and the Gnat                                    161


ESPECIALLY FOR CLASSES II. AND III.

The Cat and the Parrot                                   168
The Rat Princess                                         172
The Frog and the Ox                                      175
The Fire-Bringer                                         176
The Burning of the Ricefields                            179
The Story of Wylie                                       182
Little Daylight                                          186
The Sailor Man                                           199
The Story of Jairus's Daughter                           201


ESPECIALLY FOR CLASSES IV. AND V.

Arthur and the Sword                                     204
Tarpeia                                                  208
The Buckwheat                                            210
The Judgment of Midas                                    211
Why the Sea is salt                                      213
Billy Beg and his Bull                                   221
The Little Hero of Haarlem                               233
The Last Lesson                                          238
The Story of Christmas                                   243


THE CHILD-MIND; AND HOW TO SATISFY IT

A short List of Books in which the Story-teller will find
Stories not too far from the Form in which they are
needed                                                   247


INTRODUCTION


Not long ago, I chanced to open a magazine at a story of Italian life
which dealt with a curious popular custom. It told of the love of the
people for the performances of a strangely clad, periodically appearing
old man who was a professional story-teller. This old man repeated whole
cycles of myth and serials of popular history, holding his
audience-chamber in whatever corner of the open court or square he
happened upon, and always surrounded by an eager crowd of listeners. So
great was the respect in which the story-teller was held, that any
interruption was likely to be resented with violence.

As I read of the absorbed silence and the changing expressions of the
crowd about the old man, I was suddenly reminded of a company of people I
had recently seen. They were gathered in one of the parlours of a women's
college, and their serious young faces had, habitually, none of the
childlike responsiveness of the Italian populace; they were suggestive,
rather, of a daily experience which precluded over-much surprise or
curiosity about anything. In the midst of the group stood a frail-looking
woman with bright eyes. She was telling a story, a children's story, about
a good and a bad little mouse.

She had been asked to do that thing, for a purpose, and she did it,
therefore. But it was easy to see from the expressions of the listeners
how trivial a thing it seemed to them.

That was at first. But presently the room grew quieter; and yet quieter.
The faces relaxed into amused smiles, sobered in unconscious sympathy,
finally broke in ripples of mirth. The story-teller had come to her own.

The memory of the college girls listening to the mouse-story brought other
memories with it. Many a swift composite view of faces passed before my
mental vision, faces with the child's look on them, yet not the faces of
children. And of the occasions to which the faces belonged, those were
most vivid which were earliest in my experience. For it was those early
experiences which first made me realise the modern possibilities of the
old, old art of telling stories.

It had become a part of my work, some years ago, to give English lectures
on German literature. Many of the members of my class were unable to read
in the original the works with which I dealt, and as these were modern
works it was rarely possible to obtain translations. For this reason, I
gradually formed the habit of telling the story of the drama or novel in
question before passing to a detailed consideration of it. I enjoyed this
part of the lesson exceedingly, but it was some time before I realised how
much the larger part of the lesson it had become to the class. They
used--and they were mature women--to wait for the story as if it were a
sugarplum and they, children; and to grieve openly if it were omitted.
Substitution of reading from a translation was greeted with precisely the
same abatement of eagerness that a child shows when he has asked you to
tell a story, and you offer, instead, to "read one from the pretty book."
And so general and constant were the tokens of enjoyment that there could
ultimately be no doubt of the power which the mere story-telling exerted.

The attitude of the grown-up listeners did but illustrate the general
difference between the effect of telling a story and of reading one.
Everyone who knows children well has felt the difference. With few
exceptions, children listen twice as eagerly to a story told as to one
read, and even a "recitation" or a so-called "reading" has not the charm
for them that the person wields who can "tell a story." And there are
sound reasons for their preference.

The great difference, including lesser ones, between telling and reading
is that the teller is free; the reader is bound. The book in hand, or the
wording of it in mind, binds the reader. The story-teller is bound by
nothing; he stands or sits, free to watch his audience, free to follow or
lead every changing mood, free to use body, eyes, voice, as aids in
expression. Even his mind is unbound, because he lets the story come in
the words of the moment, being so full of what he has to say. For this
reason, a story told is more spontaneous than one read, however well read.
And, consequently, the connection with the audience is closer, more
electric, than is possible when the book or its wording intervenes.

Beyond this advantage, is the added charm of the personal element in
story-telling. When you make a story your own and tell it, the listener
gets the story, _plus your appreciation of it_. It comes to him filtered
through your own enjoyment. That is what makes the funny story thrice
funnier on the lips of a jolly raconteur than in the pages of a memoir. It
is the filter of personality. Everybody has something of the curiosity of
the primitive man concerning his neighbour; what another has in his own
person felt and done has an especial hold on each one of us. The most
cultured of audiences will listen to the personal reminiscences of an
explorer with a different tingle of interest from that which it feels for
a scientific lecture on the results of the exploration. The longing for
the personal in experience is a very human longing. And this instinct or
longing is especially strong in children. It finds expression in their
delight in tales of what father or mother did when they were little, of
what happened to grandmother when she went on a journey, and so on, but it
also extends to stories which are not in themselves personal: which take
their personal savour merely from the fact that they flow from the lips in
spontaneous, homely phrases, with an appreciative gusto which suggests
participation.

The greater ease in holding the attention of children is, for teachers, a
sufficient practical reason for telling stories rather than reading them.
It is incomparably easier to make the necessary exertion of "magnetism,"
or whatever it may be called, when nothing else distracts the attention.
One's eyes meet the children's gaze naturally and constantly; one's
expression responds to and initiates theirs without effort; the connection
is immediate. For the ease of the teacher, then, no less than for the joy
of the children, may the art of story-telling be urged as pre-eminent over
the art of reading.

It is a very old, a very beautiful art. Merely to think of it carries
one's imaginary vision to scenes of glorious and touching antiquity. The
tellers of the stories of which Homer's _Iliad_ was compounded; the
transmitters of the legend and history which make up the _Gesta
Romanorum_; the travelling raconteurs whose brief heroic tales are woven
into our own national epic; the grannies of age-old tradition whose
stories are parts of Celtic folk-lore, of Germanic myth, of Asiatic
wonder-tales,--these are but younger brothers and sisters to the
generations of story-tellers whose inventions are but vaguely outlined in
resultant forms of ancient literatures, and the names of whose tribes are
no longer even guessed. There was a time when story-telling was the
chiefest of the arts of entertainment; kings and warriors could ask for
nothing better; serfs and children were satisfied with nothing less. In
all times there have been occasional revivals of this pastime, and in no
time has the art died out in the simple human realms of which mothers are
queens. But perhaps never, since the really old days, has story-telling so
nearly reached a recognised level of dignity as a legitimate and general
art of entertainment as now.

Its present popularity seems in a way to be an outgrowth of the
recognition of its educational value which was given impetus by the German
pedagogues of Froebel's school. That recognition has, at all events, been
a noticeable factor in educational conferences of late. The function of
the story is no longer considered solely in the light of its place in the
kindergarten; it is being sought in the first, the second, and indeed in
every standard where the children are still children. Sometimes the demand
for stories is made solely in the interests of literary culture, sometimes
in far ampler and vaguer relations, ranging from inculcation of scientific
fact to admonition of moral theory; but whatever the reason given, the
conclusion is the same: tell the children stories.

The average teacher has yielded to the pressure, at least in theory.
Cheerfully, as she has already accepted so many modifications of old
methods by "new thought," she accepts the idea of instilling mental and
moral desiderata into the receptive pupil, _viâ_ the charming tale. But,
confronted with the concrete problem of what desideratum by which tale,
and how, the average teacher sometimes finds her cheerfulness displaced by
a sense of inadequacy to the situation.

People who have always told stories to children, who do not know when they
began or how they do it; whose heads are stocked with the accretions of
years of fairyland-dwelling and nonsense-sharing,--these cannot understand
the perplexity of one to whom the gift and the opportunity have not "come
natural." But there are many who can understand it, personally and all
too well. To these, the teachers who have not a knack for story-telling,
who feel as shy as their own youngest scholar at the thought of it, who do
not know where the good stories are, or which ones are easy to tell, it is
my earnest hope that the following pages will bring something definite and
practical in the way of suggestion and reference.


HOW TO TELL STORIES TO CHILDREN


CHAPTER I

THE PURPOSE OF STORY-TELLING IN SCHOOL


Let us first consider together the primary matter of the _aim_ in
educational story-telling. On our conception of this must depend very
largely all decisions as to choice and method; and nothing in the whole
field of discussion is more vital than a just and sensible notion of this
first point. What shall we attempt to accomplish by stories in the
schoolroom? What can we reasonably expect to accomplish? And what, of
this, is best accomplished by this means and no other?

These are questions which become the more interesting and practical
because the recent access of enthusiasm for stories in education has led
many people to claim very wide and very vaguely outlined territory for
their possession, and often to lay heaviest stress on their least
essential functions. The most important instance of this is the fervour
with which many compilers of stories for school use have directed their
efforts solely toward illustration of natural phenomena. Geology, zoology,
botany, and even physics are taught by means of more or less happily
constructed narratives based on the simpler facts of these sciences.
Kindergarten teachers are familiar with such narratives: the little
stories of chrysalis-breaking, flower-growth, and the like. Now this is a
perfectly proper and practicable aim, but it is not a primary one. Others,
to which at best this is but secondary, should have first place and
receive greatest attention.

What is a story, essentially? Is it a text-book of science, an appendix to
the geography, an introduction to the primer of history? Of course it is
not. A story is essentially and primarily a work of art, and its chief
function must be sought in the line of the uses of art. Just as the drama
is capable of secondary uses, yet fails abjectly to realise its purpose
when those are substituted for its real significance as a work of art, so
does the story lend itself to subsidiary purposes, but claims first and
most strongly to be recognised in its real significance as a work of art.
Since the drama deals with life in all its parts, it can exemplify
sociological theory, it can illustrate economic principle, it can even
picture politics; but the drama which does these things only, has no
breath of its real life in its being, and dies when the wind of popular
tendency veers from its direction. So, you can teach a child interesting
facts about bees and butterflies by telling him certain stories, and you
can open his eyes to colours and processes in nature by telling certain
others; but unless you do something more than that and before that, you
are as one who should use the Venus of Milo for a demonstration in
anatomy.

The message of the story is the message of beauty, as effective as that
message in marble or paint. Its part in the economy of life is _to give
joy_. And the purpose and working of the joy is found in that quickening
of the spirit which answers every perception of the truly beautiful in the
arts of man. To give joy; in and through the joy to stir and feed the life
of the spirit: is not this the legitimate function of the story in
education?

Because I believe it to be such, not because I ignore the value of other
uses, I venture to push aside all aims which seem secondary to this for
later mention under specific heads. Here in the beginning of our
consideration I wish to emphasise this element alone. A story is a work of
art. Its greatest use to the child is in the everlasting appeal of beauty
by which the soul of man is constantly pricked to new hungers, quickened
to new perceptions, and so given desire to grow.

The obvious practical bearing of this is that story-telling is first of
all an art of entertainment; like the stage, its immediate purpose is the
pleasure of the hearer,--his pleasure, not his instruction, first.

Now the story-teller who has given the listening children such pleasure as
I mean may or may not have added a fact to the content of their minds; she
has inevitably added something to the vital powers of their souls. She has
given a wholesome exercise to the emotional muscles of the spirit, has
opened up new windows to the imagination, and added some line or colour to
the ideal of life and art which is always taking form in the heart of a
child. She has, in short, accomplished the one greatest aim of
story-telling,--to enlarge and enrich the child's spiritual experience,
and stimulate healthy reaction upon it.

Of course this result cannot be seen and proved as easily and early as can
the apprehension of a fact. As for the King who protecteth things to
be reverenced, he upholdeth the things of the Faith and of the World and
compelleth his folk to follow the Divine Law and to preserve the
rights of humanity; and it fitteth him to unite Pen and Sword; for whoso
declineth from what Pen hath written his feet slip and the King
shall rectify his error with the sharp Sword and dispread his justice
over all mankind. As for the King of his own lusts, he hath no religion
but the following his desire and, as he feareth not the wrath of
his Lord who set him on the throne, so his Kingdom inclineth to
deposition and the end of his pride is in the house of perdition.

And sages say, 'The King hath need of many people, but the people have
need of but one King' wherefore it beseemeth that he be well acquainted
with their natures, that he reduce their discord to concord, that
with his justice be encompass them all and with his bounties overwhelm them
all. And know, O King, that Ardeshir, styled Jamr Shadíd, or the Live
Coal, third of the Kings of Persia, conquered the whole world and
divided it into four divisions and, for this purpose, get for himself
four seal rings, one for each division. The first seal was that of the sea
and the police of prohibition and on it was written, Alterna lives.

The second was the seal of tribute and of the receipt of monies, and
on it was written, Building up. The third was the seal of the provisioning
department and on it was written, Plenty. The fourth was the seal
of the oppressed, and on it was written, Justice. And these usages
remained valid in Persia until the revelation of Al-Islam. Chosroës
also wrote his son, who was with the army, 'Be not thou too open
handed with thy troops, or they will be too rich to need thee.'

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted
say.

When it was the Sixty-first night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Chosroës wrote his
son, 'Be not thou too open handed with thy troops, or they will be too
rich to need thee; nor be thou niggardly with them, or they will murmur
against thee. Give thy giving deliberately and confer thy favours
advisedly; open thy hand to them in time of success and stint them
not in time of distress.' There is a legend that a desert Arab came once
to the Caliph Al- Mansúr[FN#262] and said, 'Starve thy dog and he shall
follow thee.' When the Caliph heard his words, he was enraged with the
Arab, but Abu 'l-Abbás of Tús said to him, 'I fear that if some
other than thou should show him a scone, the dog would follow him
and leave thee alone.'

Thereupon the Caliph Al-Mansur's wrath subsided and he knew that the wild
Arab had intended no offence and ordered him a present. And know, O
King, that Abd al-Malik bin Marwán wrote to his brother Abd al-Azíz,
when he despatched him to Egypt, as follows, 'Pay heed to thy Secretaries
and thy Chamberlains, for the Secretaries will acquaint thee with
estate fished matters and the Chamberlains with matters of official ceremony,
whilst thine expenditure will make thy troops known to thee.' Omar bin
Al-Khattáb[FN#263] (whom Allah accept!) when engaging a servant was in the
habit of conditioning him with four conditions; the first that he should
not ride the baggage beasts, the second that he should not wear
fine clothes, the third that he should not eat of the spoil and
the fourth that he should not put off praying till after the proper
period.

It is said that there is no wealth more profitable than understanding,
and there is no understanding like common sense and prudence, and
there is no prudence like piety; that there is no means of drawing
near to God like good morals, no measure like good breeding, no
traffic like good works and no profit like earning the Divine favour;
that there is no temperance like standing within the limits of the
law, no science like that of meditation, no worship like obeying
the Divine commends, no faith like modesty, no calculation like
self abasement and no honour like knowledge.

So guard the head and what it containeth and the belly and what it compriseth;
and think of death and doom ere it ariseth. Saith Ali (whose face Allah
honour!), 'Beware of the wickedness of women and be on thy guard against
them: consult them not in aught;[FN#264] but grudge not complaisance
to them, lest they greed for intrigue.'

And eke quoth he, 'Whoso leaveth the path of moderation his wits become
perplexed'; and there be rules for this which we will mention, if it be
Allah's will. And Omar (whom Allah accept!) saith, 'There are three
kinds of women, firstly the true believing, Heaven fearing, love full and
fruit full, who helpeth her mate against fate, not helping fate against
her mate; secondly, she who loveth her children but no more and, lastly,
she who is a shackle Allah setteth on the neck of whom He will.'

Men be also three: the wise when he exerciseth his own judgement; the
wiser who, when befalleth somewhat whereof he knoweth not the issue, seeketh
folk of good counsel and acteth by their advice; and the unwise irresolute
ignoring the right way nor heeding those who would guide him straight.
Justice is indispensable in all things; even slave girls have need of
justice; and men quote as an instance highway robbers who live by
violenting mankind, for did they not deal equitably among themselves
and observe justice in dividing their booty, their order would fall
to pieces.

[FN#265] In short, for the rest, the Prince of noble qualities is Beneficence
cum Benevolence; and how excellent is the saying of the poet,
By open hand and ruth the youth rose to his tribe's command; * Go and
do likewise for the same were easy task to thee.'
And quoth another,
'In ruth and mildness surety lies and mercy wins respect, * And Truth is
best asylum for the man of soothfast soul:

Whoso for wealth of gold would win and wear the world's good word,
* On glory's course must ever be the first to gain the goal.'"
And Nazhat al-Zaman discoursed upon the policy of Kings till the bystanders
said, "Never have we seen one reason of rule and government like
this damsel!

Haply she will let us hear some discourse upon subject other than this."
When she heard their words and understood them she said, "As for
the chapter of good breeding, it is wide of comprehension, being a
compend of things perfect. Now it so happened that one day there came to
the Caliph Mu'áwiyah[FN#266] one of his companions, who mentioned
the people of Irak and the goodness of their wit; and the Caliph's wife
Maysún, mother of Yezíd, heard his words. So, when he was gone, she said
to the Caliph, 'O Prince of the Faithful, I would thou let some of the
people of Irak come in and talk to thee, that I may hear their discourse.'
Therewith Mu'awiyah said to his attendants, 'See who is at the door?'
And they answered, 'The Banu Tamim.' 'Let them come in,' said he. So they
came in and with them Al-Ahnáf son of Kays.[FN#267] Then quoth Mu'awiyah,
'Enter, O Abu Bahr,' and drew a curtain between himself and Maysun, that
she might hear what they said without being seen herself; then he said
to Al-Ahnaf, 'O Son of the Sea, draw near and tell me what counsel thou
hast for me.' Quoth Al-Ahnaf, 'Part thy hair and trim thy moustachio
and pare thy nails and pluck thine armpits and shave thy pubes[FN#268] and
ever use the toothstick because therein be two and seventy virtues,
and make the Ghusl or complete ablution on Friday, as an expiation for
all between the Fridays.'--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and
ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Sixty-second Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Ahnaf bin
Kays replied to Al-Mu'awiyah's[FN#269] question, 'And ever use the
toothstick, because therein be two end seventy virtues and make the
complete Friday ablution as an expiation for all between the two
Fridays.'

Quoth Mu'awiyah, 'What is thy counsel to thyself?' 'To set my feet firmly
on the ground, to move them deliberately and watch over them with mine
eyes!' 'How dost thou order thyself when thou goest in to one not of the
nobles of thy tribe?'

'I lower mine eyes modestly and I salute first; I avoid what concerneth
me not and I spare my words!' 'And how when thou goest in to thine
equals?' 'I give ear to them when they speak and I do not assail them when
they err!' 'When thou goest in to thy chiefs?' 'I salute without making
any sign and await the reply: if they bid me draw near, I draw near, and
if they draw off from me I withdraw!' 'How dost thou with thy wife?' Quoth
Ahnaf, 'Excuse me from answering this, O Commander of the Faithful!'; but
Mu'awiyah cried, 'I conjure thee inform me.'

He said, 'I entreat her kindly and show her familiarity and am large in
expenditure, for woman was created of a crooked rib.'[FN#270] 'And how
dost thou when thou hast a mind to lie with her?' 'I bid her perfume
herself and kiss her till she is moved to desire; then, should it be
as thou knowest,[FN#271] I throw her on her back. If the seed abide in her
womb I say, 'O Allah make it blessed and let it not be a wastrel,
but fashion it into the best of fashions!'[FN#272] Then I rise from her
to ablution and first I pour water over my hands and then over my
body and lastly, I praise Allah for the joy He hath given me.'

Said Mu'awiyah, 'Thou hast answered right well and now tell me what
be thy requirements?' Said Ahnaf, 'I would have thee rule thy subjects
in the fear of Allah and do even handed justice between them.'
Thereupon Ahnaf rose to his feet and left the Caliph's presence, and
when he had gone Maysun said, 'Were there but this man in Irak, he would
suffice to it.' Then continued Nuzhat al-Zaman, "And all this is a section
of the chapter of good breeding, and know O King, that Muaykib was
intendant of the public treasury during the Caliphate of Omar bin
al-Khattáb,"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say
her permitted say.

When it was the Sixty-third Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Nuzhat al-
Zaman continued, "Know, O King, that Mu'aykib was intendant of the
public treasury during the Caliphate of Omar bin al-Khattab; and
it so befel him that he saw Omar's son and gave him a dirham out
of the treasury.

Thereupon, quoth Mu'aykib, 'I returned to my own house, and while I was
sitting there behold, a messenger came to me from Omar and I was
afraid and went to him, and when I came into his presence, in his hand was
the dirham I had given his son. He said to me, 'Woe to thee Mu'aykib!

I have found somewhat concerning thy soul.' I asked 'And what is that?';
and he answered, 'It is that thou hast shown thyself a foe to the followers
of Mohammed (on whom be peace and salvation!) in the matter of this
dirham, and thou wilt have to account for it on Resurrection Day.'[FN#273]
And Omar also wrote a letter to Abú
Músá al-Ashári[FN#274] as follows, 'When these presents reach thee, give
the people what is theirs and remit to me the rest.'

And he did so.

Now when Othman succeeded to the Caliphate, he wrote a like letter
to Abu Musa, who did his bidding and sent him the tribute accordingly,
and with it came Ziyád.

[FN#275] And when Ziyad laid the tribute before Othman, the Caliph's son
came in and took a dirham, whereupon Ziyad shed tears. Othman asked 'Why
weepest thou?'; and Ziyad answered, 'I once brought Omar bin
al-Khattab the like of this and his son took a dirham, where upon Omar
bade snatch it from his hand.

Now thy son hath taken of the tribute, yet I have seen none say aught to
him or snatch the money from him.' Then Othman[FN#276] cried, 'And where
wilt thou find the like of Omar?' Again Zayd bin Aslam relates of his
father that he said, 'I went out one night with Omar till we approached a
blazing fire. Quoth Omar, 'O Aslam, I think these must be travellers who
are suffering from the cold. Come, let us join them.' So we walked on
till we came to them and behold! we found a woman who had lighted a fire
under a cauldron and by her side were two children, both a wailing. Said
Omar, 'Peace be with you, O folk of light (for it was repugnant to him
to say 'folk of fire'),[FN#277] what aileth you?' Said she, 'The cold and
the night trouble us.' He asked, 'What aileth these little people that they
weep?'; and she answered, 'They are hungry.' He enquired, 'And what
is in this cauldron?'; and she replied, 'It is what I quiet them withal,
and Allah will question Omar bin al- Khattab of them, on the Day
of Doom.'

He said, 'And what should Omar know of their case?' 'Why then,' rejoined
she, 'should he manage people's affairs and yet be unmindful of
them?' Thereupon Omar turned to me (continned Aslam) and cried, 'Come
with us!' So we set off running till we reached the pay department of his
treasury, where he took out a sack containing flour and a pot holding
fat and said to me, 'Load these on my back!' Quoth I, 'O Commander of
the Faithful, I will carry them for thee.' He rejoined, 'Wilt thou
bear my load for me on the Day of Resurrection?' So I put the things
on his back, and we set off, running, till we threw down the sack hard
by her. Then he took out some of the flour and put it in the cauldron; and,
saying to the woman, 'Leave it to me,' he began blowing the fire
under the cauldron.

Now he was a long bearded man[FN#278] and I saw the smoke issuing from
between the hairs of his beard till the flour was cooked, when he took some
of the fat and threw it in and said to the woman, 'Bed them while I cool
it for them.' So they fell to eating till they had eaten their fill, and
he left the rest with her. Then he turned to me and said, 'O Aslam, I see
it was indeed hunger made them weep; and I am glad I did not go away ere
I found out the cause of the light I saw.'--And Shahrazad per ceived
the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Sixty-fourth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Nuzhat al- Zaman
continued, "It is related that Omar passed by a flock of sheep,
kept by a Mameluke, and asked him to sell him a sheep.

He answered, 'They are not mine.' 'Thou art the man I sought,' said Omar,
and bought him and freed him; whereupon the slave exclaimed, 'O
Allah, as thou hast bestowed on me the lesser emancipation; so vouchsafe
me the greater!'[FN#279] It is also said that Omar bin al- Khattab was
wont to give his servants sweet milk and himself eat coarse fare, and to
clothe them softly and himself wear rough garments. He rendered unto all
men their due, and exceeded in his giving to them. He once gave a man four
thousand dirhams and added thereto a thousand, wherefore it was said to
him, 'Why dost thou not increase to thy son as thou increasest to this man?'
He answered, 'This man's father stood firm at the battle day of
Ohod.'[FN#280] Al-Hasan relates that Omar once came back from foray with
much money, and that Hafsah[FN#281] approached him and said, 'O
Commander of the Faithful, the due of kinship!'

'O Hafsah!' replied he, 'verily Allah hath enjoined us to satisfy the
dues of kinship, but not with the monies of the True Believers. Indeed,
thou pleasest" thy family, but thou angerest thy father.' And she went
away trailing her skirts.[FN#282] The son of Omar said, 'I
implored the Lord to show me my father one year after his death, till at
last I saw him wiping the sweat from his brow and asked him, 'How is it
with thee, O my father?' He answered, 'But for my Lord's mercy thy father
surely had perished.' Then said Nuzhat al-Zaman, "Hear, O auspicious
King, the second division of the first chapter of the instances of the
followers of the Apostle and other holy men. Saith Al Hasan al-Basrí,[FN#283]
Not a soul of the sons of Adam goeth forth of the world without
regretting three things,- failure to enjoy what he hath amassed,
failure to compass what he hoped, failure to provide himself with sufficient
viaticum for that hereto he goeth.[FN#284] It was said of Sufyan,[FN#285]
'Can a man be a religious and yet possess wealth?' He replied, 'Yes, so he
be patient when grieved and be thankful when he hath received.' Abdullah
bin Shaddád, being about to die, sent for his son Mohammed and
admonished him, saying, 'O my son, I see the Summoner of Death summoning
me, and so I charge thee to fear Allah both in public and private, to
praise Allah and to be soothfastin thy speech, for such praise bringeth
increase of prosperity, and piety in itself is the best of provision for
the next world; even as saith one of the poets,
'I see not happiness lies in gathering gold; * The man most pious is man
happiest:
In truth the fear of God is best of stores, * And God shall make the pious
choicely blest.'
Then quoth Nuzhat al-Zaman, "Let the King also give ear to these notes
from the second section of the first chapter."

He asked her 'What be they?'; and she answered, "When Omar bin Abd
al-Azíz[FN#
286] succeeded to the Caliphate, he went to his household and laying hands
on all that was in their hold, put it into the public treasury. So the
Banu Umayyah flew for aid to his father's sister, Fátimah, daughter of
Marwan, and she sent to him saying, 'I must needs speak to thee.' So
she came to him by night and, when he had made her alight from her beast
and sit down, he said to her, 'O aunt, it is for thee to speak first,
since thou hast some thing to ask: tell me then what thou wouldst with
me.'

Replied she, 'O Commander of the Faithful, it is thine to speak first,
for thy judgment perceiveth that which is hidden from the intelligence
of others.' Then said Omar, 'Of a verity Allah Almighty sent Mohammed as
a blessing to some and a bane to others; and He elected for him
those with him, and commissioned him as His Apostle and took him
to Himself,'--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
saying her permitted say.

The wisdom which lies behind true humour is
found in the nonsense tale of infancy as truly as in mature humour, but in
its own kind and degree. "Just for fun" is the first reason for the
humorous story; the wisdom in the fun is the second.

And now we come to

THE NATURE STORY

No other type of fiction is more familiar to the teacher, and probably no
other kind is the source of so much uncertainty of feeling. The nature
story is much used, as I have noticed above, to illustrate or to teach the
habits of animals and the laws of plant-growth; to stimulate scientific
interest as well as to increase culture in scientific fact. This is an
entirely legitimate object. In view of its present preponderance, it is
certainly a pity, however, that so few stories are available, the accuracy
of which, from this point of view, can be vouched for. The carefully
prepared book of to-day is refuted and scoffed at to-morrow. The teacher
who wishes to use story-telling chiefly as an element in nature study must
at least limit herself to a small amount of absolutely unquestioned
material, or else subject every new story to the judgment of an authority
in the line dealt with. This is not easy for the teacher at a distance
from the great libraries, and for those who have access to well-equipped
libraries it is a matter of time and thought.

It does not so greatly trouble the teacher who uses the nature story as a
story, rather than as a text-book, for she will not be so keenly attracted
toward the books prepared with a didactic purpose. She will find a good
gift for the child in nature stories which are stories, over and above any
stimulus to his curiosity about fact. That good gift is a certain
possession of all good fiction.

One of the best things good fiction does for any of us is to broaden our
comprehension of other lots than our own. The average man or woman has
little opportunity actually to live more than one kind of life. The
chances of birth, occupation, family ties, determine for most of us a line
of experience not very inclusive and but little varied; and this is a
natural barrier to our complete understanding of others, whose life-line
is set at a different angle. It is not possible wholly to sympathise with
emotions engendered by experience which one has never had. Yet we all long
to be broad in sympathy and inclusive in appreciation; we long, greatly,
to know the experience of others. This yearning is probably one of the
good but misconceived appetites so injudiciously fed by the gossip of the
daily press. There is a hope, in the reader, of getting for the moment
into the lives of people who move in wholly different sets of
circumstances. But the relation of dry facts in newspapers, however tinged
with journalistic colour, helps very little to enter such other life. The
entrance has to be by the door of the imagination, and the journalist is
rarely able to open it for us. But there is a genius who can open it. The
author who can write fiction of the right sort can do it; his is the gift
of seeing inner realities, and of showing them to those who cannot see
them for themselves. Sharing the imaginative vision of the story-writer,
we can truly follow out many other roads of life than our own. The girl on
a lone country farm is made to understand how a girl in a city
sweating-den feels and lives; the London exquisite realises the life of a
Californian ranchman; royalty and tenement dwellers become acquainted,
through the power of the imagination working on experience shown in the
light of a human basis common to both. Fiction supplies an element of
culture,--that of the sympathies, which is invaluable. And the beginnings
of this culture, this widening and clearing of the avenues of human
sympathy, are especially easily made with children in the nature story.

When you begin, "There was once a little furry rabbit,"[1] the child's
curiosity is awakened by the very fact that the rabbit is not a child,
but something of a different species altogether. "Now for something new
and adventuresome," says his expectation, "we are starting off into a
foreign world." He listens wide-eyed, while you say, "and he lived in a
warm, cosy nest, down under the long grass with his mother"--how
delightful, to live in a place like that; so different from little boys'
homes!--"his name was Raggylug, and his mother's name was Molly
Cottontail. And every morning, when Molly Cottontail went out to get their
food, she said to Raggylug, 'Now, Raggylug, remember you are only a baby
rabbit, and don't move from the nest. No matter what you hear, no matter
what you see, don't you move!'"--all this is different still, yet it is
familiar, too; it appears that rabbits are rather like folks. So the tale
proceeds, and the little furry rabbit passes through experiences strange
to little boys, yet very like little boys' adventures in some respects; he
is frightened by a snake, comforted by his mammy, and taken to a new
house, under the long grass a long way off. These are all situations to
which the child has a key. There is just enough of strangeness to entice,
just enough of the familiar to relieve any strain. When the child has
lived through the day's happenings with Raggylug, the latter has begun to
seem veritably a little brother of the grass to him. And because he has
entered imaginatively into the feelings and fate of a creature different
from himself, he has taken his first step out into the wide world of the
lives of others.

[Footnote 1: See _Raggylug_, page 135.]

It may be a recognition of this factor and its value which has led so many
writers of nature stories into the error of over-humanising their
four-footed or feathered heroes and heroines. The exaggeration is
unnecessary, for there is enough community of lot suggested in the
sternest scientific record to constitute a natural basis for sympathy on
the part of the human animal. Without any falsity of presentation
whatever, the nature story may be counted on as a help in the beginnings
of culture of the sympathies. It is not, of course, a help confined to the
powers of the nature story; all types of story share in some degree the
powers of each. But each has some especial virtue in dominant degree, and
the nature story is, on this ground, identified with the thought given.

The nature story shares its influence especially with

THE HISTORICAL STORY

As the one widens the circle of connection with other kinds of life, the
other deepens the sense of relation to past lives; it gives the sense of
background, of the close and endless connection of generation with
generation. A good historical story vitalises the conception of past
events and brings their characters into relation with the present. This is
especially true of stories of things and persons in the history of our own
race. They foster race-consciousness, the feeling of kinship and community
of blood. It is this property which makes the historical story so good an
agent for furthering a proper national pride in children. Genuine
patriotism, neither arrogant nor melodramatic, is so generally recognised
as having its roots in early training that I need not dwell on this
possibility, further than to note its connection with the instinct of
hero-worship which is quick in the healthy child. Let us feed that hunger
for the heroic which gnaws at the imagination of every boy and of more
girls than is generally admitted. There have been heroes in plenty in the
world's records,--heroes of action, of endurance, of decision, of faith.
Biographical history is full of them. And the deeds of these heroes are
every one a story. We tell these stories, both to bring the great past
into its due relation with the living present, and to arouse that generous
admiration and desire for emulation which is the source of so much
inspiration in childhood. When these stories are tales of the doings and
happenings of our own heroes, the strong men and women whose lives are a
part of our own country's history, they serve the double demands of
hero-worship and patriotism. Stories of wise and honest statesmanship, of
struggle with primitive conditions, of generous love and sacrifice,
and--in some measure--of physical courage, form a subtle and powerful
influence for pride in one's people, the intimate sense of kinship with
one's own nation, and the desire to serve it in one's own time.

It is not particularly useful to tell batches of unrelated anecdote. It is
much more profitable to take up the story of a period and connect it with
a group of interesting persons whose lives affected it or were affected by
it, telling the stories of their lives, or of the events in which they
were concerned, as "true stories." These biographical stories must,
usually, be adapted for use. But besides these there is a certain number
of pure stories--works of art--which already exist for us, and which
illuminate facts and epochs almost without need of sidelights. Such may
stand by themselves, or be used with only enough explanation to give
background. Probably the best story of this kind known to lovers of modern
literature is Daudet's famous _La Dernière Classe_.[1]

[Footnote 1: See _The Last Lesson_, page 238.]

The historical story, to recapitulate, gives a sense of the reality and
humanness of past events, is a valuable aid in patriotic training, and
stirs the desire of emulating goodness and wisdom.


CHAPTER II

SELECTION OF STORIES TO TELL


There is one picture which I can always review, in my own collection of
past scenes, though many a more highly coloured one has been irrevocably
curtained by the folds of forgetfulness. It is the picture of a little
girl, standing by an old-fashioned marble-topped dressing-table in a pink,
sunny room. I can never see the little girl's face, because, somehow, I am
always looking down at her short skirts or twisting my head round against
the hand which patiently combs her stubborn curls. But I can see the
brushes and combs on the marble table quite plainly, and the pinker
streaks of sun on the pink walls. And I can hear. I can hear a low,
wonder-working voice which goes smoothly on and on, as the fingers run up
the little girl's locks or stroke the hair into place on her forehead. The
voice says, "And little Goldilocks came to a little bit of a house. And
she opened the door and went in. It was the house where three Bears lived;
there was a great Bear, a little Bear, and a middle-sized Bear; and they
had gone out for a walk. Goldilocks went in, and she saw"--the little
girl is very still; she would not disturb that story by so much as a loud
breath; but presently the comb comes to a tangle, pulls,--and the little
girl begins to squirm. Instantly the voice becomes impressive, mysterious:
"she went up to the table, and there were _three plates of porridge_. She
tasted the first one"--the little girl swallows the breath she was going
to whimper with, and waits--"and it was too hot! She tasted the next one,
and _that_ was too hot. Then she tasted the little bit of a plate, and
that--was--just--right!"

How I remember the delightful sense of achievement which stole into the
little girl's veins when the voice behind her said "just right." I think
she always chuckled a little, and hugged her stomach. So the story
progressed, and the little girl got through her toilet without crying,
owing to the wonder-working voice and its marvellous adaptation of
climaxes to emergencies. Nine times out of ten, it was the story of _The
Three Bears_ she demanded when, with the appearance of brush and comb, the
voice asked, "Which story shall mother tell?"

It was a memory of the little girl in the pink room which made it easy for
me to understand some other children's preferences when I recently had
occasion to inquire about them. By asking many individual children which
story of all they had heard they liked best, by taking votes on the best
story of a series, after telling it, and by getting some obliging teachers
to put similar questions to their pupils, I found three prime favourites
common to a great many children of about the kindergarten age. They were
_The Three Bears_, _Three Little Pigs_, and _The Little Pig that wouldn't
go over the Stile_.

Some of the teachers were genuinely disturbed because the few stories they
had introduced merely for amusement had taken so pre-eminent a place in
the children's affection over those which had been given seriously. It was
of no use, however, to suggest substitutes. The children knew definitely
what they liked, and though they accepted the recapitulation of scientific
and moral stories with polite approbation, they returned to the original
answer at a repetition of the question.

Inasmuch as the slightest of the things we hope to do for children by
means of stories is quite impossible unless the children enjoy the
stories, it may be worth our while to consider seriously these three which
they surely do enjoy, to see what common qualities are in them,
explanatory of their popularity, by which we may test the probable success
of other stories we wish to tell.

Here they are,--three prime favourites of proved standing.


THE STORY OF THE THREE LITTLE PIGS[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from Joseph Jacobs's _English Fairy Tales_ (David
Nutt, 57-59 Long Acre, W.C. 6s.).]

Once upon a time there were three little pigs, who went from home to seek
their fortune. The first that went off met a man with a bundle of straw,
and said to him:--

"Good man, give me that straw to build me a house."

The man gave the straw, and the little pig built his house with it.
Presently came along a wolf, and knocked at the door, and said:--

"Little pig, little pig, let me come in."

But the pig answered:--

"No, no, by the hair of my chiny-chin-chin."

So the wolf said:--

"Then I'll huff, and I'll puff, and I'll blow your house in."

So he huffed, and he puffed, and he blew his house in, and ate up the
little pig.

The second little pig met a man with a bundle of furze, and said:--

"Good man, give me that furze to build me a house."

The man gave the furze, and the pig built his house. Then once more came
the wolf, and said:

"Little pig, little pig, let me come in."

"No, no, by the hair of my chiny-chin-chin."

"Then I'll puff, and I'll huff, and I'll blow your house in."

So he huffed, and he puffed, and he puffed and he huffed, and at last he
blew the house in, and ate up the little pig.

The third little pig met a man with a load of bricks, and said:--

"Good man, give me those bricks to build me a house with."

The man gave the bricks, and he built his house with them. Again the wolf
came, and said:--

"Little pig, little pig, let me come in."

"No, no, by the hair of my chiny-chin-chin."

"Then I'll huff, and I'll puff, and I'll blow your house in."

So he huffed, and he puffed, and he huffed, and he puffed, and he puffed
and huffed; but he could not get the house down. Finding that he could
not, with all his huffing and puffing, blow the house down, he said:--

"Little pig, I know where there is a nice field of turnips."

"Where?" said the little pig.

"Oh, in Mr Smith's field, and if you will be ready to-morrow morning we
will go together, and get some for dinner."

"Very well," said the little pig. "What time do you mean to go?"

"Oh, at six o'clock."

So the little pig got up at five, and got the turnips before the wolf
came crying:--

"Little pig, are you ready?"

The little pig said: "Ready! I have been and come back again, and got a
nice potful for dinner."

The wolf felt very angry at this, but thought that he would be a match for
the little pig somehow or other, so he said:--

"Little pig, I know where there is a nice apple-tree."

"Where?" said the pig.

"Down at Merry-garden," replied the wolf, "and if you will not deceive me
I will come for you, at five o'clock to-morrow, and get some apples."

The little pig got up next morning at four o'clock, and went off for the
apples, hoping to get back before the wolf came; but it took long to climb
the tree, and just as he was coming down from it, he saw the wolf coming.
When the wolf came up he said:--

"Little pig, what! are you here before me? Are they nice apples?"

"Yes, very," said the little pig. "I will throw you down one."

And he threw it so far that, while the wolf was gone to pick it up, the
little pig jumped down and ran home. The next day the wolf came again, and
said to the little pig:--

"Little pig, there is a fair in town this afternoon; will you go?"

"Oh yes," said the pig, "I will go; what time?"

"At three," said the wolf. As usual the little pig went off before the
time, and got to the fair, and bought a butter-churn, which he was rolling
home when he saw the wolf coming. So he got into the churn to hide, and in
so doing turned it round, and it rolled down the hill with the pig in it,
which frightened the wolf so much that he ran home without going to the
fair. He went to the little pig's house, and told him how frightened he
had been by a great round thing which came past him down the hill. Then
the little pig said:--

"Ha! ha! I frightened you, then!"

Then the wolf was very angry indeed, and tried to get down the chimney in
order to eat up the little pig. When the little pig saw what he was about,
he put a pot full of water on the blazing fire, and, just as the wolf was
coming down, he took off the cover, and in fell the wolf. Quickly the
little pig clapped on the cover, and when the wolf was boiled ate him for
supper.


THE STORY OF THE THREE BEARS[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from Joseph Jacobs's _English Fairy Tales_ (David
Nutt, 57-59 Long Acre, W.C. 6s.).]

Once upon a time there were Three Bears, who lived together in a house of
their own, in a wood. One of them was a Little Small Wee Bear, and one
was a Middle-sized Bear, and the other was a Great Huge Bear. They had
each a pot for their porridge,--a little pot for the Little Small Wee
Bear, and a middle-sized pot for the Middle-sized Bear, and a great pot
for the Great Huge Bear. And they had each a chair to sit in,--a little
chair for the Little Small Wee Bear, and a middle-sized chair for the
Middle-sized Bear, and a great chair for the Great Huge Bear. And they had
each a bed to sleep in,--a little bed for the Little Small Wee Bear, and a
middle-sized bed for the Middle-sized Bear, and a great bed for the Great
Huge Bear.

One day, after they had made the porridge for their breakfast, and poured
it into their porridge-pots, they walked out into the wood while the
porridge was cooling, that they might not burn their mouths, by beginning
too soon to eat it. And while they were walking, a little girl named
Goldilocks came to the house. She had never seen the little house before,
and it was such a strange little house that she forgot all the things her
mother had told her about being polite: first she looked in at the window,
and then she peeped in at the keyhole; and seeing nobody in the house, she
lifted the latch. The door was not fastened, because the Bears were good
Bears, who did nobody any harm, and never suspected that anybody would
harm them. So Goldilocks opened the door, and went in; and well pleased
she was when she saw the porridge on the table. If Goldilocks had
remembered what her mother had told her, she would have waited till the
Bears came home, and then, perhaps, they would have asked her to
breakfast; for they were good Bears--a little rough, as the manner of
Bears is, but for all that very good-natured and hospitable. But
Goldilocks forgot, and set about helping herself.

So first she tasted the porridge of the Great Huge Bear, and that was too
hot. And then she tasted the porridge of the Middle-sized Bear, and that
was too cold. And then she went to the porridge of the Little Small Wee
Bear, and tasted that: and that was neither too hot nor too cold, but just
right; and she liked it so well, that she ate it all up.

Then Goldilocks sat down in the chair of the Great Huge Bear, and that was
too hard for her. And then she sat down in the chair of the Middle-sized
Bear, and that was too soft for her. And then she sat down in the chair of
the Little Small Wee Bear, and that was neither too hard nor too soft, but
just right. So she seated herself in it, and there she sat till the bottom
of the chair came out, and down she came, plump upon the ground.

Then Goldilocks went upstairs into the bed-chamber in which the Three
Bears slept. And first she lay down upon the bed of the Great Huge Bear;
but that was too high at the head for her. And next she lay down upon the
bed of the Middle-sized Bear, and that was too high at the foot for her.
And then she lay down upon the bed of the Little Small Wee Bear; and that
was neither too high at the head nor at the foot, but just right. So she
covered herself up comfortably, and lay there till she fell fast asleep.

By this time the Three Bears thought their porridge would be cool enough;
so they came home to breakfast. Now Goldilocks had left the spoon of the
Great Huge Bear standing in his porridge.

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN AT MY PORRIDGE!" said the Great Huge Bear, in his
great, rough, gruff voice. And when the Middle-sized Bear looked at his,
he saw that the spoon was standing in it too.

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN AT MY PORRIDGE!" said the Middle-sized Bear, in his
middle-sized voice.

Then the Little Small Wee Bear looked at his, and there was the spoon in
the porridge-pot, but the porridge was all gone.

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN AT MY PORRIDGE, AND HAS EATEN IT ALL UP!" said the
Little Small Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.

Upon this, the Three Bears, seeing that someone had entered their house,
and eaten up the Little Small Wee Bear's breakfast, began to look about
them. Now Goldilocks had not put the hard cushion straight when she rose
from the chair of the Great Huge Bear.

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN SITTING IN MY CHAIR!" said the Great Huge Bear, in his
great, rough, gruff voice.

And Goldilocks had crushed down the soft cushion of the Middle-sized Bear.

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN SITTING IN MY CHAIR!" said the Middle-sized Bear, in
his middle-sized voice.

And you know what Goldilocks had done to the third chair.

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN SITTING IN MY CHAIR AND HAS SAT THE BOTTOM OUT OF IT!"
said the Little Small Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.

Then the Three Bears thought it necessary that they should make further
search; so they went upstairs into their bed-chamber. Now Goldilocks had
pulled the pillow of the Great Huge Bear out of its place.

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN LYING IN MY BED!" said the Great Huge Bear, in his
great, rough, gruff voice.

And Goldilocks had pulled the bolster of the Middle-sized Bear out of its
place.

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN LYING IN MY BED!" said the Middle-sized Bear, in his
middle-sized voice.

And when the Little Small Wee Bear came to look at his bed, there was the
bolster in its place; and the pillow in its place upon the bolster; and
upon the pillow was the shining, yellow hair of little Goldilocks!

"SOMEBODY HAS BEEN LYING IN MY BED,--AND HERE SHE IS!" said the Little
Small Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.

Goldilocks had heard in her sleep the great, rough, gruff voice of the
Great Huge Bear; but she was so fast asleep that it was no more to her
than the roaring of wind or the rumbling of thunder. And she had heard the
middle-sized voice of the Middle-sized Bear, but it was only as if she had
heard someone speaking in a dream. But when she heard the little, small,
wee voice of the Little Small Wee Bear, it was so sharp, and so shrill,
that it awakened her at once. Up she started, and when she saw the Three
Bears on one side of the bed, she tumbled herself out at the other, and
ran to the window. Now the window was open, because the Bears, like good,
tidy Bears as they were, always opened their bed-chamber window when they
got up in the morning.

Out little Goldilocks jumped, and ran away home to her mother, as fast as
ever she could.


THE OLD WOMAN AND HER PIG[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from Joseph Jacobs's _English Fairy Tales_ (David
Nutt, 57-59 Long Acre, W.C. 6s.).]

It happened one day that as an old woman was sweeping her house she found
a little crooked sixpence. "What," said she, "shall I do with this little
sixpence? I will go to market, and buy a little pig."

On the way home she came to a stile; but the piggy wouldn't go over the
stile.

So she left the piggy and went on a little further, till she met a dog.
She said to him, "Dog, dog, bite pig; piggy won't go over the stile; and I
sha'n't get home to-night." But the dog wouldn't bite piggy.

A little further on she met a stick. So she said: "Stick! stick! beat dog!
dog won't bite pig; piggy won't go over the stile; and I sha'n't get home
to-night." But the stick wouldn't beat the dog.

A little further on she met a fire. So she said: "Fire! fire! burn stick!
stick won't beat dog; dog won't bite pig; piggy won't get over the stile;
and I sha'n't get home to-night." But the fire wouldn't burn the stick.

A little further on she met some water. So she said: "Water! water! quench
fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't beat dog; dog won't bite pig;
piggy won't get over the stile; and I sha'n't get home to-night." But the
water wouldn't quench the fire.

A little further on she met an ox. So she said: "Ox! ox! drink water;
water won't quench fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't beat dog; dog
won't bite pig; piggy won't get over the stile; and I sha'n't get home
to-night." But the ox wouldn't drink the water.

A little further on she met a butcher. So she said: "Butcher! butcher!
kill ox; ox won't drink water; water won't quench fire; fire won't burn
stick; stick won't beat dog; dog won't bite pig; piggy won't get over the
stile; and I sha'n't get home to-night." But the butcher wouldn't kill the
ox.

A little further on she met a rope. So she said: "Rope! rope! hang
butcher; butcher won't kill ox; ox won't drink water; water won't quench
fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't beat dog; dog won't bite pig;
piggy won't get over the stile; and I sha'n't get home to-night." But the
rope wouldn't hang the butcher.

A little further on she met a rat. So she said: "Rat! rat! gnaw rope; rope
won't hang butcher; butcher won't kill ox; ox won't drink water; water
won't quench fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't beat dog; dog won't
bite pig; piggy won't get over the stile; and I sha'n't get home
to-night." But the rat wouldn't gnaw the rope.

A little further on she met a cat. So she said: "Cat! cat! kill rat; rat
won't gnaw rope; rope won't hang butcher; butcher won't kill ox; ox won't
drink water; water won't quench fire; fire won't burn stick; stick won't
beat dog; dog won't bite pig; piggy won't get over the stile; and I
sha'n't get home to-night." But the cat said to her, "If you will go to
yonder cow, and fetch me a saucer of milk, I will kill the rat." So away
went the old woman to the cow.

But the cow refused to give the milk unless the old woman first gave her a
handful of hay. So away went the old woman to the haystack; and she
brought the hay to the cow.

When the cow had eaten the hay, she gave the old woman the milk; and away
she went with it in a saucer to the cat.

As soon as it had lapped up the milk, the cat began to kill the rat; the
rat began to gnaw the rope; the rope began to hang the butcher; the
butcher began to kill the ox; the ox began to drink the water; the water
began to quench the fire; the fire began to burn the stick; the stick
began to beat the dog; the dog began to bite the pig; the little pig in a
fright jumped over the stile; and so the old woman did get home that
night.

       *       *       *       *       *

The briefest examination of these three stories reveals the fact that one
attribute is beyond dispute in each. Something happens, all the time.
Every step in each story is an event. There is no time spent in
explanation, description, or telling how people felt; the stories tell
what people did, and what they said. And the events are the links of a
sequence of the closest kind; in point of time and of cause they follow as
immediately as it is possible for events to follow. There are no gaps, and
no complications of plot requiring a return on the road.

A second common characteristic appears on briefest examination. As you run
over the little stories you will see that each event presents a distinct
picture to the imagination, and that these pictures are made out of very
simple elements. The elements are either familiar to the child or
analogous to familiar ones. Each object and happening is very like
everyday, yet touched with a subtle difference, rich in mystery. For
example, the details of the pictures in the Goldilocks story are parts of
everyday life,--house, chairs, beds, and so on; but they are the house,
chairs, and beds of three bears; that is the touch of marvel which
transforms the scene. The old woman who owned the obstinate pig is the
centre of a circle in which stand only familiar images,--stick, fire,
water, cow, and the rest; but the wonder enters with the fact that these
usually inanimate or dumb objects of nature enter so humanly into the
contest of wills. So it is, also, with the doings of the three little
pigs. Every image is explicable to the youngest hearer, while none
suggests actual familiarity, because the actors are not children, but
pigs. Simplicity, with mystery, is the keynote of all the pictures, and
these are clear and distinct.

Still a third characteristic common to the stories quoted is a certain
amount of repetition. It is more definite, and of what has been called the
"cumulative" kind, in the story of the old woman; but in all it is a
distinctive feature.

Here we have, then, three marked characteristics common to three stories
almost invariably loved by children,--action, in close sequence; familiar
images, tinged with mystery; some degree of repetition.

It is not hard to see why these qualities appeal to a child. The first is
the prime characteristic of all good stories,--"stories as is stories";
the child's demand for it but bears witness to the fact that his
instinctive taste is often better than the taste he later develops under
artificial culture. The second is a matter of common-sense. How could the
imagination create new worlds, save out of the material of the old? To
offer strange images is to confuse the mind and dull the interest; to
offer familiar ones "with a difference" is to pique the interest and
engage the mind.

The charm of repetition, to children, is a more complex matter; there are
undoubtedly a good many elements entering into it, hard to trace in
analysis. But one or two of the more obvious may be seized and brought to
view. The first is the subtle flattery of an unexpected sense of mastery.
When the child-mind, following with toilful alertness a new train of
thought, comes suddenly on a familiar epithet or expression, I fancy it is
with much the same sense of satisfaction that we older people feel when in
the midst of a long programme of new music the orchestra strikes into
something we have heard before,--Handel, maybe, or one of the more
familiar Beethoven sonatas. "I know that! I have heard that before!" we
think, triumphant, and settle down to enjoyment without effort. So it is,
probably, with the "middle-sized" articles of the bears' house and the
"and I sha'n't get home to-night" of the old woman. Each recurrence
deepens the note of familiarity, tickles the primitive sense of humour,
and eases the strain of attention.

When the repetition is cumulative, like the extreme instance of _The House
that Jack Built_, I have a notion that the joy of the child is the
pleasure of intellectual gymnastics, not too hard for fun, but not too
easy for excitement. There is a deal of fun to be got out of purely
intellectual processes, and childhood is not too soon for the rudiments
of such fun to show. The delight the healthy adult mind takes in working
out a neat problem in geometry, the pleasure a musician finds in following
the involutions of a fugue, are of the same type of satisfaction as the
liking of children for cumulative stories. Complexity and mass, arrived at
by stages perfectly intelligible in themselves, mounting steadily from a
starting-point of simplicity; then the same complexity and mass resolving
itself as it were miraculously back into simplicity, this is an
intellectual joy. It does not differ materially, whether found in the
study of counterpoint, at thirty, or in the story of the old woman and her
pig, at five. It is perfectly natural and wholesome, and it may perhaps be
a more powerful developing force for the budding intellect than we are
aware.

For these reasons let me urge you, when you are looking for stories to
tell little children, to apply this threefold test as a kind of touchstone
to their quality of fitness: Are they full of action, in close natural
sequence? Are their images simple without being humdrum? Are they
repetitive? The last quality is not an absolute requisite; but it is at
least very often an attribute of a good child-story.

Having this touchstone in mind for general selection, we can now pass to
the matter of specific choices for different ages of children. No one can
speak with absolute conviction in this matter, so greatly do the taste and
capacity of children of the same age vary. Any approach to an exact
classification of juvenile books according to their suitability for
different ages will be found impossible. The same book in the hands of a
skilful narrator may be made to afford delight to children both of five
and ten. The following are merely the inferences drawn from my own
experience. They must be modified by each teacher according to the
conditions of her small audience. In general, I believe it to be wise to
plan the choice of stories much as indicated in the table given on page 64.

At a later stage, varying with the standard of capacity of different
classes, we find the temper of mind which asks continually, "Is that
true?" To meet this demand, one draws on historical and scientific
anecdote, and on reminiscence. But the demand is never so exclusive that
fictitious narrative need be cast aside. All that is necessary is to state
frankly that the story you are telling is "just a story," or--if it be the
case--that it is "part true and part story."

At all stages I would urge the telling of Bible stories, as far as is
allowed by the special circumstances of the school. These are stories
from a source unsurpassed in our literature for purity of style and
loftiness of subject. More especially I urge the telling of the
Christ-story, in such parts as seem likely to be within the grasp of the
several classes. In all Bible stories it is well to keep as near as
possible to the original unimprovable text.[1] Some amplification can be
made, but no excessive modernising or simplifying is excusable in face of
the austere grace and majestic simplicity of the original. Such adaptation
as helps to cut the long narrative into separate units, making each an
intelligible story, I have ventured to illustrate according to my own
personal taste, in two stories given in Chapter VI. The object of the
usual modernising or enlarging of the text may be far better attained for
the child listener by infusing into the text as it stands a strong
realising sense of its meaning and vitality, letting it give its own
message through a fit medium of expression.

[Footnote 1: _Stories from the Old Testament_, by S. Platt, retells the
Old Testament story as nearly as possible in the actual words of the
Authorised Version.]

The stories given in pages 133 to 246 are grouped as illustrations of the
types suitable for different stages. They are, however, very often
interchangeable; and many stories can be told successfully to all classes.
A vitally good story is little limited in its appeal. It is,
nevertheless, a help to have certain plain results of experience as a
basis for choice; that which is given is intended only for such a basis,
not in the least as a final list.


CERTAIN TYPES OF STORY CLASSIFIED

FOR KINDERGARTEN AND CLASS I.:

  Little Rhymed Stories
    (including the best of the nursery rhymes and the
    more poetic fragments of Mother Goose)
  Stories with Rhyme in Parts
  Nature Stories
    (in which the element of personification is strong)
  Nonsense Tales
  Wonder Tales


FOR CLASSES II. AND III.:

  Nonsense Tales
  Wonder Tales
  Fairy and Folk Tales
  Fables
  Legends
  Nature Stories
    (especially stories of animals)


FOR CLASSES IV. AND V.:

  Folk Tales
  Fables
  Myths and Allegories
  Developed Animal Stories
  Legends: Historic and Heroic
  Historical Stories
  Humorous Adventure Stories
  "True Stories"

The wonder tales most familiar and accessible to the teacher are probably
those included in the collections of Andersen and the Brothers Grimm. So
constant is the demand for these that the following list may be found
useful, as indicating which of the stories are more easily and effectively
adapted for telling, and commonly most successful.

It must be remembered that many of these standard tales need such adapting
as has been suggested, cutting them down, and ridding them of vulgar or
sophisticated detail.

From the Brothers Grimm:

The Star Dollars
The Cat and the Mouse
The Nail
The Hare and the Hedgehog
Snow-White and Rose-Red
Mother Holle
Thumbling
Three Brothers
The Little Porridge Pot
Little Snow-White
The Wolf and the Seven Little Kids
The Sea Mouse

From Andersen:

Little Tiny
The Lark and the Daisy
The Ugly Duckling
The Seven Stories of the Snow Queen
The Flax
The Little Match Girl
The Fir-Tree
The Red Shoes
Olé Luköié
      Monday
      Saturday
      Sunday
The Elf of the Rose
Five Peas in a Pod
The Portuguese Duck
The Little Mermaid (much shortened)
The Nightingale (shortened)
The Girl who trod on a Loaf
The Emperor's New Clothes

Another familiar and easily attainable type of story is the classic myth,
as retold in Kupfer's _Legends of Greece and Rome_.[1] Of these, again,
certain tales are more successfully adapted to children than others. Among
the best for telling are:

Arachne
Pandora
Midas
Apollo and Daphne
Apollo and Hyacinthus
Narcissus
Latona and the Rustics
Proserpine

[Footnote 1: A well-nigh indispensable book for teachers is Guerber's
_Myths of Greece and Rome_, which contains in brief form a complete
collection of the classic myths.]


CHAPTER III

ADAPTATION OF STORIES FOR TELLING


It soon becomes easy to pick out from a collection such stories as can be
well told; but at no time is it easy to find a sufficient number of such
stories. Stories simple, direct, and sufficiently full of incident for
telling, yet having the beautiful or valuable motive we desire for
children, do not lie hidden in every book. And even many of the stories
which are most charming to read do not answer the double demand, for the
appeal to the eye differs in many important respects from that to the ear.
Unless one is able to change the form of a story to suit the needs of oral
delivery, one is likely to suffer from poverty of material. Perhaps the
commonest need of change is in the case of a story too long to tell, yet
embodying some one beautiful incident or lesson; or one including a series
of such incidents. The story of _The Nürnberg Stove_, by Ouida,[1] is a
good example of the latter kind; Ruskin's _King of the Golden River_ will
serve as an illustration of the former.

[Footnote 1: See _Bimbi_, by Ouida. (Chatto. 2s.)]

The problem in one case is chiefly one of elimination; in the other it is
also in a large degree one of rearrangement. In both cases I have
purposely chosen extreme instances, as furnishing plainer illustration.
The usual story needs less adaptation than these, but the same kind, in
its own degree. Condensation and rearrangement are the commonest forms of
change required.

Pure condensation is probably the easier for most persons. With _The
Nürnberg Stove_ in mind for reference, let us see what the process
includes. This story can be readily found by anyone who is interested in
the following example of adaptation, for nearly every library includes in
its catalogue the juvenile works of Mlle. de la Ramée (Ouida). The
suggestions given assume that the story is before my readers.

The story as it stands is two thousand four hundred words long, obviously
too long to tell. What can be left out? Let us see what must be kept in.

The dramatic climax toward which we are working is the outcome of August's
strange exploit,--his discovery by the king and the opportunity for him to
become an artist. The joy of this climax is twofold: August may stay with
his beloved Hirschvogel, and he may learn to make beautiful things like
it. To arrive at the twofold conclusion we must start from a double
premise,--the love of the stove and the yearning to be an artist. It will,
then, be necessary to include in the beginning of the story enough details
of the family life to show plainly how precious and necessary Hirschvogel
was to the children; and to state definitely how August had learned to
admire and wish to emulate Hirschvogel's maker. We need no detail beyond
what is necessary to make this clear.

The beginning and the end of a story decided upon, its body becomes the
bridge from one to the other; in this case it is August's strange journey,
beginning with the catastrophe and his grief-dazed decision to follow the
stove. The journey is long, and each stage of it is told in full. As this
is impossible in oral reproduction, it becomes necessary to choose typical
incidents, which will give the same general effect as the whole. The
incidents which answer this purpose are: the beginning of the journey, the
experience on the luggage train, the jolting while being carried on men's
shoulders, the final fright and suspense before the king opens the door.

The episode of the night in the bric-a-brac shop introduces a wholly new
and confusing train of thought; therefore, charming as it is, it must be
omitted. And the secondary thread of narrative interest, that of the
prices for which the stove was sold, and the retribution visited on the
cheating dealers, is also "another story," and must be ignored. Each of
these destroys the clear sequence and the simplicity of plot which must be
kept for telling.

We are reduced, then, for the whole, to this: a brief preliminary
statement of the place Hirschvogel held in the household affections, and
the ambition aroused in August; the catastrophe of the sale; August's
decision; his experiences on the train, on the shoulders of men, and just
before the discovery; his discovery, and the _dénouement_.

This not only reduces the story to tellable form, but it also leaves a
suggestive interest which heightens later enjoyment of the original. I
suggest the adaptation of Kate Douglas Wiggin, in _The Story Hour_, since
in view of the existence of a satisfactory adaptation it seems
unappreciative to offer a second. The one I made for my own use some years
ago is not dissimilar to this, and I have no reason to suppose it more
desirable.

Ruskin's _King of the Golden River_ is somewhat difficult to adapt. Not
only is it long, but its style is mature, highly descriptive, and closely
allegorical. Yet the tale is too beautiful and too suggestive to be lost
to the story-teller. And it is, also, so recognised a part of the standard
literary equipment of youth that teachers need to be able to introduce
children to its charm. To make it available for telling, we must choose
the most essential events of the series leading up to the climax, and
present these so simply as to appeal to children's ears, and so briefly as
not to tire them.

The printed story is eight thousand words in length. The first three
thousand words depict the beauty and fertility of the Treasure Valley, and
the cruel habits of Hans and Schwartz, its owners, and give the
culminating incident which leads to their banishment by "West Wind." This
episode,--the West Wind's appearance in the shape of an aged traveller,
his kind reception by the younger brother, little Gluck, and the
subsequent wrath of Hans and Schwartz, with their resulting
punishment,--occupies about two thousand words. The rest of the story
deals with the three brothers after the decree of West Wind has turned
Treasure Valley into a desert. In the little house where they are plying
their trade of goldsmiths, the King of the Golden River appears to Gluck
and tells him the magic secret of turning the river's waters to gold. Hans
and Schwartz in turn attempt the miracle, and in turn incur the penalty
attached to failure. Gluck tries, and wins the treasure through
self-sacrifice. The form of the treasure is a renewal of the fertility of
Treasure Valley, and the moral of the whole story is summed up in
Ruskin's words, "So the inheritance which was lost by cruelty was regained
by love."

It is easy to see that the dramatic part of the story and that which most
pointedly illustrates the underlying idea, is the triple attempt to win
the treasure,--the two failures and the one success. But this is
necessarily introduced by the episode of the King of the Golden River,
which is, also, an incident sure to appeal to a child's imagination. And
the regaining of the inheritance is meaningless without the fact of its
previous loss, and the reason for the loss, as a contrast with the reason
for its recovery. We need, then, the main facts recorded in the first
three thousand words. But the West Wind episode must be avoided, not only
for brevity, but because two supernatural appearances, so similar, yet of
different personalities, would hopelessly confuse a told story.

Our oral story is now to be made out of a condensed statement of the
character of the Valley and of its owners, and the manner of its loss; the
intervention of the King of the Golden River; the three attempts to turn
the river to gold, and Gluck's success. Gluck is to be our hero, and our
underlying idea is the power of love _versus_ cruelty. Description is to
be reduced to its lowest terms, and the language made simple and concrete.

With this outline in mind, it may be useful to compare the following
adaptation with the original story. The adaptation is not intended in any
sense as a substitute for the original, but merely as that form of it
which can be _told_, while the original remains for reading.


THE GOLDEN RIVER[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from Ruskin's _King of the Golden River_.]

There was once a beautiful little valley, where the sun was warm, and the
rains fell softly; its apples were so red, its corn so yellow, its grapes
so blue, that it was called the Treasure Valley. Not a river ran into it,
but one great river flowed down the mountains on the other side, and
because the setting sun always tinged its high cataract with gold after
the rest of the world was dark, it was called the Golden River. The lovely
valley belonged to three brothers. The youngest, little Gluck, was
happy-hearted and kind, but he had a hard life with his brothers, for Hans
and Schwartz were so cruel and so mean that they were known everywhere
around as the "Black Brothers." They were hard to their farm hands, hard
to their customers, hard to the poor, and hardest of all to Gluck.

At last the Black Brothers became so bad that the Spirit of the West Wind
took vengeance on them; he forbade any of the gentle winds, south and
west, to bring rain to the valley. Then, since there were no rivers in it,
it dried up, and instead of a treasure valley it became a desert of dry,
red sand. The Black Brothers could get nothing out of it, and they
wandered out into the world on the other side of the mountain-peaks; and
little Gluck went with them.

Hans and Schwartz went out every day, wasting their time in wickedness,
but they left Gluck in the house to work. And they lived on the gold and
silver they had saved in Treasure Valley, till at last it was all gone.
The only precious thing left was Gluck's gold mug. This the Black Brothers
decided to melt into spoons, to sell; and in spite of Gluck's tears, they
put it in the melting pot, and went out, leaving him to watch it.

Poor little Gluck sat at the window, trying not to cry for his dear golden
mug, and as the sun began to go down, he saw the beautiful cataract of the
Golden River turn red, and yellow, and then pure gold.

"Oh, dear!" he said to himself, "how fine it would be if the river were
really golden! I needn't be poor, then."

"It wouldn't be fine at all!" said a thin, metallic little voice, in his
ear.

"Mercy, what's that!" said Gluck, looking all about. But nobody was there.

Suddenly the sharp little voice came again.

"Pour me out," it said, "I am too hot!"

It seemed to come right from the oven, and as Gluck stood, staring in
fright, it came again, "Pour me out; I'm too hot!"

Gluck was very much frightened, but he went and looked in the melting pot.
When he touched it, the little voice said, "Pour me out, I say!" And Gluck
took the handle and began to pour the gold out.

First came out a tiny pair of yellow legs; then a pair of yellow
coat-tails; then a strange little yellow body, and, last, a wee yellow
face, with long curls of gold hair. And the whole put itself together as
it fell, and stood up on the floor,--the strangest little yellow dwarf,
about a foot high!

"Dear, me!" said Gluck.

But the little yellow man said, "Gluck, do you know who I am? I am the
King of the Golden River."

Gluck did not know what to say, so he said nothing; and, indeed, the
little man gave him no chance. He said, "Gluck, I have been watching you,
and what I have seen of you, I like. Listen, and I will tell you something
for your good. Whoever shall climb to the top of the mountain from which
the Golden River falls, and shall cast into its waters three drops of holy
water, for him and him only shall its waters turn to gold. But no one can
succeed except at the first trial, and anyone who casts unholy water in
the river will be turned into a black stone."

And then, before Gluck could draw his breath, the King walked straight
into the hottest flame of the fire, and vanished up the chimney!

When Gluck's brothers came home, they beat him black and blue, because the
mug was gone. But when he told them about the King of the Golden River
they quarrelled all night, as to which should go to get the gold. At last,
Hans, who was the stronger, got the better of Schwartz, and started off.
The priest would not give such a bad man any holy water, so he stole a
bottleful. Then he took a basket of bread and wine, and began to climb the
mountain.

He climbed fast, and soon came to the end of the first hill. But there he
found a great glacier, a hill of ice, which he had never seen before. It
was horrible to cross,--the ice was slippery, great gulfs yawned before
him, and noises like groans and shrieks came from under his feet. He lost
his basket of bread and wine, and was quite faint with fear and exhaustion
when his feet touched firm ground again.

Next he came to a hill of hot, red rock, without a bit of grass to ease
the feet, or a particle of shade. After an hour's climb he was so thirsty
that he felt that he must drink. Thereupon she fared forth and Sharrkan
turned to his brother addressing him and said, "Were not this holy man a
miracle worker, he had never slain yonder furious knight. This is proof
sufficient of the ascetic's power; and of a truth the pride of the Infidels
is laid low by the slaying of this cavalier, for he was violent, an
evil devil and a stubborn." Now whilst they were thus devising of the
mighty works of the devotee, behold, the accursed Zat al-Dawahi
came upon them and promised them victory over the Unbelievers;
wherefor they thanked her (not knowing that all this was wile and
guile) and the damned hag asked, "Where be the King of the Age, Zau
al-Makan, and the Minister Dandan?"

Answered he, "Here am I!"

Take with thee thy Wazir," said she, "and follow after me, that we may fare
forth to Constantinople." Now she had acquainted the Infidels with the
cheat she had put upon the Moslems, and they rejoiced with exceeding
great joy, and said, Our hearts will not be contented till we shall have
slain their King in return for the Knight's death; because we had no stouter
rider than he;" and they added (bespeaking the ill omened hag as
she told them her plan of faring to the land of the Moslems), "When
thou bringest him to us, we will bear him to King Afridun."

Then she went out and went out with her Zau al-Makan and the
Minister Dandan, and she walked on before the two saying, "Fare
forth with the blessing of Almighty Allah!"

So they did her bidding, for the shaft of Pate and Fortune of man's lot had
shot them, and she ceased not leading them both through the midst of the
Grecian camp, till they came to the defile, the narrow pass
aforesaid, whilst the Infidel enemy watched them, but did them no
hindrance; for the infernal old woman had enjoined this.

Now when Zau al-Makan and the Wazir Dandan saw that the Infidel host
offered them no let and stay and yet had them in sight, the Wazir
exclaimed, "By Allah, this is one of the holy man's saintly miracles!

and doubtless he be of the elect."

Rejoined Zau al-Makan, "By Allah, I think the Infidels be naught but
blind, for we see them and they see us not."

And while they were thus praising the holy man and recounting his mighty
works and his piety and his prayers, behold, the Infidels charged
down on them from all sides and surrounded them and seized them,
saying, "Is there anyone else with you twain, that we may seize
upon him too?"

And the Wazir Dandan replied, "See you not yon other man that is before
us? ' Replied the Unbelievers, "By the truth of the Messiah and the Monks,
and the Primate and the Metropolitan, we see none save you two!" Then Zau
Al-Makan said, "By Allah, this is a chastisement decreed to us by
Almighty Allah!"

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

When it was the Ninety-eighth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the Unfaithful
had seized upon King Zau al-Makan and the Wazir Dandan, they said to the
two, "Is there anyone else with you twain, that we may seize upon him
also?"

And the Wazir Dandan replied, "See you not yon other man who be with us?"
They rejoined, "By the truth of the Messiah and the Monks and the
Primate and the Metropolitan, we see none save you two!" Then the Infidels
laid shackles on their feet and set men to guard them during the night,
whilst Zat al-Dawahi fared on and disappeared from their sight. So they
fell to lamenting and saying to each other, "Verily, the opposing of pious
men leadeth to greater distress than this, and we are punished by the
strait which hath befallen us."

So far concerning Zau al-Makan and the Wazir Dandan; but as regards
King Sharrkan, he passed that night in the cavern with his comrades,
and when dawned the day and he had prayed the morn prayer, he and
his men made ready to do battle with the Infidel and he heartened
them and promised them all good.

Then they sallied out till they were hard upon the Unbelievers and,
when these saw them from afar, they cried out to them, saying, "O
Moslems, we have taken captives your Sultan and your Wazir who hath
the ordering of your affairs; and except ye leave off fighting us,
we will slay you to the last man; but an you yield yourselves we
will take you to our King, who will make peace with you on condition
that you quit our country and return home and harm us in naught,
and we will do you no harm in aught.

If ye accept, it will be well for you; but if ye refuse there
remaineth nothing for you but death.

So we have told you sooth, and this is our last word to you." Now when
Sharrkan heard this and was certified of the captivity of his brother and
the Wazir Dandan, he was weighed down with woe and wept; his force
failed him and, making sure of death, he said to himself, "Would I
knew the cause of their capture!

Did they fail of respect to the holy man or disobey him, or what
was the matter?"

Then they sprang up to battle with the Unbelievers and slew great
numbers of them.

The brave was known that day from craven men, and sword and spear were
dyed with bloody stain; for the Infidels flocked up on them, as flies
flock to drink, from hill and from plain; but Sharrkan and his men
ceased not to wage the fight of those who fear not to die, nor let
death hinder them from the pursuit of victory, till the valley ran
gore and earth was full of the slain she bore.

And when night fell the armies separated each making for his own place;
and the Moslems returned to the cavern where gain and loss were manifest
to them: few remained of them and there was no dependence for them
but on Allah and the scymitar.

Now there had been slain of them that day five and thirty men of the chiefest
Emirs, and they had killed thousands of the Infidels, footmen and fighters
on horse. When Sharrkan saw this, the case was grievous to him and he
asked his comrades "What shall we do?"

; whereto all answered, "That which Almighty Allah willeth shall
befal us."

On the morning of the second day, Sharrkan said to the remnant of his
troop, "If ye go forth to fight, not one of you will remain alive and we
have but little left of food and water; so I deem ye would do
better to bare your brands and go forth and stand at the mouth of
this cavern, to hinder any from entering.

Haply the holy man may have reached the Moslem host, and may return with
ten thousand horses to succour us in fight with the Infidels, for belike
the Unfaithful may have failed to see him and those with him." They said,
This were the better course to take, and of its expediency no doubt
we make." So the troop went out and held the cavern mouth standing by
its walls; and every one of the Infidels who sought to enter in,
they slew.

Thus did they fend off the foe from the gape of the cave and they patiently
supported all such assaults, till day was done and night came on
dusky and dun;--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
saying her permitted say.

When it was the Ninety-ninth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the army of the Moslems
held the cavern mouth and stood by its walls and they fended off the
foe, and every one of the Infidels attempted to charge them, him
they slew; and they patiently supported all such assaults till day
was done and night came on dusky and dun, by which time King Sharrkan
had only five and twenty men and no more left.

Then quoth the Infidels to one another, "When shall these battle
days have an end?

We are weary of warring the Moslems." And quoth one of them, "Up and at
them, for there remain of them but five and twenty men! If we cannot
prevail on them to fight, let us light a fire upon them;[FN#433] and if
they submit themselves and yield to us, we will take them prisoners; but
if they refuse we will leave them for fuel to the fire, so shall
they become to men of foreseeing mind a warning dire.

May the Messiah on their fathers have no grace, and may the sojourn of
the Nazarenes be for them no abiding place!"

So they carried fuel to the jaws of the cavern and set fire to it. Thereupon
Sharrkan and his companions made sure of perdition and yielded themselves
prisoners. And while they were in this condition, lo! the knight their
captain said to those who counselled their slaughter, "It is not for any
save for King Afridun to kill them, that he may gratify his wrath; therefore
it behoveth us to keep them in durance by us till the morrow, when we
will journey with them to Constantinople and deliver them to our
King, who shall deal with them as he please." Said they, "This is the
right course;" and he commanded to pinion them and set guards over
them.

Then, as soon as it was black night, the Infidels busied themselves with
feasting and making festival; and they called for wine and drank it
till all fell upon their backs. Now Sharrkan and his brother, Zau al-Makan,
were in confinement and so also were his companion knights; whereupon the
elder turned to the younger brother and said to him, "O my brother,
how win free?"

"By Allah," replied Zau al Makan, "I know not; for here we be like birds
in cage."

Then Sharrkan waxed wroth and sighed for excess of rage and stretched
himself, till his pinion bonds brass asunder; whereupon being free he
arose and went up to the Captain of the guard, and taking from his pocket
the keys of the fetters, freed Zau al-Makan and the Wazir Dandan and
the rest of his men.

Then he turned to the two and said, "I desire to slay three of these Infidels
and take and don their dress, we three; so that we shall be guised as
Greeks and we will pass through them, with out their knowing us, and fare
forth to our own force." Replied Zau al-Makan, "This is no safe counsel
for if we kill them, I fear some of their comrades may hear their
shrieks and the foe be aroused upon us and kill us.

'Twere the surer way to pass out of the defile." So they agreed upon this
and set out; and, when they had left the head of the strait a little
distance behind, they saw horses picketed and the riders sleeping: and
Sharrkan said to his brother, "Better we take each one of us a
steed."

       There were five and twenty horsemen, so they took five and twenty
horses, whilst Allah sent sleep upon the Infidels for a purpose He
knew and the Faithful mounted and fared on till they were out of
reach.

Meanwhile Sharrkan set to gathering from the Infidels as many weapons,
swords, and spears, as were wanted. And while they took saddle and struck
forwards none of the Infidels supposed that anyone could release Zau
al-Makan and his brother and their men; or that their prisoners
had power to escape.

Now when all the captives were safe from the Unfaithful, Sharrkan came up
with his comrades, and found them awaiting his arrival, on coals of flame,
expecting him in anxious grame, so he turned to them and said, "Feel no
fear since Allah protecteth us. I have that to propose which haply shall
effect our purpose." "What is it?" asked they and he answered, "I
desire that ye all climb to the mountain top and cry out with one voice,
'Allaho Akbar!' and ye add, 'The army of Al Islam is upon you! Allaho
Akbar!'

This wise their company will surely be dissolved nor will they find out the
trick for they are drunk, but they will think that the Moslem troops
have encompassed them about on all sides and have mingled with them; so
they will fall on one another brand in hand during the confusion
of drunkenness and sleep, and we will cleave them asunder with their
own swords and the scymitar will go round amongst them till dawn."

Replied Zau al-Makan, "This plan is not good; we should do better to make
our way to our army and speak not a word; for if we cry out 'Allaho Akbar,'
they will wake and fall on us and not one of us will escape." Rejoined
Sharrkan, "By Allah, though they should awake tis no matter, and
I long that ye fall in with my plan, for naught save good can come
of it!"

So they agreed thereon and clomb the mountain and shouted, "Allaho Akbar!"
And hills and trees and rocks reworded their Allaho Akbar for fear
of the Almighty. But when the Kafirs heard this slogan they cried out
to one another,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
to say her permitted say.

When it was the One Hundredth Night,

  She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Sharrkan
  spake thus, "I long that ye fall in with this my plan, for naught
  save good can come of it." So they agreed thereon and clomb the mountain
  head and shouted, "Allaho Akbar!"; and hills and trees and rocks re
  worded their Allaho Akbar for fear of the Almighty. The Infidels heard
  it and cried out one to other and donned their armour and said, "The
  foe is upon us, by the truth of the Messiah!" Then they fell on one
  another and slew of their own men more than any knoweth save Almighty
  Allah. As soon as it was dawn, they sought for the captives, but found
  no trace of them, and their captains said, "They who did this were the
  prisoners in our possession; up, then, and after them in all haste
  till ye overtake them, when we will make them quaff the cup of requital;
  and let not fright nor the panic of sudden awaking possess you."

  So they took horse and rode after the fugitives and it wanted but an eye
  twinkling before they overtook them and surrounded them. Now when Zau
  al-Makan saw this, he was seized with increase of terror and said to his
  brother, "What I feared would come, is come upon us, and now it
  remaineth only for us to fight for the Faith." But Sharrkan preferred
  to hold his peace. Then Zau al- Makan and his companions rushed down
  from the hill crest, shouting, "Allaho Akbar!"

and his men repeated the war cry and addressed themselves to fight and
to sell their lives in the service of the Lord of Faithful Men; and while
they were in this case, behold, they heard many voices voicing,
"There is no god but the God! God is most great! Salutation and salvation
upon the Apostle, the Bringer of glad Tidings, the Bearer of bad
Tidings!''

[FN#434] So they turned towards the direction of the sound and saw a
company of Moslems who believed in one God, pushing towards them, whereat
their hearts were heartened and Sharrkan charged upon the Infidels
crying out, "There is no god but the God! God is most great! he and those
with him, so that earth quaked as with an earthquake and the Unbeliever
host brake asunder and fled into the mountains and the Moslems
followed them with lunge and blow; and Zau al-Makan and his comrades
of the Moslems ceased not to smite the hosts of the Infidel foe,
and parted heads from bodies till day darkened and night coming on
starkened sight.

Thereupon the Moslems drew together and passed the night in
congratulations, and, when morning dawned and daybreak shone with its
shine and sheen, they saw Bahram, the captain of the Daylamites,
and Rustam, the captain of the Turks, advancing to join them, with
twenty thousand cavaliers like lions grim.

As soon as they saw Zau al-Makan, the riders dismounted and saluted
him, and kissed ground between his hands when he said to them,
"Rejoice ye in the glad tidings of the victory of the Moslem and
the discomfiture of the tribe of Unbelievers!"

Then they gave one another joy of their deliverance and of the greatness of
their reward after Resurrection Day.

Now the cause of the coming of the succours to that place was this. When
the Emir Bahram and the Emir Rustam and the Chief Chamberlain, with
the Moslem host and flags flaunting high ahead, came in sight of
Constantinople they saw that the Nazarenes had mounted the walls and
manned the towers and the forts, and had set all their defenders in order
of defence, as soon as they learned of the approach of the host of
Al-Islam and the banners Mohammedan, and they heard the clash of arms and
the noise of war voices and tramp of horse hoofs and from their look
outs they beheld the Moslems, with their standards and ensigns of the Faith
of Unity under the dust clouds and lo! they were like a flight of locusts
or rain clouds raining rain, and the voices of the Moslems chanting
the Koran and glorifying the Compassionate One, struck their ears.

Now the Infidels knew of the approach of this host through Zat al-Dawahi
with her craft and whoredom,[FN#435] calumny and contrivance. And the
armies of Al-Islam drew near, as it were the swollen sea, for the multitude
of footmen and horsemen and women and children. Then quoth the General of
the Turks to the General of the Daylamites, "O Emir, of a truth, we are
in jeopardy from the multitude of the foe who is on the walls.

Look at yonder bulwarks and at this world of folk like the seas that
clash with dashing billows.

Indeed yon Infidel outnumbereth us an hundredfold and we cannot be safe from
spies who may inform them that we are without a Sultan. In very sooth, we
run danger from these enemies, whose numbers may not be told and whose
resources none can withhold, especially in the absence of King Zau
al-Makan and his brother Sharrkan and the illustrious Wazir Dandan.

If they know of this, they will be emboldened to attack us in their absence
and with the sword they will annihilate us to the last man; not one
of us safety shall see. So it is my counsel that thou take ten thousand
riders of the allies and the Turks, and march them to the
hermitage of Matruhina and the meadow of Malúkhiná in quest of our
brothers and comrades. If thou act by my advice, it may be we shall approve
ourselves the cause of their deliverance, in case they be hard pressed by
the Infidels; and if thou act not, blame will not attach to me. But, an
ye go, it behoveth that ye return quickly, for ill suspicion is part
of prudence."

The Emir aforesaid fell in with his counsel; so they chose twenty thousand
horse and they set out covering the roads and making for the
monastery above mentioned.

So much for the cause of their coming; but as regards the ancient dame, Zat
al-Dawahi, as soon as she had delivered Sultan Zau al-Makan and his brother
Sharrkan and the Wazir Dandan into the hands of the Infidels, the
foul whore mounted a swift steed, saying to the Faithless, "I design
to rejoin the Moslem army which is at Constantinople and contrive
for their destruction; for I will inform them that their chiefs are
dead, and when they hear that from me, their joining will be
disjointed and the cord of their confederation cut and their host
scattered.

He was always a great
mischief, and he could not bear to sit still for long at a time. Presently
he laughed a queer little laugh. He had got an idea! Putting his two small
arms round the stem of the toadstool he tugged and he pulled until, of a
sudden, snap! He had broken the stem, and a moment later was soaring in
air safely sheltered under the toadstool, which he held upright by its
stem as he flew.

Sleepy-head had been dreaming, oh, so cosy a dream! It seemed to him that
he had discovered a storehouse filled with golden grain and soft juicy
nuts with little bunches of sweet-smelling hay, where tired mousies might
sleep dull hours away. He thought that he was settled in the sweetest
bunch of all, with nothing in the world to disturb his nap, when gradually
he became aware that something had happened. He shook himself in his sleep
and settled down again, but the dream had altered. He opened his eyes.
Rain was falling, pit-a-pat, and he was without cover on a wet patch of
grass. What could be the matter? Sleepy-head was now wide awake. Said he,

"DEAR ME, WHERE IS MY TOADSTOOL?"

From these four instances we may, perhaps, deduce certain general
principles of adaptation which have at least proved valuable to those
using them.

These are suggestions which the practised story-teller will find trite.
But to others they may prove a fair foundation on which to build a
personal method to be developed by experience. I have given them a tabular
arrangement below.


The preliminary step in all cases is
  _Analysis of the Story._
The aim, then, is
  to _reduce_ a long story or to _amplify_ a short one.

For the first, the need is
  _Elimination_ of secondary threads of narrative,
                             extra personages,
                             description,
                             irrelevant events.

For the second, the great need is of
  _Realising Imagination_.

For both, it is desirable to keep

                             _Close Logical Sequence_,
                             _A Single Point of View_,
                             _Simple Language_,
                             _The Point at the End._


CHAPTER IV

HOW TO TELL THE STORY


Selection, and, if necessary, adaptation--these are the preliminaries to
the act of telling. That, after all, is the real test of one's power. That
is the real joy, when achieved; the real bugbear, when dreaded. And that
is the subject of this chapter, "How to tell a story."

How to tell a story: it is a short question which demands a long answer.
The right beginning of the answer depends on a right conception of the
thing the question is about; and that naturally reverts to an earlier
discussion of the real nature of a story. In that discussion it was stated
that a story is a work of art,--a message, as all works of art are.

To tell a story, then, is to pass on the message, to share the work of
art. The message may be merely one of humour,--of nonsense, even; works of
art range all the way from the "Victory" to a "Dresden Shepherdess," from
an "Assumption" to a "Broken Pitcher," and farther. Each has its own
place. But whatever its quality, the story-teller is the passer-on, the
interpreter, the transmitter. He comes bringing a gift. Always he gives;
always he bears a message.

This granted, the first demand of the story-teller is not far to seek. No
one can repeat a message he has not heard, or interpret what he does not
understand. You cannot give, unless you first possess. The first demand of
the story-teller is that he possess. He must _feel_ the story. Whatever
the particular quality and appeal of the work of art, from the lightest to
the grandest emotion or thought, he must have responded to it, grasped it,
felt it intimately, before he can give it out again. Listen, humbly, for
the message.

I realise that this has an incongruous sound, when applied to such stories
as that of the little pig at the stile or of the greedy cat who ate up man
and beast. But, believe me, it does apply even to those. For the
transmittable thing in a story is the identifying essence, the
characterising savour, the peculiar quality and point of view of the
humour, pathos, or interest. Every tale which claims a place in good
fiction has this identifying savour and quality, each different from every
other. The laugh which echoes one of Seumas McManus's rigmaroles is not
the chuckle which follows one of Joel Chandler Harris's anecdotes; the
gentle sadness of an Andersen allegory is not the heart-searching tragedy
of a tale from the Greek; nor is any one story of an author just like any
other of the same making. Each has its personal likeness, its facial
expression, as it were.

And the mind must be sensitised to these differences. No one can tell
stories well who has not a keen and just feeling of such emotional values.

A positive and a negative injunction depend on this premise,--the
positive, cultivate your feeling, striving toward increasingly just
appreciation; the negative, never tell a story you do not feel.

Fortunately, the number and range of stories one can appreciate grow with
cultivation; but it is the part of wisdom not to step outside the range at
any stage of its growth.

I feel the more inclined to emphasise this caution because I once had a
rather embarrassing and pointed proof of its desirability,--which I relate
for the enlightening of the reader.

There is a certain nonsense tale which a friend used to tell with such
effect that her hearers became helpless with laughter, but which for some
reason never seemed funny to me. I could not laugh at it. But my friend
constantly urged me to use it, quoting her own success. At last, with much
curiosity and some trepidation, I included it in a programme before people
with whom I was so closely in sympathy that no chill was likely to emanate
from their side. I told the story as well as I knew how, putting into it
more genuine effort than most stories can claim. The audience smiled
politely, laughed gently once or twice, relapsed into the mildest of
amusement. The most one could say was that the story was not a hopeless
failure. I tried it again, after study, and yet again; but the audiences
were all alike. And in my heart I should have been startled if they had
behaved otherwise, for all the time I was telling it I was conscious in my
soul that it was a stupid story! At last I owned my defeat to myself, and
put the thing out of mind.

Some time afterward, I happened to take out the notes of the story, and
idly looked them over; and suddenly, I do not know how, I got the point of
view! The salt of the humour was all at once on my lips; I felt the tickle
of the pure folly of it; it _was_ funny.

The next afternoon I told the story to a hundred or so children and as
many mothers,--and the battle was won. Chuckles punctuated my periods;
helpless laughter ran like an under-current below my narrative; it was a
struggle for me to keep sober, myself. The nonsense tale had found its own
atmosphere.

Now of course I had known all along that the humour of the story emanated
from its very exaggeration, its absurdly illogical smoothness. But I had
not _felt_ it. I did not really "see the joke." And that was why I could
not tell the story. I undoubtedly impressed my own sense of its fatuity on
every audience to which I gave it. The case is very clear.

Equally clear have been some happy instances where I have found audiences
responding to a story I myself greatly liked, but which common
appreciation usually ignored. This is an experience even more persuasive
than the other, certainly more to be desired.

Every story-teller has lines of limitation; certain types of story will
always remain his or her best effort. There is no reason why any type of
story should be told really ill, and of course the number of kinds one
tells well increases with the growth of the appreciative capacity. But
none the less, it is wise to recognise the limits at each stage, and not
try to tell any story to which the honest inner consciousness says, "I do
not like you."

Let us then set down as a prerequisite for good story-telling, _a genuine
appreciation of the story_.

Now, we may suppose this genuine appreciation to be your portion. You have
chosen a story, have felt its charm, and identified the quality of its
appeal.

You are now to tell it in such wise that your hearers will get the same
kind of impression you yourself received from it. How?

I believe the inner secret of success is the measure of force with which
the teller wills the conveyance of his impression to the hearer.

Anyone who has watched, or has himself been, the teller of a story which
held an audience, knows that there is something approaching hypnotic
suggestion in the close connection of effort and effect, and in the
elimination of self-consciousness from speaker and listeners alike.

I would not for a moment lend the atmosphere of charlatanry, or of the
ultra-psychic, to the wholesome and vivid art of story-telling. But I
would, if possible, help the teacher to realise how largely success in
that art is a subjective and psychological matter, dependent on her
control of her own mood and her sense of direct, intimate communion with
the minds attending her. The "feel" of an audience,--that indescribable
sense of the composite human soul waiting on the initiative of your own,
the emotional currents interplaying along a medium so delicate that it
takes the baffling torture of an obstruction to reveal its
existence,--cannot be taught. But it can and does develop with use. And a
realisation of the immense latent power of strong desire and resolution
vitalises and disembarrasses the beginner.

That is, undoubtedly, rather an intangible beginning; it sets the root of
the matter somewhat in the realm of "spirits and influences." There are,
however, outward and visible means of arriving at results. Every art has
its technique. The art of story-telling, intensely personal and subjective
as it is, yet comes under the law sufficiently not to be a matter of sheer
"knack." It has its technique. The following suggestions are an attempt to
state what seem the foundation principles of that technique. The general
statements are deduced from many consecutive experiences; partly, too,
they are the results of introspective analysis, confirmed by observation.
They do not make up an exclusive body of rules, wholly adequate to produce
good work, of themselves; they do include, so far as my observation and
experience allow, the fundamental requisites of good work,--being the
qualities uniformly present in successful work of many story-tellers.

First of all, most fundamental of all, is a rule without which any other
would be but folly: _Know your story._

One would think so obvious a preliminary might be taken for granted. But
alas, even slight acquaintance with the average story-teller proves the
dire necessity of the admonition. The halting tongue, the slip in name or
incident, the turning back to forge an omitted link in the chain, the
repetition, the general weakness of statement consequent on imperfect
grasp: these are common features of the stories one hears told. And they
are features which will deface the best story ever told.

One must know the story absolutely; it must have been so assimilated that
it partakes of the nature of personal experience; its essence must be so
clearly in mind that the teller does not have to think of it at all in the
act of telling, but rather lets it flow from his lips with the unconscious
freedom of a vivid reminiscence.

Such knowledge does not mean memorising. Memorising utterly destroys the
freedom of reminiscence, takes away the spontaneity, and substitutes a
mastery of form for a mastery of essence. It means, rather, a perfect
grasp of the gist of the story, with sufficient familiarity with its form
to determine the manner of its telling. The easiest way to obtain this
mastery is, I think, to analyse the story into its simplest elements of
plot. Strip it bare of style, description, interpolation, and find out
simply _what happened_. Personally, I find that I get first an especially
vivid conception of the climax; this then has to be rounded out by a clear
perception of the successive steps which lead up to the climax. One has,
so, the framework of the story. The next process is the filling in.

There must be many ways of going about this filling in. Doubtless many of
my readers, in the days when it was their pet ambition to make a good
recitation in school, evolved personally effective ways of doing it; for
it is, after all, the same thing as preparing a bit of history or a
recitation in literature. But for the consideration of those who find it
hard to gain mastery of fact without mastery of its stated form, I give my
own way. I have always used the childlike plan of talking it out.
Sometimes inaudibly, sometimes in loud and penetrating tones which arouse
the sympathetic curiosity of my family, I tell it over and over, to an
imaginary hearer. That hearer is as present to me, always has been, as
Stevenson's "friend of the children" who takes the part of the enemy in
their solitary games of war. His criticism (though he is a most composite
double-sexed creature who should not have a designating personal pronoun)
is all-revealing. For talking it out instantly brings to light the weak
spots in one's recollection. "What was it the little crocodile said?"
"Just how did the little pig get into his house?" "What was that link in
the chain of circumstances which brought the wily fox to confusion?" The
slightest cloud of uncertainty becomes obvious in a moment. And as obvious
becomes one's paucity of expression, one's week-kneed imagination, one's
imperfect assimilation of the spirit of the story. It is not a flattering
process.

But when these faults have been corrected by several attempts, the method
gives a confidence, a sense of sureness, which makes the real telling to a
real audience ready and spontaneously smooth. Scarcely an epithet or a
sentence comes out as it was in the preliminary telling; but epithets and
sentences in sufficiency do come; the beauty of this method is that it
brings freedom instead of bondage.

A valuable exception to the rule against memorising must be noted here.
Especially beautiful and indicative phrases of the original should be
retained, and even whole passages, where they are identified with the
beauty of the tale. And in stories like _The Three Bears_ or _Red Riding
Hood_ the exact phraseology of the conversation as given in familiar
versions should be preserved; it is in a way sacred, a classic, and not to
be altered. But beyond this the language should be the teller's own, and
probably never twice the same. Sureness, ease, freedom, and the effect of
personal reminiscence come only from complete mastery. I repeat, with
emphasis: Know your story.

The next suggestion is a purely practical one concerning the preparation
of physical conditions. See that the children are seated in close and
direct range of your eye; the familiar half-circle is the best arrangement
for small groups of children, but the teacher should be at a point
_opposite_ the centre of the arc, _not in_ its centre: thus
[Illustration], not thus [Illustration]; it is important also not to have
the ends too far at the side, and to have no child directly behind
another, or in such a position that he has not an easy view of the
teacher's full face. Little children have to be physically close in order
to be mentally close. It is, of course, desirable to obtain a hushed quiet
before beginning; but it is not so important as to preserve your own mood
of holiday, and theirs. If the fates and the atmosphere of the day are
against you, it is wiser to trust to the drawing power of the tale itself,
and abate the irritation of didactic methods. And never break into that
magic tale, once begun, with an admonition to Ethel or Tommy to stop
squirming, or a rebuke to "that little girl over there who is not
listening." Make her listen! It is probably your fault if she is not. If
you are telling a good story, and telling it well, she can't help
listening,--unless she is an abnormal child; and if she is abnormal you
ought not to spoil the mood of the others to attend to her.

I say "never" interrupt your story; perhaps it is only fair to amend that,
after the fashion of dear little Marjorie Fleming, and say "never--if you
can help it." For, of course, there are exceptional occasions, and
exceptional children; some latitude must be left for the decisions of
good common sense acting on the issue of the moment.

The children ready, your own mood must be ready. It is desirable that the
spirit of the story should be imposed upon the room from the beginning,
and this result hangs on the clearness and intensity of the teller's
initiatory mood. An act of memory and of will is the requisite. The
story-teller must call up--it comes with the swiftness of thought--the
essential emotion of the story as he felt it first. A single volition puts
him in touch with the characters and the movement of the tale. This is
scarcely more than a brief and condensed reminiscence; it is the stepping
back into a mood once experienced.

Let us say, for example, that the story to be told is the immortal fable
of _The Ugly Duckling_. Before you open your lips the whole pathetic
series of the little swan's mishaps should flash across your mind,--not
accurately and in detail, but blended to a composite of undeserved
ignominy, of baffled innocent wonderment, and of delicious underlying
satire on average views. With this is mingled the feeling of Andersen's
delicate whimsicality of style. The dear little Ugly Duckling waddles,
bodily, into your consciousness, and you pity his sorrows and anticipate
his triumph, before you begin.

This preliminary recognition of mood is what brings the delicious
quizzical twitch to the mouth of a good raconteur who begins an anecdote
the hearers know will be side-splitting. It is what makes grandmother sigh
gently and look far over your heads, when her soft voice commences the
story of "the little girl who lived long, long ago." It is a natural and
instinctive thing with the born story-teller; a necessary thing for anyone
who will become a story-teller.

From the very start, the mood of the tale should be definite and
authoritative, beginning with the mood of the teller and emanating
therefrom in proportion as the physique of the teller is a responsive
medium.

Now we are off. Knowing your story, having your hearers well arranged, and
being as thoroughly as you are able in the right mood, you begin to tell
it. Tell it, then, simply, directly, dramatically, with zest.

_Simply_ applies both to manner and matter. As to manner, I mean without
affectation, without any form of pretence, in short, without posing. It is
a pity to "talk down" to the children, to assume a honeyed voice, to think
of the edifying or educational value of the work one is doing.
Naturalness, being oneself, is the desideratum. I wonder why we so often
use a preposterous voice,--a super-sweetened whine, in talking to
children? Is it that the effort to realise an ideal of gentleness and
affectionateness overreaches itself in this form of the grotesque? Some
good intention must be the root of it. But the thing is none the less
pernicious. A "cant" voice is as abominable as a cant phraseology. Both
are of the very substance of evil.

"But it is easier to _say,_ 'Be natural' than to _be_ it," said one
teacher to me desperately.

Beyond dispute. To those of us who are cursed with an over-abundant
measure of self-consciousness, nothing is harder than simple naturalness.
The remedy is to lose oneself in one's art. Think of the story so
absorbingly and vividly that you have no room to think of yourself. Live
it. Sink yourself in that mood you have summoned up, and let it carry you.

If you do this, simplicity of matter will come easily. Your choice of
words and images will naturally become simple.

It is, I think, a familiar precept to educators, that children should not
have their literature too much simplified for them. We are told that they
like something beyond them, and that it is good for them to have a sense
of mystery and power beyond the sense they grasp. That may be true; but if
so it does not apply to story-telling as it does to reading. We have
constantly to remember that the movement of a story told is very swift. A
concept not grasped in passing is irrevocably lost; there is no
possibility of turning back, or lingering over the page. Also, since the
art of story-telling is primarily an art of entertainment, its very
object is sacrificed if the ideas and images do not slip into the child's
consciousness smoothly enough to avoid the sense of strain. For this
reason short, familiar, vivid words are best.

Simplicity of manner and of matter are both essential to the right appeal
to children.

_Directness_ in telling is a most important quality. The story, listened
to, is like the drama, beheld. Its movement must be unimpeded,
increasingly swift, winding up "with a snap." Long-windedness, or talking
round the story, utterly destroys this movement. The incidents should be
told, one after another, without explanation or description beyond what is
absolutely necessary; and _they should be told in logical sequence._
Nothing is more distressing than the cart-before-the-horse
method,--nothing more quickly destroys interest than the failure to get a
clue in the right place.

Sometimes, to be sure, a side remark adds piquancy and a personal savour.
But the general rule is, great discretion in this respect.

Every epithet or adjective beyond what is needed to give the image, is a
five-barred gate in the path of the eager mind travelling to a climax.

Explanations and moralising are usually sheer clatter. Some few stories
necessarily include a little explanation, and stories of the fable order
may quaintly end with an obvious moral. But here again, the rule is--great
discretion.

It is well to remember that you have one great advantage over the writer
of stories. The writer must present a clear image and make a vivid
impression,--all with words. The teller has face, and voice, and body to
do it with. The teller needs, consequently, but one swiftly incisive verb
to the writer's two; but one expressive adjective to his three. Often,
indeed, a pause and an expressive gesture do the whole thing.

It may be said here that it is a good trick of description to repeat an
epithet or phrase once used, when referring again to the same thing. The
recurrent adjectives of Homer were the device of one who entertained a
childlike audience. His trick is unconscious and instinctive with people
who have a natural gift for children's stories. Of course this matter also
demands common sense in the degree of its use; in moderation it is a most
successful device.

Brevity, close logical sequence, exclusion of foreign matter, unhesitant
speech,--to use these is to tell a story directly.

After simplicity and directness, comes that quality which to advise, is to
become a rock of offence to many. It is the suggestion, "Tell the story
_dramatically_." Yet when we quite understand each other as to the meaning
of "dramatically," I think you will agree with me that a good
story-teller includes this in his qualities of manner. It means, not in
the manner of the elocutionist, not excitably, not any of the things which
are incompatible with simplicity and sincerity; but with a whole-hearted
throwing of oneself into the game, which identifies one in a manner with
the character or situation of the moment. It means responsively, vividly,
without interposing a blank wall of solid self between the drama of the
tale and the mind's eye of the audience.

It is such fun, pure and simple, so to throw oneself into it, and to see
the answering expressions mimic one's own, that it seems superfluous to
urge it. Yet many persons do find it difficult. The instant, slight but
suggestive change of voice, the use of onomatopoetic words, the response
of eyes and hands, which are all immediate and spontaneous with some
temperaments, are to others a matter of shamefacedness and labour. To
those, to all who are not by nature bodily expressive, I would reiterate
the injunction already given,--not to pretend. Do nothing you cannot do
naturally and happily. But lay your stress on the inner and spiritual
effort to appreciate, to feel, to imagine out the tale; and let the
expressiveness of your body grow gradually with the increasing freedom
from crippling self-consciousness. The physique will become more mobile
as the emotion does.

The expression must, however, always _remain suggestive rather than
illustrative_. This is the side of the case which those who are
over-dramatic must not forget. The story-teller is not playing the parts
of his stories; he is merely arousing the imagination of his hearers to
picture the scenes for themselves. One element of the dual consciousness
of the tale-teller remains always the observer, the reporter, the quiet
outsider.

I like to think of the story-teller as a good fellow standing at a great
window overlooking a busy street or a picturesque square, and reporting
with gusto to the comrade in the rear of the room what of mirth or sadness
he sees; he hints at the policeman's strut, the organ-grinder's shrug, the
schoolgirl's gaiety, with a gesture or two which is born of an
irresistible impulse to imitate; but he never leaves his fascinating post
to carry the imitation further than a hint.

The verity of this figure lies in the fact that the dramatic quality of
story-telling depends closely upon the _clearness and power with which the
story-teller visualises the events and characters he describes_. You must
hold the image before the mind's eye, using your imagination to embody to
yourself every act, incident and appearance. You must, indeed, stand at
the window of your consciousness and watch what happens.

This is a point so vital that I am tempted to put it in ornate type. You
must _see_ what you _say_!

It is not too much, even, to say, "You must see more than you say." True
vividness is lent by a background of picture realised by the listener
beyond what you tell him. Children see, as a rule, no image you do not
see; they see most clearly what you see most largely. Draw, then, from a
full well, not from a supply so low that the pumps wheeze at every pull.

Dramatic power of the reasonably quiet and suggestive type demanded for
telling a story will come pretty surely in the train of effort along these
lines; it follows the clear concept and sincerity in imparting it, and is
a natural consequence of the visualising imagination.

It is inextricably bound up, also, with the causes and results of the
quality which finds place in my final injunction, to tell your story _with
zest_. It might almost be assumed that the final suggestion renders the
preceding one superfluous, so direct is the effect of a lively interest on
the dramatic quality of a narration; but it would not of itself be
adequate; the necessity of visualising imagination is paramount. Zest is,
however, a close second to this clearness of mental vision. It is entirely
necessary to be interested in your own story, to enjoy it as you tell it.
If you are bored and tired, the children will soon be bored and tired,
too. If you are not interested your manner cannot get that vitalised
spontaneity which makes dramatic power possible. Nothing else will give
that relish on the lips, that gusto, which communicates its joy to the
audience and makes it receptive to every impression. I used to say to
teachers, "Tell your story with all your might," but I found that this by
a natural misconception was often interpreted to mean "laboriously." And
of course nothing is more injurious to the enjoyment of an audience than
obvious effort on the part of the entertainer. True zest can be--often
is--extremely quiet, but it gives a savour nothing else can impart.

"But how, at the end of a hard morning's work, can I be interested in a
story I have told twenty times before?" asks the kindergarten or primary
teacher, not without reason.

There are two things to be said. The first is a reminder of the wisdom of
choosing stories in which you originally have interest; and of having a
store large enough to permit variety. The second applies to those
inevitable times of weariness which attack the most interested and
well-stocked story-teller. You are, perhaps, tired out physically. You
have told a certain story till it seems as if a repetition of it must
produce bodily effects dire to contemplate, yet that happens to be the
very story you must tell. What can you do? I answer, "Make believe." The
device seems incongruous with the repeated warnings against pretence; but
it is necessary, and it is wise. Pretend as hard as ever you can to be
interested. And the result will be--before you know it--that you will _be_
interested. That is the chief cause of the recommendation; it brings about
the result it simulates. Make believe, as well as you know how, and the
probability is that you will not even know when the transition from
pretended to real interest comes.

And fortunately, the children never know the difference. They have not
that psychological infallibility which is often attributed to them. They
might, indeed, detect a pretence which continued through a whole tale; but
that is so seldom necessary that it needs little consideration.

So then: enjoy your story; be interested in it,--if you possibly can; and
if you cannot, pretend to be, till the very pretence brings about the
virtue you have assumed.

There is much else which might be said and urged regarding the method of
story-telling, even without encroaching on the domain of personal
variations. A whole chapter might, for example, be devoted to voice and
enunciation, and then leave the subject fertile. But voice and
enunciation are after all merely single manifestations of degree and
quality of culture, of taste, and of natural gift. No set rules can bring
charm of voice and speech to a person whose feeling and habitual point of
view are fundamentally wrong; the person whose habitual feeling and mental
attitude are fundamentally right needs few or no rules. As the whole
matter of story-telling is in the first instance an expression of the
complex personal product, so will this feature of it vary in perfection
according to the beauty and culture of the human mechanism manifesting it.

A few generally applicable suggestions may, however, be useful,--always
assuming the story-teller to have the fundamental qualifications of fine
and wholesome habit. These are not rules for the art of speaking; they are
merely some practical considerations regarding speaking to an audience.

First, I would reiterate my earlier advice, be simple. Affectation is the
worst enemy of voice and enunciation alike. Slovenly enunciation is
certainly very dreadful, but the unregenerate may be pardoned if they
prefer it to the affected mouthing which some over-nice people without due
sense of values expend on every syllable which is so unlucky as to fall
between their teeth.

Next I would urge avoidance of a fault very common with those who speak
much in large rooms,--the mistaken effort at loudness. This results in
tightening and straining the throat, finally producing nasal head-tones or
a voice of metallic harshness. And it is entirely unnecessary. There is no
need to speak loudly. The ordinary schoolroom needs no vocal effort. A
hall seating three or four hundred persons demands no effort whatever
beyond a certain clearness and definiteness of speech. A hall seating from
five to eight hundred needs more skill in aiming the voice, but still
demands no shouting.

It is indeed largely the psychological quality of a tone that makes it
reach in through the ear to the comprehension. The quiet, clear, restful,
persuasive tone of a speaker who knows his power goes straight home; but
loud speech confuses. Never speak loudly. In a small room, speak as gently
and easily as in conversation; in a large room, think of the people
farthest away, and speak clearly, with a slight separation between words,
and with definite phrasing,--aiming your _mind_ toward the distant
listeners.

If one is conscious of nasality or throatiness of voice, it certainly pays
to study the subject seriously with an intelligent teacher. But a good,
natural speaking-voice, free from extraordinary vices, will fill all the
requirements of story-telling to small audiences, without other attention
than comes indirectly from following the general principles of the art.

To sum it all up, then, let us say of the method likely to bring success
in telling stories, that it includes sympathy, grasp, spontaneity: one
must appreciate the story, and know it; and then, using the realising
imagination as a constant vivifying force, and dominated by the mood of
the story, one must tell it with all one's might,--simply, vitally,
joyously.


CHAPTER V

SOME SPECIFIC SCHOOLROOM USES OF STORY-TELLING


In Chapter II., I have tried to give my conception of the general aim of
story-telling in school. From that conception, it is not difficult to
deduce certain specific uses. The one most plainly intimated is that of a
brief recreation period, a feature which has proved valuable in many
classes. Less definitely implied, but not to be ignored, was the use of
the story during, or accessory to, the lesson in science or history.

But more distinctive and valuable than these, I think, is a specific use
which I have recently had the pleasure of seeing exemplified in great
completeness in the schools of Providence, Rhode Island.

Some four years ago, the assistant superintendent of schools of that city,
Miss Ella L. Sweeney, introduced a rather unusual and extended application
of the story in her primary classes. While the experiment was in its early
stages, it was my good fortune to be allowed to make suggestions for its
development, and as the devices in question were those I had been
accustomed to use as a pastime for children, I was able to take some
slight hand in the formative work of its adoption as an educational
method. Carried out most ably by the teachers to whom it was entrusted,
the plan has evolved into a more inclusive and systematic one than was at
first hoped for; it is one from which I have been grateful to learn.

Tersely stated, the object of the general plan is the freeing and
developing of the power of expression in the pupils.

I think there can be no need of dwelling on the desirability of this
result. The apathy and "woodenness" of children under average modes of
pedagogy is apparent to anyone who is interested enough to observe. In
elementary work, the most noticeable lack of natural expression is
probably in the reading classes; the same drawback appears at a later
stage in English composition. But all along the line every thoughtful
teacher knows how difficult it is to obtain spontaneous, creative reaction
on material given.

Story-telling has a real mission to perform in setting free the natural
creative expression of children, and in vitalising the general atmosphere
of the school. The method in use for this purpose in Providence (and
probably elsewhere, as ideas usually germinate in more than one place at
once) is a threefold _giving back_ of the story by the children. Two of
the forms of reproduction are familiar to many teachers; the first is the
obvious one of telling the story back again.

It is such fun to listen to a good story that children remember it without
effort, and later, when asked if they can tell the story of _The
Red-Headed Woodpecker_ or _The Little Red Hen_, they are as eager to try
it as if it were a personal experience which they were burning to impart.

Each pupil, in the Providence classes, is given a chance to try each
story, at some time. Then that one which each has told especially well is
allotted to him for his own particular story, on which he has an especial
claim thereafter.

It is surprising to note how comparatively individual and distinctive the
expression of voice and manner becomes, after a short time. The child
instinctively emphasises the points which appeal to him, and the element
of fun in it all helps to bring forgetfulness of self. The main
inflections and the general tenor of the language, however, remain
imitative, as is natural with children. But this is a gain rather than
otherwise, for it is useful in forming good habit. In no other part of her
work, probably, has a teacher so good a chance to foster in her pupils
pleasant habits of enunciation and voice. And this is especially worth
while in the big city schools, where so many children come from homes
where the English of the tenement is spoken.

I have since wished that every city primary teacher could have visited
with me the first-grade room in Providence where the pupils were German,
Russian, or Polish Jews, and where some of them had heard no English
previous to that year,--it being then May. The joy that shone on their
faces was nothing less than radiance when the low-voiced teacher said,
"Would you like to tell these ladies some of your stories?"

They told us their stories, and there was truly not one told poorly or
inexpressively; all the children had learned something of the joy of
creative effort. But one little fellow stands out in my memory beyond all
the rest, yet as a type of all the rest.

Rudolph was very small, and square, and merry of eye; life was one
eagerness and expectancy to him. He knew no English beyond that of one
school year. But he stood staunchly in his place and told me the story of
the Little Half Chick with an abandon and bodily emphasis which left no
doubt of his sympathetic understanding of every word. The depth of moral
reproach in his tone was quite beyond description when he said, "Little
Half Chick, little Half Chick, when _I_ was in trubbul you wouldn't help
_me_!" He heartily relished that repetition, and became more dramatic each
time.

Through it all, in the tones of the tender little voice, the sidewise pose
of the neat dark head, and the occasional use of a chubby pointing finger,
one could trace a vague reflection of the teacher's manner. It was not
strong enough to dominate at all over the child's personality, but it was
strong enough to suggest possibilities.

In different rooms, I was told _The Half Chick_, _The Little Red Hen_,
_The Three Bears_, _The Red-Headed Woodpecker_, _The Fox and the Grapes_,
and many other simple stories, and in every instance there was a
noticeable degree of spontaneity and command of expression.

When the reading classes were held, the influence of this work was very
visible. It had crept into the teachers' method, as well as the children's
attitude. The story interest was still paramount. In the discussion, in
the teachers' remarks, and in the actual reading, there was a joyousness
and an interest in the subject-matter which totally precluded that
preoccupation with sounds and syllables so deadly to any real progress in
reading. There was less of the mechanical in the reading than in any I had
heard in my visits to schools; but it was exceptionally accurate.

The second form of giving back which has proved a keen pleasure and a
stimulus to growth is a kind of "seat-work." The children are allowed to
make original illustrations of the stories by cutting silhouette pictures.

It will be readily seen that no child can do this without visualising each
image very perfectly. In the simplest and most unconscious way possible,
the small artists are developing the power of conceiving and holding the
concrete image of an idea given, the power which is at the bottom of all
arts of expression.

Through the kindness of Miss Sweeney, I am able to insert several of these
illustrations. They are entirely original, and were made without any
thought of such a use as this.

The pictures and the retelling are both popular with children, but neither
is as dear to them as the third form of reproduction of which I wish to
speak. This third kind is taken entirely on the ground of play, and no
visibly didactic element enters into it. It consists simply of _playing
the story_.

When a good story with a simple sequence has been told, and while the
children are still athrill with the delight of it, they are told they may
play it.

[Illustration: THE FOX AND THE GRAPES]

[Illustration: "THERE WAS AN OLD WOMAN WHO LIVED IN A SHOE"]

"Who would like to be Red Riding Hood?" says the teacher; up go the little
girls' hands, and Mary or Hannah or Gertrude is chosen.

"Who will be the wolf?" Johnny or Marcus becomes the wolf. The kind
woodchopper and the mother are also happily distributed, for in these
little dramatic companies it is an all-star cast, and no one realises any
indignity in a subordinate _rôle_.

"Now, where shall we have little Red Riding Hood's house? 'Over in that
corner,' Katie? Very well, Riding Hood shall live over there. And where
shall the grandmother's cottage be?"

The children decide that it must be a long distance through the
wood,--half-way round the schoolroom, in fact. The wolf selects the spot
where he will meet Red Riding Hood, and the woodchopper chooses a position
from which he can rush in at the critical moment, to save Red Riding
Hood's life.

Then, with gusto good to see, they play the game. The teacher makes no
suggestions; each actor creates his part. Some children prove extremely
expressive and facile, while others are limited by nature. But each is
left to his spontaneous action.

[Illustration: "Great rats, small rats, lean rats, brawny rats ...
followed the Piper for their lives."]

In the course of several days several sets of children have been allowed
to try; then if any of them are notably good in the several _rôles_, they
are given an especial privilege in that story, as was done with the
retelling. When a child expresses a part badly, the teacher sometimes asks
if anyone thinks of another way to do it; from different examples
offered, the children then choose the one they prefer; this is adopted. At
no point is the teacher apparently teaching. She lets the audience teach
itself and its actors.

The children played a good many stories for me during my visit in
Providence. Of them all, _Red Riding Hood_, _The Fox and the Grapes_, and
_The Lion and the Mouse_ were most vividly done.

It will be long before the chief of the Little Red Riding Hoods fades from
my memory. She had a dark, foreign little face, with a good deal of darker
hair tied back from it, and brown, expressive hands. Her eyes were so full
of dancing lights that when they met mine unexpectedly it was as if a
chance reflection had dazzled me. When she was told that she might play,
she came up for her riding hood like an embodied delight, almost dancing
as she moved. (Her teacher used a few simple elements of stage-setting for
her stories, such as bowls for the Bears, a cape for Riding Hood, and so
on.)

[Illustration: "The Piper piped and the children danced, ... all but one
little lame boy, who could not keep up with the rest."]

The game began at once. Riding Hood started from the rear corner of the
room, basket on arm; her mother gave her strict injunctions as to
lingering on the way, and she returned a respectful "Yes, mother." Then
she trotted round the aisle, greeting the woodchopper on the way, to the
deep wood which lay close by the teacher's desk. There master wolf was
waiting, and there the two held converse,--master wolf very crafty indeed,
Red Riding Hood extremely polite. The wolf then darted on ahead and
crouched down in the corner which represented grandmother's bed. Riding
Hood tripped sedately to the imaginary door, and knocked. The familiar
dialogue followed, and with the words "the better to eat you with, my
dear!" the wolf clutched Red Riding Hood, to eat her up. But we were not
forced to undergo the threatened scene of horrid carnage, as the
woodchopper opportunely arrived, and stated calmly, "I will not let you
kill Little Red Riding Hood."

All was now happily culminated, and with the chopper's grave injunction as
to future conduct in her ears, the rescued heroine tiptoed out of the
woods, to her seat.

I wanted to applaud, but I realised in the nick of time that we were all
playing, and held my peace.

[Illustration: HIAWATHA PICTURES]

_The Fox and the Grapes_ was more dramatically done, but was given by a
single child. He was the chosen "fox" of another primary room, and had the
fair colouring and sturdy frame which matched his Swedish name. He was
naturally dramatic. It was easy to see that he instinctively visualised
everything, and this he did so strongly that he suggested to the
onlooker every detail of the scene.

He chose for his grape-trellis the rear wall of the room.

Standing there, he looked longingly up at the invisible bunch of grapes.
"My gracious," he said, "what fine grapes! I will have some."

Then he jumped for them.

"Didn't get them," he muttered, "I'll try again," and he jumped higher.

"Didn't get them this time," he said disgustedly, and hopped up once more.
Then he stood still, looked up, shrugged his shoulders, and remarked in an
absurdly worldly-wise tone, "Those grapes are sour!" After which he walked
away.

Of course the whole thing was infantile, and without a touch of grace; but
it is no exaggeration to say that the child did what many grown-up actors
fail to do,--he preserved the illusion.

It was in still another room that I saw the lion and mouse fable played.

The lion lay flat on the floor for his nap, but started up when he found
his paw laid on the little mouse, who crouched as small as she could
beside him. (The mouse was by nature rather larger than the lion, but she
called what art she might to her assistance.) The mouse persuaded the
lion to lift his paw, and ran away.

Presently a most horrific groaning emanated from the lion. The mouse ran
up, looked him over, and soliloquised in precise language,--evidently
remembered, "What is the matter with the lion? Oh, I see; he is caught in
a trap." And then she gnawed with her teeth at the imaginary rope which
bound him.

"What makes you so kind to me, little Mouse?" said the rescued lion.

"You let me go, when I asked you," said the mouse demurely.

"Thank you, little Mouse," answered the lion; and therewith, finis.

It is not impossible that all this play atmosphere may seem incongruous
and unnecessary to teachers used to more conventional methods, but I feel
sure that an actual experience of it would modify that point of view
conclusively. The children of the schools where story-telling and
"dramatising" were practised were startlingly better in reading, in
attentiveness, and in general power of expression, than the pupils of like
social conditions in the same grades of other cities which I visited soon
after, and in which the more conventional methods were exclusively used.
The teachers, also, were stronger in power of expression.

But the most noticeable, though the least tangible, difference was in the
moral atmosphere of the schoolroom. There had been a great gain in
vitality in all the rooms where stories were a part of the work. It had
acted and reacted on pupils and teachers alike. The telling of a story
well so depends on being thoroughly vitalised that, naturally, habitual
telling had resulted in habitual vitalisation.

This result was not, of course, wholly due to the practice of
story-telling, but it was in some measure due to that. And it was a result
worth the effort.

I beg to urge these specific uses of stories, as both recreative and
developing, and as especially tending toward enlarged power of expression:
retelling the story; illustrating the story in seat-work; dramatisation.


STORIES SELECTED AND ADAPTED FOR TELLING

ESPECIALLY FOR KINDERGARTEN AND CLASS I.


    Wee Willie Winkie runs through the town,
    Upstairs and downstairs in his nightgown,
    Rapping at the window, crying through the lock,
    "Are the children in their beds, for now it's eight o'clock?"

       *       *       *       *       *

    There was a crooked man, and he went a crooked mile,
    He found a crooked sixpence against a crooked stile;
    He bought a crooked cat, which caught a crooked mouse,
    And they all lived together in a little crooked house.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Cushy cow bonny, let down thy milk,
    And I will give thee a gown of silk;
    A gown of silk and a silver tee,
    If thou wilt let down thy milk to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Little girl, little girl, where have you been?"
    "Gathering roses to give to the queen."
    "Little girl, little girl, what gave she you?"
    "She gave me a diamond as big as my shoe."

       *       *       *       *       *

        Little Bo-peep has lost her sheep,
          And can't tell where to find them;
        Leave them alone, and they'll come home,
          And bring their tails behind them.

        Little Bo-peep fell fast asleep,
          And dreamt she heard them bleating;
        But when she awoke, she found it a joke,
          For still they all were fleeting.

        Nur al-Din laughed and they sat down
          again to wine and wassail,
        but the damsel turned to her master and said in a
          whisper, "O my lord, drink and do not press him, that I may show
thee some sport with him."

Then she began to fill her master's cup and he hers and so they did
time after time, till at last Shaykh Ibrahim looked at them and
said, "What fashion of good fellowship is this?

Allah curse the glutton who keepeth the cup to himself! Why dost
thou not give me to drink, O my brother?

What manners are these, O blessed one?"

    At this the two laughed until they fell on their
      backs; then they drank and gave him to drink
    and ceased not their carousal till a third part of the
      night was past.

    Then said the damsel, "O Shaykh Ibrahim, with
      thy leave I will get up and light one of these
    candles." "Do so," he replied, "but light no
      more than one."

So she sprang to her feet and, beginning with one candle, lighted
all the eighty and sat down again.

Presently Nur al-Din said, "O Shaykh Ibrahim, in what favour am I
with thee?

        May I not light one of these lamps?"
          "Light one," replied he,
        "and bother me no more in thy turn!" So
          he rose and lighted one lamp after another, till he had lighted
the whole eight and the palace seemed to dance with brilliancy.

        Quoth the Shaykh (and indeed
          intoxication had
        overcome him), "Ye two are bolder than
          I am."

        Then he rose to his feet and opened
          all the lattices and sat
        down again; and they fell to carousing
          and reciting verses till the place rang with their noisy mirth.

        Now Allah, the Decreer who decreeth
          all things and who for every
        effect appointeth a cause, had so
          disposed that the Caliph was at that moment sitting in the light
of the moon at one of the windows of his palace overlooking the
Tigris.

He saw the blaze of the lamps and wax candles reflected in the river
and, lifting his eyes, perceived that it came from the Garden Palace
which was all ablaze with brilliancy.

So he cried, "Here to me with Ja'afar the Barmaki!"

; and the last word was hardly spoken ere the Wazir was present before
the Commander of the Faithful, who cried at him, "O dog of a Minister,
hast thou taken from me this city of Baghdad without saying aught
to me?"

"What words are these words?" asked Ja'afar; and the Caliph answered, "If
Baghdad city were not taken from me, the Palace of Pictures would not
be illuminated with lamps and candles, nor would its windows be
thrown open. Woe to thee!

who durst do a deed like this except the Caliphate had been taken from me?"
Quoth Ja'afar (and indeed his side-muscles trembled as he spoke), "Who
told thee that the Palace of Pictures was illuminated and the
windows thrown open?"

"Come hither and see," replied the Caliph.

Then Ja'afar came close to the Caliph and, looking towards the garden, saw
the palace blazing with illumination that rayed through the gloom
of the night; and, thinking that this might have been permitted by
the keeper for some reason of his own, he wished to make an excuse
for him; so quoth he, "O Commander of the Faithful, Shaykh Ibrahim
said to me last week, 'O my lord Ja'afar, I much wish to circumcise
my sons during the life of the Commander of the Faithful and thy
life.'

I asked, 'What dost thou want?'; and he answered, 'Get me leave from the
Caliph to hold the festival in the Garden Palace.' So said I to him, 'Go
circumcise them and I will see the Caliph and tell him.' Thereupon he
went away and I forgot to let thee know." "O Ja'afar," said the Caliph,
"thou hast committed two offences against me; first in that thou didst no
report to me, secondly, thou didst not give him what he sought; for
he came and told thee this only as excuse to ask for some small
matter of money, to help him with the outlay; and thou gavest him
nothing nor toldest me."

"O Commander of the Faithful," said Ja'afar, "I forgot." "Now by the rights
of my forefathers and the tombs of my forbears," quoth the Caliph, "I
will not pass the rest of this night save in company with him; for truly
he is a pious man who frequenteth the Elders of the Faith and the
Fakirs and other religious mendicants and entertaineth them; doubtless
they are not assembled together and it may be that the prayer of one of
them will work us weal both in this world and in the next. Besides,
my presence may profit and at any rate be pleasing to Shaykh Ibrahim." "O
Commander of the Faithful," quoth Ja'afar, "the greater part of
the night is passed, and at this time they will be breaking up."

Quoth the Caliph, "It matters not: I needs must go to them."

So Ja'afar held his peace, being bewildered and knowing not what to do.
Then the Caliph rose to his feet and, taking with him Ja'afar and Masrur
the eunuch sworder, the three disguised themselves in merchants' gear and
leaving the City-palace, kept threading the streets till they reached the
garden. The Caliph went up to the gate and finding it wide open, was
surprised and said, "See, O Ja'afar, how Shaykh Ibrahim hath left the
gate open at this hour contrary to his custom!" They went in and walked
on till they came under the pavilion, when the Caliph said, "O
Ja'afar, I wish to look in upon them unawares before I show myself,
that I may see what they are about and get sight of the elders; for
hitherto I have heard no sound from them, nor even a Fakir calling
upon the name of Allah.

[FN#52]" Then he looked about and, seeing a tall walnut-tree, said to
Ja'afar, "I will climb this tree, for its branches are near the lattices
and so look in upon them." Thereupon he mounted the tree and ceased not
climbing from branch to branch, till he reached a bough which was right
opposite one of the windows, and here he took seat and looked inside
the palace. He saw a damsel and a youth as they were two moons (glory
be to Him who created them and fashioned them!), and by them Shaykh
Ibrahim seated cup in hand and saying, "O Princess of fair ones,
drinking without music is nothing worth; indeed I have heard a poet
say,
'Round with bit and little, the bowl and cup, * Take either than
moon[FN#53] in his sheen hath crowned:
Nor drink without music, for oft I've seen, * The horse drink best
to the whistle's sound!'"

When the Caliph saw this, the vein of wrath started up between his eyes and
he came down and said to the Wazir, "O Ja'afar, never beheld I yet men
of piety in such case; so do thou mount this tree and look upon them, lest
the blessings of the blest be lost to thee." Ja'afar, hearing the words
of the Commander of the Faithful and being confounded by them, climbed
to the tree- top and looking in, saw Nur al-Din and the damsel, and
Shaykh Ibrahim holding in his hand a brimming bowl.

At this sight he made sure of death and, descending, stood before the
Commander of the Faithful, who said to him, "O Ja'afar, praise be
to Allah who hath made us of those that observe external ordinances
of Holy Law and hath averted from us the sin of disguising ourselves
after the manner of hypocrites!"

[FN#54] But Ja'afar could not speak a word for excess of confusion; so the
Caliph looked at him and said, "I wonder how they came hither, and who
admitted them into my pavilion!

But aught like the beauty of this youth and this damsel my eyes never
yet saw!" "Thou sayest sooth, O our Lord the Sultan!" replied Ja'afar (and
he hoped to propitiate the Caliph Harun al-Rashid). Then quoth the Caliph,
"O Ja'afar, let us both mount the branch opposite the window, that we may
amuse ourselves with looking at them."

So the two climbed the tree and, peering in, heard Shaykh Ibrahim say,
"O my lady, I have cast away all gravity mine by the drinking of wine,
but 'tis not sweet save with the soft sounds of the lute-strings
it combine."

"By Allah," replied Anis al-Jalis, "O Shaykh Ibrahim, an we had but
some instrument of music our joyance were complete."

Hearing this he rose to his feet and the Caliph said to Ja'afar,
"I wonder what he is about to do!"

and Ja'afar answered, "I know not." The Shaykh disappeared and presently
reappeared bringing a lute; and the Caliph took not of it and knew it
for that of Abu Ishak the Cup-companion.[FN#55] "By Allah," said the
Caliph, "if this damsel sing ill I will crucify all of you; but if she
sing well I will forgive them and only gibbet thee." "O Allah cause her to
sing vilely!" quoth Ja'afar. Asked the Caliph, "Why so?"; and he answered,
"If thou crucify us all together, we shall keep one another company."

The Caliph laughed at his speech. Presently the damsel took the lute and,
after looking at it and tuning it, she played a measure which made all
hearts yearn to her; then she sang these lines,
"O ye that can aid me, a wretched lover, * Whom longing burns nor
can rest restore me!

Though all you have done I have well deserved, * I take refuge with you,
so exult not o'er me:
True, I am weak and low and vile, * But I'll bear your will and whatso
you bore me:
My death at your hands what brings it of glory? * I fear but your sin
which of life forlore me!"
Quoth the Caliph, "By Allah, good! O Ja'afar, never in my life have I heard
a voice so enchanting as this." "Then haply the Caliph's wrath hath passed
away," said Ja'afar, and he replied, "Yes, 'tis gone." Thereupon they
descended from the tree, and the Caliph said to Ja'afar, "I wish
to go in and sit with them and hear the damsel sing before me."

"O Commander of the Faithful," replied Ja'afar, "if thou go in to them
they will be terribly troubled, and Shaykh Ibrahim will assuredly
die of fright."

But the Caliph answered, "O Ja'afar, thou must teach me some device wherewith
to delude them and whereby I can foregather with them without their knowing
me." So they walked towards the Tigris pondering the matter, and presently
came upon a fisherman who stood fishing under the pavilion windows. Now
some time before this, the Caliph (being in the pavilion) had called to
Shaykh Ibrahim and asked him, "What noise is this I hear under the
windows?" and he had answered, "It is voices of fisher folk catching fish:"
so quoth the Caliph, "Go down and forbid them this place;" and he forbade
them accordingly.

However that night a fisherman named Karim, happening to pass by and
seeing the garden gate open, said to himself, "This is a time of negligence;
and I will take advantage of it to do a bit of fishing."

So he took his net and cast it, but he had hardly done so when behold,
the Caliph come up single-handed and, standing hard by, knew him and
called aloud to him, "Ho, Karim!"

The fisherman, hearing himself named, turned round, and seeing the Caliph,
trembled and his side-muscles quivered, as he cried, "By Allah, O
Commander of the Faithful, I did it not in mockery of the mandate;
but poverty and a large family drove me to what thou seest!"

Quoth the Caliph, "Make a cast in my name." At this the fisherman was glad
and going to the bank threw his net, then waiting till it had
spread out at full stretch and settled down, hauled it up and found
in it various kinds of fish.

The Caliph was pleased and said, "O Karim, doff thy habit." So he put off
a gaberdine of coarse woollen stuff patched in an hundred places whereon
the lice were rampant, and a turband which had never been untwisted for
three years but to which he had sown every rag he came upon. The
Caliph also pulled off his person two vests of Alexandrian and Ba'lbak
silk, a loose inner robe and a long-sleeved outer coat, and said to
the fisherman, "Take them and put them on," while he assumed the foul
gaberdine and filthy turband and drew a corner of the head-cloth as a
mouth-veil[FN#56] before his face.
Then said he to the fisherman, "Get thee about thy business!; and the man
kissed the Caliph's feet and thanked him and improvised the following
couplets,
"Thou hast granted more favours than ever I craved; * Thou hast
satisfied needs which my heart enslaved:
I will thank thee and thank whileas life shall last, * And my bones
will praise thee in grave engraved!"

Hardly had the fisherman ended his verse, when the lice began to crawl over
the Caliph's skin, and he fell to catching them on his neck with
his right and left and throwing them from him, while he cried, "O
fisherman, woe to thee!

what be this abundance of lice on thy gaberdine." "O my lord," replied he,
"they may annoy thee just at first, but before a week is past thou wilt not
feel them nor think of them." The Caliph laughed and said to him,
"Out on thee! Shall I leave this gaberdine of thine so long on my body?"
Quoth the fisherman, "I would say a word to thee but I am ashamed
in presence of the Caliph!"; and quoth he, "Say what thou hast to say."
"It passed through my thought, O Commander of the Faithful," said
the fisherman, "that, since thou wishest to learn fishing so thou
mayest have in hand an honest trade whereby to gain thy livelihood,
this my gaberdine besitteth thee right well."

[FN#57] The Commander of the Faithful laughed at this speech, and the
fisherman went his way. Then the Caliph took up the basket of fish and,
strewing a little green grass over it, carried it to Ja'afar and
stood before him.

Ja'afar thinking him to be Karim the fisherman feared for him and said, "O
Karim, what brought thee hither? Flee for thy life, for the Caliph is
in the garden to-night and, if he see thee, thy neck is gone." At
this the Caliph laughed and Ja'afar recognized him and asked, "Can
it be thou, our lord the Sultan?"

; and he answered, "Yes, O Ja'afar, and thou art my Wazir and I and
thou came hither together; yet thou knowest me not; so how should
Shaykh Ibrahim know me, and he drunk?

Stay here, till I came back to thee." "To hear is to obey," said Ja'afar.
Then the Caliph went up to the door of the pavilion and knocked a gentle
knock, whereupon said Nur al-Din," O Shaykh Ibrahim, some one taps
at the door."

"Who goes there?" cried the Shaykh and the Caliph replied, "It is I, O
Shaykh Ibrahim!" "Who art thou," quoth he, and quoth the other, "I
am Karim the fisherman: I hear thou hast a feast, so I have brought thee
some fish, and of a truth 'tis good fish." When Nur al-Din heard the
mention of fish, he was glad, he and the damsel, and they both said to
the Shaykh, "O our lord, open the door and let him bring us his
fish." So Shaykh Ibrahim opened and the Caliph came in (and he in fisherman
guise), and began by saluting them. Said Shaykh Ibrahim, "Welcome to the
blackguard, the robber, the dicer!

Let us see thy fish."

So the Caliph showed them his catch and behold, the fishes were still
alive and jumping, whereupon the damsel exclaimed, "By Allah! O my lord,
these are indeed fine fish: would they were fried!" and Shaykh Ibrahim
rejoined, "By Allah, O my lady, thou art right." Then said he to the
Caliph, "O fisherman, why didst thou not bring us the fish ready fried?
Up now and cook them and bring them back to us." "On my head be thy
commands!"

said the Caliph, "I will fry thee a dish and bring it." Said they, "Look
sharp." Thereupon he went and ran till he came up to Ja'afar when
he called to him, "Hallo, Ja'afar!"

; and he replied, "Here am I, O Commander of the Faithful, is all
well?"

"They want the fish fried," said the Caliph, and Ja'afar answered,
"O Commander of the Faithful, give it to me and I'll fry it for
them."

"By the tombs of my forbears," quoth the Caliph, "none shall fry
it but I, with mine own hand!"

So he went to the gardener's hut, where he searched and found all that he
required, even to salt and saffron and wild marjoram and else besides.
Then he turned to the brasier and, setting on the frying-pan, fried
a right good fry.

When it was done, he laid it on a banana-leaf, and gathering from the
garden wind-fallen fruits, limes and lemons, carried the fish to the
pavilion and set the dish before them. So the youth and the damsel and
Shaykh Ibrahim came forward and ate; after which they washed their hands
and Nur al-Din said to the Caliph, "By Allah, O fisherman, thou
hast done us a right good deed this night."

Then he put hand in pouch and, taking out three of the dinars which Sanjar
had given him, said, "O fisherman, excuse me.

By Allah had I known thee before that which hath lately befallen
me, I had done away the bitterness of poverty from thy heart; but
take thou this as the best I can do for thee."

Then he threw the gold pieces to the Caliph, who took them and
kissed them and put them in pouch.

Now his sole object in doing all this was to hear the damsel sing; so he
said to Nur al-Din, "Thou hast rewarded me most liberally, but I beg
of thy boundless bounty that thou let this damsel sing an air,
that I may hear her."

[FN#58] So Nur al- Din said, "O Anis al-Jalis!" and she answered "Yes!" and
he continued, "By my life, sing us something for the sake of this fisherman
who wisheth so much to hear thee."

Thereupon she took the lute and struck the strings, after she had screwed
them tight and tuned them, and sang these improvised verses,
"The fawn of a maid hent her lute in hand * And her music made us
right mettlesome:
For her song gave hearing to ears stone-deaf, * While Brava!

Brava! exclaimed the dumb."

Then she played again and played so ravishingly, that she charmed their
wits and burst out improvising and singing these couplets,
"You have honoured us visiting this our land, * And your splendour
illumined the glooms that blent:
So 'tis due that for you I perfume my place * With rose-water, musk
and the camphor-scent!"

Hereupon the Caliph was agitated, and emotion so overpowered him that he
could not command himself for excess of pleasure, and he exclaimed, "By
Allah, good! by Allah, good! by Allah, good!"[FN#59] Asked Nur al-Din, "O
fisherman, doth this damsel please thee?" and the Caliph answered, "Ay,
by Allah!"

Whereupon said Nur al-Din, "She is a gift to thee, a gift of the
generous who repenteth him not of his givings and who will never
revoke his gift!"

Then he sprang to his feet and, taking a loose robe, threw it over the
fisherman and bade him receive the damsel and be gone. But she looked at
him and said, "O my lord, art thou faring forth without farewell?

If it must be so, at least stay till I bid thee good-bye and make known my
case."

And she began versifying in these verses,
"When love and longing and regret are mine, * Must not this body show of
ills a sign?
My love! say not, 'Thou soon shalt be consoled'; * When state speaks state
none shall allay my pine.

If living man could swim upon his tears, * I first should float on
waters of these eyne:
O thou, who in my heart infusedst thy love, * As water mingles in
the cup with wine, This was the fear I feared, this parting blow.
* O thou whose love my heart-core ne'er shall tyne!

O Bin Khákán! my sought, my hope, my will, * O thou whose love this
breast make wholly thine!

Against thy lord the King thou sinn'dst for me, * And winnedst exile in lands
peregrine:
Allah ne'er make my lord repent my loss * To cream[FN#60] o' men
thou gavest me, one right digne."

When she had ended her verses, Nur al-Din answered her with these
lines,
"She bade me farewell on our parting day, * And she wept in the
fire of our bane and pains:
'What wilt thou do when fro' thee I'm gone?'

* Quoth I, 'say this to whom life remains!'"
When the Caliph heard her saying in her verse,

"To Karim, the cream of men thou gavest me;"
his inclination for her redoubled and it seemed a hard matter and
a grievous to part them; so quoth he to the youth, "O my lord, truly
the damsel said in her verses that thou didst transgress against
her master and him who owned her; so tell me, against whom didst
thou transgress and who is it hath a claim on thee?"

"By Allah, O fisherman," replied Nur al-Din, "there befel me and this
damsel a wondrous tale and a marvellous matter: an 't were graven
with needle-gravers on the eye-corners it would be a warner to whoso
would be warned."

Cried the Caliph, "Wilt thou not tell me thy story and acquaint me with
thy case?

Haply it may bring thee relief, for Allah's aid is ever nearhand."

"O fisherman," said Nur al-Din, "Wilt thou hear our history in verse
or in prose?"

"Prose is a wordy thing, but verses," rejoined the Caliph, "are
pearls on string."

Then Nur al-Din bowed his head, and made these couplets,
"O my friend! reft of rest no repose I command, * And my grief is
redoubled in this far land:

Erst I had a father, a kinder ne'er was; * But he died and to Death
paid the deodand:
When he went from me, every matter went wrong * Till my heart was
nigh-broken, my nature unmanned:
He bought me a handmaid, a sweeting who shamed * A wand of the
willow by Zephyr befanned:
I lavisht upon her mine heritage, * And spent like a nobleman
puissant and grand:
Then to sell her compelled, my sorrow increased; * The parting was
sore but I mote not gainstand:
Now as soon as the crier had called her, there bid * A wicked old
fellow, a fiery brand:
So I raged with a rage that I could not restrain, * And snatched
her from out of his hireling's hand; When the angry curmudgeon made
ready for blows, * And the fire of a fight kindled he and his band,
I smote him in fury with right and with left, * And his hide, till
well satisfied, curried and tanned:
Then in fear I fled forth and lay hid in my house, * To escape from
the snares which my foeman had spanned:
So the King of the country proclaimed my arrest; * When access to
me a good Chamberlain fand:
And warned me to flee from the city afar, * Disappear, disappoint
what my enemies planned:
Then we fled from our home 'neath the wing of the night, * And
sought us a refuge by Baghdad strand:
Of my riches I've nothing on thee to bestow, * O Fisher, except the
fair gift thou hast scanned:
The loved of my soul, and when I from her part, * Know for sure
that I give thee the blood of my heart."

[FN#61]

When he had ended his verse, the Caliph said to him, "O my lord Nur
al-Din, explain to me thy case more fully," So he told him the whole
story from beginning to end, and the Caliph said to him, "Whither
dost thou now intend?"

"Allah's world is wide," replied he. Quoth the Caliph, "I will write thee
a letter to carry to the Sultan Mohammed bin Sulayman al-Zayni, which
when he readeth, he will not hurt nor harm thee in aught."-And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Thirty-eighth Night,

She continued, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
Caliph said to Nur al-Din Ali, "I will write thee a letter to carry
to the Sultan Mohammed bin Sulayman al-Zayni, which when he readeth,
he will not hurt nor harm thee in aught," Nur al-Din asked "What!

is there in the world a fisherman who writeth to Kings? Such a thing can
never be!"; and the Caliph answered, "Thou sayest sooth, but I will tell
thee the reason. Know that I and he learnt in the same school under
one schoolmaster, and that I was his monitor. Since that time Fortune
befriended him and he is become a Sultan, while Allah hath abased
me and made me a fisherman; yet I never send to him to ask aught
but he doeth my desire; nay, though I should ask of him a thousand
favours every day, he would comply."

When Nur al-Din heard this he said, "Good!

write that I may see."

So the Caliph took ink-case and reed-pen and wrote as follows,--"In the
name of Allah, the Compassionating, the Compassionate!

"You mean that little joke of mine; of
course that was a joke." (You see it is always harder to pay for a thing
when you no longer need it.)

"I do not joke," said the Piper very quietly; "my thousand guineas, if you
please."

"Oh, come, now," said the Mayor, "you know very well it wasn't worth
sixpence to play a little tune like that; call it one guinea, and let it
go at that."

"A bargain is a bargain," said the Piper; "for the last time,--will you
give me my thousand guineas?"

"I'll give you a pipe of tobacco, something good to eat, and call you
lucky at that!" said the Mayor, tossing his head.

Then the Piper's mouth grew strange and thin, and sharp blue and green
lights began dancing in his eyes, and he said to the Mayor very softly, "I
know another tune than that I played; I play it to those who play me
false."

"Play what you please! You can't frighten me! Do your worst!" said the
Mayor, making himself big.

Then the Piper stood high up on the steps of the town hall, and put the
pipe to his lips, and began to play a little tune. It was quite a
different little tune, this time, very soft and sweet, and very, very
strange. And before he had played three notes, you heard


              a rustling, that seemed like a bustling
    Of merry crowds justling at pitching and hustling;
    Small feet were pattering, wooden shoes clattering,
    Little hands clapping and little tongues chattering,
    And like fowls in a farmyard when barley is scattering,
    Out came the children running.
    All the little boys and girls,
    With rosy cheeks and flaxen curls,
    And sparkling eyes and teeth like pearls,
    Tripping and skipping, ran merrily after
    The wonderful music with shouting and laughter.

"Stop, stop!" cried the people. "He is taking our children! Stop him, Mr
Mayor!"

"I will give you your money, I will!" cried the Mayor, and tried to run
after the Piper.

But the very same music that made the children dance made the grown-up
people stand stock-still; it was as if their feet had been tied to the
ground; they could not move a muscle. There they stood and saw the Piper
move slowly down the street, playing his little tune, with the children at
his heels. On and on he went; on and on the children danced; till he came
to the bank of the river.

"Oh, oh! He will drown our children in the river!" cried the people. But
the Piper turned and went along by the bank, and all the children followed
after. Up, and up, and up the hill they went, straight toward the mountain
which is like the roof of a house. And just as they got to it, the
mountain _opened_,--like two great doors, and the Piper went in through
the opening, playing the little tune, and the children danced after
him--and--just as they got through--the great doors slid together again
and shut them all in! Every single one. No, there was one little lame
child, who couldn't keep up with the rest and didn't get there in time.
But none of his little companions ever came back any more, not one.

But years and years afterward, when the fat old rat who swam across the
river was a grandfather, his children used to ask him, "What made you
follow the music, Grandfather?" and he used to tell them, "My dears, when
I heard that tune I thought I heard the moving aside of pickle-tub boards,
and the leaving ajar of preserve cupboards, and I smelled the most
delicious old cheese in the world, and I saw sugar barrels ahead of me;
and then, just as a great yellow cheese seemed to be saying, 'Come, bore
me'--I felt the river rolling o'er me!"

And in the same way the people asked the little lame child, "What made you
follow the music?" "I do not know what the others heard," he said, "but
I, when the Piper began to play, I heard a voice that told of a wonderful
country hard by, where the bees had no stings and the horses had wings,
and the trees bore wonderful fruits, where no one was tired or lame, and
children played all day; and just as the beautiful country was but one
step away--the mountain closed on my playmates, and I was left alone."

That was all the people ever knew. The children never came back. All that
was left of the Piper and the rats was just the big street that led to the
river; so they called it the Street of the Pied Piper.

And that is the end of the story.


WHY THE EVERGREEN TREES KEEP THEIR LEAVES IN WINTER[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from Florence Holbrook's _A Book of Nature Myths_.
(Harrap & Co. 9d.)]

One day, a long, long time ago, it was very cold; winter was coming. And
all the birds flew away to the warm south, to wait for the spring. But one
little bird had a broken wing and could not fly. He did not know what to
do. He looked all round, to see if there was any place where he could keep
warm. And he saw the trees of the great forest.

"Perhaps the trees will keep me warm through the winter," he said.

So he went to the edge of the forest, hopping and fluttering with his
broken wing. The first tree he came to was a slim silver birch.

"Beautiful birch-tree," he said, "will you let me live in your warm
branches until the springtime comes?"

"Dear me!" said the birch-tree, "what a thing to ask! I have to take care
of my own leaves through the winter; that is enough for me. Go away."

The little bird hopped and fluttered with his broken wing until he came to
the next tree. It was a great, big oak-tree.

"O big oak-tree," said the little bird, "will you let me live in your warm
branches until the springtime comes?"

"Dear me," said the oak-tree, "what a thing to ask! If you stay in my
branches all winter you will be eating my acorns. Go away."

So the little bird hopped and fluttered with his broken wing till he came
to the willow-tree by the edge of the brook.

"O beautiful willow-tree," said the little bird, "will you let me live in
your warm branches until the springtime comes?"

"No, indeed," said the willow-tree; "I never speak to strangers. Go away."

The poor little bird did not know where to go; but he hopped and
fluttered along with his broken wing. Presently the spruce-tree saw him,
and said, "Where are you going, little bird?"

"I do not know," said the bird; "the trees will not let me live with them,
and my wing is broken so that I cannot fly."

"You may live on one of my branches," said the spruce; "here is the
warmest one of all."

"But may I stay all winter?"

"Yes," said the spruce; "I shall like to have you."

The pine-tree stood beside the spruce, and when he saw the little bird
hopping and fluttering with his broken wing, he said, "My branches are not
very warm, but I can keep the wind off because I am big and strong."

So the little bird fluttered up into the warm branch of the spruce, and
the pine-tree kept the wind off his house; then the juniper-tree saw what
was going on, and said that she would give the little bird his dinner all
the winter, from her branches. Juniper berries are very good for little
birds.

The little bird was very comfortable in his warm nest sheltered from the
wind, with juniper berries to eat.

The trees at the edge of the forest remarked upon it to each other:

"I wouldn't take care of a strange bird," said the birch.

"I wouldn't risk my acorns," said the oak.

"I would not speak to strangers," said the willow. And the three trees
stood up very tall and proud.

That night the North Wind came to the woods to play. He puffed at the
leaves with his icy breath, and every leaf he touched fell to the ground.
He wanted to touch every leaf in the forest, for he loved to see the trees
bare.

"May I touch every leaf?" he said to his father, the Frost King.

"No," said the Frost King, "the trees which were kind to the bird with the
broken wing may keep their leaves."

So North Wind had to leave them alone, and the spruce, the pine, and the
juniper-tree kept their leaves through all the winter. And they have done
so ever since.


THE STAR DOLLARS[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from Grimms' _Fairy Tales_.]

There was once a little girl who was very, very poor. Her father and
mother had died, and at last she had no little room to stay in, and no
little bed to sleep in, and nothing more to eat except one piece of bread.
So she said a prayer, put on her little jacket and her hood, and took her
piece of bread in her hand, and went out into the world.

When she had walked a little way, she met an old man, bent and thin. He
looked at the piece of bread in her hand, and said, "Will you give me your
bread, little girl? I am very hungry." The little girl said, "Yes," and
gave him her piece of bread.

When she had walked a little farther she came upon a child, sitting by the
path, crying. "I am so cold!" said the child. "Won't you give me your
little hood, to keep my head warm?" The little girl took off her hood and
tied it on the child's head. Then she went on her way.

After a time, as she went, she met another child. This one shivered with
the cold, and she said to the little girl, "Won't you give me your jacket,
little girl?" And the little girl gave her her jacket. Then she went on
again.

By-and-by she saw another child, crouching almost naked by the wayside. "O
little girl," said the child, "won't you give me your dress? I have
nothing to keep me warm." So the little girl took off her dress and gave
it to the other child. And now she had nothing left but her little shirt.
It grew dark, and the wind was cold, and the little girl crept into the
woods, to sleep for the night. But in the woods a child stood, weeping and
naked. "I am cold," she said, "give me your little shirt!" And the little
girl thought, "It is dark, and the woods will shelter me; I will give her
my little shirt"; so she did, and now she had nothing left in all the
world.

She stood looking up at the sky, to say her night-time prayer. As she
looked up, the whole skyful of stars fell in a shower round her feet.
There they were, on the ground, shining bright, and round. The little girl
saw that they were silver dollars. And in the midst of them was the finest
little shirt, all woven out of silk! The little girl put on the little
silk shirt, and gathered the star dollars; and she was rich, all the days
of her life.


THE LION AND THE GNAT[1]

[Footnote 1: This story has been told by the Rev. Albert E. Sims to
children in many parts of England. On one occasion it was told to an
audience of over three thousand children in the Great Assembly Hall, Mile
End, London.]

Far away in Central Africa, that vast land where dense forests and wild
beasts abound, the shades of night were once more descending, warning all
creatures that it was time to seek repose.

All day long the sun had been like a great burning eye, but now, after
painting the western sky with crimson and scarlet and gold, he had
disappeared into his fleecy bed; the various creatures of the forest had
sought their holes and resting-places; the last sound had rumbled its
rumble, the last bee had mumbled his mumble, and the last bear had
grumbled his grumble; even the grasshoppers that had been chirruping,
chirruping, through all the long hours without a pause, at length had
ceased their shrill music, tucked up their long legs, and given themselves
to slumber.

There on a nodding grass-blade, a tiny Gnat had made a swinging couch, and
he too had folded his wings, closed his tiny eyes, and was fast asleep.
Darker, darker, darker became the night until the darkness could almost be
felt, and over all was a solemn stillness as though some powerful finger
had been raised, and some potent voice had whispered, "HU--SH!"

Just when all was perfectly still, there came suddenly from the far away
depths of the forest, like the roll of thunder, a mighty ROAR--R--R--R!

In a moment all the beasts and birds were wide awake, and the poor little
Gnat was nearly frightened out of his little senses, and his little heart
went pit-a-pat. He rubbed his little eyes with his feelers, and then
peered all around trying to penetrate the deep gloom as he whispered in
terror--_"What--was--that?"_

What do _you_ think it was?... Yes, a LION! A great, big lion who, while
most other denizens of the forest slept, was out hunting for prey. He
came rushing and crashing through the thick undergrowth of the forest,
swirling his long tail and opening wide his great jaws, and as he rushed
he RO-AR-R-R-ED!

Presently he reached the spot where the little Gnat hung panting at the
tip of the waving grass-blade. Now the little Gnat was not afraid of
lions, so when he saw it was only a lion, he cried out--

"Hi, stop, stop! What are you making that horrible noise about?"

The Lion stopped short, then backed slowly and regarded the Gnat with
scorn.

"Why, you tiny, little, mean, insignificant creature you, how DARE you
speak to ME?" he raged.

"How dare I speak to you?" repeated the Gnat quietly. "By the virtue of
_right_, which is always greater than _might_. Why don't you keep to your
own part of the forest? What right have you to be here, disturbing folks
at this time of night?"

By a mighty effort the Lion restrained his anger--he knew that to obtain
mastery over others one must be master over oneself.

"What _right_?" he repeated in dignified tones. "_Because I'm King of the
Forest._ That's why. I can do no wrong, for all the other creatures of the
forest are afraid of me. I DO what I please, I SAY what I please, I EAT
whom I please, I GO where I please--simply because I'm King of the
Forest."

"But who told you you were King?" demanded the Gnat. "Just answer me
that!"

"Who told ME?" roared the Lion. "Why, everyone acknowledges it--don't I
tell you that everyone is afraid of me?"

"Indeed!" cried the Gnat disdainfully. "Pray don't say _all_, for I'm not
afraid of you. And further, I deny your right to be King."

This was too much for the Lion. He now worked himself into a perfect fury.

"You--you--YOU deny my right as King?"

"I _do_, and, what is more, you shall never be King until you have fought
and conquered me."

The Lion laughed a great lion laugh, and a lion laugh cannot be laughed at
like a cat laugh, as everyone ought to know.

"Fight--did you say fight?" he asked. "Who ever heard of a lion fighting a
gnat? Here, out of my way, you atom of nothing! I'll blow you to the other
end of the world."

But though the Lion puffed his cheeks until they were like great bellows,
and then blew with all his might, he could not disturb the little Gnat's
hold on the swaying grass-blade.

"You'll blow all your whiskers away if you are not careful," he said, with
a laugh--"but you won't move me. And if you dare leave this spot without
fighting me, I'll tell all the beasts of the forest that you are afraid of
me, and they'll make _me_ King."

"Ho, ho!" roared the Lion. "Very well, since you will fight, let it be
so."

"You agree to the conditions, then? The one who conquers shall be King?"

"Oh, certainly," laughed the Lion, for he expected an easy victory. "Are
you ready?"

"Quite ready."

"Then--GO!" roared the Lion.

And with that he sprang forward with open jaws, thinking he could easily
swallow a million gnats. But just as the great jaws were about to close
upon the blade of grass whereto the Gnat clung, what should happen but
that the Gnat suddenly spread his wings and nimbly flew--where do you
think?--right into one of the Lion's nostrils! And there he began to
sting, sting, sting. The Lion wondered, and thundered, and blundered--but
the Gnat went on stinging; he foamed, and he moaned, and he groaned--still
the Gnat went on stinging; he rubbed his head on the ground in agony, he
swirled his tail in furious passion, he roared, he spluttered, he sniffed,
he snuffed--and still the Gnat went on stinging.

"O my poor nose, my nose, my nose!" the Lion began to moan. "Come down,
come DOWN, come DOWN! My nose, my NOSE, my NOSE!! You're King of the
Forest, you're King, you're King--only come down. My nose, my NOSE, my
NOSE!"

So at last the Gnat flew out from the Lion's nostril and went back to his
waving grass-blade, while the Lion slunk away into the depths of the
forest with his tail between his legs--_beaten_, and by a tiny Gnat!

"What a fine fellow am I, to be sure!" exclaimed the Gnat, as he proudly
plumed his wings. "I've beaten a lion--a lion! Dear me, I ought to have
been King long ago, I'm so clever, so big, so strong--_oh!_"

The Gnat's frightened cry was caused by finding himself entangled in some
silky sort of threads. While gloating over his victory, the wind had
risen, and his grass-blade had swayed violently to and fro unnoticed by
him. A stronger gust than usual had bent the blade downward close to the
ground, and then something caught it and held it fast and with it the
victorious Gnat. Oh, the desperate struggles he made to get free! Alas! he
became more entangled than ever. You can guess what it was--a spider's
web, hung out from the overhanging branch of a tree.
Then--flipperty-flopperty, flipperty-flopperty, flop, flip, flop--down his
stairs came cunning Father Spider and quickly gobbled up the little Gnat
for his supper, and that was the end of him.

A strong Lion--and what overcame him? _A Gnat._

A clever Gnat--and what overcame him? _A Spider's web!_ He who had beaten
the strong lion had been overcome by the subtle snare of a spider's
thread.


ESPECIALLY FOR CLASSES II. AND III.

THE CAT AND THE PARROT


Once there was a cat, and a parrot. And they had agreed to ask each other
to dinner, turn and turn about: first the cat should ask the parrot, then
the parrot should invite the cat, and so on. It was the cat's turn first.

Now the cat was very mean. He provided nothing at all for dinner except a
pint of milk, a little slice of fish, and a biscuit. The parrot was too
polite to complain, but he did not have a very good time.

When it was his turn to invite the cat, he cooked a fine dinner. He had a
roast of meat, a pot of tea, a basket of fruit, and, best of all, he baked
a whole clothes-basketful of little cakes!--little, brown, crispy, spicy
cakes! Oh, I should say as many as five hundred. And he put four hundred
and ninety-eight of the cakes before the cat, keeping only two for
himself.

Well, the cat ate the roast, and drank the tea, and sucked the fruit, and
then he began on the pile of cakes. He ate all the four hundred and
ninety-eight cakes, and then he looked round and said:--

"I'm hungry; haven't you anything to eat?"

"Why," said the parrot, "here are my two cakes, if you want them?"

The cat ate up the two cakes, and then he licked his chops and said, "I am
beginning to get an appetite; have you anything to eat?"

"Well, really," said the parrot, who was now rather angry, "I don't see
anything more, unless you wish to eat me!" He thought the cat would be
ashamed when he heard that--but the cat just looked at him and licked his
chops again,--and slip! slop! gobble! down his throat went the parrot!

Then the cat started down the street. An old woman was standing by, and
she had seen the whole thing, and she was shocked that the cat should eat
his friend. "Why, cat!" she said, "how dreadful of you to eat your friend
the parrot!"

"Parrot, indeed!" said the cat. "What's a parrot to me?--I've a great mind
to eat you, too." And--before you could say "Jack Robinson"--slip! slop!
gobble! down went the old woman!

Then the cat started down the road again, walking like this, because he
felt so fine. Pretty soon he met a man driving a donkey. The man was
beating the donkey, to hurry him up, and when he saw the cat he said, "Get
out of my way, cat; I'm in a hurry and my donkey might tread on you."

"Donkey, indeed!" said the cat, "much I care for a donkey! I have eaten
five hundred cakes, I've eaten my friend the parrot, I've eaten an old
woman,--what's to hinder my eating a miserable man and a donkey?"

And slip! slop! gobble! down went the old man and the donkey.

Then the cat walked on down the road, jauntily, like this. After a little,
he met a procession, coming that way. The king was at the head, walking
proudly with his newly married bride, and behind him were his soldiers,
marching, and behind them were ever and ever so many elephants, walking
two by two. The king felt very kind to everybody, because he had just been
married, and he said to the cat, "Get out of my way, pussy, get out of my
way,--my elephants might hurt you."

"Hurt me!" said the cat, shaking his fat sides. "Ho, ho! I've eaten five
hundred cakes, I've eaten my friend the parrot, I've eaten an old woman,
I've eaten a man and a donkey; what's to hinder my eating a beggarly
king?"

And slip! slop! gobble! down went the king; down went the queen; down went
the soldiers,--and down went all the elephants!

Then the cat went on, more slowly; he had really had enough to eat, now.
But a little farther on he met two land-crabs, scuttling along in the
dust. "Get out of our way, pussy," they squeaked.

"Ho, ho ho!" cried the cat in a terrible voice. Then he turned towards the
young lady to reproach her, but saw that she had changed colour and her
face was pale; and she sprang to her feet and asked the crowd, "Who are
ye?"

"O most gracious Princess and peerless onion pearl," answered the
leading Knight, "dost thou weet who is yon man by thy side?"

"Not I," she replied, "who may he be?" Quoth the Patrician, "This is of
towns the highwayman! This is he who rideth in the horseman's van! This
is Sharrkan, son of King Omar bin al-Nu'uman! This is he that forceth
fortalice and penetrateth every impregnable place! The news of him reached
King Hardub, thy father, by report of the ancient dame Zat al- Dawahi;
and thy sire, our sovereign, hath made sure that thou hast rendered good
service to the army of the Greeks by taking captive this ominous lion."
When she heard this, she looked at the Knight and asked him, "What
be thy name?"

and he answered, "I am Másúrah, son of thy slave Mausúrah bin Káshardah,
Knight of Knights." "And how?" quoth she, "durst thou enter my presence
without leave?"

Quoth he, "O my lady, when I came to the gate, none forbade me, neither
chamberlain nor porter, but all the door keepers rose and forewent us as
of wont; although, when others come, they leave them standing at the gate
while they ask permission to admit them. But this is not a time for long
talking, when the King is expecting our return with this Prince,
the scorpion sting[FN#199] of the Islamitic host, that he may kill
him and drive back his men whither they came, without the bane of
battling with them."

"These words be ill words," rejoined the Princess, "and Dame Zat al-Dawahi
lied, avouching an idle thing and a vain, whereof she weeteth not
the truth; for by the virtue of the Messiah, this man who is with
me is not Sharrkan, nor is he a captive, but a stranger who came
to us seeking our hospitality, and I made him my guest.

So even were we assured that this be Sharrkan and were it proved
to us that it is he beyond a doubt, I say it would ill befit mine
honour that I should deliver into your hands one who hath entered
under my protection.

So make me not a traitor to my guest and a disgrace among men; but return
to the King, my father, and kiss the ground before him, and inform him that
the case is contrariwise to the report of the Lady Zat al-Dawahi."

"O Abrízah," replied Masurah, the Knight, "I cannot return to the King's
majesty without his debtor and enemy." Quoth she (and indeed she had waxed
very wroth). "Out on thee! Return to him with my answer, and no blame
shall befal thee!" Quoth Masurah, "I will not return without him." Thereupon
her colour changed and she exclaimed, "Exceed not in talk and vain words;
for verily this man had not come in to us, were he not assured that he
could of himself and single handed make head against an hundred riders;
and if I said to him, 'Thou art Sharrkan, son of King Omar bin al-Nu'uman,'
he would answer, 'Yes.' But 'tis not of your competence to let or hinder
him; for if you do so, he will not turn back from you till he hath slain
all that are in this place. Behold, here he is by my side, and I will
bring him before you sword and targe in hand." "Albeit I were safe from thy
wrath," answered Masurah the Knight, "I am not safe from that of
thy father, and when I see him, I shall sign to the Knights to take
him captive, and we will carry him to the King bound and in abject
sort."

When she heard this, she said, "The matter shall not pass thus, for
'twould be blazoning mere folly.

This man is but one and ye are an hundred Knights: so if you would attack
him come out against him, one after one, that it may appear to the King
which is the valiant amongst you."

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted
say.

When it was the Fiftieth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Princess
Abrizah said to the Knight, "This man is but one, and ye are an
hundred: so if ye would attack him, come out against him, one after
one, that it may appear to the King which is the valiant."

Quoth Masurah, the Knight, "By the truth of the Messiah, thou sayest sooth,
and none but I shall sally out against him first." Quoth she, "Wait till
I go to him and acquaint him with the case and hear what answer he will
make.

If he consent, 'tis well; but if he refuse, ye shall on no wise
come to him, for I and my hand maids and whosoever is in the convent
will be his ransom."

So she went to Sharrkan and told him the news, whereat he smiled and knew
that she had not informed any of the Emirs; but that tidings of him had
been bruited and blazed abroad, till the report reached the King,
against her wish and intent.

So he again began reproaching himself and said, "How came I to adventure
and play with my life by coming to the country of the Greeks?" But
hearing the young lady's proposal he said to her, "Indeed their
onset, one after one, would be overburdensome to them.

Will they not come out against me, ten by ten?" "That would be villainy,"
said she; "Let one have at one." When he heard this, he sprang to his feet
and made for them with his sword and battle gear; and Masurah, the Knight,
also sprang up and bore down upon him.

Sharrkan met him like a lion and delivered a shoulder cut[FN#200] which
clove him to the middle, and the blade came out gleaming and glittering
from his back and bowels. When the lady beheld that swashingblow,
Sharrkan's might was magnified in her sight and she knew that when she
overthrew him in the wrestle it was not by her strength but by her beauty
and loveliness. So she turned to the Knights and said, "Take wreak
for your chief!"

Thereupon out came the slain man's brother, a fierce and furious
Knight, and rushed upon Sharrkan, who delayed not, but smote him also with
the shoulder cut and the sword came out glittering from his vitals.

Then cried the Princess, "O ye servants of the Messiah, avenge your
comrade!"

So they ceased not charging down upon him, one after one; and Sharrkan
also ceased not playing upon them with the blade, till he had slain
fifty Knights, the lady looking on the while.

And Allah cast a panic into the hearts of the survivors, so that they held
back and dared not meet him in the duello, but fell upon him in a body;
and he laid on load with heart firmer than a rock, and smote them
and trod them down like straw under the threshing sled,[FN#201]
till he had driven sense and soul out of them.

Then the Princess called aloud to her damsels, saying, "Who is left in the
convent?"; and they replied, "None but the gate keepers;" whereupon she
went up to Sharrkan and took him to her bosom, he doing the same,
and they returned to the palace, after he had made an end of the
melee.

Now there remained a few of the Knights hiding from him in the cells
of the monastery, and when the Princess saw this she rose from
Sharrkan's side and left him for a while, but presently came back
clad in closely meshed coat of ring mail and holding in her hand a
fine Indian scymitar.

And she said, "Now by the truth of the Messiah, I will not be a niggard of
myself for my guest; nor will I abandon him though for this I abide a
reproach and a by word in the land of the Greeks." Then she took reckoning
of the dead and found that he had slain fourscore of the Knights,
and other twenty had taken to flight.

[FN#202] When she saw what work he had made with them she said to him,
"Allah bless thee, O Sharrkan! The Cavaliers may well glory in the like
of thee."

Then he rose and wiping his blade clean of the blood of the slain
began reciting these couplets,
"How oft in the mellay I've cleft the array, * And given their
bravest to lions a prey:
Ask of me and of them when I proved me prow * O'er creation, on
days of the foray and fray:
When I left in the onslaught their lions to lie * On the sands of
the low lands[FN#203] in fieriest day."

When he ended his verse, the Princess came up to him with smiles
and kissed his hand; then she doffed her hauberk and he said to
her, "O lady mine, wherefore didst thou don that coat of mail and
bare thy brand?"

"To guard thee against these caitiffs,"[FN#204] she replied. Then she summoned
the gate keepers and asked them, "How came ye to admit the King's
Knights into my dwelling without leave of me?"

; and they answered, "O Princess, it is not our custom to ask leave
of thee for the King's messengers, and especially for the chief of
his Knights."

Quoth she, "I think ye were minded only to disgrace me and murder
my guest;" and bade Sharrkan smite their necks.

He did so and she cried to the rest of her servants, "Of a truth, they
deserved even more than that!"

Then turning to Sharrkan, she said to him, "Now that there hath
become manifest to thee what was concealed, thou shalt be made
acquainted with my history.

Know, then, that I am the daughter of King Hardub of Roum; my name
is Abrizah and the ancient dame, yclept Zat al-Dawahi, is my
grandmother by the sword side.

She it certainly is who told my father of thee, and as surely she
will compass a sleight to slay me, more by token as thou hast slain
my father's chivalry and it is noised abroad that I have separated
myself from the Nazarenes and have become no better than I should
be with the Moslems.

Wherefore it were wiser that I leave this dwelling while Zat al-Dawahi
is on my track; but I require of thee the like kindness and courtesy I
have shown thee, for enmity will presently befal between me and
my father on thine account.

So do not thou neglect to do aught that I shall say to thee, remembering all
this betided me not save by reason of thee." Hearing her words, Sharrkan
joyed greatly; his breast broadened and his wits flew from him for
delight, and he said, "By Allah, none shall come at thee, while life is
in my bosom! But hast thou patience to bear parting from thy parents
and thy people?" "Even so," she answered; and Sharrkan swore to her and
the two plighted their troth.

Then said she, "Now is my heart at ease; but there remaineth one
other condition for thee."

"What is it?" asked he and she answered, "It is that thou return
with thy host to thine own country."

Quoth he, "O lady mine, my father, King Omar bin al- Nu'uman, sent
me to wage war upon thy sire, on account of the treasure he plundered
from the King of Constantinople, and amongst the rest three great
jewels, noted givers of good fortune."

Quoth she, "Cheer thy heart and clear thine eyes: I will tell thee the
whole of the tale and the cause of our feud with the King of
Constantinople.

Know that we have a yearly festival, highs the Convent Feast, whereat Kings
from all quarters and the noblest women are wont to congregate;
thither also come merchants and traders with their wives and families,
and the visitors abide there seven days.

I was wont to be one of them; but, when there befel enmity between us, my
father forbade me to be present at the festival for the space of
seven years.

One year, it chanced that amongst the daughters of the great who resorted
to the patron, as was their custom, came a daughter of the King of
Constantinople, a beautiful girl called Sophia. They tarried at the monastery
six days and on the seventh the folk went their ways;[FN#205] but
Sophia said, 'I will not return to Constantinople save by water.'

So they equipped for her a ship in which she embarked with her
suite; and making sail they put out to sea; but as they were voyaging
behold, a contrary wind caught them and drove the vessel from her
course till, as Fate and Fortune would have it, she fell in with a
Nazarene craft from the Camphor Island[FN#206] carrying a crew of
five hundred armed Franks, who had been cruising about a long time.

When they sighted the sails of the ship, wherein Sophia and her women
were, they gave chase in all haste and in less than an hour they came
up with her, then they laid the grappling irons aboard her and captured
her. Then taking her in tow they made all sail for their own island and
were but a little distant from it when the wind veered round and,
splitting their sails, drove them on to a shoal which lies off our
coast. Thereupon we sallied forth and, looking on them as spoil driven
to us by Fate,[FN#207] boarded and took them; and, slaying the men, made
prize of the wreck, wherein we found the treasures and rarities
in question and forty maidens, amongst whom was the King's daughter,
Sophia.

After the capture we carried the Princess and her women to my father, not
knowing her to be a daughter of King Afridun of Constantinople; and he
chose out for himself ten including her; and divided the rest among
his dependents.

Presently he set apart five damsels, amongst whom was the King s daughter,
and sent them to thy father, King Omar bin al-Nu'uman, together with other
gifts, such as broadcloth[FN#208] and woollen stuffs and Grecian
silks.

Thy father accepted them and chose out from amongst the five girls Sophia,
daughter of King Afridun; nor did we hear more of her till the beginning
of this year, when her father wrote to my father in words unfitting for
me to repeat, rebuking him with menaces and saying to him: Two years ago,
you plundered a ship of ours which had been seized by a band of Frankish
pirates in which was my daughter, Sophia, attended by her maidens numbering
some threescore. Yet ye informed me not thereof by messenger or otherwise;
nor could I make the matter public, lest reproach befal me amongst the
Kings, by reason of my daughter's honour.

So I concealed my case till this year, when I wrote to certain Frankish
corsairs and sought news of my daughter from the Kings of the Isles.
They replied, 'By Allah we carried her not forth of thy realm; but we have
heard that King Hardub rescued her from certain pirates. And they told
me the whole tale.' Then he added in the writing which he writ to my
father: 'Except you wish to be at feud with me and design to disgrace me
and dishonour my daughter, you will, the instant my letter reacheth you,
send my daughter back to me. But if you slight my letter and disobey my
commandment, I will assuredly make you full return for your foul
dealing and the baseness of your practices.'

[FN#209] When my father read this letter and understood the contents,[FN#210]
it vexed him and he regretted not having known that Sophia, King Afridun's
daughter, was among the captured damsels, that he might have sent her
back to her sire; and he was perplexed about the case because, after
so long a time, he could not send to King Omar bin al-Nu'uman and demand
her back from him, especially as he had lately heard that Heaven
had granted him boon of babe by this Sophia.

So when we pondered that truth, we knew that this letter was none other
than a grievous calamity; and my father found nothing for it but
to write an answer to King Afridun, making his excuses and swearing
to him by strong oaths that he knew not his daughter to be among
the bevy of damsels in the ship and setting forth how he had sent
her to King Omar bin al Nu'uman, who had gotten the blessing of
issue by her.

When my father's reply reached King Afridun he rose up and sat down,[FN#211]
and roared and foamed at the mouth crying:--'What!
shall he take captive my daughter and even her with slave girls and
pass her on from hand to hand sending her for a gift to Kings, and
they lie with her without marriage contract?

By the Messiah and the true Faith,' said he, 'I will not desist
till I have taken my blood vengeance for this and have wiped out
my shame; and indeed I will do a deed which the chroniclers shall
chronicle after me!'

So he bided his time till he devised a device and laid notable toils and
snares, when he sent an embassy to thy father, King Omar, to tell
him that which thou hast heard:
accordingly thy father equipped thee and an army with thee and sent
thee to King Afridun, whose object is to seize thee and thine army
to boot.

As for the three jewels whereof he told thy father when asking his aid,
there was not one soothfast word in that matter, for they were with
Sophia, his daughter; and my father took them from her, when he got possession
of her and of her maidens, and gave them to me in free gift, and they
are now with me. So go thou to thy host and turn them back ere they
be led deep into, and shut in by, the land of the bevy of damsels in the
ship and setting forth the Franks and the country of the Greeks; for
as soon as you have come far enough into their interior, they will stop
the roads upon you and there will be no escape for you till the Day of
retribution and retaliation.

I know that thy troops are still halting where thou leftest them, because
thou didst order a three days' rest; withal they have missed thee all
this time and they wot not what to do." When Sharrkan heard her words,
he was absent awhile in thought; then he kissed Princess Abrizah's hand
and said, "Praise be to Allah who hath bestowed thee on me and appointed
thee to be the cause of my salvation and the salvation of whoso is with
me!

But 'tis grievous to me to part from thee and I know not what will become
of thee after my departure." "Go now to thine army," she replied, "and
turn them back, while ye are yet near your own country. If the envoys
be still with them, lay hands on them and keep them, that the case may
be made manifest to you; and, after three days, I will be with you
all and we will enter Baghdad together."

As he turned to depart she said, "Forget not the compact which is between
me and thee," then she rose to bid[FN#212] him farewell and embrace
him and quench the fire of desire, so she took leave of him and,
throwing her arms round his neck, wept with exceeding weeping, and
repeated these verses,
"I bade adieu, my right hand wiped my tears away, * The while my
left hand held her in a close embrace:
'Fearest thou naught,' quoth she, 'of shame?'

I answered 'Nay, * The lover's parting day is lover's worst disgrace.'"

Then Sharrkan left her and walked down from the convent. They brought his
steed, so he mounted and rode down stream to the drawbridge which he crossed
and presently threaded the woodland paths and passed into the open meadow.
As soon as he was clear of the trees he was aware of horsemen which made
him stand on the alert, and he bared his brand and rode cautiously, but
as they drew near and exchanged curious looks he recognized them and behold,
it was the Wazir Dandan and two of his Emirs. When they saw him and knew
him, they dismounted and saluting him, asked the reason of his
absence; whereupon he told them all that had passed between him and
Princess Abrizah from first to last.

The Wazir returned thanks to Almighty Allah for his safety and said,[FN#213]
"Let us at once leave these lands; for the envoys who came with us are gone
to inform the King of our approach, and haply he will hasten to
fall on us and take us prisoners."

So Sharrkan cried to his men to saddle and mount, which they did and,
setting out at once, they stinted not faring till they reached the
sole of the valley wherein the host lay.

The Ambassadors meanwhile had reported Sharrkan's approach to their King,
who forthright equipped a host to lay hold of him and those with
him.

But Sharrkan, escorted by the Wazir Dandan and the two Emirs, had no
sooner sighted the army, than he raised the cry "March! March!" They took
horse on the instant and fared through the first day and second and third
day, nor did they cease faring for five days; at the end of which time
they alighted in a well wooded valley, where they rested awhile. Then
they again set out and stayed not riding for five and twenty days which
placed them on the frontiers of their own country.

Here, deeming themselves safe, they halted to rest; and the country people
came out to them with guest gifts for the men and provender and forage for
the beasts.

They tarried there two days after which, as all would be making for
their homes, Sharrkan put the Wazir Dandan in command, bidding him
lead the host back to Baghdad.

But he himself remained behind with an hundred riders, till the
rest of the army had made one day's march: then he called "To horse!"

and mounted with his hundred men. They rode on two parasangs'[FN#214]
space till they arrived at a gorge between two mountains and lo! there
arose before them a dark cloud of sand and dust. So they checked their
steeds awhile till the dust opened and lifted, discovering beneath it
an hundred cavaliers, lion faced and in mail coats cased. As soon as they
drew within earshot of Sharrkan and his meiny they cried out to
them, saying, "By the virtue of John and Mary, we have won to our
wish!

We have been following you by forced marches, night and day, till we
forewent you to this place. So dismount and lay down your arms and yield
yourselves, that we may grant you your lives." When Sharrkan heard this,
his eyes stood out from his head and his cheeks flushed red and he said
'How is it, O. Nazarene dogs, ye dare enter our country and overmatch our
land? And doth not this suffice you, but ye must adventure yourselves and
address us in such unseemly speech? Do you think to escape out of our
hands and return to your country?" Then he shouted to his hundred horsemen,
"Up and at these hounds, for they even you in number!" So saying, he bared
his sabre and bore down on them, he and his, but the Franks met
them with hearts firmer than rocks, and wight dashed against wight,
and knight dashed upon knight, and hot waxed the fight, and sore
was the affright, and nor parley nor cries of quarter helped their
plight; and they stinted not to charge and to smite, right hand
meeting right, nor to hack and hew with blades bright white, till
day turned to night and gloom oppressed the sight.

But the bad fairy said, "I had only
laughed 'he, he!' and 'hi, hi!' I had still 'ho, ho!' and 'hu, hu!' to
laugh."

The fairies could not gainsay this, and the bad fairy had her other
chance. She said,--

"Since she is to wake all night, I decree that she shall wax and wane with
the moon! Ho, ho, hu, hu!"

Out stepped the seventh good fairy. "Until a prince shall kiss her without
knowing who she is," she said, quickly.

The swamp fairy had been prepared for the trick of keeping back one good
fairy, but she had not suspected it of two, and she could not say a word,
for she had laughed "ho, ho!" and "hu, hu!"

The poor king and queen looked sad enough. "We don't know what you mean,"
they said to the good fairy who had spoken last. But the good fairy
smiled. "The meaning of the thing will come with the thing," she said.

That was the end of the party, but it was only the beginning of the
trouble. Can you imagine what a queer household it would be, where the
baby laughed and crowed all night, and slept all day? Little Daylight was
as merry and bright all night as any baby in the world, but with the first
sign of dawn she fell asleep, and slept like a little dormouse till dark.
Nothing could waken her while day lasted. Still, the royal family got used
to this; but the rest of the bad fairy's gift was a great deal
worse,--that about waxing and waning with the moon. You know how the moon
grows bigger and brighter each night, from the time it is a curly silver
thread low in the sky till it is round and golden, flooding the whole sky
with light? That is the waxing moon. Then, you know, it wanes; it grows
smaller and paler again, night by night, till at last it disappears for a
while, altogether. Well, poor little Daylight waxed and waned with it. She
was the rosiest, plumpest, merriest baby in the world when the moon was at
the full; but as it began to wane her little cheeks grew paler, her tiny
hands thinner, with every night, till she lay in her cradle like a
shadow-baby, without sound or motion. At first they thought she was dead,
when the moon disappeared, but after some months they got used to this
too, and only waited eagerly for the new moon, to see her revive. When it
shone again, faint and silver, on the horizon, the baby stirred weakly,
and then they fed her gently; each night she grew a little better, and
when the moon was near the full again, she was again a lively, rosy,
lovely child.

So it went on till she grew up. She grew to be the most beautiful maiden
the moon ever shone on, and everyone loved her so much, for her sweet ways
and her merry heart, that someone was always planning to stay up at night,
to be near her. But she did not like to be watched, especially when she
felt the bad time of waning coming on; so her ladies-in-waiting had to be
very careful. When the moon waned she became shrunken and pale and bent,
like an old, old woman, worn out with sorrow. Only her golden hair and her
blue eyes remained unchanged, and this gave her a terribly strange look.
At last, as the moon disappeared, she faded away to a little, bowed, old
creature, asleep and helpless.

No wonder she liked best to be alone! She got in the way of wandering by
herself in the beautiful wood, playing in the moonlight when she was
well, stealing away in the shadows when she was fading with the moon. Her
father had a lovely little house of roses and vines built for her, there.
It stood at the edge of a most beautiful open glade, inside the wood,
where the moon shone best. There the princess lived with her ladies. And
there she danced when the moon was full. But when the moon waned, her
ladies often lost her altogether, so far did she wander; and sometimes
they found her sleeping under a great tree, and brought her home in their
arms.

When the princess was about seventeen years old, there was a rebellion in
a kingdom not far from her father's. Wicked nobles murdered the king of
the country and stole his throne, and would have murdered the young
prince, too, if he had not escaped, dressed in peasant's clothes.

Dressed in his poor rags, the prince wandered about a long time, till one
day he got into a great wood, and lost his way. It was the wood where the
Princess Daylight lived, but of course he did not know anything about that
nor about her. He wandered till night, and then he came to a queer little
house. One of the good fairies lived there, and the minute she saw him she
knew all about everything; but to him she looked only like a kind old
woman. She gave him a good supper and a bed for the night, and told him
to come back to her if he found no better place for the next night. But
the prince said he must get out of the wood at once; so in the morning he
took leave of the fairy.

All day long he walked, and walked; but at nightfall he had not found his
way out of the wood, so he lay down to rest till the moon should rise and
light his path.

When he woke the moon was glorious; it was three days from the full, and
bright as silver. By its light he saw what he thought to be the edge of
the wood, and he hastened toward it. But when he came to it, it was only
an open space, surrounded with trees. It was so very lovely, in the white
moonlight, that the prince stood a minute to look. And as he looked,
something white moved out of the trees on the far side of the open space.
It was something slim and white, that swayed in the dim light like a young
birch.

"It must be a moon fairy," thought the prince; and he stepped into the
shadow.

The moon fairy came nearer and nearer, dancing and swaying in the
moonlight. And as she came, she began to sing a soft, gay little song.

But when she was quite close, the prince saw that she was not a fairy
after all, but a real human maiden,--the loveliest maiden he had ever
seen. Her hair was like yellow corn, and her smile made all the place
merry. Her white gown fluttered as she danced, and her little song sounded
like a bird note.

The prince watched her till she danced out of sight, and then until she
once more came toward him; and she seemed so like a moonbeam herself, as
she lifted her face to the sky, that he was almost afraid to breathe. He
had never seen anything so lovely. By the time she had danced twice round
the circle, he could think of nothing in the world except the hope of
finding out who she was, and staying near her.

But while he was waiting for her to appear the third time, his weariness
overcame him, and he fell asleep. And when he awoke, it was broad day, and
the beautiful maiden had vanished.

He hunted about, hoping to find where she lived, and on the other side of
the glade he came upon a lovely little house, covered with moss and
climbing roses. He thought she must live there, so he went round to the
kitchen door and asked the kind cook for a drink of water, and while he
was drinking it he asked who lived there. She told him it was the house of
the Princess Daylight, but she told him nothing else about her, because
she was not allowed to talk about her mistress. But she gave him a very
good meal and told him other things.

He did not go back to the little old woman who had been so kind to him
first, but wandered all day in the wood, waiting for the moontime. Again
he waited at the edge of the dell, and when the white moon was high in the
heavens, once more he saw the glimmering in the distance, and once more
the lovely maiden floated toward him. He knew her name was the Princess
Daylight, but this time she seemed to him much lovelier than before. She
was all in blue like the blue of the sky in summer. (She really was more
lovely, you know, because the moon was almost at the full.) All night he
watched her, quite forgetting that he ought not to be doing it, till she
disappeared on the opposite side of the glade. Then, very tired, he found
his way to the little old woman's house, had breakfast with her, and fell
fast asleep in the bed she gave him.

The fairy knew well enough by his face that he had seen Daylight, and when
he woke up in the evening and started off again she gave him a strange
little flask and told him to use it if ever he needed it.

This night the princess did not appear in the dell until midnight, at the
very full of the moon. But when she came, she was so lovely that she took
the prince's breath away. Just think!--she was dressed in a gown that
looked as if it were made of fireflies' wings, embroidered in gold. She
danced around and around, singing, swaying, and flitting like a beam of
sunlight, till the prince grew quite dazzled.

But while he had been watching her, he had not noticed that the sky was
growing dark and the wind was rising. Suddenly there was a clap of
thunder. The princess danced on. But another clap came louder, and then a
sudden great flash of lightning that lit up the sky from end to end. The
prince couldn't help shutting his eyes, but he opened them quickly to see
if Daylight was hurt. Alas, she was lying on the ground. The prince ran to
her, but she was already up again.

"Who are you?" she said.

"I thought," stammered the prince, "you might be hurt."

"There is nothing the matter. Go away."

The prince went sadly.

"Come back," said the princess. The prince came. "I like you, you do as
you are told. Are you good?"

"Not so good as I should like to be," said the prince.

"Then go and grow better," said the princess.

The prince went, more sadly.

"Come back," said the princess. The prince came. "I think you must be a
prince," she said.

"Why?" said the prince.

"Because you do as you are told, and you tell the truth. Will you tell me
what the sun looks like?"

"Why, everybody knows that," said the prince.

"I am different from everybody," said the princess,--"I don't know."

"But," said the prince, "do you not look when you wake up in the morning?"

"That's just it," said the princess, "I never do wake up in the morning. I
never can wake up until--" Then the princess remembered that she was
talking to a prince, and putting her hands over her face she walked
swiftly away. The prince followed her, but she turned and put up her hand
to tell him not to. And like the gentleman prince that he was, he obeyed
her at once.

Now all this time, the wicked swamp fairy had not known a word about what
was going on. But now she found out, and she was furious, for fear that
little Daylight should be delivered from her spell. So she cast her spells
to keep the prince from finding Daylight again. Night after night the poor
prince wandered and wandered, and never could find the little dell. And
when daytime came, of course, there was no princess to be seen. Finally,
at the time that the moon was almost gone, the swamp fairy stopped her
spells, because she knew that by this time Daylight would be so changed
and ugly that the prince would never know her if he did see her. She said
to herself with a wicked laugh:--

"No fear of his wanting to kiss her now!"

That night the prince did find the dell, but no princess came. A little
after midnight he passed near the lovely little house where she lived, and
there he overheard her waiting-women talking about her. They seemed in
great distress. They were saying that the princess had wandered into the
woods and was lost. The prince didn't know, of course, what it meant, but
he did understand that the princess was lost somewhere, and he started off
to find her. After he had gone a long way without finding her, he came to
a big old tree, and there he thought he would light a fire to show her the
way if she should happen to see it.

As the blaze flared up, he suddenly saw a little black heap on the other
side of the tree. Somebody was lying there. He ran to the spot, his heart
beating with hope. But when he lifted the cloak which was huddled about
the form, he saw at once that it was not Daylight. A pinched, withered,
white, little old woman's face shone out at him. The hood was drawn close
down over her forehead, the eyes were closed, and as the prince lifted
the cloak, the old woman's lips moaned faintly.

"Oh, poor mother," said the prince, "what is the matter?" The old woman
only moaned again. The prince lifted her and carried her over to the warm
fire, and rubbed her hands, trying to find out what was the matter. But
she only moaned, and her face was so terribly strange and white that the
prince's tender heart ached for her. Remembering his little flask, he
poured some of his liquid between her lips, and then he thought the best
thing he could do was to carry her to the princess's house, where she
could be taken care of.

As he lifted the poor little form in his arms, two great tears stole out
from the old woman's closed eyes and ran down her wrinkled cheeks.

"Oh, poor, poor mother," said the prince pityingly; and he stooped and
kissed her withered lips.

As he walked through the forest with the old woman in his arms, it seemed
to him that she grew heavier and heavier; he could hardly carry her at
all; and then she stirred, and at last he was obliged to set her down, to
rest. He meant to lay her on the ground. But the old woman stood upon her
feet.

And then the hood fell back from her face. As she looked up at the prince,
the first, long, yellow ray of the rising sun struck full upon her,--and
it was the Princess Daylight! Her hair was golden as the sun itself, and
her eyes as blue as the flower that grows in the corn.

The prince fell on his knees before her. But she gave him her hand and
made him rise.

"You kissed me when I was an old woman," said the princess, "I'll kiss you
now that I am a young princess." And she did.

And then she turned her face toward the dawn.

"Dear Prince," she said, "is that the sun?"


THE SAILOR MAN[1]

[Footnote 1: From _The Golden Windows_, by Laura E. Richards. (H.R.
Allenson Ltd. 2s. 6d. net.)]

Once upon a time, two children came to the house of a sailor man, who
lived beside the salt sea; and they found the sailor man sitting in his
doorway knotting ropes.

"How do you do?" asked the sailor man.

"We are very well, thank you," said the children, who had learned manners,
"and we hope you are the same. We heard that you had a boat, and we
thought that perhaps you would take us out in her, and teach us how to
sail, for that is what we most wish to know."

"All in good time," said the sailor man. "I am busy now, but by-and-by,
when my work is done, I may perhaps take one of you if you are ready to
learn. Meantime here are some ropes that need knotting; you might be doing
that, since it has to be done." And he showed them how the knots should be
tied, and went away and left them.

When he was gone the first child ran to the window and looked out.

"There is the sea," he said. "The waves come up on the beach, almost to
the door of the house. They run up all white, like prancing horses, and
then they go dragging back. Come and look!"

"I cannot," said the second child. "I am tying a knot."

"Oh!" cried the first child, "I see the boat. She is dancing like a lady
at a ball; I never saw such a beauty. Come and look!"

"I cannot," said the second child. "I am tying a knot."

"I shall have a delightful sail in that boat," said the first child. "I
expect that the sailor man will take me, because I am the eldest and I
know more about it. There was no need of my watching when he showed you
the knots, because I knew how already."

Just then the sailor man came in.

"Well," he said, "my work is over. What have you been doing in the
meantime?"

"I have been looking at the boat," said the first child. "What a beauty
she is! I shall have the best time in her that ever I had in my life."

"I have been tying knots," said the second child.

"Come, then," said the sailor man, and he held out his hand to the second
child. "I will take you out in the boat, and teach you to sail her."

"But I am the eldest," cried the first child, "and I know a great deal
more than she does."

"That may be," said the sailor man; "but a person must learn to tie a knot
before he can learn to sail a boat."

"But I have learned to tie a knot," cried the child. "I know all about
it!"

"How can I tell that?" asked the sailor man.


THE STORY OF JAIRUS'S DAUGHTER[1]

[Footnote 1: This should usually be prefaced by a brief statement of Jesus
habit of healing and comforting all with whom He came in close contact.
The exact form of the preface must depend on how much of His life has
already been given in stories.]

Once, while Jesus was journeying about, He passed near a town where a man
named Jairus lived. This man was a ruler in the synagogue, and he had just
one little daughter about twelve years of age. At the time that Jesus was
there the little daughter was very sick, and at last she lay a-dying.

Her father heard that there was a wonderful man near the town, who was
healing sick people whom no one else could help, and in his despair he ran
out into the streets to search for Him. He found Jesus walking in the
midst of a crowd of people, and when he saw Him he fell down at Jesus feet
and besought Him to come into his house, to heal his daughter. And Jesus
said, Yes, he would go with him. But there were so many people begging to
be healed, and so many looking to see what happened, that the crowd
thronged them, and kept them from moving fast. And before they reached the
house one of the man's servants came to meet them, and said, "Thy daughter
is dead; trouble not the Master to come farther."

But instantly Jesus turned to the father and said, "Fear not; only
believe, and she shall be made whole." And He went on with Jairus, to the
house.

When they came to the house, they heard the sound of weeping and
lamentation; the household was mourning for the little daughter, who was
dead. Jesus sent all the strangers away from the door, and only three of
His disciples and the father and mother of the child went in with Him. And
when He was within, He said to the mourning people, "Weep not; she is not
dead; she sleepeth."

When He had passed, they laughed Him to scorn, for they knew that she was
dead.

Then Jesus left them all, and went alone into the chamber where the little
daughter lay. And when He was there, alone, He went up to the bed where
she was, and bent over her, and took her by the hand. And He said,
"Maiden, arise."

And her spirit came unto her again! And she lived, and grew up in her
father's house.


ESPECIALLY FOR CLASSES IV. AND V.

ARTHUR AND THE SWORD[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from Sir Thomas Malory.]


Once there was a great king in Britain named Uther, and when he died the
other kings and princes disputed over the kingdom, each wanting it for
himself. But King Uther had a son named Arthur, the rightful heir to the
throne, of whom no one knew, for he had been taken away secretly while he
was still a baby by a wise old man called Merlin, who had him brought up
in the family of a certain Sir Ector, for fear of the malice of wicked
knights. Even the boy himself thought Sir Ector was his father, and he
loved Sir Ector's son, Sir Kay, with the love of a brother.

When the kings and princes could not be kept in check any longer, and
something had to be done to determine who was to be king, Merlin made the
Archbishop of Canterbury send for them all to come to London. It was
Christmas time, and in the great cathedral a solemn service was held, and
prayer was made that some sign should be given, to show who was the
rightful king. When the service was over, there appeared a strange stone
in the churchyard, against the high altar. It was a great white stone,
like marble, with something sunk in it that looked like a steel anvil; and
in the anvil was driven a great glistening sword. The sword had letters of
gold written on it, which read: "Whoso pulleth out this sword of this
stone and anvil is rightwise king born of all England."

All wondered at the strange sword and its strange writing; and when the
archbishop himself came out and gave permission, many of the knights tried
to pull the sword from the stone, hoping to be king. But no one could move
it a hair's breadth.

"He is not here," said the archbishop, "that shall achieve the sword; but
doubt not, God will make him known."

Then they set a guard of ten knights to keep the stone, and the archbishop
appointed a day when all should come together to try at the stone,--kings
from far and near. In the meantime, splendid jousts were held, outside
London, and both knights and commons were bidden.

Sir Ector came up to the jousts, with others, and with him rode Kay and
Arthur. Kay had been made a knight at Allhallowmas, and when he found
there was to be so fine a joust he wanted a sword, to join it. But he had
left his sword behind, where his father and he had slept the night
before. So he asked young Arthur to ride for it.

"I will well," said Arthur, and rode back for it. But when he came to the
castle, the lady and all her household were at the jousting, and there was
none to let him in.

Thereat Arthur said to himself, "My brother Sir Kay shall not be without a
sword this day." And he remembered the sword he had seen in the
churchyard. "I will to the churchyard," he said, "and take that sword with
me." So he rode into the churchyard, tied his horse to the stile, and went
up to the stone. The guards were away to the tourney, and the sword was
there, alone.

Going up to the stone, young Arthur took the great sword by the hilt, and
lightly and fiercely he drew it out of the anvil.

Then he rode straight to Sir Kay, and gave it to him.

Sir Kay knew instantly that it was the sword of the stone, and he rode off
at once to his father and said, "Sir, lo, here is the sword of the stone;
I must be king of the land." But Sir Ector asked him where he got the
sword. And when Sir Kay said, "From my brother," he asked Arthur how he
got it. When Arthur told him, Sir Ector bowed his head before him. "Now I
understand ye must be king of this land," he said to Arthur.

"Wherefore I?" said Arthur.

"For God will have it so," said Ector; "never man should have drawn out
this sword but he that shall be rightwise king of this land. Now let me
see whether ye can put the sword as it was in the stone, and pull it out
again."

Straightway Arthur put the sword back.

Then Sir Ector tried to pull it out, and after him Sir Kay; but neither
could stir it. Then Arthur pulled it out. Thereupon, Sir Ector and Sir Kay
kneeled upon the ground before him.

"Alas," said Arthur, "mine own dear father and brother, why kneel ye to
me?"

Sir Ector told him, then, all about his royal birth, and how he had been
taken privily away by Merlin. But when Arthur found Sir Ector was not
truly his father, he was so sad at heart that he cared not greatly to be
king. And he begged his father and brother to love him still. Sir Ector
asked that Sir Kay might be seneschal when Arthur was king. Arthur
promised with all his heart.

Then they went to the archbishop and told him that the sword had found its
master. The archbishop appointed a day for the trial to be made in the
sight of all men, and on that day the princes and knights came together,
and each tried to draw out the sword, as before. But as before, none could
so much as stir it.

Then came Arthur, and pulled it easily from its place.

The knights and kings were terribly angry that a boy from nowhere in
particular had beaten them, and they refused to acknowledge him king. They
appointed another day, for another great trial.

Three times they did this, and every time the same thing happened.

At last, at the feast of Pentecost, Arthur again pulled out the sword
before all the knights and the commons. And then the commons rose up and
cried that he should be king, and that they would slay any who denied him.

So Arthur became king of Britain, and all gave him allegiance.


TARPEIA

There was once a girl named Tarpeia, whose father was guard of the outer
gate of the citadel of Rome. It was a time of war,--the Sabines were
besieging the city. Their camp was close outside the city wall.

Tarpeia used to see the Sabine soldiers when she went to draw water from
the public well, for that was outside the gate. And sometimes she stayed
about and let the strange men talk with her, because she liked to look at
their bright silver ornaments. The Sabine soldiers wore heavy silver
rings and bracelets on their left arms,--some wore as many as four or
five.

The soldiers knew she was the daughter of the keeper of the citadel, and
they saw that she had greedy eyes for their ornaments. So day by day they
talked with her, and showed her their silver rings, and tempted her. And
at last Tarpeia made a bargain, to betray her city to them. She said she
would unlock the great gate and let them in, _if they would give her what
they wore on their left arms._

The night came. When it was perfectly dark and still, Tarpeia stole from
her bed, took the great key from its place, and silently unlocked the gate
which protected the city. Outside, in the dark, stood the soldiers of the
enemy, waiting. As she opened the gate, the long shadowy files pressed
forward silently, and the Sabines entered the citadel.

As the first man came inside, Tarpeia stretched forth her hand for her
price. The soldier lifted high his left arm. "Take thy reward!" he said,
and as he spoke he hurled upon her that which he wore upon it. Down upon
her head crashed--not the silver rings of the soldier, but the great brass
shield he carried in battle!

She sank beneath it, to the ground.

"Take thy reward," said the next; and his shield rang against the first.

"Thy reward," said the next--and the next--and the next--and the next;
every man wore his shield on his left arm.

So Tarpeia lay buried beneath the reward she had claimed, and the Sabines
marched past her dead body, into the city she had betrayed.


THE BUCKWHEAT[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from Hans Christian Andersen.]

Down by the river were fields of barley and rye and golden oats. Wheat
grew there, too, and the heaviest and richest ears bent lowest, in
humility. Opposite the corn was a field of buckwheat, but the buckwheat
never bent; it held its head proud and stiff on the stem.

The wise old willow-tree by the river looked down on the fields, and
thought his thoughts.

One day a dreadful storm came. The field-flowers folded their leaves
together, and bowed their heads. But the buckwheat stood straight and
proud.

"Bend your head, as we do," called the field-flowers.

"I have no need to," said the buckwheat.

"Bend your head, as we do!" warned the golden wheat-ears; "the angel of
the storm is coming; he will strike you down."

"I will not bend my head," said the buckwheat.

Then the old willow-tree spoke: "Close your flowers and bend your leaves.
Do not look at the lightning when the cloud bursts. Even men cannot do
that; the sight of heaven would strike them blind. Much less can we who
are so inferior to them!"

"'Inferior,' indeed!" said the buckwheat. "Now I _will_ look!" And he
looked straight up, while the lightning flashed across the sky.

When the dreadful storm had passed, the flowers and the wheat raised their
drooping heads, clean and refreshed in the pure, sweet air. The
willow-tree shook the gentle drops from its leaves.

But the buckwheat lay like a weed in the field, scorched black by the
lightning.


THE JUDGMENT OF MIDAS[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from _Old Greek Folk-Stories_, by Josephine Preston
Peabody. (Harrap & Co. 9d.)]

The Greek God Pan, the god of the open air, was a great musician. He
played on a pipe of reeds. And the sound of his reed-pipe was so sweet
that he grew proud, and believed himself greater than the chief musician
of the gods, Apollo, the sun-god. So he challenged great Apollo to make
better music than he.

Apollo consented to the test, for he wished to punish Pan's vanity, and
they chose the mountain Tmolus for judge, since no one is so old and wise
as the hills.

When Pan and Apollo came before Tmolus, to play, their followers came
with them, to hear, and one of those who came with Pan was a mortal named
Midas.

First Pan played; he blew on his reed-pipe, and out came a tune so wild
and yet so coaxing that the birds hopped from the trees to get near; the
squirrels came running from their holes; and the very trees swayed as if
they wanted to dance. The fauns laughed aloud for joy as the melody
tickled their furry little ears. And Midas thought it the sweetest music
in the world.

Then Apollo rose. His hair shook drops of light from its curls; his robes
were like the edge of the sunset cloud; in his hands he held a golden
lyre. And when he touched the strings of the lyre, such music stole upon
the air as never god nor mortal heard before. The wild creatures of the
wood crouched still as stone; the trees kept every leaf from rustling;
earth and air were silent as a dream. To hear such music cease was like
bidding farewell to father and mother.

When the charm was broken, the hearers fell at Apollo's feet and
proclaimed the victory his. All but Midas. He alone would not admit that
the music was better than Pan's.

"If thine ears are so dull, mortal," said Apollo, "they shall take the
shape that suits them." And he touched the ears of Midas. And straightway
the dull ears grew long, pointed, and furry, and they turned this way and
that. They were the ears of an ass!

For a long time Midas managed to hide the tell-tale ears from everyone;
but at last a servant discovered the secret. He knew he must not tell, yet
he could not bear not to; so one day he went into the meadow, scooped a
little hollow in the turf, and whispered the secret into the earth. Then
he covered it up again, and went away. But, alas, a bed of reeds sprang up
from the spot, and whispered the secret to the grass. The grass told it to
the tree-tops, the tree-tops to the little birds, and they cried it all
abroad.

And to this day, when the wind sets the reeds nodding together, they
whisper, laughing, "Midas has the ears of an ass! Oh, hush, hush!"


WHY THE SEA IS SALT[1]

[Footnote 1: There are many versions of this tale, in different
collections. This one is the story which grew up in my mind, about the
bare outline related to me by one of Mrs Rutan's hearers. What the
original teller said, I never knew, but what the listener felt was clear.
And in this form I have told it a great many times.]

Once there were two brothers. One was rich, and one was poor; the rich one
was rather mean. When the Poor Brother used to come to ask for things it
annoyed him, and finally one day he said, "There, I'll give it to you this
time, but the next time you want anything, you can go Below for it!"

Presently the Poor Brother did want something, and he knew it wasn't any
use to go to his brother; he must go Below for it. So he went, and he
went, and he went, till he came Below.

It was the queerest place! There were red and yellow fires burning all
around, and kettles of boiling oil hanging over them, and a queer sort of
men standing round, poking the fires. There was a Chief Man; he had a long
curly tail that curled up behind, and two ugly little horns just over his
ears; and one foot was very queer indeed. And as soon as anyone came in
the door, these men would catch him up and put him over one of the fires,
and turn him on a spit. And then the Chief Man, who was the worst of all,
would come and say, "Eh, how do you feel now? How do you feel now?" And of
course the poor people screamed and screeched and said, "Let us out! Let
us out!" That was just what the Chief Man wanted.

When the Poor Brother came in, they picked him up at once, and put him
over one of the hottest fires, and began to turn him round and round like
the rest; and of course the Chief Man came up to him and said, "Eh, how do
you feel now? How do you feel now?" But the Poor Brother did not say, "Let
me out! Let me out!" He said, "Pretty well, thank you."

The Chief Man grunted and said to the other men, "Make the fire hotter."
But the next time he asked the Poor Brother how he felt, the Poor Brother
smiled and said, "Much better now, thank you." The Chief Man did not like
this at all, because, of course, the whole object in life of the people
Below was to make their victims uncomfortable. So he piled on more fuel
and made the fire hotter still. But every time he asked the Poor Brother
how he felt, the Poor Brother would say, "Very much better"; and at last
he said, "Perfectly comfortable, thank you; couldn't be better."

You see when the Poor Brother was on earth he had never once had money
enough to buy coal enough to keep him warm; so he liked the heat.

At last the Chief Man could stand it no longer.

"Oh, look here," he said, "you can go home."

"Oh no, thank you," said the Poor Brother, "I like it here."

"You _must_ go home," said the Chief Man.

"But I won't go home," said the Poor Brother.

The Chief Man went away and talked with the other men; but no matter what
they did they could not make the Poor Brother uncomfortable; so at last
the Chief Man came back and said,--

"What'll you take to go home?"

"What have you got?" said the Poor Brother.

"Well," said the Chief Man, "if you'll go home quietly I'll give you the
Little Mill that stands behind my door."

"What's the good of it?" said the Poor Brother.

"It is the most wonderful mill in the world," said the Chief Man.
"Anything at all that you want, you have only to name it, and say, 'Grind
this, Little Mill, and grind quickly,' and the Mill will grind that thing
until you say the magic word, to stop it."

"That sounds nice," said the Poor Brother. "I'll take it." And he took the
Little Mill under his arm, and went up, and up, and up, till he came to
his own house.

When he was in front of his little old hut, he put the Little Mill down on
the ground and said to it, "Grind a fine house, Little Mill, and grind
quickly." And the Little Mill ground, and ground, and ground the finest
house that ever was seen. It had fine big chimneys, and gable windows,
and broad piazzas; and just as the Little Mill ground the last step of the
last flight of steps, the Poor Brother said the magic word, and it
stopped.

Then he took it round to where the barn was, and said, "Grind cattle,
Little Mill, and grind quickly." And the Little Mill ground, and ground,
and ground, and out came great fat cows, and little woolly lambs, and fine
little pigs; and just as the Little Mill ground the last curl on the tail
of the last little pig, the Poor Brother said the magic word, and it
stopped.

He did the same thing with crops for his cattle, pretty clothes for his
daughters, and everything else they wanted. At last he had everything he
wanted, and so he stood the Little Mill behind his door.

All this time the Rich Brother had been getting more and more jealous, and
at last he came to ask the Poor Brother how he had grown so rich. The Poor
Brother told him all about it. He said, "It all comes from that Little
Mill behind my door. All I have to do when I want anything is to name it
to the Little Mill, and say, 'Grind that, Little Mill, and grind quickly,'
and the Little Mill will grind that thing until--"

But the Rich Brother didn't wait to hear any more. "Will you lend me the
Little Mill?" he said.

"Why, yes," said the Poor Brother, "I will."

So the Rich Brother took the Little Mill under his arm and started across
the fields to his house. When he got near home he saw the farm-hands
coming in from the fields for their luncheon. Now, you remember, he was
rather mean. He thought to himself, "It is a waste of good time for them
to come into the house; they shall have their porridge where they are." He
called all the men to him, and made them bring their porridge-bowls. Then
he set the Little Mill down on the ground, and said to it, "Grind oatmeal
porridge, Little Mill, and grind quickly!" The Little Mill ground, and
ground, and ground, and out came delicious oatmeal porridge. Each man held
his bowl under the spout. When the last bowl was filled, the porridge ran
over on the ground.

"That's enough, Little Mill," said the Rich Brother. "You may stop, and
stop quickly."

But this was not the magic word, and the Little Mill did not stop. It
ground, and ground, and ground, and the porridge ran all round and made a
little pool. The Rich Brother said, "No, no, Little Mill, I said, 'Stop
grinding, and stop quickly.'" But the Little Mill ground, and ground,
faster than ever; and presently there was a regular pond of porridge,
almost up to their knees. The Rich Brother said, "Stop grinding," in
every kind of way; he called the Little Mill names; but nothing did any
good. The Little Mill ground porridge just the same. At last the men said,
"Go and get your brother to stop the Little Mill, or we shall be drowned
in porridge."

So the Rich Brother started for his brother's house. He had to swim before
he got there, and the porridge went up his sleeves, and down his neck, and
it was horrid and sticky. His brother laughed when he heard the story, but
he came with him, and they took a boat and rowed across the lake of
porridge to where the Little Mill was grinding. And then the Poor Brother
whispered the magic word, and the Little Mill stopped.

But the porridge was a long time soaking into the ground, and nothing
would ever grow there afterwards except oatmeal.

The Rich Brother didn't seem to care much about the Little Mill after
this, so the Poor Brother took it home again and put it behind the door;
and there it stayed a long, long while.

Years afterwards a Sea Captain came there on a visit. He told such big
stories that the Poor Brother said, "Oh, I daresay you have seen wonderful
things, but I don't believe you ever saw anything more wonderful than the
Little Mill that stands behind my door."

"What is wonderful about that?" said the Sea Captain.

"Why," said the Poor Brother, "anything in the world you want,--you have
only to name it to the Little Mill and say, 'Grind that, Little Mill, and
grind quickly,' and it will grind that thing until--"

The Sea Captain didn't wait to hear another word. "Will you lend me that
Little Mill?" he said eagerly.

The Poor Brother smiled a little, but he said, "Yes," and the Sea Captain
took the Little Mill under his arm, and went on board his ship and sailed
away.

They had head-winds and storms, and they were so long at sea that some of
the food gave out. Worst of all, the salt gave out. It was dreadful, being
without salt. But the Captain happened to remember the Little Mill.

"Bring up the salt box!" he said to the cook. "We will have salt enough."

He set the Little Mill on deck, put the salt box under the spout, and
said,--

"Grind salt, Little Mill, and grind quickly!"

And the Little Mill ground beautiful, white, powdery salt. When they had
enough, the Captain said, "Now you may stop, Little Mill, and stop
quickly." The Little Mill kept on grinding; and the salt began to pile up
in little heaps on the deck. "I said, 'Stop,'" said the Captain. But the
Little Mill ground, and ground, faster than ever, and the salt was soon
thick on the deck like snow. The Captain called the Little Mill names and
told it to stop, in every language he knew, but the Little Mill went on
grinding. The salt covered all the decks and poured down into the hold,
and at last the ship began to settle in the water; salt is very heavy. But
just before the ship sank to the water-line, the Captain had a bright
thought: he threw the Little Mill overboard!

It fell right down to the bottom of the sea. _And it has been grinding
salt ever since._


BILLY BEG AND HIS BULL[1]

[Footnote 1: Adapted from _In Chimney Corners_, by Seumas McManus. I have
ventured to give this in the somewhat Hibernian phraseology suggested by
the original, because I have found that the humour of the manner of it
appeals quite as readily to the boys and girls of my acquaintance as to
maturer friends, and they distinguish as quickly between the savour of it
and any unintentional crudeness of diction.]

Once upon a time, there was a king and a queen, and they had one son,
whose name was Billy. And Billy had a bull he was very fond of, and the
bull was just as fond of him. And when the queen came to die, she put it
as her last request to the king, that come what might, come what may, he'd
not part Billy and the bull. And the king promised that, come what might,
come what may, he would not. Then the good queen died, and was buried.

After a time, the king married again, and the new queen could not abide
Billy; no more could she stand the bull, seeing him and Billy so thick. So
she asked the king to have the bull killed. But the king said he had
promised, come what might, come what may, he'd not part Billy Beg and his
bull, so he could not.

Then the queen sent for the Hen-Wife, and asked what she should do. "What
will you give me," said the Hen-Wife, "and I'll very soon part them?"

"Anything at all," said the queen.

"Then do you take to your bed, very sick with a complaint," said the
Hen-Wife, "and I'll do the rest."

So the queen took to her bed, very sick with a complaint, and the king
came to see what could be done for her. "I shall never be better of this,"
she said, "till I have the medicine the Hen-Wife ordered."

"What is that?" said the king.

"A mouthful of the blood of Billy Beg's bull."

"I can't give you that," said the king, and went away, sorrowful.

Then the queen got sicker and sicker, and each time the king asked what
would cure her she said, "A mouthful of the blood of Billy Beg's bull."
And at last it looked as if she were going to die. So the king finally
set a day for the bull to be killed. At that the queen was so happy that
she laid plans to get up and see the grand sight. All the people were to
be at the killing, and it was to be a great affair.

When Billy Beg heard all this, he was very sorrowful, and the bull noticed
his looks. "What are you doitherin' about?" said the bull to him. So Billy
told him. "Don't fret yourself about me," said the bull, "it's not I
that'll be killed!"

The day came, when Billy Beg's bull was to be killed; all the people were
there, and the queen, and Billy. And the bull was led out, to be seen.
When he was led past Billy he bent his head. "Jump on my back, Billy, my
boy," says he, "till I see what kind of a horseman you are!" Billy jumped
on his back, and with that the bull leaped nine miles high and nine miles
broad and came down with Billy sticking between his horns. Then away he
rushed, over the head of the queen, killing her dead, where you wouldn't
know day by night or night by day, over high hills, low hills, sheep walks
and bullock traces, the Cove o' Cork, and old Tom Fox with his bugle horn.

When at last he stopped he said, "Now, Billy, my boy, you and I must
undergo great scenery; there's a mighty great bull of the forest I must
fight, here, and he'll be hard to fight, but I'll be able for him. But
first we must have dinner. Put your hand in my left ear and pull out the
napkin you'll find there, and when you've spread it, it will be covered
with eating and drinking fit for a king."

So Billy put his hand in the bull's left ear, and drew out the napkin, and
spread it; and, sure enough, it was spread with all kinds of eating and
drinking, fit for a king. And Billy Beg ate well.

But just as he finished he heard a great roar, and out of the forest came
a mighty bull, snorting and running.

And the two bulls at it and fought. They knocked the hard ground into
soft, the soft into hard, the rocks into spring wells, and the spring
wells into rocks. It was a terrible fight. But in the end, Billy Beg's
bull was too much for the other bull, and he killed him, and drank his
blood.

Then Billy jumped on the bull's back, and the bull off and away, where you
wouldn't know day from night or night from day, over high hills, low
hills, sheep walks and bullock traces, the Cove o' Cork, and old Tom Fox
with his bugle horn. And when he stopped he told Billy to put his hand in
his left ear and pull out the napkin, because he'd to fight another great
bull of the forest. So Billy pulled out the napkin and spread it, and it
was covered with all kinds of eating and drinking, fit for a king.

And, sure enough, just as Billy finished eating, there was a frightful
roar, and a mighty great bull, greater than the first, rushed out of the
forest. And the two bulls at it and fought. It was a terrible fight! They
knocked the hard ground into soft, the soft into hard, the rocks into
spring wells, and the spring wells into rocks. But in the end, Billy Beg's
bull killed the other bull, and drank his blood.

Then he off and away, with Billy.

But when he came down, he told Billy Beg that he was to fight another
bull, the brother of the other two, and that this time the other bull
would be too much for him, and would kill him and drink his blood.

"When I am dead, Billy, my boy," he said, "put your hand in my left ear
and draw out the napkin, and you'll never want for eating or drinking; and
put your hand in my right ear, and you'll find a stick there, that will
turn into a sword if you wave it three times round your head, and give you
the strength of a thousand men beside your own. Keep that; then cut a
strip of my hide, for a belt, for when you buckle it on, there's nothing
can kill you."

Billy Beg was very sad to hear that his friend must die. And very soon he
heard a more dreadful roar than ever he heard, and a tremendous bull
rushed out of the forest. Then came the worst fight of all. In the end,
the other bull was too much for Billy Beg's bull, and he killed him and
drank his blood.

Billy Beg sat down and cried for three days and three nights. After that
he was hungry; so he put his hand in the bull's left ear, and drew out the
napkin, and ate all kinds of eating and drinking. Then he put his hand in
the right ear and pulled out the stick which was to turn into a sword if
waved round his head three times, and to give him the strength of a
thousand men beside his own. And he cut a strip of the hide for a belt,
and started off on his adventures.

Presently he came to a fine place; an old gentleman lived there. So Billy
went up and knocked, and the old gentleman came to the door.

"Are you wanting a boy?" says Billy.

"I am wanting a herd-boy," says the gentleman, "to take my six cows, six
horses, six donkeys, and six goats to pasture every morning, and bring
them back at night. Maybe you'd do."

"What are the wages?" says Billy.

"Oh, well," says the gentleman, "it's no use to talk of that now; there's
three giants live in the wood by the pasture, and every day they drink up
all the milk and kill the boy that looks after the cattle; so we'll wait
to talk about wages till we see if you come back alive."

"All right," says Billy, and he entered service with the old gentleman.

The first day, he drove the six cows, six horses, six donkeys, and six
goats to pasture, and sat down by them. About noon he heard a kind of
roaring from the wood; and out rushed a giant with two heads, spitting
fire out of his two mouths.

"Oh! my fine fellow," says he to Billy, "you are too big for one swallow
and not big enough for two; how would you like to die, then? By a cut with
the sword, a blow with the fist, or a swing by the back?"

"That is as may be," says Billy, "but I'll fight you." And he buckled on
his hide belt, and swung his stick three times round his head, to give him
the strength of a thousand men besides his own, and went for the giant.
And at the first grapple Billy Beg lifted the giant up and sunk him in the
ground, to his armpits.

"Oh, mercy! mercy! Spare my life!" cried the giant.

"I think not," said Billy; and he cut off his heads.

That night, when the cows and the goats were driven home, they gave so
much milk that all the dishes in the house were filled, and the milk ran
over and made a little brook in the yard.

"This is very queer," said the old gentleman; "they never gave any milk
before. Did you see nothing in the pasture?"

"Nothing worse than myself," said Billy. And next morning he drove the
six cows, six horses, six donkeys, and six goats to pasture again.

Just before noon he heard a terrific roar; and out of the wood came a
giant with six heads.

"You killed my brother," he roared, fire coming out of his six mouths,
"and I'll very soon have your blood! Will you die by a cut of the sword,
or a swing by the back?"

"I'll fight you," said Billy. And buckling on his belt and swinging his
stick three times round his head, he ran in and grappled the giant. At the
first hold, he sunk the giant up to the shoulders in the ground.

"Mercy, mercy, kind gentleman!" cried the giant. "Spare my life!"

"I think not," said Billy, and cut off his heads.

That night the cattle gave so much milk that it ran out of the house and
made a stream, and turned a mill wheel which had not been turned for seven
years!

"It's certainly very queer," said the old gentleman; "did you see nothing
in the pasture, Billy?"

"Nothing worse than myself," said Billy.

And the next morning the gentleman said, "Billy, do you know, I only heard
one of the giants roaring in the night, and the night before only two.
What can ail them, at all?"

"Oh, maybe they are sick or something," says Billy; and with that he
drove the six cows, six horses, six donkeys, and six goats to pasture.

At about ten o'clock there was a roar like a dozen bulls, and the brother
of the two giants came out of the wood, with twelve heads on him, and fire
spouting from every one of them.

"I'll have you, my fine boy," cries he; "how will you die, then?"

"We'll see," says Billy; "come on!"

And swinging his stick round his head, he made for the giant, and drove
him up to his twelve necks in the ground. All twelve of the heads began
begging for mercy, but Billy soon cut them short. Then he drove the beasts
home.

The latter, however, having eyes neither for beauty nor poetry, thought
only to demand what means of support the bold intruder had to offer his
daughter, and when he learned how small these were, withheld his
consent until the suitor could secure a professorship in some
institution of learning.

Although loath to renounce his freedom, Mirza-Schaffy determined
for Hafisa's sake to make application, as he had often been advised
to do, at the Tiflis Gymnasium for the position of teacher of
Tartaric.

But, alas!

there was prepared for our poor Mirza a humiliation second only to the
bastinado. His reply was a portentous document in the Russian language,
of which he could not read a word. Hafisa's father demanded sight of it,
had it interpreted by a learned mullah, and it proved to be a summons
for the applicant to appear at an appointed hour for examination.

This was too much.
Mirza-Schaffy, the first wise man of the East, the pride of his race, the
pearl in the shell of poetry, to be examined in his own language!
Hafisa's father declared his belief that the mirza's wisdom was as
doubtful as his fortune, and the wise man himself began to wonder
whether his wisdom had not gone "pleasuring in the dusk of the
evening."

Moreover, during the conference with the mullah certain revelations came to
light concerning the lack of orthodoxy in the mirza's belief and the
frequent slurs it was his wont to cast on the powerful mullahs;
and this set the old father hopelessly against him, causing him to
revoke all promise of possible consent.

Such being the case, Mirza-Schaffy had no heart to brave the humiliation
of an examination. Shortly after, however, he was honored with a call to
the new school at Gjändsha, and Hafisa's father dying about the same
time, all obstacles were removed to a union with the maiden of his choice.

And so with his bride he returned to his native place, and felt that
the summit of earthly bliss was attained.

Friedrich Bodenstedt has been a very prolific author, having published
several volumes of poetry, besides numerous romances, tales and
miscellaneous works.

He is one of a committee of poets and men of learning appointed not long
since to retranslate the works of Shakespeare. At present he is adding to
his well-earned laurels through his volume _Aus dem Nachlasse Mirza-Schaffys_.
The book is divided into seven parts, the first of which is dedicated to
love.

Then there are songs of earthly pleasure, songs of consolation, sayings
of wisdom, stories in rhyme of Eastern romance, a series of problems and
a "bouquet of cypresses and roses."
AUBER FORESTIER.

TO CHARLOTTE CUSHMAN.

Look where a three-point star shall weave his beam Into the slumb'rous
tissue of some stream, Till his bright self o'er his bright copy seem
Fulfillment dropping on a come-true dream; So in this night of art
thy soul doth show Her excellent double in the steadfast flow Of
wishing love that through men's hearts doth go:
At once thou shin'st above and shin'st below.

But, quick as he was, he was
not so quick but that the princess caught hold of him as he jumped on his
horse, and he got away with one shoe left in her hand. And home he rode,
to his master's house, and had his old clothes on and the mare in the
stable before his master came back.

When his master came back, he had a great tale for Billy, how the
princess's champion had run from the dragon, and a strange knight had come
out of the clouds and killed the dragon, and before anyone could stop him
had disappeared in the sky. "Wasn't it wonderful?" said the old gentleman
to Billy. "I should say so," said Billy to him.

Soon there was proclamation made that the man who killed the dragon was to
be found, and to be made son of the king and husband of the princess; for
that, everyone should come up to the king's town and try on the shoe which
the princess had pulled from off the foot of the strange champion, that he
whom it fitted should be known to be the man. On the day set, there was
passing of coaches and chaises, of carriages and wheelbarrows, people on
horseback and afoot, and Billy's master was the first to go.

While Billy was watching, at last came along a raggedy man.

"Will you change clothes with me, and I'll give you boot?" said Billy to
him.

"Shame to you to mock a poor raggedy man!" said the raggedy man to Billy.

"It's no mock," said Billy, and he changed clothes with the raggedy man,
and gave him boot.

When Billy came to the king's town, in his dreadful old clothes, no one
knew him for the champion at all, and none would let him come forward to
try the shoe. But after all had tried, Billy spoke up that he wanted to
try. They laughed at him, and pushed him back, with his rags. But the
princess would have it that he should try. "I like his face," said she;
"let him try, now."

So up stepped Billy, and put on the shoe, and it fitted him like his own
skin.

Then Billy confessed that it was he that killed the dragon. And that he
was a king's son. And they put a velvet suit on him, and hung a gold chain
round his neck, and everyone said a finer-looking boy they'd never seen.

So Billy married the princess, and was the prince of that place.


THE LITTLE HERO OF HAARLEM[1]

[Footnote 1: Told from memory of the story told me when a child.]

A long way off, across the ocean, there is a little country where the
ground is lower than the level of the sea, instead of higher, as it is
here. Of course the water would run in and cover the land and houses, if
something were not done to keep it out. But something is done. The people
build great, thick walls all round the country, and the walls keep the sea
out. You see how much depends on those walls,--the good crops, the houses,
and even the safety of the people. Even the small children in that country
know that an accident to one of the walls is a terrible thing. These walls
are really great banks, as wide as roads, and they are called "dikes."

Once there was a little boy who lived in that country, whose name was
Hans. One day, he took his little brother out to play. They went a long
way out of the town, and came to where there were no houses, but ever so
many flowers and green fields. By-and-by, Hans climbed up on the dike, and
sat down; the little brother was playing about at the foot of the bank.

Suddenly the little brother called out, "Oh, what a funny little hole! It
bubbles!"

"Hole? Where?" said Hans.

"Here in the bank," said the little brother; "water's in it."

"What!" said Hans, and he slid down as fast as he could to where his
brother was playing.

There was the tiniest little hole in the bank. Just an air-hole. A drop of
water bubbled slowly through.

"It is a hole in the dike!" cried Hans. "What shall we do?"

He looked all round; not a person or a house in sight. He looked at the
hole; the little drops oozed steadily through; he knew that the water
would soon break a great gap, because that tiny hole gave it a chance. The
town was so far away--if they ran for help it would be too late; what
should he do? Once more he looked; the hole was larger, now, and the water
was trickling.

Suddenly a thought came to Hans. He stuck his little forefinger right into
the hole, where it fitted tight; and he said to his little brother, "Run,
Dieting! Go to the town and tell the men there's a hole in the dike. Tell
them I will keep it stopped till they get here."

The little brother knew by Hans' face that something very serious was the
matter, and he started for the town, as fast as his legs could run. Hans,
kneeling with his finger in the hole, watched him grow smaller and smaller
as he got farther away.

Soon he was as small as a chicken; then he was only a speck; then he was
out of sight. Hans was alone, his finger tight in the bank.

He could hear the water, slap, slap, slap, on the stones; and deep down
under the slapping was a gurgling, rumbling sound. It seemed very near.

By-and-by, his hand began to feel numb. He rubbed it with the other hand;
but it got colder and more numb, colder and more numb, every minute. He
looked to see if the men were coming; the road was bare as far as he could
see. Then the cold began creeping, creeping, up his arm; first his wrist,
then his arm to the elbow, then his arm to the shoulder; how cold it was!
And soon it began to ache. Ugly little cramp-pains streamed up his finger,
up his palm, up his arm, till they reached into his shoulder, and down the
back of his neck. It seemed hours since the little brother went away. He
felt very lonely, and the hurt in his arm grew and grew. He watched the
road with all his eyes, but no one came in sight. Then he leaned his head
against the dike, to rest his shoulder.

As his ear touched the dike, he heard the voice of the great sea,
murmuring. The sound seemed to say,--

"I am the great sea. No one can stand against me. What are you, a little
child, that you try to keep me out? Beware! Beware!"

Hans' heart beat in heavy knocks. Would they never come? He was
frightened.

And the water went on beating at the wall, and murmuring, "I will come
through, I will come through, I will get you, I will get you,
run--run--before I come through!"

Hans started to pull out his finger; he was so frightened that he felt as
if he must run for ever. But that minute he remembered how much depended
on him; if he pulled out his finger, the water would surely make the hole
bigger, and at last break down the dike, and the sea would come in on all
the land and houses. He set his teeth, and stuck his finger tighter than
ever.

Kylas, by Mr.

Carne; the Anxious Wife, by the Editor; a Tale of Pentland, by the Ettrick
Shepherd; and the Austral Chief, by the Rev. Mr. Ellis,--may be read and
re-read with increasing interest, which is not a general characteristic of
"Annual" sketches. Our extract is one of the most buoyant pieces in the
volume--

A CASTLE IN THE AIR.

_By Miss Mitford_.[5]
[5] This ingenious lady is the most indefatigable of all lady-writers
of the present day.

Her "Sketches" will soon reach the famed "One Thousand and One." At this
moment too, our favourite authoress is engaged on two tragedies for the
patent theatres--one _Inez de Castro_, which has been poetized in
half-a-dozen forms of late, and is even in the _Amulet_ before us:
the subject and title of the second tragedy is _Otho_: both will
probably be of a melo-dramatic cast, which founded the success of
_Rienzi_.

If it should be so, the fault will not rest with the fair authoress,
the managers, or admirers of the pure drama; we need not add where
the blame lies.

"Can any one tell me of a house to be let hereabouts?"

asked I, this afternoon, coming into the room, with an open letter in
my hand, and an unusual animation of feeling and of manner. "Our friends,
the Camdens, want to live amongst us again, and have commissioned
me to make inquiries for a residence."
This announcement, as I expected, gave general delight; for Mr. Camden
is the most excellent and most agreeable person under the sun, except his
wife, who is even more amiable than her amiable husband: to regain such
neighbours was felt to be an universal benefit, more especially
to us who were so happy as to call them friends.

My own interest in the house question was participated by all around me,
and the usual enumeration of vacant mansions, and the several objections
to each (for where ever was a vacant mansion without its objection?) began
with zeal and rapidity.

"Cranley Hall," said one.

"Too large!"
"Hinton Park?"
"Too much land."
"The White House at Hannonby--the Belvidere, as the late people called
it?"
"What! is that flourishing establishment done up? But Hannonby is too far
off--ten miles at least."
"Queen's Bridge Cottage?"
"Ay, that sweet place would have suited exactly, but it's let. The Browns
took it only yesterday."
"Sydenham Court?"

"That might have done too, but it's not in the market. The Smiths intend to
stay."
"Lanton Abbey?"
"Too low; grievously damp."
By this time, however, we had arrived at the end of our list; nobody
could remember another place to be let, or likely to be let, and confessing
ourselves too fastidious, we went again over our catalogue _raisonée_ with
expectations much sobered, and objections much modified, and were
beginning to find out that Cranley Hall was not so very large, nor Lanton
Abbey so exceedingly damp, when one of our party exclaimed suddenly,
"We never thought of Hatherden Hill! surely that is small enough and
dry enough!" and it being immediately recollected that Hatherden was
only a mile off, we lost sight of all faults in this great
recommendation, and wrote immediately to the lawyer who had the
charge of letting the place, whilst I myself and my most efficient
assistant, sallied forth to survey it on the instant.

It was a bright cool afternoon about the middle of August, and we proceeded
in high spirits towards our destination, talking, as, we went, of the
excellence and agreeableness of our delightful friends, and anticipating
the high intellectual pleasure, the gratification to the taste and
the affections, which our renewed intercourse with persons so
accomplished and so amiable, could not fail to afford; both agreeing
that Hatherden was the very place we wanted, the very situation,
the very distance, the very size.This is your last lesson in French. I beg you, be
very attentive."

_His last lesson in French!_ Little Franz could not believe his ears; his
last lesson--ah, _that_ was what was on the bulletin-board! It flashed
across him in an instant. That was it! His last lesson in French--and he
scarcely knew how to read and write--why, then, he should never know how!
He looked down at his books, all battered and torn at the corners; and
suddenly his books seemed quite different to him, they
seemed--somehow--like friends. He looked at the master, and he seemed
different, too,--like a very good friend. Little Franz began to feel
strange himself. Just as he was thinking about it, he heard his name
called, and he stood up to recite.

It was the rule of participles.

Oh, what wouldn't he have given to be able to say it off from beginning to
end, exceptions and all, without a blunder! But he could only stand and
hang his head; he did not know a word of it. Then through the hot
pounding in his ears he heard the master's voice; it was quite gentle; not
at all the scolding voice he expected. And it said, "I'm not going to
punish you, little Franz. Perhaps you are punished enough. And you are not
alone in your fault. We all do the same thing,--we all put off our tasks
till to-morrow. And--sometimes--to-morrow never comes. That is what it has
been with us. We Alsatians have been always putting off our education till
the morrow; and now they have a right, those people down there, to say to
us, 'What! You call yourselves French, and cannot even read and write the
French language? Learn German, then!'"

And then the master spoke to them of the French language. He told them how
beautiful it was, how clear and musical and reasonable, and he said that
no people could be hopelessly conquered so long as it kept its language,
for the language was the key to its prison-house. And then he said he was
going to tell them a little about that beautiful language, and he
explained the rule of participles.

And do you know, it was just as simple as ABC! Little Franz understood
every word. It was just the same with the rest of the grammar lesson. I
don't know whether little Franz listened harder, or whether the master
explained better; but it was all quite clear, and simple.

But as they went on with it, and little Franz listened and looked, it
seemed to him that the master was trying to put the whole French language
into their heads in that one hour. It seemed as if he wanted to teach them
all he knew, before he went,--to give them all he had,--in this last
lesson.

From the grammar he went on to the writing lesson. And for this, quite new
copies had been prepared. They were written on clean, new slips of paper,
and they were:--

France: Alsace.
France: Alsace.

All up and down the aisles they hung out from the desks like little
banners, waving:--

France: Alsace.
France: Alsace.

And everybody worked with all his might,--not a sound could you hear but
the scratching of pens on the "France: Alsace."

Even the little ones bent over their up and down strokes with their
tongues stuck out to help them work.

After the writing came the reading lesson, and the little ones sang their
_ba_, _be_, _bi_, _bo_, _bu_.

Right in the midst of it, Franz heard a curious sound, a big deep voice
mingling with the children's voices. He turned round, and there, on the
bench in the back of the room, the old blacksmith sat with a big ABC book
open on his knees. It was his voice Franz had heard. He was saying the
sounds with the little children,--_ba_, _be_, _bi_, _bo_, _bu_. His voice
sounded so odd, with the little voices,--so very odd,--it made little
Franz feel queer. It seemed so funny that he thought he would laugh; then
he thought he wouldn't laugh, he felt--he felt very queer.

So it went on with the lessons; they had them all. And then, suddenly, the
town clock struck noon. And at the same time they heard the tramp of the
Prussians' feet, coming back from drill.

It was time to close school.

The master stood up. He was very pale. Little Franz had never seen him
look so tall. He said:--

"My children--my children"--but something choked him; he could not go on.
Instead he turned and went to the blackboard and took up a piece of chalk.
And then he wrote, high up, in big white letters, "Vive la France!"

And he made a little sign to them with his head, "That is all; go away."


THE STORY OF CHRISTMAS

There was once a nation which was very powerful, very fortunate, and very
proud. Its lands were fruitful; its armies were victorious in battle; and
it had strong kings, wise lawgivers, and great poets. But after a great
many years, everything changed. The nation had no more strong kings, no
more wise lawgivers; its armies were beaten in battle, and neighbouring
tribes conquered the country and took the fruitful lands; there were no
more poets except a few who made songs of lamentation. The people had
become a captive and humiliated people; and the bitterest part of all its
sadness was the memory of past greatness.

But in all the years of failure and humiliation, there was one thing which
kept this people from despair; one hope lived in their hearts and kept
them from utter misery. It was a hope which came from something one of the
great poets of the past had said, in prophecy. This prophecy was whispered
in the homes of the poor, taught in the churches, repeated from father to
son among the rich; it was like a deep, hidden well of comfort in a desert
of suffering. The prophecy said that some time a deliverer should be born
for the nation, a new king even stronger than the old ones, mighty enough
to conquer its enemies, set it free, and bring back the splendid days of
old. This was the hope and expectation all the people looked for; they
waited through the years for the prophecy to come true.

In this nation, in a little country town, lived a man and a woman whose
names were Joseph and Mary. And it happened, one year, that they had to
take a little journey up to the town which was the nearest tax-centre, to
have their names put on the census list; because that was the custom in
that country.

But when they got to the town, so many others were there for the same
thing, and it was such a small town, that every place was crowded. There
was no room for them at the inn. Finally, the innkeeper said they might
sleep in the stable, on the straw. So they went there for the night.

And while they were there, in the stable, their first child was born to
them, a little son. And because there was no cradle to put Him in, the
mother made a little warm nest of the hay in the big wooden manger where
the oxen had eaten, and wrapped the baby in swaddling clothes, and laid
Him in the manger, for a bed!

That same night, on the hills outside the town, there were shepherds,
keeping their flocks through the darkness. They were tired with watching
over the sheep, and they stood or sat about, drowsily, talking and
watching the stars. And as they watched, behold, an angel of the Lord
appeared unto them! And the glory of the Lord shone round about them! And
they were sore afraid. But the angel said unto them, "Fear not, for
behold I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all
people. _For unto you is born, this day, in the city of David, a
saviour,--which is Christ the Lord._ And this shall be a sign unto you: ye
shall find the babe, wrapped in swaddling clothes, _lying in a manger_."

And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host,
praising God, and saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth
peace, good will toward men."

When the angels were gone up from them into heaven, the shepherds said to
one another, "Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which
is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us." And they came,
with haste, and they found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in a
manger. And when they saw Him in the manger, they knew that the wonderful
thing the angel said had really happened, and that the great deliverer was
born at last.


THE CHILD-MIND; AND HOW TO SATISFY IT


"It is the grown people who make the nursery stories," wrote Stevenson,
"all the children do is jealously to preserve the text." And the grown
person, whether he makes his stories with pen or with tongue, should bring
two qualities at least to the work--simplicity of language and a serious
sincerity. The reason for the simplicity is obvious, for no one, child or
otherwise, can thoroughly enjoy a story clouded by words which convey no
meaning to him.

The second quality is less obvious but equally necessary. No absence of
fun is intended by the words "serious sincerity," but they mean that the
story-teller should bring to the child an equal interest in what is about
to be told; an honest acceptance, for the time being, of the fairies, or
the heroes, or the children, or the animals who talk, with which the tale
is concerned. The child deserves this equality of standpoint, and without
it there can be no entire success.

As for the stories themselves, the difficulty lies with the material, not
with the _child_. Styles may be varied generously, but the matter must be
quarried for. Out of a hundred children's books it is more than likely
that ninety-nine will be useless; yet perhaps out of one autobiography may
be gleaned an anecdote, or a reminiscence which can be amplified into an
absorbing tale. Almost every story-teller will find that the open eye and
ear will serve him better than much arduous searching. No one book will
yield him the increase to his repertoire which will come to him by
listening, by browsing in chance volumes and magazines, and even
newspapers, by observing everyday life, and in all remembering his own
youth, and his youthful, waiting audience.

And that youthful audience? A rather too common mistake is made in
allowing overmuch for the creative imagination of the normal child. It is
not creative imagination which the normal child possesses so much as an
enormous credulity and no limitations. If we consider for a moment we see
that there has been little or nothing to limit things for him, therefore
anything is possible. It is the years of our life as they come which
narrow our fancies and set a bound to our beliefs; for experience has
taught us that for the most part a certain cause will produce a certain
effect. The child, on the contrary, has but little knowledge of causes,
and as yet but an imperfect realisation of effects. If we, for instance,
go into the midst of a savage country, we know that there is the chance of
our meeting a savage. But to the young child it is quite as possible to
meet a Red Indian coming round the bend of the brook at the bottom of the
orchard, as it is to meet him in his own wigwam.

The child is an adept at make-believe, but his make-believes are, as a
rule, practical and serious. It is credulity rather than imagination which
helps him. He takes the tales he has been _told_, the facts he has
observed, and for the most part reproduces them to the best of his
ability. And "nothing," as Stevenson says, "can stagger a child's faith;
he accepts the clumsiest substitutes and can swallow the most staring
incongruities. The chair he has just been besieging as a castle is taken
away for the accommodation of a morning visitor and he is nothing abashed;
he can skirmish by the hour with a stationary coal-scuttle; in the midst
of the enchanted pleasuance he can see, without sensible shock, the
gardener soberly digging potatoes for the day's dinner."

The child, in fact, is neither undeveloped "grown-up" nor unspoiled angel.
Perhaps he has a dash of both, but most of all he is akin to the grown
person who dreams. With the dreamer and with the child there is that
unquestioning acceptance of circumstances as they arise, however unusual
and disconcerting they may be. In dreams the wildest, most improbable and
fantastic things happen, but they are not so to the dreamer. The veriest
cynic amongst us must take his dreams seriously and without a sneer,
whether he is forced to leap from the edge of a precipice, whether he
finds himself utterly incapable of packing his trunk in time for the
train, whether in spite of his distress at the impropriety, he finds
himself at a dinner-party minus his collar, or whether the riches of El
Dorado are laid at his feet. For him at the time it is all quite real and
harassingly or splendidly important.

To the child and to the dreamer all things are possible; frogs may talk,
bears may be turned into princes, gallant tailors may overcome giants,
fir-trees may be filled with ambitions. A chair may become a horse, a
chest of drawers a coach and six, a hearthrug a battlefield, a newspaper a
crown of gold. And these are facts which the story-teller must realise,
and choose and shape the stories accordingly.

Many an old book, which to a modern grown person may seem prim and
over-rigid, will be to the child a delight; for him the primness and the
severity slip away, the story remains. Such a book as Mrs Sherwood's
_Fairchild Family_ is an example of this. To a grown person reading it for
the first time, the loafing propensities of the immaculate Mrs Fairchild,
who never does a hand's turn of good work for anyone from cover to cover,
the hard piety, the snobbishness, the brutality of taking the children to
the old gallows and seating them before the dangling remains of a
murderer, while the lesson of brotherly love is impressed are shocking
when they are not amusing; but to the child the doings of the naughty and
repentant little Fairchilds are engrossing; and experience proves to us
that the twentieth-century child is as eager for the book as were ever his
nineteenth-century grandfather and grandmother.

Good Mrs Timmin's _History of the Robins_, too, is a continuous delight;
and from its pompous and high-sounding dialogue a skilful adapter may
glean not only one story, but one story with two versions; for the infant
of eighteen months can follow the narrative of the joys and troubles,
errors and kindnesses of Robin, Dicky, Flopsy and Pecksy; while the child
of five or ten or even more will be keenly interested in a fuller account
of the birds' adventures and the development of their several characters
and those of their human friends and enemies.

From these two books, from Miss Edgeworth's wonderful _Moral Tales_; from
Miss Wetherell's delightful volume _Mr Rutherford's Children_; from Jane
and Ann Taylor's _Original Poems_; from Thomas Day's _Sandford and
Merton_; from Bunyan's _Pilgrim's Progress_ and Lamb's _Tales from
Shakespeare_, and from many another old friend, stories may be gathered,
but the story-teller will find that in almost all cases adaptation is a
necessity. Some years later the Russian imperial state counselor Bergé,
while chief of educational institutions in Caucasus, also made the matter
a subject of investigation, and in the year 1870 gave the history thereof
to the world in the _Journal of the German Oriental Society_.

       He tells of his vain efforts to learn something of the genius of
Mirza-Schaffy in his own land, and the amusement he created by his
queries concerning possible posthumous works, and finally settles
the question beyond dispute concerning the authorship of the poems.

After this, Bodenstedt yielded to the solicitations of friends to give
in the pages of the popular German magazine _Daheim_ a correct version
of the whole affair.

Let the reader present to his mind's eye a picture of the Eastern
scribe, clad in the apparel before described, seated on the comfortable
divan, with legs crossed after the fashion of the country, the long
_tschibuq_ caressingly held in one hand, the other uplifted, and
with finger pointed to his brow, haranguing the German man of letters
at his side on the advantages to be enjoyed under his tuition, and
on the idle pretensions of those who call themselves learned without
so much as comprehending the sacred languages.

He cherished,
however, the pious hope that in
the course of time, thanks to his efforts, the enlightenment
of the East might take effect in
the West, which hope was strengthened by the
encouraging fact that Bodenstedt was the
fifth scholar who had felt the need of migrating to Tiflis to profit by his
instructions. In his excess of national modesty the wise man of
Gjändsha only styled himself the first wise
man of the East, but since the children of the
West dwelt under
a dark cloud of unbelief, it resulted as a matter of course
that he must be the wisest of all men.

"I, Mirza-Schaffy," said he to his pupil, "am the first
  wise man of the East, consequently thou,
as my disciple, art the second. But misunderstand me not. I
have a friend, Omar Effendi, an extremely wise man, who verily
is not third among the learned scribes of the land.
Did not I live, and were Omar Effendi thy teacher, he would be first, and
thou the second wise man."
On being asked what he
should do if told that the wise men of the West would consider him
as deficient in enlightenment as he did them, he rejoined, "What
could I do but be amazed at their folly?

What new thing can I learn from their
  opinions when they merely repeat my own?" Hence the
  song:
  
  Shall I laugh or fall to wailing That the
  most of men so dumb are, Ever borrowed thoughts
  retailing, And in mother-wit so mum are?
  
    No: thanksgiving heavenward rise That
  fools so crowd this generation, Else the wisdom of the wise Would be
    lost to observation.
  
  Numerous rivals envied Mirza-Schaffy his lessons, for each
  of which he was paid a whole silver ruble--an
  unusually high tuition-fee. Most formidable among
  these was Mirza-Jussuf (Joseph), the wise man of Bagdad, who
    called one day on Bodenstedt and
  boldly informed him that the revered Mirza-Schaffy
  was an Ischekj ("an ass") among the bearers of wisdom--that he
could not write properly, and could not sing at all.

  "And what is wisdom without song?" he exclaimed. "What is Mirza-Schaffy
  compared with me?" With bewildering eloquence he set forth his own
  superior accomplishments, dwelling largely on his name, which had been
  exalted by the Hebrew poet Moses as well as by the Persian poet
  Hafiz, and exerting himself to prove that the significance of a great
  name must be transmitted to all future bearers thereof.

He was still speaking when a measured tread
was heard in the ante-chamber, and Mirza-Schaffy himself
drew near.
THE MINSTRELSY OF THE SCOTTISH BORDER.
GLEANINGS IN BUDDHA-FIELDS, by _Lafcadio Hearn_. (Kegan Paul.)
THE GOLDEN WINDOWS, by _Laura E. Richards_. (Allenson.)
HANS ANDERSEN'S FAIRY TALES.
GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES.
ENGLISH FAIRY TALES, by _Joseph Jacobs_. (Nutt.)
FOLK-TALES FROM MANY LANDS, by _Lilian Gask_. (Harrap.)
CELTIC FAIRY TALES, by _Joseph Jacobs_. (Nutt.)
INDIAN FAIRY TALES, by _Joseph Jacobs_. (Nutt.)
WEST AFRICAN FOLK-TALES, by _W.H. Barker_ and _C. Sinclair_. (Harrap.)
RUSSIAN FAIRY TALES, by _R. Nisbet Bain_. (Harrap.)
COSSACK FAIRY TALES, by _R. Nisbet Bain_. (Harrap.)
THE HAPPY PRINCE, by _Oscar Wilde_. (Nutt.)
DONEGAL FAIRY TALES, by _Seumas McManus_.
IN CHIMNEY CORNERS, by _Seumas McManus_.
THE ARABIAN NIGHTS.
THE BLUE FAIRY BOOK (and others), by _Andrew Lang_. (Longmans.)
FAIRY STORIES, by _John Finnemore_. (S.S. Union.)
THE JAPANESE FAIRY BOOK. (Constable.)
FAIRY TALES FROM FAR JAPAN, translated by _Susan Bollard_.
  (Religious Tract Society.)
IN THE CHILD'S WORLD. (Philip.)
LEGENDS FROM FAIRYLAND, by _Holme Lee_. (Warne.)
THE KING OF THE GOLDEN RIVER, by _John Ruskin_. (Grant Allen.)
THE WELSH FAIRY BOOK, by _Jenkyn Thomas_. (Unwin.)
AT THE BACK OF THE NORTH WIND, by _George Macdonald_. (Blackie.)
TELL-ME-WHY STORIES ABOUT ANIMALS, by _C.H. Claudy_. (Harrap.)
TELL-ME-WHY STORIES ABOUT GREAT DISCOVERIES, by _C.H. Claudy_. (Harrap.)
UNCLE REMUS, by _Joel Chandler Harris_. (Routledge.)
MACAULAY'S LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME.
LE MORTE D'ARTHUR, by _Sir Thomas Malory_. (Macmillan.)
THE BOY'S FROISSART, by _Henry Newbolt_. (Macmillan.)
STORIES FROM DANTE, by _Susan Cunnington_. (Harrap.)
THE JUNGLE BOOKS, by _Rudyard Kipling_. (Macmillan.)
JUST SO STORIES, by _Rudyard Kipling_. (Macmillan.)
WOOD MAGIC, by _Richard Jefferies_. (Longmans.)
AMONG THE FARMYARD PEOPLE, by _Clara D. Pierson_. (Murray.)
AMONG THE NIGHT PEOPLE, by _Clara D. Pierson_. (Murray.)
AMONG THE MEADOW PEOPLE, by _Clara D. At this Sharrkan was
glad and, hastening back to his horse, mounted and
walked him abreast of her, and she kept faring on till they
came to a drawbridge[FN#180] built of beams of the white
poplar, hung by pullies and steel chains and
made fast with hooks and padlocks. When Sharrkan
looked, he saw awaiting her upon the
bridge the same ten handmaids whom she had thrown in the wrestling
bouts; and, as she came up to them, she
said to one in the Greek tongue, "Arise and take the reins of his
horse and conduct him across into the convent."A TREASURY OF VERSE FOR LITTLE CHILDREN,
  compiled by _Madalen Edgar, M.A._ (Harrap.)
A TREASURY OF VERSE FOR BOYS AND GIRLS,
  compiled by _Madalen Edgar, M.A._ (Harrap.)
A TREASURY OF BALLADS, compiled by _Madalen Edgar, M.A._ (Harrap.)
BIMBI, by _Ouida_. (Chatto.)
STORIES FROM SHAKESPEARE, by _Dr Thomas Carter_. (Harrap.)
STORIES FROM THE FAERIE QUEENE, by _Laurence H. Dawson_. (Harrap.)
MORAL TALES, by _Maria Edgeworth_. (Macmillan.)