"When the lungs are filled by a deep inspiration and the breath is held,
the glottis is of necessity closed so tightly that no air can escape. In
this condition the expiratory muscles may be very violently contracted,
and still no air will escape; indeed, the greater the strength exerted
the tighter is the closure of the glottis. Obviously, this closure of
the glottis cannot be effected by the contraction of the glottis-closing
muscles, strictly speaking, for these muscles are too small and weak to
withstand the powerful air pressure exerted against the vocal cords.[4]
The point of resistance is located just above the vocal cords. The
sudden air pressure exerted on the interior walls of the larynx by the
expiratory contraction causes the ventricles of the larynx to expand by
inflation. This inflation of the ventricles brings their upper margins,
formed by the false vocal cords, into contact. Thus the opening from the
larynx into the pharynx is closed. This closure is not effected by any
muscular contraction, therefore it is not dependent on the strength of
the muscular fibers of the false vocal cords. It is an automatic
valvular action, directly under voluntary control so far as the
contraction of the expiratory muscles is concerned, but independent of
volition as regards the action of the false vocal cords. On account of
their important function in this operation the false vocal cords are
called the 'breath-bands.' Closure of the glottis by the inflation of
the ventricles imposes no strain on the vocal cords.

[Note 4: One of the strongest arguments of the "breath-band"
advocates is based on this action,--the resistance of the closed glottis
to a powerful expiratory pressure. The theory of breath-control by
"opposed muscular action" takes no cognizance of this operation. It will
however be shown in Chapter II of Part II that the "breath-band"
theorists are mistaken in asserting that the action of holding the
breath is not performed by the glottis-closing muscles.]

"Control of the breath in singing is effected by this automatic valvular
action. To produce a tone according to this system, the lungs must be
filled and the breath held in the manner just described, while the vocal
cords are brought to the proper degree of tension; then the tone is
started by allowing the 'breath-bands' to separate very slightly, so
that a thin stream of air is forced through the opening between their
margins. The tone is ushered in by a slight explosive sound, which is
nothing but the well-known stroke of the glottis. So long as the
expiratory pressure is steadily maintained, this tone may be held, and
yet no strain is imposed on the vocal cords. Perfect control of the
breath is thus attained. For a powerful tone, the breath blast is
greater, therefore the ventricles are more widely inflated, and the
opening between the 'breath-bands' becomes narrower. The action is
always automatic; once the tone is correctly started, the singer need
pay no further attention to the operation of the 'breath-bands.' All
that is necessary is to maintain a steady breath pressure."

In the methods of all the "breath-band" advocates, the first and most
important step toward perfect tone-production is held to be the
acquirement of this automatic breath-control. As in the "opposed
muscular" system, the initial exercises are toneless drills in
breathing. The basic exercise, of which all the others are variations,
is as follows: "Fill the lungs, then hold the breath an instant, and
forcibly contract all the chest muscles. Then force the air out slowly
and powerfully through the glottis." Practice of this exercise is always
accompanied by a hissing sound, caused by the escape of the air through
the narrow slit between (presumably) the "breath-bands." Tone-production
by the same muscular action is very simple, and requires no further
explanation.

In its practical aspect this system of breath-control is the direct
opposite of the "opposed muscular" system. In one the breath is expelled
powerfully, the object being to bring a strong expiratory pressure to
bear on the larynx. In the other system, the air is held back, in order
that the larynx be exposed to as slight a pressure as possible.

The "breath-band" advocates hold that the glottic stroke is the key to
correct laryngeal action. As a rule they instruct their pupils to attack
every tone, throughout all their practising, with the stroke of the
glottis. In the course of time the automatic valvular action is supposed
to become so well established that the singer can dispense with the
glottic stroke in public performance. Needless to say, these teachers
usually recognize that this explosive sound is very harsh and unmusical,
and utterly out of place in artistic singing.

An important claim of the "breath-band" teachers is that their doctrine
contains the explanation of the traditional precept, "Support the tone."
Their idea is that the throat, being "firmly set," furnishes a secure
base for the tone to rest on. This explanation is of course utterly
unscientific, and it cannot be said to throw any light on the meaning of
the precept. "Singing on the breath" is also referred to this system of
breath-control, but with no more coherence than the "Support of the
tone."

No necessary connection obtains between systems of breath-control and
those of breathing strictly speaking, that is, of inspiration. As has
been said, the great majority of vocal theorists adhere to the "opposed
muscular action" breath-control. In this number are included advocates
of every known system of breathing. Bitter controversies have been
carried on between champions of different modes of breathing, who yet
agree that the breath must be controlled by "opposed action." This is
also true, although not to the same extent, among the "breath-band"
teachers. And to render the confusion on the subject of breathing and
breath-control complete, instances might be cited of controversies
between teachers who agree as to the correct mode of inspiration, and
yet disagree on the manner of controlling the expiration.

Both systems of breath-control cannot be right; if one is correct, the
other must necessarily be absolutely wrong. Instead of attempting to
decide between them, it will be seen that both are false, and that the
theory on which they rest is erroneous. This discussion is reserved for
a later chapter.


CHAPTER III

REGISTERS AND LARYNGEAL ACTION


Probably no other topic of Vocal Science has been studied so earnestly
as the registers of the voice. Yet on no other topic is there such wide
diversity of opinion among theorists and investigators.

Very little is definitely known regarding the manner in which the
subject of registers was treated by the old Italian masters. Suffice it
to say here that the old masters did not refer the registers to changes
in the laryngeal action. They were treated simply as different qualities
of tone, each quality best adapted to be sung only in a portion of the
voice's compass.

In the early decades of the nineteenth century the registers of the
voice received much attention from vocal theorists, especially in Paris.
Garcia's first published work, _Mémoire sur la Voix humaine_, was
presented to the Academy of Sciences in 1840. This Mémoire gives the
results of observations which Garcia made on his own pupils; it deals
mainly with the position of the larynx during the singing of tones in
the various registers. Garcia describes how the larynx is raised and
lowered in the throat, according to the register in which the tones are
produced. He also notes the position of the tongue and the soft palate.

Widespread interest was awakened by the account of Garcia's
laryngoscopic investigations of the registers, published in 1855. The
attention of the great majority of vocalists was at once drawn to the
subject, and the actions of the vocal cords in the different registers
were studied by many prominent physicians and voice specialists.
Exhaustive treatises on the registers have since been published by Mme.
Seiler, Behnke, Curwen, Mills, Battaille, Curtis, Holmes, and by a large
number of other investigators.

All the results of the laryngoscopic investigation of the vocal action
have been disappointing in the extreme. In the first place, no two
observers have obtained exactly the same results. Writing in 1886, Sir
Morell Mackenzie says: "Direct observation with the laryngoscope is, of
course, the best method at our disposal, but that even its testimony is
far from unexceptionable is obvious from the marvelous differences as to
matters of _fact_ that exist among observers. It is hardly too much to
say that no two of them quite agree as to what is seen." (_The Hygiene
of the Vocal Organs_, London, 1886.) Wesley Mills, in his latest work,
endeavors to show a substantial agreement among the best equipped
observers of the registers, but his attempt can hardly be called
convincing. (_Voice Production in Singing and Speaking_, Philadelphia,
1906.) Opinions on the subject of registers, held by the leading voice
specialists to-day, are fully as divergent as in 1886. Widely different
statements are made by prominent authorities as to the number of
registers, the vocal cord action by which each register is produced, and
the number of notes which each one should properly include.

Another deficiency of the doctrine of registers is even more serious in
its bearing on practical instruction. Not only have all investigators
failed to define exactly what the correct laryngeal action is. Even if
this were determined it would still be necessary to find means for
imparting command of this correct action to the student of singing.
Knowing how the vocal cords should act does not help the singer in the
least to govern their action. What the vocal student wishes to know is
how to cause the vocal cords to assume the correct position for each
register. On this, the most important topic of mechanical Voice Culture,
Vocal Science has shed no light whatever. A student may hear
descriptions of the laryngeal action, and study the highly interesting
laryngoscopic photographs of the vocal cords, until thoroughly familiar
with the theoretical side of the subject. Even then, the student is no
better able to control the vocal cord action than when profoundly
ignorant of the whole matter.

This deficiency of Vocal Science is frankly recognized by one of the
latest authoritative writers on the subject, Dr. Wesley Mills. On page
173 of his work just quoted, he advises students to _hear the great
singers_, to note carefully the _quality of tone_ which characterizes
each register, and to _imitate these qualities_ with their own voices.
This advice may almost be described as revolutionary. Vocal theorists
have always assumed that the correct action cannot be acquired by
imitation. In this advice to rely on the imitative faculty for acquiring
control of the laryngeal action, Dr. Mills abandons the basic principle
of modern methods. Without exception, all instruction in singing is
to-day based on the idea of mechanical tone-production. An entirely new
theory of Voice Culture is involved in this advice of Dr. Mills.

Turning to practical methods of instruction, it is found that the
subject of registers is very seldom treated in the manner suggested by
the theoretical works on the voice. This would be, to make the "placing"
of the voice in the different registers the exclusive subject of
instruction for a certain number of lessons;--to train each register of
the voice separately;--when the correct vocal cord action had been
established in each register, to unite the different registers, and to
correct any "breaks" which might have developed. Comparatively few
teachers attempt to follow this course. The great majority treat the
registers in a much less systematic fashion. A single half-hour lesson
usually includes explanations and exercises on several topics of
mechanical tone-production, as well as hints on agility, style,
execution, etc. As merely one of this variety of subjects, the
registers usually receive rather desultory attention.

Some teachers profess to ignore the subject of registers entirely. They
maintain that, when properly trained from the beginning, the compass of
the voice is one homogeneous whole; "breaks" and changes of quality are
in their opinion merely the results of bad instruction. But the general
belief of vocal authorities is overwhelmingly against these teachers.
The condition which they describe is without doubt the ideal of vocal
management; but the vast majority of teachers believe that this
condition cannot be attained without some attention being paid to the
individual registers.

Most teachers recognize either two registers,--chest and head; or
three,--chest, middle, and head. Comparatively few extremists recognize
more than three. Several sets of names for the registers have been
proposed by vocal theorists,--thick and thin, long reed and short reed,
high and low, etc. But these names have not been adopted by teachers to
any extent.

One important phase of the registers has not received much attention
from the laryngoscopic investigators. This is, that most of the notes of
the voice's compass can be produced at will in more than one register.
Vocal teachers as a rule recognize this fact. Julius Stockhausen for
instance, in his _Gesangsmethode_ (Leipzig, 1884), says: "The registers
cross each other. The two principal registers of the voice have many
tones in common. The perfect blending of the registers on a single tone
leads to the _crescendo_, called in Italian the _messa di voce_."
Teachers generally do not set hard and fast limits to the extent of each
register; they direct that in singing up the scale the student pass
gradually from chest to middle, middle to head voice, etc.

In most practical methods the chest register occupies about the same
position; this is also true of the head register. Even those teachers
who profess to ignore registers recognize these two distinct qualities
of tone; they instruct their pupils to sing low notes in one quality,
and high notes in the other. This is in fact the general practice. In
this connection the topics of registers and resonance are often
combined. The terms "head voice," "head register," and "nasal
resonance," are used interchangeably by the great majority of teachers.
This is also true of the expressions "chest voice," "chest resonance,"
and "chest register."

In practical instruction, the extending of the compass of the voice is
usually treated, rather loosely perhaps in most cases, as a feature of
the registers. Methods vary greatly in points of detail, but in most of
them instruction on this topic is given along the same general lines.
Usually the three classes of voices receive different treatment, one
form of instruction being used for sopranos and tenors, another for
mezzo-sopranos and baritones, and a third for altos and bassos.

In teaching students with high voices, teachers usually "place"[5] the
medium notes first, roughly speaking, from G to d (for male voices one
octave lower). Then the lower notes are developed, mostly by descending
scale passages, the lowest note practised being usually C. The high
notes are sometimes "placed" by ascending scale passages and arpeggios,
but more often by the octave jump and descending scale. There is room
for considerable variation in this class of exercises, but they all
conform to the same general principle.

[Note 5: The expression "placing the voice" is more fully treated in
Chap. VI. It is assumed, however, that the reader is familiar with the
ordinary usage of this expression.]

For mezzos and baritones about the same system is followed, the
exercises being sung a major third or so lower. In the case of
contraltos and bassos, the voice is usually trained from the middle in
both directions. Most teachers favor the "chest voice" for singers of
these types throughout the entire compass.

A discussion of the use of special vowels and consonants in this class
of exercises is contained in Chapter V.

It must not be understood that this topic of instruction is assigned by
many teachers to any particular period of the student's progress.
Moreover, practice in the registers seldom forms the exclusive material
of lessons and home study for any definite time. The wide range of
topics considered in the average singing lesson has already been
mentioned.

Very little connection can be traced between the scientific doctrine of
registers, and the treatment which this subject receives in modern
methods. This is only to be expected, in view of the fact that
laryngoscopic investigation has not resulted in practical rules for
managing the vocal cords. The registers of the voice are handled by
modern teachers in a purely empirical fashion.

_Movements of the Larynx, Tongue, and Soft Palate_

It was remarked, in speaking of the registers, that no mechanical means
has ever been found for directly controlling the operations of the vocal
cords. To this statement one apparent exception is seen in the method
originated by John Howard. This earnest student of the voice sought to
carry out, to its logical conclusion, the accepted idea of mechanical
vocal control. In this respect he stands practically alone. His is the
only method which even pretends to reduce the entire operation of
correct tone-production to a set of defined muscular contractions.

Howard's theories, with the details of a practical method based thereon,
are fully described in his most important published work, _The
Physiology of Artistic Singing_, New York, 1886. A complete exposition
of Howard's theories is not called for here. For the present purpose
the following short summary will suffice:

"The difference between correct tone-production and any incorrect vocal
action is solely a matter of laryngeal adjustment and vocal cord action.
Whether the tone produced be right or wrong, the influence of the
resonance cavities is about the same. It is therefore idle to pay any
attention to the subject of air resonance. Only one form of resonance is
of any value in tone-production (considered as distinct from vowel
formation). This is the sounding-board resonance of the bones of the
head and chest. To secure this, the most important reinforcement of the
tone, the larynx must be firmly held in a fixed position against the
backbone, at the fifth cervical vertebra. All theories as to the
registers of the voice, derived from laryngoscopic observation, are
completely erroneous.

"In the production of tone, the muscular tissue of the vocal cords is
thrown into vibration by the air blast, and not merely the membranous
covering of the inner edges of the cords. For a soft tone, only a
portion of the fleshy mass of the vocal cords vibrates; if this tone is
gradually swelled to _fortissimo_, a constantly increasing portion of
the muscular tissue is called into play. For the loudest tone, the
entire mass of the vocal cords is bought into vibration. Thus the
increased volume of the tone results not alone from the increase in the
power of the breath blast. Each addition to the power of the expiration
demands also a change in the adjustment of the vocal cords.

"The contractions of the muscles inside the larynx, including the vocal
cords, cannot be brought under direct voluntary control. But these
contractions can be regulated by the actions of other sets of muscles,
viz., those by which the larynx is connected with the skeletal framework
of the head, neck, and chest. These latter muscles can all be controlled
by direct volition. Each of these sets of muscles has its function in
tone-production. One set pulls the larynx backward, into the position
already described, against the backbone. Two other opposed sets hold the
larynx firmly in this position, one set pulling upward, the other
downward. Finally, and most important in their influence on the actions
of the vocal cords, a fourth set of muscles comes into play. These tilt
the thyroid cartilage forward or backward, and thus bring about a
greater or less tension of the vocal cords, independent of the
contractions of the muscles of the vocal cords themselves. In this way
is regulated the amount of the fleshy mass of the vocal cords exposed to
the expiratory blast. Correct tone-production results when exactly the
necessary degree of strength is exerted by each one of these four sets
of muscles."

For each of these groups of muscles Howard devised a system of exercises
and drills by which the singer is supposed to bring all the movements
involved under direct voluntary control. The parts thus exercised are
the tongue, the soft palate, the jaw, the fauces, and also the muscles
by which the larynx is raised and lowered in the throat, and those by
which the chest is raised. In teaching a pupil Howard took up each part
in turn. A sufficient number of lessons was devoted to each set of
muscles for the pupil (presumably) to acquire the necessary control of
each group.

Howard also paid much attention to the breath; he worked out the system
of high-chest breathing in a really masterly fashion. But his manner of
dealing with this subject did not differ from that of a great number of
other teachers.

Howard retired from active teaching about 1895. His theories of the
vocal action have never been generally accepted by vocal theorists, and
the number of teachers who now profess to follow his method is very
small. There are, however, many other masters whose methods, in their
main features, are patterned after Howard's. These latter teachers may
therefore be justly said to follow the Howard system, even though they
give him no credit for their doctrines of vocal control.

Howard usually insisted that his pupils should understand the
theoretical basis of his method, and the exact purpose of each exercise
and muscular contraction. But as a rule his successors do not make this
demand on their pupils. They are content to have the students practise
the prescribed exercises; this the students do, with very little thought
about the theory lying behind the method. For the pupil this system, as
at present generally taught, consists solely of a series of muscular
drills for the tongue, larynx, palate, etc.

In this review of modern methods, the Howard system is important, mainly
because it represents the consistent application of the idea of
mechanical tone-production. As was observed, Howard's theories had very
little influence on the general trend of Vocal Science. The external
features of the Howard system are indeed shared to some extent by the
methods of many other teachers. Muscular drills of about the same type
are very widely used. Some teachers go so far in this respect that their
methods might almost be confounded with the Howard system. But the
resemblance is purely external. Even in 1880, at the time when Howard
had fairly perfected his method, there was nothing novel about exercises
of this type. The first attempts at a practical study of vocal mechanics
consisted of observations of those parts of the vocal organs whose
movements can be readily seen and felt. These are the lips, tongue,
palate, and larynx. Garcia's _Mémoire_, already cited, is mainly a
record of observations of this kind. Nearly every vocal theorist since
that time has also paid some attention to this phase of the vocal
action.

In practical methods of instruction, elaborate systems of rules have
long been in use for governing the positions of the tongue, lips,
palate, etc. Unlike the Howard theory, no definite scientific basis is
usually given for specific directions of this kind. Each investigator
has simply noted how certain great singers held their tongues or soft
palates, whether the larynx was held high or low in the throat, etc.,
and considered that these must be the correct positions. It would be
hard to find a greater diversity of opinion on any topic connected with
the voice than is encountered here. To enumerate all the rules which are
given for governing the actions of each part would be useless. A few of
the contradictory opinions regarding the correct position of the larynx
will suffice to show how great is the confusion on this topic:

"The larynx should be held low in the throat for all tones." "It should
be held in a fixed position high in the throat." "It should be high for
low tones, and should descend as the pitch rises." "It should be in a
low position for the lowest note of each register, and should rise as
the pitch rises; when the highest note of the register is reached, it
should at once descend for the lowest note of the next register."
Prominent teachers and writers could be cited as authority for each of
these rules, and indeed for several others. A similar diversity of
opinion is found regarding the rules given for the position of the
tongue and the soft palate.

Practices vary greatly as to the amount of time and attention devoted to
muscular drills of the parts under consideration, and also as to the
importance attached to the positions of these parts. Some teachers make
this a prominent feature of their methods. The majority, however, treat
the subject much more lightly. They now and then devote a part of the
lesson time to the muscular drills and exercises; for the rest, an
occasional hint or correction regarding the positions of the parts is
deemed sufficient.

All the movements of the tongue, lips, and jaw are directly under
voluntary control. Exercises for these parts are therefore given only
for acquiring suppleness and agility. The muscular movements of the
larynx and soft palate are readily brought under control. Each can
simply be raised and lowered. A few minutes' daily practice, extended
over three or four weeks, is generally sufficient for the student to
acquire satisfactory command of these actions. But to hold the tongue,
palate, and larynx in any prescribed position, while singing a tone, is
an extremely troublesome matter. Those teachers who adhere to precise
systems for the positions of these parts, frequently impose much arduous
practice on their pupils. As to the merits of any special system of the
kind, this question is reserved for future discussion.

_Attack_

It would be hard to determine when the term "attack" was first used to
describe the starting of a vocal tone. Nor is it easy to define the
precise position assigned to the subject of attack by vocal theorists.
No satisfactory statement of the theory of attack can be cited from any
published treatise on Vocal Science. It is commonly asserted, rather
loosely indeed, that the tone must be "started right." As Clara Kathleen
Rogers expresses it, "Attack the tone badly, and nothing can improve it
afterwards." (_The Philosophy of Singing_, New York, 1893.) This
statement is in the practical sense utterly unfounded. A tone may be
"attacked" with a nasal or throaty quality, and then be improved, by
simply eliminating the objectionable quality. Of this fact the reader
may readily convince himself. In short, all the accepted theories of
attack rest on an unscientific basis.

Vocal theorists generally treat the subject of attack as connected in
some way with registers and laryngeal action. But as no rule has ever
been formulated for the mechanical management of the laryngeal action,
it necessarily follows that no intelligible directions are ever given to
the student for preparing to start the laryngeal action correctly.

Three possible ways of attacking a tone are generally recognized. These
are described by Albert B. Bach, in _The Principles of Singing_, second
edition, London, 1897. They are, first, the stroke of the glottis. (This
is advocated by Garcia in most of his published works, although the
testimony of many of his pupils, notably Mme. Marchesi, is that Garcia
used the glottic stroke very little in actual instruction.) Second, the
aspirate (_h_ as in _have_), which is generally condemned. Third, the
approximation of the vocal cords at the precise instant the breath blast
strikes them. This latter mode of attack is advocated by Browne and
Behnke, who call it the "slide of the glottis." It must be observed
that neither the stroke nor the slide of the glottis can be shown to
have any influence in causing the laryngeal muscles to adopt any
particular mode of adjustment.

Turning to practical methods of instruction, little connection can be
traced between the theories of attack and the occasional directions
usually given for starting the tone. The subject of attack is seldom
assigned to any particular period in the course of study. Many teachers
ignore the matter altogether. Others devote a few minutes now and then
to drilling a pupil in the stroke of the glottis, without attaching much
importance to the subject. (The position assigned to this mode of attack
by the "breath-band" theorists has already been mentioned.) On the
whole, the matter of attack is usually treated rather loosely. The pupil
is occasionally interrupted in singing a phrase, and told to "attack the
tone better." Needless to say, this form of instruction is in no sense
scientific.


CHAPTER IV

RESONANCE


In order to understand fully the position in Vocal Science assigned to
the doctrine of resonance, it is necessary to trace the origin and the
development of this doctrine. The old Italian masters naturally knew
nothing whatever of resonance, nor of any other topic of acoustics. Yet
the accepted theories of resonance in its relation to the voice are
directly based on a set of empirical observations made by the old
masters. The facts which they noted are now a matter of common
knowledge. In singing low notes a sensation of trembling or vibration is
felt in the upper chest; high notes are accompanied by a similar
sensation in the head. How these sensations of vibration came to be made
the basis of the theories of vocal resonance, and of registers as well,
is an interesting bit of vocal history.

Although almost entirely ignorant of vocal mechanics in the scientific
sense, the old masters were eager students of the voice. They carefully
noted the characteristic sound of each tone of the voice, and worked out
what they believed to be a comprehensive theory of tone-production. One
of their observations was that in every voice the low notes have a
somewhat different quality from the high notes. To distinguish these two
qualities of tone the old masters adopted the word used for a similar
purpose by the organ builders,--_register_. Further, they noted the
sensation of vibration in the chest caused by singing low notes, and
concluded that these notes are actually produced in the chest. To the
lower notes of the voice they therefore gave the name "chest register."
As Tosi explains it, "_Voce di Petto_ is a full voice, which comes from
the breast by strength." For a precisely similar reason, viz., the
sensation of vibration in the head felt in singing the higher notes,
this portion of the voice was called by the old masters the "head
register."

When the study of vocal mechanics along scientific lines was undertaken,
in the early decades of the nineteenth century, attention was at first
paid almost exclusively to the subject of registers. The questions then
most discussed were the number of registers, the number of notes which
each should include, and the precise point of production of each
register in the chest, throat, and head. Garcia's _Mémoire_, dealing
with the registers, was noticed in the preceding chapter. He showed that
different adjustments of the tongue, palate, and larynx are concerned in
the production of the various registers. This _Mémoire_ opened up a new
line of observation, in which Garcia continued to take the lead. But the
extending of the scope of inquiry concerning the registers did not
result in any unanimity of opinion on the part of the vocal
investigators of that time.

For a few years following the invention of the laryngoscope (1855),
vocal theorists ceased their disputes about the registers, and awaited
the definite results of this new mode of observation. When this potent
little instrument was put within the reach of every investigator, it was
believed that the mystery surrounding the registers was about to be
dispelled.

One important consequence of the invention of the laryngoscope was the
turning of attention away from the sensations of vibration in the chest
and head. Each register was ascribed to a distinct mode of operation of
the vocal cords, and for several years the terms "chest voice" and "head
voice" were held to be scientifically unsound. But with the publication
of Helmholtz's _Die Lehre von den Tonempfindungen_ in 1863, the
sensations of vibration again received attention. These sensations were
then made the basis of a theory of vocal resonance, which has since been
adopted by the great majority of vocal scientists.

Until the publication of Helmholtz's work vocal theorists had known
practically nothing of acoustics. The fact that the tones produced by
the vocal cords are increased in power and modified in quality by the
resonance of the air in the mouth-pharynx cavity came as a distinct
revelation to the theoretical students of the voice. Helmholtz confined
his experiments and demonstrations to the mouth-pharynx cavity, and
investigated in particular the influence of this cavity in producing the
various vowel and consonant sounds. But vocal theorists at once extended
the idea of air resonance, and connected it with the well-known
sensations of vibration in the chest and head. It was assumed that these
sensations are caused by vibrations of the air in the chest and nasal
cavities.

This assumption has been accepted without question by the great majority
of vocal scientists. Both the chest voice and the head voice are now
believed to owe their distinctive qualities to the reinforcing
vibrations of the air in the chest and nasal cavities respectively. The
mere fact that these vibrations can be felt is held sufficient proof of
the statement. "In every true chest tone the resonance can be distinctly
felt as a vibration (fremitus pectoralis) by the hand laid flat on the
chest." (_Die Kunst der idealen Tonbildung_, Dr. W. Reinecke, Leipzig,
1906.) It must be observed that this is by no means a satisfactory
scientific proof of the doctrine of chest resonance. This feature of the
subject is reserved for discussion later.

