 With magic quickness, a clear space opened through the
ranks of the receding throng, in the direction of this fresh summons,
when the first object that met the eye was the towering form of Ethan
Allen, mounted on a large black horse; he having recently returned
from his captivity, and been appointed, in the quaint language of his
commission, "_to conduct, in behalf of the state, the trial and
execution of that inimical person, David Redding_" [Footnote: David
Redding, the only person ever executed in Vermont for political
offences, was, after changing two or three times from the American to
the British cause, and two trials, hanged July 17, 1777. at 2 o'clock,
P. M.] Next to Allen came the prisoner, riding in an ox-cart, and
sitting between two armed men, who were acting as his special guards.
Then followed a company of soldiers, under the command of another of
our old acquaintances Bill Piper, who had been promoted to a captaincy
in a volunteer service then recently projected; while the president,
secretary, and members of the Council of Safety, succeeded by a band
of private citizens, brought up the rear of the procession. On
reaching its destination, the team was brought to a stand immediately
beneath the gallows, which was a naked cross-tree, set into the ground
like a sign-post, and wholly unprovided with platform, or other of the
usual adjuncts of such structures. Akki, the water-carrier, as his
own child brought me up. Akki, the water-carrier, made me his gardener.
And in my gardenership the goddess Ishtar loved me...."
19.

Whatever his origin and however he came by the royal power, Sargon
was a great monarch. It is said that he undertook successful expeditions
into Syria, and a campaign into Elam; that with captives of the
conquered races he partly peopled his new capital, Agadê, where he
built a palace and a magnificent temple; that on one occasion he was
absent three years, during which time he advanced to the very
shores of the Mediterranean, which he calls "the sea of the setting
sun," and where he left memorial records of his deeds, and returned
home in triumph, bringing with him immense spoils.

The others, the two Woodburns, who remained in the city,
are--as I learn from letters I have recently seen from them or their
scarcely less heroic young wives, left to conduct the affairs of their
respective homes--now in New Jersey, acting under the eye of their
beloved Washington, whose confidence in them in their different
spheres of action--one as the honored colonel of a regiment and the
other as the most trusty and adroit manager in the secret
service--they consider their sufficient reward, and one that was only
wanting to crown that which, on the eve of our memorable battle here,
they received in their wives, and the wealth obtained through the
romantic disclosures of their dying relative, the lamented Father
Herriot. And of the party taken alive by those gallant men, the tory
leader, Peters, was exchanged for several of our imprisoned officers,
and at a bargain which secured us advantages not to be obtained by
stretching his worthless neck; and he has retired into Canada, to sink
into insignificance, despised and hated by those whom his
misrepresentations respecting the alleged easy conquest of our state
so completely deceived. Fitch, after having ransomed himself by the
payment of all he could raise, offered through his fear of a fate to
which, after all, he probably would not have been condemned, sneaked
back to his old haunts in Guilford, where he perished miserably by the
hand of one whom former wrongs, committed in acts of official cruelty
and extortion, had made desperate.