The broader and shorter the loins the more easily will the horse raise
his forequarters and bring up his hindquarters under him. Given these
points, moreover, the belly will appear as small as possible, a portion
of the body which if large is partly a disfigurement and partly tends to
make the horse less strong and capable of carrying weight. (26)

 (26) Al. "more feeble at once and ponderous in his gait."

The quarters should be broad and fleshy in correspondence with the sides
and chest, and if they are also firm and solid throughout they will be
all the lighter for the racecourse, and will render the horse in every
way more fleet.

To come to the thighs (and buttocks): (27) if the horse have these
separated by a broad line of demarcation (28) he will be able to plant
his hind-legs under him with a good gap between; (29) and in so doing
will assume a posture (30) and a gait in action at once prouder and more
firmly balanced, and in every way appear to the best advantage.

 (27) Lit. "the thighs beneath the tail."

 (28) Reading {plateia to gramme diorismenous ekhe}, sc. the perineum.
    Al. Courier (after Apsyrtus), op. cit. p. 14, {plateis te kai me
    diestrammenous}, "broad and not turned outwards."

 (29) Or, "he will be sure to spread well behind," etc.

 (30) {ton upobasin}, tech. of the crouching posture assumed by the
    horse for mounting or "in doing the demi-passade" (so Morgan, op.
    cit. p. 126).

The human subject would seem to point to this conclusion. When a
man wants to lift anything from off the ground he essays to do so by
bringing the legs apart and not by bringing them together.

A horse ought not to have large testicles, though that is not a point to
be determined in the colt.

One hour of sun and the streams are no more; One little grief -- how
the tears gush and glide!
One smile -- flow they ever so fast, they are dried.

 Those hearts of ours -- how wise! how wise!
    They can lift their thoughts till they touch the skies; They can
    sink their shafts, like a miner bold, Where wisdom's mines hide
their pearls and gold.

Aloft they soar with undazzled gaze, Where the halls of the Day-King burn
and blaze; Or they fly with a wing that will never fail, O'er the
sky's dark sea where the star-ships sail.The colt with the longest shanks at the moment
of being foaled will grow into the biggest horse; the fact being--and it
holds of all the domestic quadrupeds (32)--that with advance of time the
legs hardly increase at all, while the rest of the body grows uniformly
up to these, until it has attained its proper symmetry.

 (32) Cf. Aristot. "de Part. Anim." iv. 10; "H. A." ii. 1; Plin. "N.
    H." xi. 108.

Such is the type (33) of colt and such the tests to be applied, with
every prospect of getting a sound-footed, strong, and fleshy animal
fine of form and large of stature. If changes in some instances develop
during growth, that need not prevent us from applying our tests in
confidence. It far more often happens that an ugly-looking colt will
turn out serviceable, (34) than that a foal of the above description
will turn out ugly or defective.

 (33) Lit. "by testing the shape of the colt in this way it seems to us
    the purchaser will get," etc.

 (34) For the vulg. {eukhroastoi}, a doubtful word = "well coloured,"
    i.e. "sleek and healthy," L. & S. would read {eukhrooi} (cf. "Pol.
    Lac." v. 8). L. Dind. conj. {enrostoi}, "robust"; Schneid.
    {eukhrestoi}, "serviceable."


II

The right method of breaking a colt needs no description at our hands.
(1) As a matter of state organisation, (2) cavalry duties usually
devolve upon those who are not stinted in means, and who have a
considerable share in the government; (3) and it seems far better for
a young man to give heed to his own health of body and to horsemanship,
or, if he already knows how to ride with skill, to practising manouvres,
than that he should set up as a trainer of horses. (4) The older man has
his town property and his friends, and the hundred-and-one concerns of
state or of war, on which to employ his time and energies rather than on
horsebreaking. It is plain then that any one holding my views (5) on
the subject will put a young horse out to be broken. But in so doing he
ought to draw up articles, just as a father does when he apprentices his
son to some art or handicraft, stating what sort of knowledge the
young creature is to be sent back possessed of. These will serve as
indications (6) to the trainer what points he must pay special heed to
if he is to earn his fee. At the same time pains should be taken on
the owner's part to see that the colt is gentle, tractable, and
affectionate, (7) when delivered to the professional trainer. That is a
condition of things which for the most part may be brought about at home
and by the groom--if he knows how to let the animal connect (8) hunger
and thirst and the annoyance of flies with solitude, whilst associating
food and drink and escape from sources of irritation with the presence
of man. As the result of this treatment, necessarily the young horse
will acquire--not fondness merely, but an absolute craving for human
beings. All lost! a nation weeps; By all the tears that fall, He loses
naught who conscience keeps, Lee's honor saves us all.

All lost! but e'en defeat Hath triumphs of her own, Wrong's paean
hath no note so sweet As trampled Right's proud moan.

 (1) Or, "The training of the colt is a topic which, as it seems to us,
    may fairly be omitted, since those appointed for cavalry service
    in these states are persons who," etc. For reading see Courier,
    "Notes," p. 84.

 (2) "Organisation in the several states."

 (3) Or, "As a matter of fact it is the wealthiest members of the
    state, and those who have the largest stake in civic life, that
    are appointed to cavalry duties." See "Hippparch," i. 9.

 (4) Cf. "Econ." iii. 10.

 (5) {ego}. Hitherto the author has used the plural {emin} with which
    he started.

 (6) Reading {upodeigmata}, "finger-post signs," as it were, or "draft
    in outline"; al. {upomnemata} = "memoranda."

 (7) "Gentle, and accustomed to the hand, and fond of man."

 (8) Lit. "if he knows how to provide that hunger and thirst, etc.,
    should be felt by the colt in solitude, whilst food and drink,
    etc., come through help of man."

The groom should have standing orders to take his charge through crowds,
and to make him familiar with all sorts of sights and noises; and if the
colt shows sign of apprehension at them, (9) he must teach him--not by
cruel, but by gentle handling--that they are not really formidable.

 (9) Or, "is disposed to shy."

On this topic, then, of training, (10) the rules here given will, I
think, suffice for any private individual.

 (10) Or, "In reference to horsebreaking, the above remarks will
    perhaps be found sufficient for the practical guidance of an
    amateur."


III

To meet the case in which the object is to buy a horse already fit
for riding, we will set down certain memoranda, (1) which, if applied
intelligently, may save the purchaser from being cheated.

 (1) "Which the purchaser should lay to heart, if he does not wish to
    be cheated."

First, then, let there be no mistake about the age. If the horse
has lost his mark teeth, (2) not only will the purchaser's hopes be
blighted, but he may find himself saddled for ever with a sorry bargain.
(3)

 (2) Or, "the milk teeth," i.e. is more than five years old. See
    Morgan, p. 126.

 (3) Lit. "a horse that has lost his milk teeth cannot be said to
    gladden his owner's mind with hopes, and is not so easily disposed
    of."

