"You still speak to me with bitterness," she said; "I have not deserved
it.  Do you suppose, because I speak not of this fearful conspiracy, that
I have forgotten it?  Do you not see me miserable at the thought?  Must
you see my tears?  Behold them; I shed enough in secret.  Henri, believe
that if I have avoided this terrible subject in our last interviews, it
is from the fear of learning too much.  Have I any other thought that
that of your dangers?  Do I not know that it is for me you incur them?
Alas!  if you fight for me, have I not also to sustain attacks no less
cruel?  Happier than I, you have only to combat hatred, while I struggle
against friendship.  The Cardinal will oppose to you men and weapons; but
the Queen, the gentle Anne of Austria, employs only tender advice,
caresses, sometimes tears."

"Touching and invincible constraint to make you accept a throne," said
Cinq-Mars, bitterly.  "I well conceive you must need some efforts to
resist such seductions; but first, Madame, I must release you from your
vows."

"Alas, great Heaven!  what is there, then, against us?"

"There is God above us, and against us," replied Henri, in a severe tone;
"the King has deceived me."

There was an agitated movement on the part of the Abbe.

Marie exclaimed, "I foresaw it; this is the misfortune I dreamed and
dreamed of!  It is I who caused it?"

"He deceived me, as he pressed my hand," continued Cinq-Mars; "he
betrayed me by the villain Joseph, whom an offer has been made to me to
poniard."

The Abbe gave a start of horror which half opened the door of the
confessional.

"O father, fear nothing," said Henri d'Effiat; "your pupil will never
strike such blows.  Those I prepare will be heard from afar, and the
broad day will light them up; but there remains a duty--a sacred duty--
for me to fulfil.  Behold your son sacrifice himself before you!  Alas!
I have not lived long in the sight of happiness, and I am about, perhaps,
to destroy it by your hand, that consecrated it."

As he spoke, he opened the light grating which separated him from his old
tutor; the latter, still observing an extraordinary silence, passed his
hood over his forehead.

"Restore this nuptial ring to the Duchesse de Mantua," said Cinq-Mars,
in a tone less firm; "I can not keep it unless she give it me a second
time, for I am not the same whom she promised to espouse."

The priest hastily seized the ring, and passed it through the opposite
grating; this mark of indifference astonished Cinq-Mars.

"What!  Father," he said, "are you also changed?"

Marie wept no longer; but, raising her angelic voice, which awakened a
faint echo along the aisles of the church, as the softest sigh of the
organ, she said, returning the ring to Cinq-Mars:

"O dearest, be not angry!  I comprehend you not.  Can we break asunder
what God has just united, and can I leave you, when I know you are
unhappy?  If the King no longer loves you, at least you may be assured he
will not harm you, since he has not harmed the Cardinal, whom he never
loved.  Do you think yourself undone, because he is perhaps unwilling to
separate from his old servant?  Well, let us await the return of his
friendship; forget these conspirators, who affright me.  If they give up
hope, I shall thank Heaven, for then I shall no longer tremble for you.
Why needlessly afflict ourselves?  The Queen loves us, and we are both
very young; let us wait.  The future is beautiful, since we are united
and sure of ourselves.  Tell me what the King said to you at Chambord.
I followed you long with my eyes.  Heavens!  how sad to me was that
hunting party!"

"He has betrayed me, I tell you," answered Cinq-Mars.  "Yet who could
have believed it, that saw him press our hands, turning from his brother
to me, and to the Duc de Bouillon, making himself acquainted with the
minutest details of the conspiracy, of the very day on which Richelieu
was to be arrested at Lyons, fixing himself the place of his exile (our
party desired his death, but the recollection of my father made me ask
his life).  The King said that he himself would direct the whole affair
at Perpignan; yet just before, Joseph, that foul spy, had issued from out
of the cabinet du Lys.  O Marie!  shall I own it?  at the moment I heard
this, my very soul was tossed.  I doubted everything; it seemed to me
that the centre of the world was unhinged when I found truth quit the
heart of the King.  I saw our whole edifice crumble to the ground;
another hour, and the conspiracy would vanish away, and I should lose you
forever.  One means remained; I employed it."

"What means?"  said Marie.

"The treaty with Spain was in my hand; I signed it."

"Ah, heavens! destroy it."

"It is gone."

"Who bears it?"

"Fontrailles."

"Recall him."

"He will, ere this, have passed the defiles of Oleron," said Cinq-Mars,
rising up.  "All is ready at Madrid, all at Sedan.  Armies await me,
Marie--armies!  Richelieu is in the midst of them.  He totters; it needs
but one blow to overthrow him, and you are mine forever--forever the wife
of the triumphant Cinq-Mars."

"Of Cinq-Mars the rebel," she said, sighing.

"Well, have it so, the rebel; but no longer the favorite.  Rebel,
criminal, worthy of the scaffold, I know it," cried the impassioned
youth, falling on his knees; "but a rebel for love, a rebel for you,
whom my sword will at last achieve for me."

"Alas, a sword imbrued in the blood of your country!  Is it not a
poniard?"

"Pause!  for pity, pause, Marie!  Let kings abandon me, let warriors
forsake me, I shall only be the more firm; but a word from you will
vanquish me, and once again the time for reflection will be passed from
me.  Yes, I am a criminal; and that is why I still hesitate to think
myself worthy of you.  Abandon me, Marie; take back the ring."

"I can not," she said; "for I am your wife, whatever you be."

"You hear her, father!"  exclaimed Cinq-Mars, transported with happiness;
"bless this second union, the work of devotion, even more beautiful than
that of love.  Let her be mine while I live."

Without answering, the Abbe opened the door of the confessional and had
quitted the church ere Cinq-Mars had time to rise and follow him.

Soon after the termination of this contest the Constitution of
Syracuse was rendered still more democratic by the adoption of a
new code of laws, prepared by Di'ocles, an eminent citizen, who
became the director of the government.

But D'Effiat, agitated, and without answering her, rushed forth, and
sought his late tutor through the church, but in vain.  Drawing his
sword, he proceeded to the entrance which Grandchamp had to guard; he
called him and listened.

"Now let him go," said a voice at the corner of the street; and at the
same moment was heard the galloping of horses.

"Grandchamp, wilt thou answer?"  cried Cinq-Mars.

"Help, Henri, my dear boy!"  exclaimed the voice of the Abbe Quillet.

"Whence come you?  You endanger me," said the grand ecuyer, approaching
him.

But he saw that his poor tutor, without a hat in the falling snow, was in
a most deplorable condition.

"They stopped me, and they robbed me," he cried.  "The villains, the
assassins!  they prevented me from calling out; they stopped my mouth
with a handkerchief."

At this noise, Grandchamp at length came, rubbing his eyes, like one just
awakened.  Laure, terrified, ran into the church to her mistress; all
hastily followed her to reassure Marie, and then surrounded the old Abbe.

"The villains!  they bound my hands, as you see.  There were more than
twenty of them; they took from me the key of the side door of the
church."

"How!  just now?"  said Cinq-Mars; "and why did you quit us?"

"Quit you!  why, they have kept me there two hours."

"Two hours!"  cried Henri, terrified.

