Ebbo, who felt it a necessity to come to an understanding of the
terms on which they were to stand, tried to refer matters to him, and
to explain the past, but he was met sometimes by a shake of the head,
sometimes by a nod--not of assent, but of sleep; and his mother
advised him not to harass the wearied traveller, but to leave him to
himself at least for that day, and let him take his own time for
exertion, letting things meantime go on as usual.  Ebbo obeyed, but
with a load at his heart, as he felt that all he was doing was but
provisional, and that it would be his duty to resign all that he had
planned, and partly executed, to this incompetent, ignorant rule.  He
could certainly, when not serving the Emperor, go and act for himself
at Thekla's dower castle of Felsenbach, and his mother might save
things from going to utter ruin at Adlerstein; but no reflection or
self-reproach could make it otherwise than a bitter pill to any
Telemachus to have to resign to one so unlike Ulysses in all but the
length of his wanderings,--one, also, who seemed only half to like,
and not at all to comprehend, his Telemachus.

Meantime Ebbo attended to such matters as were sure to come each day
before the Herr Freiherr.  Are you serious?

TARLETON. I dont mean his books. Read his letters to his family.
Read any man's letters to his children. Theyre not human. Theyre not
about himself or themselves. Theyre about hotels, scenery, about
the weather, about getting wet and losing the train and what he
saw on the road and all that. Not a word about himself. Forced.
Shy. Duty letters. All fit to be published: that says everything.
I tell you theres a wall ten feet thick and ten miles high between
parent and child. I know what I'm talking about. Ive girls in my
employment:
girls and young men. I had ideas on the subject. I used to go to
the parents and tell them not to let their children go out into the
world without instruction in the dangers and temptations they were
going to be thrown into.Mother Grethel's ewe had
fallen into a cleft; her son came to borrow a rope, and ask aid, and
the Baron must superintend the hoisting the poor beast up again.
Hans had found the track of a wolf, and knew the hole where a litter
of cubs abode; the Freiherr, his wolf-hound, and his spear were
wanted for their destruction.  Dietrich could not tell how to manage
his new arquebus:  the Baron must teach him to take aim.  Then there
was a letter from Ulm to invite the Baron to consult on the tax
demanded by the Emperor for his Italian war, and how far it should
concern the profits of the bridge; and another letter from the
Markgraf of Wurtemburg, as chief of the Swabian League, requesting
the Lord of Adlerstein to be on the look-out for a band of robbers,
who were reported to be in neighbouring hills, after being hunted out
of some of their other lurking-places.

That very night, or rather nearly at the dawn of a summer morning,
there was a yelling below the castle, and a flashing of torches, and
tidings rang through it that a boor on the outskirts of the mountain
had had his ricks fired and his cattle driven by the robbers, and his
young daughters carried off.  Old Sir Eberhard hobbled down to the
hall in time to see weapons flashing as they were dealt out, to hear
a clear decided voice giving orders, to listen to the tramp of horse,
and watch more reitern pass out under the gateway than ever the
castle had counted in his father's time.  Then he went back to his
bed, and when he came down in the morning, found all the womankind of
the castle roasting and boiling.  And, at noon, little Thekla came
rushing down from the watch-tower with news that all were coming home
up the Eagle's Steps, and she was sure HER baron had sent her, and
waved to her.  Soon after, HER baron in his glittering steel rode his
cream-coloured charger (once Friedel's) into the castle court,
followed by his exultant merrymen.  They had overtaken the thieves in
good time, made them captives, and recovered the spoil unhurt; and
Heinz and Koppel made the castle ring with the deed of their young
lord, who had forced the huge leader of the band to the earth, and
kept him down by main strength till they could come to bind him.

"By main strength?" slowly asked Sir Eberhard, who had been stirred
into excitement.

"He was a loose-limbed, awkward fellow," said Ebbo, "less strong than
he looked."

"Not only that, Sir," said Heinz, looking from his old master to his
young one; "but old iron is not a whit stronger than new steel,
though the one looks full of might, and you would think the other but
a toy."

"And what have you done with the rogues' heads?" asked the old
knight.  "I looked to see them on your spears.  Or have you hung
them?"

"Not so, Sir," said Ebbo.  "I sent the men off to Stuttgard with an
escort.  I dislike doing execution ourselves; it makes the men so
lawless.  Besides, this farmer was Schlangenwalder."

"And yet he came to you for redress?"

"Yes, for Sir Dankwart is at his commandery, and he and I agreed to
look after each other's lands."

Sir Eberhard retired to his chair as if all had gone past his
understanding, and thence he looked on while his son and wife
hospitably regaled, and then dismissed, their auxiliaries in the
rescue.

Afterwards Christina told her son that she thought his father was
rested, and would be better able to attend to him, and Ebbo, with a
painful swelling in his heart, approached him deferentially, with a
request that he would say what was his pleasure with regard to the
Emperor, to whom acknowledgments must in the first place be made for
his release, and next would arise the whole question of homage and
investiture.

"Look you here, fair son," said Sir Eberhard, rousing himself, "these
things are all past me.  I'll have none of them.  You and your Kaisar
understand one another, and your homage is paid.  It boots not
changing all for an old fellow that is but come home to die."

"Nay, father, it is in the order of things that you should be lord
here."

"I never was lord here, and, what is more, I would not, and could not
be.  Son, I marked you yesterday.  You are master as never was my
poor father, with all the bawling and blows that used to rule the
house, while these fellows mind you at a word, in a voice as quiet as
your mother's.  Besides, what should I do with all these mills and
bridges of yours, and Diets, and Leagues, and councils enough to
addle a man's brain?  No, no; I could once slay a bear, or strike a
fair stroke at a Schlangenwalder, but even they got the better of me,
and I am good for nothing now but to save my soul.  I had thought to
do it as a hermit up there; but my little Christina thinks the saints
will be just as well pleased if I tell my beads here, with her to
help me, and I know that way I shall not make so many mistakes.  So,
young Sir, if you can give the old man a corner of the hearth while
he lives, he will never interfere with you.  And, maybe, if the
castle were in jeopardy in your absence, with that new-fangled road
up to it, he could tell the fellows how to hold it out."

"Sir--dear father," cried the ardent Ebbo, "this is not a fit state
of things.  I will spare you all trouble and care; only make me not
undutiful; take your own place.  Mother, convince him!"

"No, my son," said Sir Eberhard; "your mother sees what is best for
me.  I only want to be left to her to rest a little while, and repent
of my sinful life.  As Heinz says, the rusty old iron must lie by
while the new steel does the work.  It is quiet that I need.  It is
joy enough for me to see what she has made you, and all around.  Ah!
Stine, my white dove, I knew thine was a wise head; but when I left
thee, gentle little frightened, fluttering thing, how little could I
have thought that all alone, unaided, thou wouldst have kept that
little head above water, and made thy son work out all these changes-
-thy doing--and so I know they are good and seemly.  I see thou hast
made him clerkly, quick-witted, and yet a good knight.  Ah! thou
didst tell me oft that our lonely pride was not high nor worthy fame.
Stine, how didst do it?"

"I did it not, dear husband; God did it for me.  He gave the boys the
loving, true tempers that worked out the rest!  He shielded them and
me in our days of peril."

"Yes, father," added Ebbo, "Providence guarded us; but, above all,
our chief blessing has been the mother who has made one of us a holy
saint, and taught the other to seek after him!  Father, I am glad you
see how great has been the work of the Dove you brought to the
Eagle's Nest."


CHAPTER XXV:  THE STAR AND THE SPARK


The year 1531 has begun, and Schloss Adlerstein remains in its
strength on the mountain side, but with a look of cultivation on its
environs such as would have amazed Kunigunde.  Vines run up trellises
against the rocks; pot-herbs and flowers nestle in the nooks;
outbuildings cluster round it; and even the grim old keep has a range
of buildings connected with it, as if the household had entirely
outgrown the capacities of the square tower.

Yet the old hall is still the chief place of assembly, and now that
it has been wainscoted, with a screen of carved wood to shut off the
draughty passages, and a stove of bright tiles to increase the
warmth, it is far more cheerful.  Moreover, a window has been opened
showing the rich green meadow below, with the bridge over the
Braunwasser, and the little church, with a spire of pierced lace-
work, and white cottages peeping out of the retreating forest.

That is the window which the Lady Baroness loves.  See her there, the
lovely old lady of seventy-five--yes, lovelier than ever, for her
sweet brown eyes have the same pensive, clear beauty, enhanced by the
snowy whiteness of her hair, of which a soft braid shows over the
pure pale brow beneath the white band, and sweeping black veil, that
she has worn by right for twenty years.  But the slight form is
active and brisk, and there are ready smiles and looks of interest
for the pretty fair-haired maidens, three in number, who run in and
out from their household avocations to appeal to the "dear
grandmother," mischievously to tell of the direful yawns proceeding
from brothers Ebbo and Gottfried over their studies with their tutor,
or to gaze from the window and wonder if the father, with the two
brothers, Friedel Max and Kasimir, will return from Ulm in time for
the "mid-day eating."

Ah! there they are.  Quick-eyed Vittoria has seen the cavalcade
first, and dances off to tell Ermentrude and Stine time enough to
prepare their last batch of fritters for the new-comers; Ebbo and
Gotz rush headlong down the hillside; and the Lady Baroness lays down
her distaff, and gazes with eyes of satisfied content at the small
party of horsemen climbing up the footpath.  Then, when they have
wound out of sight round a rock, she moves out towards the hall-door,
with a light, quick step, for never yet has she resigned her great
enjoyment, that of greeting her son on the steps of the porch--those
steps where she once met such fearful news, but where that memory has
been effaced by many a cheerful welcome.

There, then, she stands, amid the bright throng of grandchildren,
while the Baron and his sons spring from their horses and come up to
her.  The Baron doffs his Spanish hat, bends the knee, kisses her
hand, and receives her kiss on his brow, with the fervour of a life-
devotion, before he turns to accept the salutation of his daughters,
and then takes her hand, with pretty affectionate ceremony, to hand
her back to her seat.  A few words pass between them.  "No,
motherling," he says, "I signed it not; I will tell you all by and
by."

Wade Hampton was a type of the large slaveholders of the South.
Nearly sixty years of age, self-important, fiery and over-indulgent
in drink, of large, imposing figure, of some reputed service in the
Revolution, and with a record as Congressman and Presidential
elector, he was one whose chief virtues were not patience and
humility. In 1809 he had been made a brigadier-general and stationed
at New Orleans; but in consequence of continual disagreements with
his subordinates, was superseded in 1812 by Wilkinson, whom he
consequently hated. In the spring of 1813 he received his Major-General's
commission. He had acquired his large fortune by land speculations,
and at his death some time later was supposed to be the wealthiest
planter in the United States, owning 3,000 slaves. He is said to have
ably administered his estate.[9]
Hampton had another slave-holding South Carolinian by his side,
young Brigadier-General George Izard, son and descendant of aristocrats
and statesmen, well-educated in the soldier's profession, college-bred,
travelled, and who had served in the French Army.

Izard led the main column at the battle shortly to ensue.[10]
Another officer of the circle--who seems to have been the ablest--was
Colonel James Purdy, on whom the brunt of the American work and fighting
were to fall, and who seems to have done his best in a struggle against
natural difficulties and against the incompetency of both his commander
and men.

When Hampton moved to Four Corners, Lieut-Colonel De Salaberry,
with the Canadian Voltigeurs, moved in like manner westward to
the region of the Châteauguay and English Rivers. The Voltigeur
troops were French-Canadians with a small sprinkling of British.
Their organization was as follows:--Sir George Prevost, on the approach
of war, May 28th, 1812, ordered the levy of four French volunteer
battalions, to be made up of unmarried men from 18 to 25 years
old.
They were to be choice troops, and trained like regulars.
He has
chosen his seat in full view of a picture that hangs on the
wainscoted wall, near his mother--a picture whose pure ethereal
tinting, of colour limpid as the rainbow, yet rich as the most
glowing flower-beds; and its soft lovely pose, and rounded outlines,
prove it to be no produce even of one of the great German artists of
the time, but to have been wrought, under an Italian sky, by such a
hand as left us the marvellous smile of Mona Lisa.  It represents two
figures, one unmistakably himself when in the prime of life, his brow
and cheeks unfurrowed, and his hair still thick, shining brown, but
with the same grave earnestness of the dark eye that came with the
early sense of responsibility, and with the first sorrow of his
youth.  The other figure, one on which the painter evidently loved to
dwell, is of a lady, so young that she might almost pass for his
daughter, except for the peculiar, tender sweetness that could only
become the wife and mother.  Fair she is as snow, with scarce a
deepening of the rose on cheek, or even lip, fragile and transparent
as a spiritual form, and with a light in the blue eyes, and a grace
in the soft fugitive smile, that scarce seems to belong to earth; a
beauty not exactly of feature, but rather the pathetic loveliness of
calm fading away--as if she were already melting into the clear blue
sky with the horizon of golden light, that the wondrous power of art
has made to harmonize with, but not efface, her blue dress, golden
hair, white coif, and fair skin.  It is as if she belonged to that
sky, and only tarried as unable to detach herself from the clasp of
the strong hand round and in which both her hands are twined; and
though the light in her face may be from heaven, yet the whole
countenance is fixed in one absorbed, almost worshipping gaze of her
husband, with a wistful simplicity and innocence on devotion, like
the absorption of a loving animal, to whom its master's presence is
bliss and sunshine.  It is a picture to make light in a dark place,
and that sweet face receives a loving glance, nay, an absolutely
reverent bend of the knightly head, as the Baron seats himself.

"So it was as we feared, and this Schmalkaldic League did not suit
thy sense of loyalty, my son?" she asks, reading his features
anxiously.

"No, mother.  I ever feared that further pressure would drive our
friends beyond the line where begin schism and rebellion; and it
seems to me that the moment is come when I must hold me still, or
transgress mine own sense of duty.  I must endure the displeasure of
many I love and respect."

"Surely, my son, they have known you too long and too well not to
respect your motives, and know that conscience is first with you."

"Scarce may such confidence be looked for, mother, from the most
part, who esteem every man a traitor to the cause if he defend it not
precisely in the fashion of their own party.  But I hear that the
King of France has offered himself as an ally, and that Dr. Luther,
together with others of our best divines, have thereby been startled
into doubts of the lawfulness of the League."

"And what think you of doing, my son?"

"I shall endeavour to wait until such time as the much-needed General
Council may proclaim the ancient truth, and enable us to avouch it
without disunion.  Into schism I WILL not be drawn.  I have held
truth all my life in the Church, nor will I part from her now.  If
intrigues again should prevail, then, Heaven help us!  Meantime,
mother, the best we can, as has ever been your war-cry."

"And much has been won for us.  Here are the little maidens, who,
save Vittoria, would never have been scholars, reading the Holy Word
daily in their own tongue."

"Ach, I had not told you, mother!  I have the Court Secretary's
answer this day about that command in the Kaisar's guards that my
dear old master had promised to his godson."

"Another put-off with Flemish courtesy, I see by thy face, Ebbo."

"Not quite that, mother.  The command is ready for the Baron
Friedmund Maximilianus von Adlerstein Wildschloss, and all the rest
of it, on the understanding that he has been bred up free from all
taint of the new doctrine."

"New?  Nay, it is the oldest of all doctrine."

"Even so.  As I ever said, Dr. Luther hath been setting forth in
greater clearness and fulness what our blessed Friedel and I learnt
at your knee, and my young ones have learnt from babyhood of the true
Catholic doctrine.  Yet I may not call my son's faith such as the
Kaisar's Spanish conscience-keepers would have it, and so the boy
must e'en tarry at home till there be work for his stout arm to do."

"He seems little disappointed.  His laugh comes ringing the loudest
of all."

"The Junker is more of a boy at two-and-twenty than I ever recollect
myself!  He lacks not sense nor wit, but a fray or a feast, a chase
or a dance, seem to suffice him at an age when I had long been
dwelling on matters of moment."

"Thou wast left to be thine own pilot; he is but one of thy gay crew,
and thus even these stirring times touch him not so deeply as thou
wert affected by thine own choice in life between disorderly freedom
and honourable restraint."

"I thought of that choice to-day, mother, as I crossed the bridge and
looked at the church; and more than ever thankful did I feel that our
blessed Friedel, having aided me over that one decisive pass, was
laid to rest, his tender spirit unvexed by the shocks and divisions
that have wrenched me hither and thither."

"Nay; not hither and thither.  Ever hadst thou a resolute purpose and
aim."

"Ever failed in by my own error or that of others--What, thou
nestling here, my little Vittoria, away from all yonder prattle?"

"Dear father, if I may, I love far best to hear you and the
grandmother talk."

"Hear the child!  She alone hath your face, mother, or Friedel's
eyes!  Is it that thou wouldst be like thy noble Roman godmother, the
Marchesa di Pescara, that makes thee seek our grave company, little
one?"

"I always long to hear you talk of her, and of the Italian days, dear
father, and how you won this noble jewel of yours."

"Ah, child, that was before those times!  It was the gift of good
Kaisar Max at his godson's christening, when he filled your sweet
mother with pretty spite by persuading her that it was a little
golden bear-skin."

"Tell her how you had gained it, my son."

"By vapouring, child; and by the dull pride of my neighbours.
Heard'st thou never of the siege of Padua, when we had Bayard, the
best knight in Europe, and 500 Frenchmen for our allies?  Our
artillery had made a breach, and the Kaisar requested the French
knights to lead the storm, whereto they answered, Well and good, but
our German nobles must share the assault, and not leave them to fight
with no better backers than the hired lanzknechts.  All in reason,
quoth I, and more shame for us not to have been foremost in our
Kaisar's own cause; but what said the rest of our misproud chivalry?
They would never condescend to climb a wall on foot in company with
lanzknechts!  On horseback must their worships fight, or not at all;
and when to shame them I called myself a mountaineer, more used to
climb than to ride, and vowed that I should esteem it an honour to
follow such a knight as Bayard, were it on all fours, then cast they
my burgher blood in my teeth.  Never saw I the Kaisar so enraged; he
swore that all the common sense in the empire was in the burgher
blood, and that he would make me a knight of the noblest order in
Europe to show how he esteemed it.  And next morning he was gone!  So
ashamed was he of his own army that he rode off in the night, and
sent orders to break up the siege.  I could have torn my hair, for I
had just lashed up a few of our nobles to a better sense of honour,
and we would yet have redeemed our name!  And after all, the Chapter
of proud Flemings would never have admitted me had not the heralds
hunted up that the Sorels were gentlemen of blood and coat armour
long ago at Liege.  I am glad my father lived to see that proved,
mother.  He could not honour thee more than he did, but he would have
been sorely grieved had I been rejected.  He often thought me a
mechanical burgher, as it was."

"Not quite so, my son.  He never failed to be proud of thy deeds,
even when he did not understand them; but this, and the grandson's
birth, were the crowning joys of his life."

"Yes, those were glad triumphant years, take them all in all, ere the
Emperor sent me to act ambassador in Rome, and we left you the two
elder little girls and the boy to take care of.  My dear little
Thekla!  She had a foreboding that she might never see those children
more, yet would she have pined her heart away more surely had I left
her at home!  I never was absent a week but I found her wasted with
watching for me."

"It was those weary seven years of Italy that changed thee most, my
son."

"Apart from you, mother, and knowing you now indeed to be widowed,
and with on the one hand such contradictory commands from the Emperor
as made me sorely ashamed of myself, of my nation, and of the man
whom I loved and esteemed personally the most on earth, yet bound
there by his express command, while I saw my tender wife's health
wasting in the climate day by day!  Oh, I daresay it's vulgar; but
theres no other word for it.
I'm fed up with nice things: with respectability, with propriety!
When a woman has nothing to do, money and respectability mean that
nothing is ever allowed to happen to her. I dont want to be good;
and I dont want to be bad: I just dont want to be bothered about
either good or bad: I want to be an active verb.

LORD SUMMERHAYS. An active verb? Oh, I see. An active verb signifies
to be, to do, or to suffer.

HYPATIA. Just so: how clever of you! I want to be; I want to do;
and I'm game to suffer if it costs that. But stick here doing nothing
but being good and nice and ladylike I simply wont. Stay down here
with us for a week; and I'll shew you what it means: shew it to you
going on day after day, year after year, lifetime after lifetime.and which he had only failed to send because
his head was running on the plan of that gorgeous tomb where he is
not buried!  Well, at least it brought us home to you again once
more, mother, and, where you are, comfort never has been utterly
absent from me.  And then, coming from the wilful gloom of Pope Leo's
court into our Germany, streamed over by the rays of Luther's light,
it was as if a new world of hope were dawning, as if truth would no
longer be muffled, and the young would grow up to a world far better
and purer than the old had ever seen.  What trumpet-calls those were,
and how welcome was the voice of the true Catholic faith no longer
stifled!  And my dear old Kaisar, with his clear eyes, his unfettered
mind--he felt the power and truth of those theses.  He bade the
Elector of Saxony well to guard the monk Luther as a treasure.  Ah!
had he been a younger man, or had he been more firm and resolute,
able to act as well as think for himself, things might have gone
otherwise with the Church.  He could think, but could not act; and
now we have a man who acts, but WILL not think.  It may have been a
good day for our German reputation among foreign princes when Charles
V. put on the crown; but only two days in my life have been as
mournful to me as that when I stood by Kaisar Max's death-bed at
Wells, and knew that generous, loving, fitful spirit was passing away
from the earth!  Never owned I friend I loved so well as Kaisar Max!
Nor has any Emperor done so much for this our dear land."

"The young Emperor never loved thee."

"He might have treated me as one who could be useful, but he never
forgave me for shaking hands with Luther at the Diet of Worms.  I
knew it was all over with my court favour after I had joined in
escorting the Doctor out of the city.  And the next thing was that
Georg of Freundsberg and his friends proclaimed me a bigoted Papist
because I did my utmost to keep my troop out of the devil's holiday
at the sack of Rome!  It has ever been my lot to be in disgrace with
one side or the other!  Here is my daughter's marriage hindered on
the one hand, my son's promotion checked on the other, because I have
a conscience of my own, and not of other people's!  Heaven knows the
right is no easy matter to find; but, when one thinks one sees it,
there is nothing to be done but to guide oneself by it, even if the
rest of the world will not view it in the same light."

"Nothing else!  I doubt me whether it be ever easy to see the
veritably right course while still struggling in the midst.  That is
for after ages, which behold things afar off; but each man must needs
follow his own principle in an honest and good heart, and assuredly
God will guide him to work out some good end, or hinder some evil
one."

"Ay, mother.  Each party may guard one side or other of the truth in
all honesty and faithfulness; he who cannot with his whole heart cast
in his lot with either,--he is apt to serve no purpose, and to be
scorned."

"Nay, Ebbo, may he not be a witness to the higher and more perfect
truth than either party have conceived?  Nor is inaction always
needful.  That which is right towards either side still reveals
itself at the due moment, whether it be to act or to hold still.  And
verily, Ebbo, what thou didst say even now has set me on a strange
thought of mine own dream, that which heralded the birth of thyself
and thy brother.  As thou knowest, it seemed to me that I was
watching two sparkles from the extinguished Needfire wheel.  One rose
aloft and shone as a star!"

"My guiding-star!"

"The other fulfilled those words of the Wise Man.  It shone and ran
to and fro in the grass.  And surely, my Ebbo, thy mother may feel
that, in all these dark days of perplexity and trial, the spark of
light hath ever shone and drawn its trail of brightness in the gloom,
even though the way was long, and seemed uncertain."

"The mother who ever fondled me WILL think so, it may be!  But, ah!
she had better pray that the light be clearer, and that I may not
fall utterly short of the star!"


On the same evening the Indians, under Captain La Mothe,[49] proceeded
through the woods and came up with the enemy's rear-guard. Here a
slight skirmish ensued, in which the Americans lost one killed
and seven wounded.

Hampton, having re-occupied his late position, called a council
of war, where it was determined to fall back and occupy the former
position at Four Corners, to secure their communication with the
United States; from thence either to retire to winter quarters or
be ready to re-enter Lower Canada.An old bridge, a mill, and a neat
German village lie clustered in the valley; a seignorial mansion
peeps out of the forest glades; and a lovely church, of rather late
Gothic, but beautifully designed, attracts the eye so soon as it can
be persuaded to quit the romantic outline of the ruined baronial
castle high up on one of the mountain ledges.  Report declares that
there are tombs in the church well worth inspection.  You seek out an
old venerable blue-coated peasant who has charge of the church.

"What is yonder castle?"

"It is the castle of Adlerstein."

"Are the family still extant?"

"Yea, yea; they built yonder house when the Schloss became ruinous.
They have always been here."

The church is very beautiful in its details, the carved work of the
east end and pulpit especially so, but nothing is so attractive as
the altar tomb in the chantry chapel.  It is a double one, holding
not, as usual, the recumbent effigies of a husband and wife, but of
two knights in armour.

"Who are these, good friend?"

"They are the good Barons Ebbo and Friedel."

Father and son they appear to be, killed at the same time in some
fatal battle, for the white marble face of one is round with youth,
no hair on lip nor chin, and with a lovely peaceful solemnity, almost
cheerfulness, in the expression.  The other, a bearded man, has the
glory of old age in his worn features, beautiful and restful, but it
is as if one had gone to sleep in the light of dawn, the other in the
last glow of sunset.  LORD SUMMERHAYS. Thank you. Ive lived so long
in a country where a man may have fifty sons, who are no more to him
than a regiment of soldiers, that I'm afraid Ive lost the English
feeling about it.
TARLETON. _[restless again]_ You mean Jinghiskahn.They
are surely father and son, a maiden knight and tried warrior who fell
together?

"No," the guide shakes his head; "they are twin brothers, the good
Barons Ebbo and Friedel, who were born when their father had been
taken captive by the Saracens while on a crusade.  Baron Friedel was
slain by the Turks at the bridge foot, and his brother built the
church in his memory.  He first planted vines upon the mountains, and
freed the peasants from the lord's dues on their flax.  And it is
true that the two brothers may still be seen hovering on the
mountain-side in the mist at sunset, sometimes one, sometimes both."

You keep up the middle-class tradition: the day school and the
business training instead of the university. I believe in the day
school part of it.
At all events, you know your own children.

TARLETON. Do you? I'm not so sure of it.A. D.
mccccxciii"


Then turn to the other side and read -


"Hic jacet Eberardus Eques Baro Adlersteini.  A.D. mdxliii.  Demum"


Yes, the guide is right.  They are brothers, with well-nigh a
lifetime between their deaths.  Is that the meaning of that strange
Demum?

Few of the other tombs are worth attention, each lapsing further into
the bad taste of later ages; yet there is one still deserving
admiration, placed close to the head of that of the two Barons.  It
is the effigy of a lady, aged and serene, with a delicately-carved
face beneath her stiff head-gear.  Surely this monument was erected
somewhat later, for the inscription is in German.  Stiff, contracted,
hard to read, but this is the rendering of it


"Here lies Christina Sorel, wife of Eberhard, xxth Baron von
Adlerstein, and mother of the Barons Eberhard and Friedmund.  She
fell asleep two days before her son, on the feast of St. John,
mdxliii.

"Her children shall rise up and call her blessed.

"Erected with full hearts by her grandson, Baron Friedmund
Maximilianus, and his brothers and sisters.  Farewell."