"What did the fool get up for?" She did not mean to surrender too
quickly about Jack despite his heroism--not to Peter, at any
rate. Then, again, she half suspected that Ruth's tears were
equally divided between the rescuer and the rescued.

"He couldn't help it, I suppose," answered Peter, with a gleam in
his eyes--"he was born that way."

"Born! What stuff, Peter--no man of any common-sense would have--"

"I quite agree with you, my dear--no man except a gentleman. There
is no telling what one of that kind might do under such
circumstances." And with a wave of his hand and a twinkle in his
merry scotch-terrier eyes, the old fellow disappeared below the
handrail.

Miss Felicia leaned over the banisters:

"Peter, PETER," she called after him, "where are you going?"

"To stay all night with Jack."

"Well, that's the most sensible thing I have heard of yet. Will
you take him a message from me?"

Peter looked up: "Yes, Felicia, what is it?"

"Give him my love."


CHAPTER XVI


Miss Felicia kept her promise to Ruth. Before that young woman,
indeed, tired out with anxiety, had opened her beautiful eyes the
next morning and pushed back her beautiful hair from her beautiful
face--and it was still beautiful, despite all the storms it had
met and weathered, the energetic, old lady had presented herself
at the front door of Mrs. Hicks's Boarding Hotel (it was but a
step from MacFarlane's) and had sent her name to the young man in
the third floor back.

A stout person, with a head of adjustable hair held in place by a
band of black velvet skewered by a gold pin, the whole surmounted
by a flaring mob-cap of various hues and dyes, looked Miss Felicia
all over and replied in a dubious tone:

"He's had a bad mash-up, and I don't think--"

"I am quite aware of it, my dear madam, or I would not be here.
Now, please show me the way to Mr. Breen's room--my brother was
here last night and--"

"Oh, the bald-headed gentleman?" exclaimed Mrs. Hicks. "Such a
dear, kind man; and it was as much as I could do to get him to bed
and he a--"

But Miss Felicia was already inside the sitting-room, her critical
eyes noting its bare, forbidding furnishing and appointment--she
had not yet let down her skirts, the floor not being inviting. But
as the most of these people are no enemies to good living,
they usually contrive to have their morning affair as much in
the Scotch fashion as possible, and their evening refection to
unite the substantiability of the English dinner, with the
refreshing qualities of the tea table.
Between six and seven is the hour which they in general retire from
the labours of the day; and as this was the time the lodgers were
now crowding in, every one carrying the eatables he intended to
use, which usually consist of half a pound of bacon, quarter of a
pound of butter, a pennyworth of tea or coffee, with as much sugar.

These are placed upon a half-quartern loaf, and carried in one
hand; and, if eggs are in season, three or four may be seen
clutched in the other.
The entrance of the lady with the transferable hair cut short her
revery.

"Mr. Breen says come up, ma'am," she said in a subdued voice. It
was astonishing how little time it took for Miss Felicia's
personality to have its effect.

Up the uncarpeted stairs marched the great lady, down an equally
bare hall lined on either side by bedroom doors, some marked by
unblacked shoes others by tin trays holding fragments of late or
early breakfasts, the flaring cap obsequiously pointing the way
until the two had reached a door at the end of the corridor.

"Now I won't bother you any more," said Miss Felicia. "Thank you
very much. Are you in here Mr. Breen?" she called in a cheery
voice as she pushed open the door, and advanced to his bedside:--
"Oh, you poor fellow! Oh, I AM so sorry!"

