THE AUTOMOBILE GIRLS AT WASHINGTON

or, Checkmating the Plots of Foreign Spies

By

LAURA DENT CRANE

Author of The Automobile Girls at Newport, The Automobile Girls in the
Berkshires, The Automobile Girls Along the Hudson, The Automobile Girls
at Chicago, The Automobile Girls at Palm Beach, etc.

1913


[Illustration: A Fat Chinese Gentleman Stood Regarding Her.
(Frontispiece)]


CONTENTS

Chapter

       I. A Chance Meeting
      II. Cabinet Day in Washington
     III. Mr. Tu Fang Wu
      IV. At the Chinese Embassy
       V. Sub Rosa
      VI. The Arrest
     VII. Mollie's Temptation
    VIII. At the White House
      IX. Bab's Discovery
       X. The Confession
      XI. In Mr. Hamlin's Study
     XII. Barbara's Secret Errand
    XIII. A Foolish Girl
     XIV. "Grant No Favors!"
      XV. Bab Refuses to Grant a Favor
     XVI. Barbara's Unexpected Good Luck
    XVII. The White Veil
   XVIII. A Tangled Web or Circumstance
     XIX. Harriet in Danger
      XX. Foiled!
     XXI. The Discovery
    XXII. Oil on the Troubled Waters
   XXIII. Suspense and the Reward
    XXIV. Home at Laurel Cottage


CHAPTER I

A CHANCE MEETING


Barbara Thurston stood at the window of a large old-fashioned house,
looking out into Connecticut Avenue. It was almost dark. An occasional
light twinkled outside in the street, but the room in which Barbara was
stationed was still shrouded in twilight.

Suddenly she heard a curtain at the farther end of the drawing-room
rustle faintly.

Bab turned and saw a young man standing between the curtains, peering
into the shadows with a pair of near-sighted eyes.

Barbara started. The stranger had entered the room through a small study
that adjoined it. He seemed totally unaware of any other presence, for he
was whistling softly: "Kathleen Mavourneen."

"I beg your pardon," Bab began impulsively, "but are you looking for
some one?"

The newcomer flashed a charming smile at Barbara. He did not seem in the
least surprised at her appearance.

"No," he declared cheerfully, "I was not looking for any one or anything.
The butler told me Mr. Hamlin and Harriet were both out. But, I say,
don't you think I am fortunate to have found you quite by accident! I
came in here to loaf a few minutes."

Barbara frowned slightly. The young man's manner was surprisingly
familiar, and she had never seen him before in her life.

"I hope I am not disturbing you," he went on gayly. "I am an attaché of
the Russian legation, and a friend of Miss Hamlin's. I came with a
message for Mr. Hamlin. I was wondering if it were worth while to wait
for him. But I can go away if I am troublesome."

"Oh, no, you are not disturbing me in the least," Barbara returned. "I
expect Miss Hamlin and my friends soon. We arrived in Washington last
night, and the other girls have gone out to a reception. I had a headache
and stayed at home. Won't you be seated while I ring for the butler to
turn on the lights?"

The newcomer sat down, gravely watching Barbara.

"Would you like me to guess who you are?" he asked, after half a
minute's silence.

Bab laughed. "I am sure you will give me the first chance to tell you
your name. I did not recognize you at first. But I believe Harriet told
us about you last night. She described several of her Washington friends
to us. You are Peter Dillon, aren't you?"

"At your service," declared the young attaché, who looked almost boyish.
"But now give me my opportunity. I do not know your name, but I have
guessed this much. You are an 'Automobile Girl!' Permit me to bid you
welcome to Washington."

Barbara nodded her head decidedly. "Yes, I am Barbara Thurston, one of
the 'Automobile Girls.' There are four of us. Harriet has probably
explained to you. My sister, Mollie Thurston, Grace Carter, Ruth Stuart
and I form the quartet. Mr. William Hamlin is Ruth's uncle. So we are
going to spend a few weeks here with Harriet and see the Capital. I have
never been in Washington before."

"Then you have a new world before you, Miss Thurston," said the young
man, his manner changing. "Washington is like no other city in the world,
I think. I have been here for four years. Before that time I had lived in
Dublin, in Paris, in St. Petersburg."

"Then you are not an American!" exclaimed Bab, regarding the young man
with interest.

"I am a man without a country, Miss Thurston." Bab's visitor laughed
carelessly. "Or, perhaps, I had better say I am a man of several
countries. My father was an Irishman and a soldier of fortune. My mother
was a Russian. Therefore, I am a member of the Russian legation in
Washington in spite of my half-Irish name. Have you ever been abroad?"

"Oh, no," Bab returned, shaking her head. "For the past two years, since
I have known Ruth Stuart, the 'Automobile Girls' have traveled about in
this country a good deal. But we are only school girls still. We have
never really made our début in society, although we mean to forget this
while we are in Washington, and to see as much of the world as we can. I
do wish I knew something about politics. It would make our visit in
Washington so much more interesting."

"It is the most interesting game in the world," declared Barbara's
companion, dropping for an instant his expression of indifference. His
blue eyes flashed. Then he said quickly: "Perhaps you will let me teach
you something of the political game at Washington. I am sure you will be
quick to learn and to enjoy it."

"Thank you," Bab answered shyly. "But I am much too stupid ever to
understand."

"I don't quite believe that. You know, you will, of course, hear a
great deal about politics while you are the guests of the Assistant
Secretary of State. Mr. Hamlin is one of the cleverest men in
Washington. I am sure you will be instructing me in diplomacy by the end
of a week. But good-bye; I must not keep you any longer. Will you tell
Mr. Hamlin that I left the bundle of papers he desired on his study
table? And please tell Harriet that I shall hope to be invited very
often to see the 'Automobile Girls.'"

The young man looked intently at Barbara, as though trying to read her
very thoughts while she returned his scrutiny with steady eyes. Then with
a courteous bow, he left the room.

When Barbara found herself alone she returned to the window.

"I do wish the girls would come," she murmured to herself. "I am just
dying to know what Mollie and Grace think of their first reception in
Washington. Of course, Ruth has visited Harriet before, so the experience
is not new to her. I am sorry I did not go with the girls, in spite of my
headache. I wonder if some one is coming in here again! I seem to be
giving a reception here myself."

By this time the room was lighted, and Barbara saw a young woman of about
twenty-five years of age walk into the drawing-room and drop into a big
arm chair with a little tired sigh.

"You are Miss Thurston, aren't you?" she asked briskly as Bab came
forward to speak to her, wondering how on earth this newcomer knew her
name and what could be the reason for this unexpected call.

"Yes," Barbara returned in a puzzled tone, "I am Miss Thurston."

"Oh, don't be surprised at my knowing your name," Bab's latest caller
went on. "It is my business to know everybody. I met Mr. Dillon on the
corner. He told me Harriet Hamlin was not at home and that I had better
not come here this afternoon. I did not believe him; still I am not sorry
Miss Hamlin is out, I would ever so much rather see you. Harriet Hamlin
is dreadfully proud, and she is not a bit sympathetic. Do you think so?"

Bab was lost in wonder. What on earth could this talkative young woman
wish of her? Did her visitor believe Bab would confide her opinion of
Harriet to a complete stranger? But the young woman did not wait for
an answer.

"I want to see you about something awfully important," she went on.
"Please promise me you will do what I ask you before I tell you
what it is."

Bab laughed. "Don't ask me that. Why you may be an anarchist, for
all I know."

The new girl shook her head, smiling. She looked less tired now. She was
pretty and fragile, with fair hair and blue eyes. She was very pale and
was rather shabbily and carelessly dressed.

"No; I am not an anarchist," she said slowly. "I am a newspaper woman,
which is almost as bad in some people's eyes, I suppose, considering the
way society people fight against giving me news of themselves and their
doings. I came to ask you if you would give me the pictures of the
'Automobile Girls' for my paper? Oh, you need not look so surprised. We
have all heard of the 'Automobile Girls.' Everybody in Washington of
importance has heard of you. Couldn't you let me write a sketch about you
and your adventures, and put your photographs on the society page of our
Sunday edition? It would be such a favor to me."

Barbara looked distressed. She was beginning to like her visitor.
Though Barbara had been associated mainly with wealthy people in the
last two years of the "Automobile Girls'" adventures, she could not
help feeling interested in a girl who was evidently trying to make her
own way in the world.

"I am awfully sorry," Bab declared almost regretfully, but before she
finished speaking the drawing-room door opened and Ruth Stuart and
Harriet Hamlin entered the room together.

"How is your head, Bab, dear?" Ruth cried, before she espied their
caller.

Harriet Hamlin bowed coldly to the newspaper woman in the big arm chair.
The young woman had flushed, looked uncomfortable at sight of Harriet and
said almost humbly:

"I am sorry to interrupt you, Miss Hamlin, but my paper sent me to ask
you for the pictures of your guests. May I have them?"

"Most certainly not, Miss Moore," Harriet answered scornfully. "My
friends would not dream of allowing you to publish their pictures. And my
father would not consent to it either. Just because he is Assistant
Secretary of State I do not see why my visitors should be annoyed in this
way. I hope you don't mind, Ruth and Barbara." Harriet's voice changed
when she turned to address her cousin and friend. "Forgive my refusing
Miss Moore for you. But it is out of the question."

Ruth and Bab both silently agreed with Harriet. But Barbara could not
help feeling sorry for the other girl, who flushed painfully at Harriet's
tone and turned to go without another word.

Bab followed the girl out into the hall.

"I am so sorry not to give you our photographs," Barbara declared. "But,
of course, we cannot let you have them if Mr. Hamlin would object. And,
to tell you the honest truth, the 'Automobile Girls' would not like it
either." Barbara smiled in such a frank friendly way that no one could
have been vexed with her.

The older girl's eyes were full of tears, which she bravely winked
out of sight.

"Everyone has his picture published in the papers nowadays," she replied.
"I am sure I intended no discourtesy to you or to Miss Hamlin."

Then the girl's self-control gave way. She was very tired, and Bab's
sympathy unnerved her. "I hate Harriet Hamlin," she whispered,
passionately. "I am as well bred as she is. Because I am poor, and have
to support my mother, is no reason why she should treat me as though I
were dust under her feet. I shall have a chance to get even with her,
some day, just as certainly as I live. Then, won't I take my revenge!"

Barbara did not know what to reply, so she went on talking quietly. "I am
sure your asking us for our pictures was a very great compliment to us.
Only important people and beauties and belles have their pictures in the
society papers. It is just because the 'Automobile Girls' are too
insignificant to be shown such an honor that we can't consent. But please
don't be angry with us. I am sure Harriet did not intend to wound your
feelings, and I hope I shall see you soon again."

Marjorie Moore shook Barbara's hand impulsively before she went out into
the gathering darkness. "I like you," she said warmly. "I wish we might
be friends. Good-night."

"Where are Mollie and Grace?" was Bab's first question when she rejoined
Ruth and Harriet.

"They would not come away from the reception," Harriet returned, smiling.
She was quite unconscious of having treated Marjorie Moore unkindly.
"Ruth and I were worried about your headache, so we did not wish to leave
you alone any longer. Strange to relate, Father offered to stay until
Mollie and Grace were ready to come home. That is a great concession on
his part, as he usually runs away from a reception at the first
opportunity that offers itself. Mrs. Wilson, a friend of Father's is
helping him to look after Mollie and Grace this afternoon. Bab, did some
boxes come for me this afternoon? I left orders at the shop to send them
when Father would surely be out. Come on upstairs, children, and see my
new finery."

"Why, Harriet, are you getting more clothes?" Ruth exclaimed. "You are
like 'Miss Flora McFlimsey, of Madison Square, who never had anything
good enough to wear.'"

"I am no such thing, Ruth Stuart," returned her cousin, a little
peevishly. "You don't understand. Does she, Barbara? Ruth has so much
money she simply cannot realize what it means to try to make a good
appearance on a small allowance, especially here in Washington where one
goes out so much."

"I was only joking, Harriet," Ruth apologized as she and Barbara
obediently followed their hostess upstairs. Bab, however, secretly
wondered how she and Mollie were to manage in Washington, with their
simple wardrobes, if their young hostess thought that clothes were the
all-important thing in Washington society.

Harriet Hamlin was twenty years of age, but she seemed much older to Bab
and Ruth. In the first place, Harriet was an entirely different type of
girl. She had been mistress of her father's house in Washington since she
was sixteen. She had received her father's guests and entertained his
friends; and at eighteen she had made her début into Washington society,
and had taken her position as one of the women of the Cabinet. Harriet's
mother, Ruth's aunt, had died a few months before Mr. Hamlin had received
his appointment as Assistant Secretary of State. Since that time Harriet
had borne the responsibilities of a grown woman, and being an only child
she had to a certain extent done as she pleased, although she was
secretly afraid of her cold, dignified father.

Mr. William Hamlin was one of the ablest men in Washington. He was a
quiet, stern, reserved man, and although he was proud of his daughter, of
her beauty and accomplishments, he was also very strict with her. He was
a poor man, and it was hard work for Harriet to keep up the appearance
necessary to her father's position on his salary as Assistant Secretary
of State. Harriet, however, never dared tell her father of this, and Mr.
Hamlin never offered Harriet either sympathy or advice.

Barbara and Ruth could only watch with admiring eyes and little
exclamations of delight the exquisite garments that Harriet now lifted
out of three big, pasteboard boxes; a beautiful yellow crêpe frock, a
pale green satin evening gown and a gray broadcloth tailor-made suit.
a long while ago. I was not rich, but neither was I very poor; I still had
my little patrimony, and I lived in the ---- Strasse, very economically;
it is a quarter which many artists frequent. I husbanded my resources,
that I might be able to work away at my art without the tedium of
making it a means of livelihood.

I refused many offers to play in public, that I might have more leisure.
I should not do that now; but then, I was very confident; I had great
faith in me. And I worked very hard at my symphony, and I was full of
desire to write an opera. It was a tall dark house, where I lived;
there were many other lodgers, but I knew scarcely any of them. I went
about with my head full of music and I had my violin; I had no
time to seek acquaintance.

Only my neighbour, at the other side of my passage, I knew slightly
and bowed to him when we met on the stairs. He was a dark, lean man,
of a very distinguished air; he must have lived very hard, he had
death in his face.

He was not an artist, like the rest of us: I suspect he was a great
profligate, and a gambler; but he had the manners of a gentleman. And
when I came to talk to him, he displayed the greatest knowledge of
music that I have ever known.

And it was the same with all; he talked divinely, of everything in the
world, but very wildly and bitterly. He seemed to have been everywhere,
and done everything; and at last to be tired of it all; and of
himself the most.

From the people of the house I heard that he was a Pole; noble, and
very poor; and, what surprised me, that he had a daughter with him, a
little girl. I used to pity this child, who must have lived quite alone.
For the Count was always out, and the child never appeared with
him; and, for the rest, with his black spleen and tempers, he must
have been but sorry company for a little girl.

I wished much to see her, for you see, Monsieur! I am fond of children,
almost as much as of music; and one day it came about.

I was at home with my violin; I had been playing all the evening some
songs I had made; and once or twice I had seemed to be interrupted by
little, tedious sounds. At last I stopped, and opened the door; and
there, crouching down, I found the most beautiful little creature
I had ever seen in my life.

It was the child of my neighbour. Yes, Monsieur! you divine, you
divine! That was the Leonora!'
'And she is not your compatriot,' I asked.

'A Hungarian? ah, no!

yet every piece of her pure Slav. But I weary you, Monsieur; I make a long
story.'
I protested my interest; and after a little side glance of dubious
scrutiny, he continued in a constrained monotone, as one who told
over to himself some rosary of sad enchanting memories.

'Ah, yes! she was beautiful; that mysterious, sad Slavonic beauty! a
thing quite special and apart. And, as a child, it was more tragical and
strange; that dusky hair! those profound and luminous eyes! seeming to
mourn over tragedies they have never known. A strange, wild, silent
child! She might have been eight or nine, then; but her little soul was
hungry for music. It was a veritable passion; and when she became at
last my good friend, she told me how often she had lain for long
hours outside my door, listening to my violin. I gave her a kind of scolding,
such as one could to so beautiful a little creature, for the passage was
draughty and cold, and sent her away with some _bon-bons_. She shook
back her long, dark hair: 'You are not angry, and I am not naughty,'
she said: 'and I shall come back.

I thank you for your _bon-bons_; but I like your music better than _bon-bons_,
or fairy tales, or anything in the world.'
'But she never came back to the passage again, Monsieur! The next time I
came across the Count, I sent her an invitation, a little diffidently,
for he had never spoken to me of her, and he was a strange and
difficult man.

Now, he simply shrugged his shoulders, with a smile, in which, for once,
there seemed more entertainment than malice. The child could visit me
when she chose; if it amused either of us, so much the better. And we
were content, and she came to me often; after a while, indeed, she was
with me almost always. Child as she was, she had already the promise
of her magnificent voice; and I taught her to use it, to sing, and
to play on the piano and on the violin, to which she took the most
readily.

She was like a singing bird in the room, such pure, clear notes! And
she grew very fond of me; she would fall asleep at last in my arms, and
so stay until the Count would take her with him when he entered, long
after midnight. He came to me naturally for her soon; and they
never seemed long those hours that I watched over her sleep. I never
knew him harsh or unkind to the child; he seemed simply indifferent to
her as to everything else.

He had exhausted life and he hated it; and he knew that death was on
him, and he hated that even more. And yet he was careful of her after a
fashion, buying her _bon-bons_ and little costumes, when he
was in the vein, pitching his voice softly when he would stay and talk
to me, as though he relished her sleep.
One night he did not come to fetch her at all, I had wrapped a blanket
round the child where she lay on my bed, and had sat down to watch
by her and presently I too fell asleep. I do not know how long I slept
but when I woke there was a gray light in the room, I was very
cold and stiff, but I could hear close by, the soft, regular breathing
of the child.

There was a great uneasiness on me, and after a while I stole out across
the passage and knocked at the Count's door, there was no answer but it
gave when I tried it, and so I went in. The lamp had smouldered out,
there was a sick odour of _pétrol_ everywhere, and the shutters were closed:
but through the chinks the merciless gray dawn streamed in and showed
me the Count sitting very still by the table. His face wore a most curious
smile, and had not his great cavernous eyes been open, I should have
believed him asleep:
suddenly it came to me that he was dead.

He was not a good man, monsieur, nor an amiable, but a true _virtuoso_
and full of information, and I grieved. I have had Masses said for
the repose of his soul.'

He paid a tribute of silence to the dead man's memory, and then he went
on.

'It seemed quite natural that I should take his child. There was no one
to care, no one to object; it happened quite easily. We went, the little
one and I, to another part of the city. We made quite a new life. Oh! my
God!

it is a very long time ago.'
Quite suddenly his voice went tremulous; but after a pause, hardly
perceptible, he recovered himself and continued with an accent of
apology.

'I am a foolish old man, and very garrulous. It is not good to think
of that, nor to talk of it; I do not know why I do. But what would you
have?

She loved me then, and she had the voice and the disposition of an angel.

I have never been very happy.

I think sometimes, monsieur, that we others, who care much for art, are
not permitted that. But certainly those few, rapid days, when she was
a child, were good; and yet they were the days of my defeat. I found
myself out then.

I was never to be a great artist, a _maestro_: a second-rate man,
a good music-teacher for young ladies, a capable performer in an
orchestra, what you will, but a great artist, never!

Yet in those days, even when my opera failed, I had consolation, I could
say, I have a child! I would have kept her with me always but it could
not be, from the very first she would be a singer. I knew always
that a day would come when she would not need me, she was meant to
be the world's delight, and I had no right to keep her, even if I could.
I held my beautiful, strange bird in her cage, until she beat her
wings against the bars, then I opened the door.

At the last, I think, that is all we can do for our children, our best
beloved, our very heart-strings, stand free of them, let them
go. The world is very weary, but we must all find that out for ourselves,
perhaps when they are tired they will come home, perhaps not,
perhaps not.

It was to the Conservatoire, at Milan, that I sent her finally, and it
was at La Scala that she afterwards appeared, and at La Scala too,
poor child, she met her evil genius, the man named Romanoff, a
baritone in her company, own son of the devil, whom she married.

Ah, if I could have prevented it, if I could have prevented it!'

He lapsed into a long silence; a great weariness seemed to have come over
him, and in the gray light which filtered in through the dingy window
blinds, his face was pinched and wasted, unutterably old and forlorn.

'But I did not prevent it,' he said at last, 'for all my good will,
perhaps merely hastened it by unseasonable interference.

And so we went in different ways, with anger I fear, and at least
with sore hearts and misunderstanding.'

He spoke with an accent of finality, and so sadly that in a sudden
rush of pity I was moved to protest.

'But, surely you meet sometimes; surely this woman, who was as your
own child--' 
He stopped me with a solemn, appealing gesture.

'You are young, and you do not altogether understand.

You must not judge her; you must not believe, that she forgets, that she
does not care. Only, it is better like this, because it could
never be as before.

I could not help her. I want nothing that she can give me, no not anything;
I have my memories! I hear of her, from time to time; I hear what
the world says of her, the imbecile world, and I smile. Do I not know best?
I, who carried her in my arms, when she was that high!'
And in effect the old violinist smiled, it was as though he had surprised
my secret of dissatisfaction, and found it, like the malice of the
world, too ignorant to resent.

The edge of his old, passionate adoration had remained bright and keen
through the years; and it imparted a strange brilliancy to his eyes, which
half convinced me, as presently, with a resumption of his usual
air of diffident courtesy, he ushered me out into the vague, spring
dawn. And yet, when I had parted from him and was making my way somewhat
wearily to my own quarters, my first dubious impression remained. My
imagination was busy with the story I had heard, striving quite
vainly to supply omissions, to fill in meagre outlines.

Yes! quite vainly! the figure of the Romanoff was left, ambiguous and
unexplained; hardly acquitted in my mind of a certain callousness, an
ingratitude almost vulgar as it started out from time to time, in
contraposition against that forlorn old age.

III
I saw him once more at the little restaurant in Soho, before a sudden change
of fortune, calling me abroad for an absence, as it happened, of years,
closed the habit of our society.

He gave me the god-speed of a brother artist, though mine was not the way
of music, with many prophesies of my success; and the pressure of
his hand, as he took leave of me, was tremulous.

'I am an old man, monsieur, and we may not meet again, in this world. I
wish you all the chances you deserve in Paris; but I--I shall
greatly miss you.

If you come back in time, you will find me in the old places; and if
not--there are things of mine, which I should wish you to have, that shall
be sent you.'
And indeed it proved to be our last meeting.

I went to Paris; a fitful correspondence intervened, grew infrequent,
ceased; then a little later, came to me the notification, very brief and
official, of his death in the French Hospital of pneumonia.

It was followed by a few remembrances of him, sent at his request,
I learnt, by the priest who had administered to him the last offices:
some books that he had greatly cherished, works of Glück, for the
most part; an antique ivory crucifix of very curious workmanship;
and his violin, a beautiful instrument dated 1670 and made at
Nuremberg, yet with a tone which seemed to me, at least, as fine
as that of the Cremonas.

It had an intrinsic value to me, apart from its associations; for I too
was something of an amateur, and since this seasoned melodious wood
had come into my possession, I was inspired to take my facility
more seriously.

To play in public, indeed, I had neither leisure nor desire:
but in certain _salons_ of my acquaintance, where music was much in vogue,
I made from time to time a desultory appearance. I set down these
facts, because as it happened, this ineffectual talent of mine, which poor
Cristich's legacy had recalled to life, was to procure me an
interesting encounter.

I remember the occasion well, it was too appropriate to be forgotten--as
though my old friend's lifeless fiddle, which had yet survived so many
_maestri_, was to be a direct instrument of the completion of his
story, the resurrection of those dormant and unsatisfied curiosities
which still now and again concerned me.

I had played at an house where I was a stranger; brought there by a
friend, to whose insistence I had yielded somewhat reluctantly;
although he had assured me, and, I believe, with reason, that it
was a house where the indirect, or Attic invitation greatly prevailed,
in brief, a place where one met very queer people.

The hostess was American, a charming woman, of unimpeachable antecedents;
but her passion for society, which, while it should always be interesting,
was not always equally reputable, had exposed her evenings to the
suspicion of her compatriots. And when I had discharged my part in the
programme and had leisure to look around me, I saw at a glance
that their suspicion was justified; very queer people indeed were
there.

The large hot rooms were cosmopolitan: infidels and Jews, everybody and
nobody; a scandalously promiscuous assemblage! And there, with a half
start, which was not at first recognition, my eyes stopped before a
face which brought to me a confused rush of memories. It was that
of a woman who sat on an ottoman in the smallest room which was
almost empty. Her companion was a small, vivacious man with a gray imperial,
and the red ribbon in his buttonhole, to whose continuous stream
of talk, eked out with meridional gestures, she had the air of being
listlessly resigned.

Her dress, a marvel of discretion, its colour the yellow of old
ivory, was of some very rich and stiff stuff cut square to her
neck; that, and her great black hair, clustered to a crimson rose
at the top of her head, made the pallor of her face a thing to
marvel at.

Her beauty was at once sombre and illuminating, and youthful no less. The
woman of thirty: but her complexion, and her arms, which were bare,
were soft in texture as a young girl's.

I made my way as well as I could for the crowd, to my hostess, listened,
with what patience I might, to some polite praise of my playing,
and made my request.

'Mrs. Destrier, I have an immense favour to ask; introduce me to Madame
Romanoff!'
She gave me a quick, shrewd smile; then I remembered stories of her
intimate quaintness.

'My dear young man! I have no objection. Only I warn you, she is not
conversational; you will make no good of it, and you will be disappointed;
perhaps that will be best. Please remember, I am responsible for
nobody.'
'Is she so dangerous?' I asked. 'But never mind; I believe that I have
something to say which may interest her.'
'Oh, for that!'

she smiled elliptically; 'yes, she is most dangerous. But I will
introduce you; you shall tell me how you succeed.'
I bowed and smiled; she laid a light hand on my arm; and I piloted her
to the desired corner.

It seemed that the chance was with me. The little fluent Provençal had
just vacated his seat; and when the prima-donna had acknowledged
the hasty mention of my name, with a bare inclination of her head,
I was emboldened to succeed to it.

And then I was silent.

In the perfection of that dolorous face, I could not but be reminded
of the tradition which has always ascribed something fatal and
inevitable to the possession of great gifts: of genius or uncommon
fortune, or singular personal beauty; and the common-place of
conversation failed me.

After a while she looked askance at me, with a sudden flash of resentment.

'You speak no French, Monsieur! And yet you write it well enough; I have
read your stories.'
I acknowledged Madame's irony, permitted myself to hope that my efforts
had met with Madame's approval.

'_A la bonne heure!_ I perceive you also speak it. Is that why you
wished to be presented, to hear my criticisms?'
'Let me answer that question when you have answered mine.'
She glanced curiously over her feathered fan, then with the slightest
upward inclination of her statuesque shoulders--'I admire your
books; but are your women quite just?

I prefer your playing.'
'That is better, Madame! It was to talk of that I came.'
'Your playing?'
'My violin.'

'You want me to look at it? It is a Cremona?'
'It is not a Cremona; but if you like, I will give it you.'
Her dark eyes shone out in amazed amusement.

'You are eccentric, Monsieur! but your nation has a privilege of
eccentricity. At least, you amuse me; and I have wearied myself enough
this long evening. Show me your violin; I am something of a _virtuosa_.'

I took the instrument from its case, handed it to her in silence,
watching her gravely.

She received it with the dexterous hands of a musician, looked at the
splendid stains on the back, then bent over towards the light in a curious
scrutiny of the little, faded signature of its maker, the _fecit_ of an
obscure Bavarian of the seventeenth century; and it was a long time
before she raised her eyes.

When she spoke, her rich voice had a note of imperious entreaty in
it.
'Your violin interests me, Monsieur! Oh, I know that wood! It came to you--?'

'A legacy from an esteemed friend.'
She shot back. 'His name?' with the flash which I waited for.

'Maurice Cristich, Madame!'
We were deserted in our corner.

The company had strayed in, one by one, to the large _salon_ with the
great piano, where a young Russian musician, a pupil of Chopin, sat
down to play, with no conventional essay of preliminary chords,
an expected morsel.

The strains of it wailed in just then, through the heavy, screening
curtains; a mad _valse_ of his own, that no human feet could dance
to, a pitiful, passionate thing that thrilled the nerves painfully,
ringing the changes between voluptuous sorrow and the merriment
of devils, and burdened always with the weariness of 'all the
Russias,' the proper _Welt-schmerz_ of a young, disconsolate people.

It seemed to charge the air, like electricity, with passionate undertones;
it gave intimate facilities, and a tense personal note to our
interview.

'A legacy! so he is gone.' She swayed to me with a wail in her voice, in
a sort of childish abandonment: 'and _you_ tell me! Ah!' she drew back,
chilling suddenly with a touch of visible suspicion.

'You hurt me, Monsieur!

Is it a stroke at random?

You spoke of a gift; you say you knew, esteemed him. You were with him?
Perhaps, a message ...?'
'He died alone, Madame! I have no message.

Hamlin had told her so, only the night before.

Bab did not know in the least what she should do or say to such a
distinguished Oriental. She might make a mistake at any minute. For Bab
had been learning, every hour since her arrival in Washington, that in no
place is social etiquette more important than in the Capital City.

"May I find Mr. Hamlin for you?" Bab suggested, hoping to make her
escape.

The Chinese Minister shook his head slowly. "Mr. Hamlin is engaged with
his other guests."

"Then won't you be seated?" Bab asked in desperation. Really she and this
strange yellow gentleman could not stand staring at each other the whole
afternoon. It made Bab feel creepy to have a Chinaman regard her so
steadfastly and without the slightest change of expression, even if he
were a foreign minister.

Bab felt this meeting to be one of the strangest experiences of her whole
life. She had never seen a Chinaman before, except on the street carrying
a basket of laundry. But here she was forced into a tête-à-tête with one
in the highest social position.

"Have you any daughters?" Barbara asked in her effort to break the
awful silence.

Mr. Tu Fang Wu again bowed gravely. "I have one daughter and one small
son. My daughter is not here with me this afternoon. Chinese girls do
not go to entertainments where there are young men. My daughter has been
brought up according to the customs of our country. But she has been in
Washington for several years. I fear she, too, would like to be
emancipated, like the American girl. It is not possible, although she
enjoys many privileges she will not have when she returns to China. My
daughter is betrothed to a nobleman in her own country. Perhaps you would
like to meet my daughter, Wee Tu? She is fifteen years old. I shall ask
Miss Hamlin to bring you to luncheon at the Embassy."

To Barbara's relief Mr. William Hamlin now appeared at the door.

The Chinese minister again bowed profoundly to Barbara. "I was
looking for your smoking-room," he laughed, "but I found this young
woman instead."

As the two men went out of the room, Bab had difficulty in making sure
that she had not been dreaming of this fat, yellow gentleman.

"Barbara Thurston, what do you mean by running away by yourself?"
exclaimed Grace Carter, a moment later. "We have been looking for you for
ten minutes."

Hugh Post, Mollie and a strange young man were close behind Grace.

"I want to present my friend, Lieutenant Elmer Wilson," Hugh announced.
"He is a very important person in Washington."

"Not a bit of it," laughed the young man. "I am one of the President's
aides. I try to make myself generally useful."

"Your work must be very interesting," Barbara said quickly. "Do you--"

Just then a soft contralto voice interrupted her. "Are you ready to go
with me, Elmer?" it said.

Barbara recognized the voice as belonging to the Mrs. Wilson whom she had
met in the drawing room not an hour before. Could it be that this young
and lovely looking woman was the mother of Elmer Wilson? Surely the young
man was at least twenty-two years old.

"Coming in a moment, Mother," Elmer replied. "Have you said good-bye
to Harriet?"

"Harriet is not in the reception room now. Nearly all her guests have
gone," Mrs. Wilson murmured softly. "Mr. Hamlin is angry. But poor
Harriet ought to have a chance to talk for a few minutes to the richest
young man in Washington. I will leave you, Elmer. If you see Harriet, you
may tell her I did not think it fair to disturb her."

Barbara went back to the drawing-room to search for Ruth. She found Ruth
standing next her uncle, Mr. Hamlin, saying the adieux in Harriet's
place. A few moments later the last visitor had withdrawn and Mr. Hamlin
quickly left Ruth and Bab alone.

Mr. Hamlin was a small man, with iron gray hair, a square jaw and thin,
tightly closed lips. He seldom talked, and the "Automobile Girls" felt
secretly afraid of him.

"Uncle is dreadfully angry with Harriet," Ruth explained to Bab, after
Mr. Hamlin was out of hearing. "But he is awfully strict and I do not
think he is exactly fair. He does not give Harriet credit for what she
does, but he gets awfully cross if she makes any mistakes. Harriet is
upstairs, in her own sitting-room, talking to a great friend of hers. He
is a man Uncle hates, although he has known Charlie Meyers since
childhood. He is immensely rich, but he is very ill-bred, and that is why
Uncle dislikes him. I don't think Harriet cares a bit more for this young
man than she does for half a dozen others. But if Uncle doesn't look out
Harriet will marry him for spite. Harriet hates being poor. She is not
poor, really. But I am afraid she is terribly extravagant. Promise not to
laugh when you see Charlie Meyers. He looks a little like a pig, he is so
pink and fat."

"Girls!" called Harriet's voice. "Are you still in here? Mr. Meyers has
just gone, and I wanted you to meet him. He is going to have a motor
party and take you to see Mount Vernon. We can drive along the Potomac
and have our supper somewhere in the country."

"I'm going to drive Mr. A. Bubble, Harriet," Ruth replied. "As long as I
brought my car to Washington I must use it. But I suppose we can get up
guests enough to fill two automobiles, can't we?"

"Where's Father?" Harriet inquired, trying to conceal a tremor in her
voice. "Did he know I was upstairs?"

"I am afraid he did, Harriet," Ruth replied.

"Well, I don't care," declared Harriet defiantly. "I will select my own
friends. Charlie Meyers is stupid and ill-bred, but he is good natured,
and I am tired of position and poverty."

"You are no such thing, Harriet," protested Ruth, taking her cousin by
the hand and leading her to a long mirror. "There, look at yourself in
your yellow gown. You look like a queen. Please don't be silly."

"It's clothes that make the woman, Ruth," Harriet replied, kissing Ruth
unexpectedly. "And this yellow gown is just one of the things that
troubles me. Dear me, I am glad the reception is over!"


CHAPTER IV

AT THE CHINESE EMBASSY


"Shall we eat our luncheon with chopsticks to-day?" Mollie Thurston asked
Harriet Hamlin an hour before the "Automobile Girls" and their hostess
were to start for the Chinese Embassy.

Harriet laughed good-humoredly at Mollie's question. "You absurd child,
don't you know the Chinese minister is one of the most cultivated men in
Washington! When he is in America he does what the Americans do. But his
wife, Lady Tu, is delightfully Chinese. She paints her face in the
Chinese fashion and wears beautiful Chinese clothes in her own home. And
the little Chinese daughter is a darling. Really, Mollie, you will feel
as though you had been on a trip to the Orient when you meet dainty
little Wee Tu."

"Oh, I don't believe a Chinese girl can be attractive," Mollie argued,
her eyes fixed on the pile of pretty gowns which Harriet was laying out
on her bed.

"Do wear the rose-colored gown to-day, Harriet!" Mollie pleaded. "It is
such a love of a frock and so becoming to you with your white skin and
dark hair. Dear me, it must be nice to have such lovely clothes!" Mollie
paused for a minute.

Harriet turned around to find her little friend blushing.

"I do hope," Mollie went on, "that you are not going to feel ashamed of
Bab and me while we are your guests in Washington. You can see for
yourself that we are poor, and have only a few gowns. Of course it is
different with Grace and Ruth. But our father is dead, and--" Mollie
stopped. She did not know how to go on with her explanation. Somehow she
did not feel that Barbara or her mother would approve of her apologizing
to Harriet for their simple wardrobes.

"Mollie!" Harriet exclaimed reproachfully. "You know I think you and
Barbara are so pretty and clever that it does not matter what your
clothes are like. Besides, if you should ever want anything special to
wear while you are here, why, I have a host of gowns."

Mollie shook her head. Of course she could not borrow Harriet's gowns.
And, though Harriet was trying to comfort her, her tone showed very
plainly that she had noticed the slimness of the Thurston girls'
preparations in the matter of wardrobe for several weeks of gayety in
Washington.

At a little before one o'clock the "Automobile Girls" and Harriet were
ushered into the reception room of the Chinese Embassy by a grave Chinese
servant clad in immaculate white and wearing his long pig-tail curled on
top of his head.

The minister and his wife came forward. It is difficult to follow out
his course distinctly during the next three and a half trying years. He
was always employed in the finance department, and for some little time
was a privy-councillor; but he differed widely in his views from
some of those with whom he worked.Her
face was enameled in white and a small patch of crimson was painted just
under her lip.

Bab could hardly restrain an exclamation of delight at the beauty of the
reception room. The walls were covered with Chinese silk and heavy panels
of embroidery. A Chinese banner, with a great dragon on it, hung over the
mantel-piece. The furniture was elaborately carved teakwood.

The girls at once glanced around for the Chinese minister's daughter. But
she was no where to be seen. Instead, Peter Dillon, Bab's first chance
acquaintance in Washington, was smiling a welcome. Mrs. Wilson and her
son were also present. The two or three other visitors were unknown to
the "Automobile Girls." Even when luncheon was served the little Chinese
girl did not make her appearance. The four girls were beginning to feel
rather disappointed. They had come to the Embassy chiefly to see Wee Tu,
and they were evidently not going to be granted that pleasure.

Just as they were about to go back to the reception room, Mr. Tu Fang Wu
suggested courteously to his girl guests: "If it pleases you, will you
now go up to my daughter's apartments? She does not eat her meals with us
when we entertain young men guests. It is not the custom of our country."
The Chinese minister touched a bell and another Chinese servant appeared,
his slippered feet making no noise. At the top of the stairs a Chinese
woman met the "Automobile Girls" and conducted them to the apartment of
Wee Tu, the minister's daughter.

Wee Tu bowed her head to the floor when the "Automobile Girls" entered.
But when she raised her face her little black eyes were glowing, and a
faint pink showed under her smooth, yellow skin. Think what it meant to
this little Chinese maid, with her shut-in life, to meet four American
girls like Barbara, Ruth, Grace and Mollie! Harriet had lingered behind
for a few moments.

"Your most honorable presence does my miserable self much honor," stated
Wee Tu automatically.

Bab laughed. She simply could not help it. Wee Tu's greeting seemed so
absurd to her ears, though she knew it was the Chinese manner of
speaking. But Bab's merry laugh saved the situation, as it often had done
before, for the little Chinese maid laughed in return, and the five girls
sat giggling in the most intimate fashion.

The servant passed around preserved Chinese fruits, nuts and dried
melon seed.

"Is Miss Hamlin not with you?" the Chinese minister's daughter asked
finally, in broken English.

At this moment Harriet's voice was heard in the corridor. She was talking
gayly to Peter Dillon. The Chinese girl caught the sound of the young
man's charming laugh. Bab was gazing straight at Wee Tu. Wee Tu looked
like a beautiful Chinese doll, not a bit like a human being.

At the entrance to Wee Tu's apartment Peter bowed gracefully. He waited
until Harriet entered.

"Your most honorable ladyship," he inquired. "Have I your permission to
enter your divine apartment? Your most noble father has waived ceremony
in my favor and says I may be allowed to see you in company with your
other guests. You are to pretend you are an American girl to-day."

Wee Tu again made a low bow, almost touching the soft Chinese rug with
her crown of black hair. Her mantle was of blue silk crepe embroidered in
lotus flowers, and she wore artificial lotus blossoms drooping on either
side of her head.

After Peter's entrance, Wee Tu did not speak nor smile. She sat with her
slender yellow hands clasped together, her nails so long they were tipped
with gold to prevent their breaking. Her tiny feet in their embroidered
slippers looked much too small for walking.

Peter made himself agreeable to all the girls. He chatted with Harriet,
joked with Bab and Ruth. Now and then he spoke to the Chinese girl in
some simple gentle fashion that she could understand.

"Peter Dillon is awfully attractive," Bab thought. "I wonder why I
was prejudiced against him at first because of what that newspaper
girl said."

Peter walked with Barbara back to Mr. Hamlin's house.

"Would you mind my asking you a question?" Bab demanded when they were
fairly on the way.

Peter laughed. "It's a woman's privilege, isn't it?"

"Well, how do you happen to be so intimate at the Chinese minister's?"
was Barbara's direct question. "They seemed so formal and then all of a
sudden Mr. Tu Fang Wu let you come up to see his daughter."

"I know them very well," Peter returned simply. "I often dine at the
Chinese minister's with his family. So I have met his daughter several
times before. I have made myself useful to Mr. Tu Fang Wu once or twice,
and my legation likes me to keep in touch with the people in authority."

"Oh," exclaimed Barbara. She remembered that Peter was equally intimate
at Mr. Hamlin's, and she wondered how he managed to keep up such a
variety of acquaintances.

"I wonder if you would do a fellow a favor some day?" Peter asked. "I'll
bet you have lots of nerve. Harriet is apt to get frightened at the
critical minute."

"It would all depend on what you asked me to do," Bab returned puzzled by
Peter's remark.

"Oh, I won't ask you until I have managed to do something for you first.
It is only that I think you can see a joke and I have a good one that I
mean to try some day," Peter replied.


CHAPTER V

SUB ROSA


The next morning, Peter Dillon was lounging in Mrs. Wilson's library,
chatting with her on apparently easy terms.

"I think it is a special dispensation of Providence that sent the
'Automobile Girls' to Washington to visit Harriet Hamlin just at this
particular time, Mrs. Wilson," declared Peter Dillon.

Mrs. Wilson walked back and forth across her drawing room floor several
times before she answered. She looked older in the early morning light.
But her restlessness did not disturb Peter, who was reclining gracefully
in a chair, smoking a cigarette.

"I am not sure you have reason to bless Providence, Peter Dillon," Mrs.
Wilson protested. "What a man you are! You simply cannot judge all girls
by the same standard. Some day you are going to meet a girl who is
cleverer than you are. And then, where will you be?"

"Oh, I'll go slowly," Peter argued. "I know I am taking chances in making
friends with the clever one. But she has more nerve and courage than the
others. I am sure it will be much better to leave Harriet out of the
whole business, if possible."

"All right, Peter," Mrs. Wilson agreed. "Manage your own affairs, since
this happens to be your own special joke. But you had much better have
left the whole matter to me."

"And spoil my good time with five charming girls?" Peter protested,
smiling. "No, Mrs. Wilson; that is too much to ask of me. If I can't
carry the thing off successfully, you will come to the rescue and help
me. You've promised that. We have had our little jokes together before.
But this strikes me as being about the best of the whole lot. We will
have everybody in Washington laughing up his sleeve pretty soon. There
will be a few people who won't laugh, but so long as we keep quiet we
need not worry about them. Has Elmer gone to work? I know I have made
you a dreadfully early visit. It is very charming of you to be up in
time to see me."

"Don't flatter me, Peter; it is not worth while," Mrs. Wilson said
angrily. Then she smiled. "Never mind, Peter; you can no more help
flattering than you can help breathing, whether your reason is a good or
a bad one. I suppose it is because you are an Irishman. By the way, Elmer
admires one of these charming 'Automobile Girls.' He has talked of no
one else except Mollie Thurston since Harriet's tea. Be careful what you
say or do before him."

"I shall be careful," Peter returned easily. "My attentions are directed
toward the other sister. How have you managed to keep that big boy of
yours so much in the dark about--oh, a number of things?" finished Peter.

"It is because Elmer has perfect faith in me, Peter," Mrs. Wilson
answered, passing her hand over her eyes to hide their expression.

"As all other men have had before him, my lady," Peter avowed. "Is it
true that Mr. William Hamlin is now a worshiper at your shrine?"

"Absurd!" protested Mrs. Wilson. "Here comes Elmer."

"Why, Peter Dillon, this is a surprise!" exclaimed the young lieutenant,
walking into the room in search of his mother. "I never knew Mother to
get up so early before. I have just been inquiring of your maid, Mother,
to know what had become of you. Harriet Hamlin wants you to chaperon us
on an automobile ride out to Mt. Vernon and along the Potomac River.
Charlie Meyers is giving the party, and Harriet thinks her father won't
object if you will go along to look after us. That Charlie Meyers is an
awful bounder! But Harriet wants to show her little Yankee visitors the
sights. Do come along with us, Mother. For I have a fancy I should like
to stroll through the old Washington garden with 'sweet sixteen.'"

"I will chaperon you with pleasure, Elmer," Mrs. Wilson agreed. "But what
about you, Peter? Are you not invited?"

Peter looked chagrined.

"No; I am not invited, and I call it unkind of Harriet. She knows I am
dreadfully impressed with the 'Automobile Girls.'"

Mrs. Wilson and Elmer both laughed provokingly. "That is just what's the
trouble with you, Peter. Harriet is accustomed to your devotion to her.
Now that you have turned your thoughts in another direction, she may look
upon you as a faithless swain," Mrs. Wilson teased.

"Don't undertake more than you can manage, Peter," teased Elmer Wilson.

Of the newer social evils there is the physical and spiritual deterioration
which seems to result from the massing of men in great cities. There
is also the dehumanizing of the relations between master and man.

And this is like in kind to the dehumanizing of all functions in the vast
institutions of modern times. The director of a company comes to regard
himself as part of a machine; and so does the shareholder. So eventually
does the agent of the State.

Until at last we reach the immense evil that human action is done for
which no moral responsibility is felt. How then shall we act? What has
been done and what is still hoped for?

The answer to such questions will be a statement of ideals.

One may speak of ideals of social reform from two different points of view;
either with respect to (1) the changing sentiment which produces
movements for reform or with respect to (2) the institutional change
which embodies that sentiment.

       The two are complementary parts of one historical movement: and it
is difficult to divide them as cause and effect.

For sentiment, becoming enthusiasm, certainly causes institutional change,
and yet the reformed institution invariably creates a new sentiment.

The province of law and of social custom is to lead as well as to
register--a dynamic as well as a static influence, to increase
order and to incite to liberty.

In actual life, therefore, it is often impossible to separate the
sentiment from its embodiment in measures of social reform.

For purposes of study, however, one may divide. We may put aside the
moving sentiments--the passions, however faint, which urge men to wish
for a better future--and we may consider first the particular
instances of reform

.

* * * * *
One definite and in some sense new departure in the results of the
shared enthusiasms of nations has been the industrial legislation
of recent years.

That has been already dealt with. But, although in an economic age such as
ours industrial reform may seem the most striking, it is not the only
effect of our shared enthusiasm and later ages may not think it
the most important.

There has been reform of social evils owing to the interchange between
nations of ideas on education, religious toleration, medicine, and
sanitation, the treatment of criminals, the suppression of slavery
and many other subjects.

All these and many more reforms are, as it were, registered in
institutional (legal or administrative) change.

Perhaps it is better to begin with a definite instance of the working
of an ideal, lest it may seem that we are speaking only of an empty
aspiration.

We may take as an example the reforms connected with medicine and sanitation,
and those only in so far as they have been officially established by the
joint action of states.

This is a very restricted embodiment of a social ideal, since of course we
may find the same use of common labour between men of different
races in the private contest with disease or in the municipal
preventive medicine which in every great city owes much to investigators
and practitioners of other nations.

But it is better to take the most tangible effect in purely governmental
action.

The French Government proposed an international conference, which met in
1851, to deal with infectious disease; and a second conference met in
1856. In 1865 the outburst of cholera in the East led to a third
congress at Constantinople. Great Britain opposed treaties for regulating
quarantine, &c., because of the delay which might be caused to the
pursuit of shipping interests. But at last a treaty was made in 1892 at
Venice for protection against cholera. Further and more effective
treaties were agreed to by civilized states in 1897 and 1903.

A bureau of information concerning infectious disease was established at
Paris, and commissions to supervise were established in Turkey and Egypt.
With regard to sleeping sickness Great Britain took the initiative;
and a conference met in 1907, in London, at which six countries
were represented.

So much with respect to disease; we may now turn to examples of the joint
action of states as regards crime.

The African slave traffic has been dealt with since 1885 (Berlin
Conference) by the European States acting together on certain general
principles.

And what is known as the White Slave traffic was the subject of arrangement
between fifteen states in the conference at Paris in 1902.

Again, the reform of prisons and penitentiaries has been much assisted
by international congresses since 1846. The last was held in 1910
in America, at which twenty-eight states were represented. A secretariat
has been established at Berne for the exchange of expert opinion and for
making suggestions to governments.

These are examples of a very numerous class of reforms undertaken
by the _joint action_ of governments.

They are all comparatively recent and most of the twenty-eight unions
between governments for concerted action have been established during the
years of European peace between 1871 and 1914.

In these instances the States of Europe have put their precious
sovereignties into their pockets; although the lawyers and diplomatists
explain the situation in the old terms.

With respect to all these movements for social reform three points must
be noticed: first, the initiative in most reform has come from
private enterprise and not from diplomacy or governments. Secondly,
this private interest has spread from the few of one nation to the
few of another before any effective result was attained.

Thirdly, the states have not acted together because of any general
theory of international action, but simply because certain social
evils could not be dealt with at all by any state acting separately.

Whatever hampers common action, then, also hinders effective reform
in dealing with disease or crime. I need not elaborate the
conclusion.

* * * * *
There are also instances of governmental action being _directly influenced_
by the practice of other states, even when there has been no common
action.

The two most striking reforms of recent years have been in education and
religious toleration. Of education enough has already been said. The
interest from our point of view here is chiefly in the effect of education
on social structure. It is increasingly evident that of all forces for
transforming a nation, education is the most powerful; but no one nation
can transform its education effectively without respect to the
mistakes and successes of its neighbours.

This has been perceived and acted upon. The influence, for example, of
Germany on England is sufficiently well known. German precedents
were quoted in the House of Commons in the early days of state education
for England: and the Education Acts of 1870 and 1876 were largely
due to the impression made in England by the success of state
education in Prussia.

Coleridge, Carlyle, and Matthew Arnold definitely acknowledged a debt to
Germany.
But Germany owed something to England in the perception of the value of
surroundings and corporate life in schools. France also was affected by
English education; and, in fact, French educators had to come to England
to find the thing for which the French gave us the name--_Esprit
de Corps_.

The United States have been very definitely influenced in their University
education both by Germany and England; and their Government has in
primary education certainly established for all states the transforming
possibilities of a school system. It must be remembered that the crudity
of civilization and its apparent corruption in the United States are
European not American. It is because Europe has neglected its duty,
enslaved and brutalized its peoples, that social and political evil enters
with the immigrants; and all this mass of European incompetence,
the result of neglect or evil-doing in Ireland, Poland, the Slavonic
Countries and Italy, the Government of the United States exorcises
with education: and the effect is spreading beyond the frontiers
of the States.

A further effect of influence passing from nation to nation has been the
change with regard to the relations of State and Church. In England it is
some years since the State persecuted in the supposed interest of
religion; but we remember that the abolition of tests against Roman
Catholics was as late as 1830 and as against Jews as late as 1850.

Even the most backward of European countries have been affected by the
general feeling. In 1874 Austria for the first time allowed any creed,
not dangerous to morals, to be preached; and ecclesiastical power is not
any longer to be used against any but members of the particular
Church which is offended.

In Spain there are still some obstacles to public manifestations of any
religious belief but that which is most prevalent; free worship in private,
however, is at last allowed. Thus, the general tendency, spreading from
the nations which are most intricately divided in religion, has been
towards what is called toleration. Connected with this has been the gradual
recognition of civil marriage; in which the old privilege of the most
powerful Church is no longer recognized by the modern State.

Law and custom have both changed.

Perhaps the general attitude has not really changed.

We persecute more for political than for religious unorthodoxy; or it may
be that in our more economic age we forbear to burn heretics only because
we cannot afford the faggots.

But in any case the relations between men in society are more justly
arranged, even where religion is concerned.

* * * * *
We have thus examples of (1) joint governmental action and (2)
separate actions of governments influenced directly by foreign
governments.

There are also certain results of the interchange of ideals between nations
which are not yet, or only in part, registered in legal or political
institutions. Such for example is the changed position given to women. A
change has occurred quite outside the political or even the economic
sphere, both in the habits of western humanity and in their guiding
conceptions.

The change is affecting the meaning of marriage, since we are becoming
inclined to suppose that man and woman are not simply male and
female.
Human individuality is given a new value; and there is no telling yet
what the new attitude may involve in lessening the friction due
to primitive and obsolete tradition or in making society more
reasonable and civilized.

The source of the change is undoubtedly an enthusiasm which has been
influenced by men and women of all nations. Ibsen has a place in the
history of social transformation. And besides, the contact between nations
has made it possible for the freer position of women in one group to
affect the domestic slavery of another.

In the position of children, also, an immense change is proceeding. We
cannot fail to call it social reform, that the child should be given
so much more definite a place in the social organism. Aristotle thought
woman was a mistake of nature's in the attempt to make man; and nearly all
philosophers have treated children as if they ought to be rather
ashamed of themselves for not being grown up.

I speak of philosophers in the wide sense of the term, for I do not think
the metaphysicians knew that there was such a thing as a child in the
universe. However that may be, we can hardly believe that as late as the
nineteenth century parents really imagined that they knew what was good
for their children. In our more sceptical age, children have generally
to be careful not to allow their parents to read certain books,
and in every well brought up family, it is thought that parents
should be seen and not heard.

A social change has occurred in the comparative importance we assign
to childhood and age.

Thirdly, there is gradually coming about a transformation of social
castes. One must speak carefully; for in the West we are supposed not
to have castes.

There is, however, an uncomfortable feeling that society is not one, that
the two cities which Plato said would divide and destroy the true city
of men are now established--the rich and the poor. I do not mean those
with £3,000 a year, and those with £160 a year. It is not a question
for the Exchequer. I mean that great numbers in all 'civilized' nations
are ill-fed and ill-clothed from birth, and die prematurely. To perceive
it is to desire action which perhaps no state can perform.

But that we perceive it is something. Read the complacent rhymes of
Lord Tennyson about 'freedom slowly broadening down' and then turn to
contemporary literature, to Jean Richepin or John Galsworthy, and you
will acknowledge that a common ideal of social reform has come into
existence. We are at least restless in face of a social organization which
wastes humanity during long years of peace almost as completely, though
not so recklessly, as during a few months of war.

Something has been already done--English writers and English experience
have given a motive power to Hungarian, Russian, Finnish, Turkish,
Persian, and Indian democracy.

Groups of men have claimed, for example in South America, their right
to free development.

And everywhere during the period of European peace the contact between
nations was teaching every nation the force of its own character, while
the new complexities of society were weakening the old dividing lines
of caste between individuals.

In all these matters we seem to be moved by a desire for a freer
social atmosphere.

Whether law or administration changes or not, it is clear that most European
nations have undergone in the years of peace from 1871 to 1914 considerable
social changes. How far they are effective in all nations and in all
classes it is very difficult for a contemporary to judge. It may be that
the social structure of the decorative upper fringe or of the bedraggled
hem of society is much the same as it was before communication was
easy and transit rapid.

But the central body of European society is certainly changed; and,
after all, between the scum and the dregs is the good soup

.

* * * * *
Such are the changes which have been introduced into social life
owing to the interdependence of nations.

But we should not understand what has happened if we accepted the mere
record of achievements. The future is built not only upon what we have
done, but upon what we hope to do.

Reforms accomplished do not make us more satisfied to endure evil not yet
reformed--for always working in the achieved present is the ideal
which transformed the past into what we now see.

We may turn, then, to consider some general features of the force working
in social reform which is not yet achieved.

And for that purpose we put aside established law and custom to consider
the implied attitude.

Now that political privilege and inequality before the law are more or
less removed, there is a greater concentration upon the underlying
social injustice.

We all accept it as good that the activities of government should not
be for the benefit of the few, or that the money should not be drawn
from one class. We suppose at least that there should be one law
for rich and poor.

To any one with a knowledge of history this seems an immense step since
small classes in every nation held political privilege, made law
for others, and forced tribute from the majority.

Not that all is justice and liberty. The law still, with noble impartiality,
forbids both the millionaire and the pauper to steal bread. Of course it
is not directed against the poor.

The law never forbids the poor man to cheat the state out of more than
£3,000 a year. Again, political power still depends on the social position
of your cousins and your aunts.

But something has been done.

We hear much more nowadays about social than about political or legal
reform. That, in itself, is a sign of a change of attitude. In the
revolution of 1381 the crowds came marching to London swearing, in the
words of the old chronicle, that there would be no peace in the
land till each and every lawyer was slain.

In the revolutions of 1830 and 1848 it was 'death to the politicians'.
Now--it may be that we despair of lawyers or politicians, dead or alive.
In any case the attention of those in every state who are moved
by enthusiasm for a better society is concentrated less upon votes
and laws than upon the distribution of well-being.

Secondly, there has been a transference of enthusiasm of the religious
or poetic kind from the sphere of contemplation or aloofness to
that of earthly and even material action.

Ideals of social reform do not any longer involve a neglect of food and
clothing: we are all more and more convinced that it is idle to
preach culture to a starving man, or to talk of liberty to one whose
whole life is a bestial struggle for bare food and covering.

I speak of normal times. In England, France, and Germany, social
betterment means giving to a greater number security of bare life,
upon which alone the good life can be built.

It will be seen that I imply a disagreement with the Tolstoian conception
of reform; in so far as that involves a neglect of food and clothing and
generally of what are called material goods. That conception is not
perhaps powerful among those who deal with what is usually called
social reform.

It is not 'modern', and it is also dependent upon a mistaken argument in
ethical theory. An unfortunate confusion made by what is called Eastern,
Stoic, or Mediaeval asceticism led to the idea that because the
mind is more important than the body, the body has no importance
at all.

But we need not deal with this theory in detail, especially as the general
attitude of to-day is opposed to it.

There is undoubtedly a concentration upon the bare necessities of human
life with a view to discovering how these can be shared more generally.

You're just wasting good time
talkin' to me. I ain't got a mite of patience with crazy automobilists."

"Don't take us all to the station house, officer!" Hugh pleaded. "Just
take me along, and let the rest of the party go on back to Washington.
It's awfully late. You surely wouldn't keep these young ladies."

"It's the lady that's a-runnin' the car, ain't it? She's the one that is
under arrest," said the policeman obstinately.

Ruth had not spoken since her automobile was stopped.

She had a lump in her throat, caused partly by anger and partly by
embarrassment and fright. Then, too, Ruth was wondering what her father
would say. In the years she had been running her automobile, over all the
thousands of miles she had traveled, Ruth had never before been stopped
for breaking the speed laws. She had always promised Mr. Stuart to be
careful. And one cannot have followed the fortunes of Ruth Stuart and her
friends in their adventures without realizing Ruth's high and fine regard
for her word. Yet here were Ruth and her friends about to be taken to
jail for breaking the laws of the little Virginia city.

It was small wonder that Ruth found it difficult to speak.

"I will go with the policeman," she assented. "Perhaps he will let you
take Mollie and Grace on home."

Of course no one paid the slightest attention to Ruth's ridiculous
suggestion. Her friends were not very likely to leave her alone to argue
her case before the justice of the peace.

"I say, man, do be reasonable," Hugh urged. He would not give up. "You
can hold me in jail all night if you will just let the others go."

"Please don't argue with the policeman, Hugh," Ruth begged. "He is only
doing his duty. I am so sorry, Mollie darling, for you and Grace. But I
know you won't leave me."

"Oh, we don't mind," the two girls protested. "I suppose we can pay the
fine and they will let us go at once."

Hugh said nothing, for he knew that he had only a few dollars in
his pocket.

When Ruth's car finally reached the station house it was almost
eleven o'clock.

The policeman took the automobile party inside the station. It was bitter
cold in the room, for the winter chill had fallen with the close of the
December day. The fire had died out in the air-tight iron stove in the
room, and Mollie, Ruth and Grace could hardly keep from shivering.

"Well, where is the justice of the peace or whatever man we ought to see
about this wretched business?" Hugh demanded.

At last the policeman looked a little apologetic. "I'll get some one to
make up a fire for you," he answered. "I have got to go out and wake up
the justice to look after your case. It's bed-time and he's home asleep."

"Do you expect us to sit here in this freezing dirty old room half the
night while you go around looking up a magistrate?" Hugh demanded,
wrathfully.

"I told you I would have the fire built up," the policeman answered
sullenly. "But it ain't my fault you got into this trouble. You ought
not to have broken the law. We have had about as much trouble with
automobilists in this here town as we are willing to stand for. And I
might as well tell you, right now, the court will make it pretty hot for
you. It may be I can't get the justice to hear your case until to-morrow,
and you'll have to stay here all night."

"Stay here all night!" cried the five young people, as they sank down
into five hard wooden chairs in utter despair.

"Harriet, have you seen Ruth's automobile?" Bab asked, as Charlie Meyers'
car got safely out of Alexandria and started on the road toward
Washington.

Harriet and Peter both looked around and strained their eyes in the
darkness. But there was no sign of Ruth or her party.

"Don't you think we had better go back a little, Charlie?" Harriet now
suggested. "I am afraid you have gotten too far ahead of Ruth for her to
follow you."

"What has Miss Stuart got Hugh Post and Elmer Wilson with her for, if
they can't show her the way to town?" argued the impolite host of the
automobile parties.

"I think Charlie is right, Harriet. I would not worry," interposed Mrs.
Wilson, in her soft tones. "Elmer may not have known the road during the
early part of our trip, but neither one of the boys is very apt to lose
his way between Alexandria and Washington." Mrs. Wilson laughed at the
very absurdity of the idea.

Harriet said nothing more, and, although Bab was by no means satisfied,
she felt compelled to hold her peace.

"Will you leave me at my house, Charlie?" Mrs. Wilson demanded, as soon
as their automobile reached Washington. "I know Harriet expects to make a
Welsh rarebit for you at her home, but I am going to ask you to excuse
me. I am a good deal older than you children, and I am tired."

When Barbara reached the Hamlin house she hoped ardently to see the
familiar lights of her old friend, A. Bubble waiting outside the door.
But the street was bare of automobiles.

There was nothing to do but to follow the other young people into the
house and take off her hat and coat. But Bab had not the heart to join
Harriet in the dining-room where the preparations for making the rarebit
were now going on. She lingered forlornly in the hall. Every now and then
she would peer anxiously out into the darkness. Still there was no sign
of Ruth or any member of her party! Barbara was wretched. She was now
convinced that some accident had befallen them.

"Come in, Barbara," called Harriet cheerfully. "The Welsh rarebit is
done and it has to be eaten on the instant. I will make another for
Ruth's crowd when they get in. They are certainly awfully slow in
arriving."

"Harriet!" Barbara's white face appeared at the dining-room door. "I
hate to be a nuisance, but I am dreadfully worried about the other
girls. I know they would have gotten home by this time if nothing had
happened to them."

Poor Barbara had to make a dreadful effort to swallow her pride, for
Charlie Meyers had been dreadfully rude to her all afternoon. "Mr.
Meyers," she pleaded, "won't you take me back in your car to look for my
friends? I simply can't bear the suspense any longer." Barbara's eyes
were full of tears.

"Oh, Bab, you are foolish to worry," Harriet protested. "It would not be
worth while for you and Mr. Meyers to go back now. You would only pass
Ruth on the road. It is nearly midnight."

"I know it is," Bab agreed. "And that is why I am so frightened. Don't
you think you could take me to look for them? Please do, Mr. Meyers."

The ill-bred fellow shrugged his shoulders. "What do you take me for,
Miss Thurston? I am not going to let my rarebit get cold. There is
nothing the matter with your friends. They are likely to be along at
any minute."

Barbara did not know what to do. Mr. Hamlin had not yet come in. Yet she
must find out what had happened to Ruth, Mollie and Grace. Bab once
thought of starting out alone and on foot, back up the long country road,
but she gave up the idea as sheer foolishness.

At that moment the grandfather's clock in the hall chimed midnight.
Almost two hours had passed since the two automobiles had entered
Alexandria, and the little town was only eight miles from Washington.

Bab felt she was going to cry before Harriet's guests. She slipped her
hand in her pocket to find her handkerchief. As she silently pressed her
handkerchief against her trembling lips she smelt a delicate perfume.
Something fresh and cool and aromatic touched her face. It was the tiny
rose-bud Peter Dillon had presented to her in the garden!

Now Bab had determined never to ask Peter to do her a favor. She felt
that, once she returned his pledge to him, he had the same right to ask
a favor of her. But what could Barbara do? Her beloved sister and
friends had certainly come to grief somewhere. And Bab was helpless to
find them alone.

"Mr. Dillon," Bab spoke under her breath, just showing her handkerchief
to him with the rose-bud crushed between its damp folds, "won't you help
me to find Ruth?" Bab only glanced at the flower with a shy smile. But
Peter saw it.

He jumped to his feet, his face flushing.

"Put the flower back, Miss Thurston," he said quietly to Barbara. "You do
not need to ask me to help you look for your friends as a favor to you. I
am ashamed of myself to have waited until you asked me. Harriet, I am
going back to look for your guests."

Harriet, who was also feeling uneasy without being willing to confess it,
cheerfully agreed.

"I am going to take your car, Meyers," declared Peter Dillon without
saying so much as by your leave.

Bab and Peter Dillon hurried out to the waiting automobile. Both stopped
only to take coats and caps from the rack in the hall.

If Peter Dillon wished to make a friend of Barbara Thurston, his prompt
response to her plea for help came nearer accomplishing it than anything
else in the world. When Peter refused Bab's proffered rose-bud she then
determined to do him any favor that she could whenever he might desire to
ask it of her.


CHAPTER VII

MOLLIE'S TEMPTATION


The next morning the "Automobile Girls" were sitting in the library of
Mr. Hamlin's home. Ruth, Mollie and Grace were there, for Peter and Bab
had secured their release from the Alexandria jail.

"But how do you think he ever accomplished it?" Mollie inquired.

Harriet laughed and flushed. "Oh, Peter accomplished it in the same way
he does everything else--by making friends with people," she declared.
"Girls, I hope you realize how ashamed I am of last night's proceedings.
I never dreamed that anything had happened to you, or I should have
certainly forced Charlie Meyers to turn back. But I think I have learned
a lesson. Charlie Meyers was horribly rude to you, Bab, and I told him
what we thought of him after you left. I don't want to see him again. So
Father, at least, will be glad. Though how I am to get on in this world
without a husband with money, I don't know." And Harriet sighed.

"Still I would like to have my questions answered," Mollie repeated. "How
did Peter Dillon get us away from that wretched jail in such a short
time when we thought we might have to stay there all night?"

"Why, he just found the justice of the peace, arranged about Ruth's fine,
mentioned Mr. Hamlin's name and did a few more things," Bab laughed. "So,
at last, you were permitted to come home."

"Poor Hugh and Elmer were so mortified at not having enough money with
them to pay the fine. It was just an accident. Yet it was truly my
fault," Ruth argued. "Father has always insisted that I take my
pocket-book whenever I go out of the house. But, of course, I forgot it
yesterday."

"Will Uncle Robert be very angry with you, Ruth, for being arrested?"
Harriet asked. "He need never find out anything about it. Your fine
wasn't so very large, and you always have money enough to pay for
anything."

Ruth laughed. "Oh, I always tell Father every thing! I don't think
he will be very angry with me, when he hears how we happened to get
into trouble."

"Do you really tell your father everything?" Harriet asked, in a
surprised tone.

"Why, yes; why not?" Ruth questioned.

Harriet shook her head. "Well, I do not tell my father all my affairs.
Oh, dear me, no!"

"I suppose I shall have to go back to Alexandria to-day, and appear at
court," Ruth lamented. "I just dread it."

"Oh, no you won't," Bab explained. "Mr. Dillon said he would talk matters
over with Mr. Hamlin, and that he had some influential friends over
there. You will have to pay your fine, Ruth, but you probably will not
have to appear at the trial. They will settle it privately."

"Girls," exclaimed Harriet, "I forgot to tell you something. There is a
big reception at the White House to-morrow evening, and Father says he
wishes to take the 'Automobile Girls' to present them to the President."

"How exciting!" exclaimed Grace Carter. "To think that the 'Automobile
Girls' are going to meet the President, and yet you speak of it as
calmly, Harriet Hamlin, as though it were an everyday affair."

"Oh, nonsense, Grace," Harriet begged. "It will be fun to go to the
White House with you. You girls are so interested in everything. But a
White House reception is an old story to me, and I am afraid there will
be a frightful crowd. But which one of you will go shopping with me
this morning?"

"I will," cried Mollie. "I'd dearly love to see the shops. We don't have
any big stores in Kingsbridge."

"Is there anything I can get for you, girls?" Harriet asked.

Ruth called her cousin over in the corner. "Will you please order flowers
for us to-morrow night!" Ruth requested. "Father told me to be sure to
get flowers whenever we wanted them."

"Lucky Ruth!" sighed Harriet. "I wish I had such a rich and generous
father as you have!"

"What can we wear to the President's reception to-morrow, Bab?" Mollie
whispered in her sister's ear, while Harriet and Ruth were having their
conference.

Bab thought for a moment. "You can wear the corn-colored frock you wore
to dinner with the Princess Sophia at Palm Beach. It is awfully pretty,
and you have never worn it since."

"That old thing!" cried Mollie, pouting.

"Suppose you get some pale yellow ribbons, Mollie, and I will make you a
new sash and a bow for your hair," Bab suggested.

Pretty Mollie frowned. "All right," she agreed.

Harriet and Mollie did not go at once to the shops. They drove first to
Harriet's dressmaker, the most fashionable in Washington.

"I must try on a little frock," Harriet explained. "We can do our
shopping afterwards. I want you to see a beautiful coat I am having made,
from a Chinese crepe shawl the Chinese Minister's wife gave me."

Madame Louise, the head of the dressmaking establishment, came in to
attend to Harriet. The new coat was in a wonderful shade of apricot,
lined with satin and embroidered in nearly every color of silk.

"Oh, Harriet, how lovely!" Mollie exclaimed.

"Yes, isn't it?" Harriet agreed. "But I really ought not to have had this
coat made up. It has cost almost as much as though I had bought it
outright. And I don't need it. I hope you have not made my dress very
expensive, Madame. I told you to get me up a simple frock."

"Ah, but Miss Hamlin, the simple frocks cost as much as the fancy ones,"
argued the dressmaker. "This little gown is made of the best satin and
lace. But how charming is the effect."

Mollie echoed the dressmaker's verdict as she gazed at Harriet with
admiring eyes. Harriet's gown was white satin. Her black hair and great
dusky eyes looked darker from the contrast and her skin even more
startlingly fair.

Harriet could not help a little smile of vanity as she saw herself in the
long mirror in the fitting room.

"Be sure to send these things home by to-morrow, Madame Louise," she
demanded. "Father and I are going to take our guests to one of the
President's receptions and I want to wear this gown."

Mollie gave a little impatient sigh.

"What is the matter, Mollie?" inquired Harriet, seeing that her little
friend looked tired and unhappy. "I am awfully sorry to have kept you
waiting like this. It is a bore to watch other people try on their
clothes. I will come with you directly."

"Oh, I am not tired watching you, Harriet," pretty Mollie answered
truthfully. "I was only wishing I had such a beautiful frock to wear to
the reception to-morrow."

Madame Louise clapped her hands. "Wait a minute, young ladies. I have
something to show you. You must wait, for it is most beautiful." The
dressmaker turned and whispered to one of her girl assistants. The girl
went out and came back in a few minutes with another frock over her arm.

Mollie gave a deep sigh of admiration.

"How exquisite!" Harriet exclaimed. "Whose dress is that, Madame? It
looks like clouds or sea foam, or anything else that is delicately
beautiful."

Madame shook out a delicate pale blue silk, covered with an even lighter
tint of blue chiffon, which shaded gently into white.

"This dress was an order, Miss Hamlin," Madame Louise explained. "I sent
to Paris for it. Of course it was some time before it arrived in
Washington. In the meanwhile a death occurred in the family of the young
woman who had ordered the dress. She is now in mourning, and she left the
dress with me to sell for her. She is willing to let it go at a great
bargain. The little frock would just about fit your young friend. Would
she not be beautiful in it, with her pale yellow hair and her blue eyes?
Ah, the frock looks as though it had been created for her! Do you think
she would allow me to try it on her?"

"Do slip the frock on, Mollie," Harriet urged. "It will not take much
time. And I would dearly love to see you in such a gown. It is the
sweetest thing I ever saw."

Mollie shook her head. "It is not worth while for me to put it on,
Harriet. Madame must understand that I cannot possibly buy it."

"But the frock is such a bargain, Mademoiselle," the dressmaker
continued. "I will sell it to you for a mere song."

"But I haven't the song to pay for it, Madame," Mollie laughed. "Come on,
Harriet. We must be going."

"Of course you can't buy the dress, Mollie," Harriet interposed. "But
Madame will not mind your just slipping into it. Try it on, just for my
sake. I know you will look like a perfect dream."

Mollie could not refuse Harriet's request.

"Shut your eyes, Mollie, while Madame dresses you up," Harriet proposed.

Mollie shut her eyes tightly.

Madame Louise slipped on the gown. "It fits to perfection," she whispered
to Harriet. Then the dressmaker, who was really an artist in her line,
picked up Mollie's bunch of soft yellow curls and knotted them carelessly
on top of Mollie's dainty head. She twisted a piece of the pale blue
shaded chiffon into a bandeau around her gold hair.

"Now, look at yourself, Mademoiselle," she cried in triumph.

"Mollie, Mollie, you are the prettiest thing in the world!" Harriet
exclaimed.

Mollie gave a little gasp of astonishment when she beheld herself in the
mirror. Certainly she looked like Cinderella after the latter had been
touched with the fairy wand. She stood regarding herself with wide open
eyes of astonishment, and cheeks in which the rose flush deepened.

"The dress must belong to Mademoiselle! I could not have made such a fit
if I had tried," repeated the dressmaker.

"How much is the dress worth, Madame?" Harriet queried.

"Worth? It is worth one hundred and fifty dollars! But I will give the
little frock away for fifty," the dressmaker answered.

"Can't you possibly buy it, child?" Harriet pleaded with Mollie. "It is a
perfectly wonderful bargain, and you are too lovely in it. I just can't
bear to have you refuse it."

"I am sorry, Harriet," Mollie returned firmly. "But I have not the money.
Won't you please take the gown off me, Madame!"

"Your friend can take the frock from me now and pay me later. It does not
matter," said the dressmaker. "She can write home for the money."

For one foolish moment Mollie did dream that she might write to her
mother for the price of this darling blue frock. Mollie was sure she had
never desired anything so keenly in her life. But in a moment Mollie came
to her senses. Where would her mother get such a large sum of money to
send her? It had been hard work for Mrs. Thurston to allow Barbara and
Mollie the slight expenses of their trip to Washington. No; the pretty
gown was impossible!

"Do unbutton the gown for me, please, Harriet," Mollie entreated. "I
really can't buy it." Mollie felt deeply embarrassed, and was sorry she
had allowed herself to be persuaded into trying on the gown.

"Mollie!" exclaimed Harriet suddenly. "Don't you have a monthly
allowance?"

Mollie nodded her head. Silly Mollie hoped Harriet would not ask her just
what her allowance was. For Mrs. Thurston could give her daughters only
five dollars a month apiece for their pin money.

"Then I know just what to do," Harriet declared. "You must just buy this
frock, Mollie dear. I expect to have a dividend from some stock I own,
and when it comes in, I shall pay Madame for the dress, and you can pay
me back as it suits you. Do please consent, Mollie. Just look at yourself
in the glass once more and I know you can't resist my plan."

Mollie did take one more peep at herself in the mirror. But if she had
only had more time to think, and Harriet and the dressmaker had not
argued the point with her, she would never have fallen before her
temptation.

"You are sure you won't mind how long I take to pay you back, Harriet?"
Mollie inquired weakly.

"Sure!" Harriet answered.

"All right then; I will take it," Mollie agreed in a sudden rush of
recklessness, feeling dreadfully excited. For little Mollie Thurston had
never owned a gown in her life that had cost more than fifteen dollars,
except the two or three frocks which had been given to her on different
occasions.

"Madame, you will send Miss Thurston's gown with mine, so she can wear it
to the White House reception," Harriet insisted.

"Certainly; I shall send the frocks this evening," the dressmaker agreed,
suavely. The question startled me. In the first place, it was an extraordinary
one to ask under the circumstances, and in the next, it was not
an easy one to answer.

"May I inquire," I said, "why you put this question?"

"Because I wish to know."
"For what purpose?"
"That you will discover presently."

The man had evidently an object in view, so I thought I would humour him.

"I have taken great interest in the subject," I said, "and have studied
it in books and newspapers and in the courts of justice, and have also
derived a good deal of information from persons who have come in contact
with criminals."

"Ah! you know nothing of it from personal experience?"
"How do you mean?"
"You never, for instance, saw a murderer?"
"Only in the dock."

"Would you _like_ to see a murderer?"
"Well," I replied, with a nervous laugh, "'like' is hardly the word. If
I happened to come across such an individual, I should feel interested,
no doubt."

"No doubt," this strangest of strangers echoed, adding, after a
pause, "and you never saw a murder done?"
"Never."
"Would you _like_ to see a murder done?"

This gruesome question almost startled me out of my chair.

"Good gracious!" I exclaimed, "certainly not."
"And yet you write about such things."

"That is quite a different matter. But you must excuse me for saying
that I do not understand the object of these questions.

May I ask who you are?"
"I am a murderer."
[Illustration: "I AM A MURDERER."]

My visitor said this in the calmest way, as though he were only calling
himself a clerk or a carpenter.

"A murderer?" I gasped rather than asked.

"A murderer in intention only at present. I am going to do a murder, and
I want you to witness it."
Good heavens! I looked at the stranger; I met his terrible wild eyes, and
in a moment it flashed upon me that I was in the presence of a
madman.

I started from my chair, and was about to rush to the bell and
call for help, but the stranger put his left hand on my shoulder
and kept me in my seat, while he drew his right hand from his coat
pocket, and something glittered in the lamplight.

Oh, horror! a bright, new, large, six-chambered revolver!

"Be still, be silent," he said, almost in a whisper, "or you are a dead
man."

[Illustration: "SOMETHING GLITTERED IN THE LAMPLIGHT."]
I need hardly say that I was quiet enough after this, and sat
grasping my chair arms with both hands, and staring at the stranger,
perhaps with my hair standing on end.

"I don't want to hurt you," the dreadful man went on, "unless I can
get nobody better to kill.

But I mean to kill someone to-night, and I want you to see me do it.

You must come with me out into the streets, and go about with me
until we find somebody worth killing. You must keep very quiet, utter no
cry, give no alarm, excite no suspicion. Otherwise I shall shoot you
dead on the spot. I would not mind killing you, the author of so many
stories of crime, but I would rather slay someone of higher social
position, and leave you to live and record the deed."

I reflected that I should prefer this arrangement myself, but, still
better, I would rather get out of the whole horrible business
altogether.

But the madman, as I regarded him, was imperative.

"Put on your hat and coat and come with me quietly," he said.

"Make no noise or I fire."
It was a frightful situation, such as I had never conceived even in my
wildest dreams, but what was I to do?

In silence I attired myself for this terrible expedition. My companion
made me precede him to the street door, opened it himself, and closed
it quietly behind us.

Side by side in silence we walked, the maniac keeping half a step in my
rear, and I knew all the while that he had his right hand in his
side pocket. Now and then he indicated the way we should go, and then
he led me across the Regent's Park, and so through street after street
till we reached Hyde Park Corner. We passed several policemen by
the way, but, unfortunately, none of them suspected or even
particularly noticed us.

I dared not give an alarm or attract attention, for did I not know that
that dreadful hand was still in that dreadful side pocket?

Presently my companion paused, and said, as though speaking to himself:

"A member of the Royal Family would be best."
I was rather glad to hear this, because if he intended that an
illustrious personage should be his victim he was likely to be
disappointed.

Royal Highnesses are not usually found walking about in the
neighbourhood of their palaces at two o'clock in the morning.

Thus we rambled to and fro near Buckingham and St. James's Palaces and
Marlborough House, need I say with no result? Not a single Prince was
to be seen anywhere, and my companion seemed slightly disgusted.

"Hum!" he muttered. "They are hiding. Let us go now to Downing Street."

He evidently thought that, failing Royalty, his next best course would
be to slay a Cabinet Minister.

But neither the Premier nor any of the Secretaries of State happened
to be abroad at that hour.

Our walk down Whitehall proving uneventful, the madman next suggested
that we should "try the Houses of Parliament." Here the position seemed
more dangerous. The House of Commons could not have long adjourned--it
was in the days of late sittings--and it was quite possible that
some belated M.P. might be on his way home.

Presently, indeed, my companion made a remark that filled me with
horror.

"That looks like one," he said. "Now steady."
An elderly, respectable-looking gentleman was approaching us, walking
alone from the direction of the House, and my terrible associate
was standing under a lamp-post still with his hand in his pocket.

[Illustration: "THAT LOOKS LIKE ONE."]
My presence of mind together with my faculty of invention, here
happily came to my aid.

"Stay," I whispered; "mind what you are about, or you will make a mistake.
That is not a member of Parliament. I know him by sight but not to speak
to. He is a retail grocer who keeps a shop in Oxford Street."

"Are you quite sure?"

"Quite."
And so the elderly stranger passed us, little guessing what a narrow
escape he had had.

The position was truly appalling. Now we neared the Royal Academy, at
that time still situated in Trafalgar Square, and my would-be
murderer muttered something about "picking off" an R.A. or an
Associate.

The wretched creature seemed well up in honorary titles. Next we wandered
along the Strand, and he thought of destroying a distinguished actor, but
the theatrical profession had doubtless long since gone to bed.
Thank goodness he had not gone far into the heart of Clubland, or he might
have found there a victim worthy of his murderous weapon.

On, on he led me, past Temple Bar, not without an eye for wandering
Judges and Queen's Counsel.

Fortunately, at that hour, it was now about four a.m., the newspapers
had all gone to press, and there were no eminent journalists about.
Then he came to St. Paul's, and talked about archbishops, bishops and
canons, and I almost laughed at the idea of our meeting a Church
dignitary abroad at such a time.

Finally, we got into the heart of the City, and here I felt safe if he had
any designs on the Directors of the Bank of England or members of the
Stock Exchange.

It was in the middle of the deserted road opposite the Mansion House that
he stopped at last, and cast a fond look at the residence of the
Lord Mayor.

"He won't come out," he murmured; "none of them will, the cowards. Not
even an alderman."

[Illustration: "THEN HE CAME TO ST. PAUL'S."]
Then, after looking about him for a time--why, oh! why, were not the
suspicions of some policeman excited by our strange proceedings?--he
suddenly exclaimed, to my great joy:

"I am afraid it is no good.

We shall have to give it up for to-night; they are all in hiding,
every one of them. To be sure, I might pick off some stranger, and take
my chance, but it is hardly good enough. I should waste myself."
This was the pleasantest speech he had yet made, but his next was not so
agreeable.

"After all," he said, turning to me, "I don't think I could get
anybody better than you.

You are a rather distinguished novelist, and the fact that you write
stories of crime would make it sound remarkable. What do you say?"
I was almost too frightened to say anything. I was trembling all over,
for in a moment that dreadful hand might leap out of that dreadful
pocket, and my fate would be sealed. But, happily, my imagination once
more came to my aid.

"It is not a bad idea," I replied; "but I think you could do better.

Don't be in a hurry--there are plenty of distinguished people about, but
not at so late an hour as when you called on me last night.

Come a little earlier to-night, say at ten o'clock, and we'll see if we
can't find a Prince. I know them all by sight, and will point one out
to you, a good one. Of course, if you can't get anybody better, you
can shoot me."
[Illustration: "'THANK YOU,' HE SAID."]
"Thank you," he said, and for the first time he drew his hand out
of that horrible pocket of his, and grasped my own. "It is a good
idea.
To-night then it shall be, at ten o'clock. Good morning."
I could hardly believe my senses when I saw the dreadful creature slowly
making his way towards Cheapside.

But, indeed, my senses were failing me. I turned giddy, and staggered
against a lamp-post, where presently I was found by a wandering
policeman.

I put my hand to my throat, for I felt choking.

"Stop him, stop him!"

I cried. "He has got a revolver--he is a murderer--he----"
But the miserable constable took no notice of my warning. He only
took me by the arm, and, turning his bull's eye and a suspicious
glance upon my countenance, said:

"Here, you had better go home quietly, sir. I suppose you have been dining
out rather late. Hi, hansom!"
And he bundled me into a cab, and took my name and address, and the
next moment I was bowling along on my road to St.

John's Wood.

It was nearly six in the morning when I arrived, and, fortunately, no one
heard me when I let myself in with my latch-key.

My wife thought I had only been sitting up extra late at my work, and I
told her nothing of my night's adventure. But I summoned two able-bodied
detectives to my aid, and they agreed to await with me the lunatic's
second visit. My family supposed that the detectives had come to assist
me in getting up a tale of crime, and I did not undeceive them.

So I despatched them to bed at an earlier hour than usual, on the
plea that I did not wish to be disturbed, and sat with my companions
in the study watching for the madman.

[Illustration: "YOU HAD BETTER GO HOME QUIETLY, SIR."]
Precisely at ten o'clock there was heard a heavy footstep on the gravel
path without, and once more a knock--a single knock.

"He has come," we whispered.

We had duly arranged our "plan of campaign," and now proceeded to carry
it out. The most stalwart of the detectives was to open the front door,
and the other to hide behind it.

My post was on the threshold of my study, where I was to stand as a
"reserve."
The men were wonderfully prompt in executing their operations. The street
door had hardly been opened when there was a scuffle and a heavy
fall, accompanied by much growling and cursing, and then the
unmistakable sound of the snapping of a pair of handcuffs.

"It's all right," said the detective who had been behind the door, "we
have got him and his six-shooter too."

Whereupon he produced the very weapon with which the maniac had
threatened me--the large, bright, new revolver.

I identified it at once.

"I got it out of his side pocket quick as thought," said the man.

Good! And now I retired into my study while the other detective brought
the stranger forward.

"What the devil are you fools about?" I heard him cry, as he entered,
handcuffed, at the door.

The sound of his voice startled me. It was _not_ that of my visitor
the night before. A single glance showed me that it was quite a
different sort of person.

"Halloa!"

I cried, "there is some mistake here. That's not the lunatic."
"Lunatic!" exclaimed the captured man, "I should think not indeed. It is
you who are the lunatics. I am a policeman!"
And a policeman he was--in plain clothes.

He had come to tell me that the maniac was dead. He had shot himself almost
immediately after leaving me, and the constable who had put me into a
hansom remembered my words and my name and address. Hence I was
now summoned to give evidence at the inquest.

Of course the policeman was easily pacified, and, indeed, regarded his
rough treatment by two of his own colleagues as a joke rather than
otherwise.

I duly gave evidence at the inquest, but I am sorry to say that when I
told my story it was not listened to quite so gravely as I thought it
ought to have been.

[Illustration: "THERE WAS A SCUFFLE."]

So altogether this adventure rather disgusted me with the occupation I
had hitherto been following, and now, for some time past, instead
of composing tales of crime, I have gone in for writing moral stories
for boys.

[Illustration: THE IDLER'S CLUB
SUBJECT FOR DISCUSSION
SHALL WE HAVE A DRAMATIC ACADEMY?]

[Sidenote: Miss Fanny Brough thinks that it is indispensable.]
Of course, there will be the usual outcry that we don't want an Academy of
British Dramatic Art because we have not had one hitherto; but there
are many things wanted now-a-days which our forefathers had to do
without.

I don't say for a moment that the heads of the profession in England are
not equal to those of France or other countries; it is the rank and
file of whom I complain.

They never get a chance of learning how to walk or talk properly on the
stage, and, consequently, minor parts are frequently very badly
played in English theatres.

For instance, I went on the stage--in the provinces--just when the old
system of stock companies was dying out. A few years before then it
would have been possible to receive an admirable training in the provinces.
But when I went on the stage, touring companies took possession of the
land, and I had only two parts in eighteen months.

What possible chance was there of learning to act under such a system?
None at all. The result was that when I came to London, and had a
comparatively good part offered me, I did not feel satisfied with the way
I played it, and returned to the provinces.

The difficulty, of course, is how to exist whilst qualifying for the stage.
I maintain that a Dramatic Academy would do away with this difficulty,
and tend to the improvement of British Dramatic Art in numberless
ways.

There are hundreds of inefficient teachers who profess to train people
for the stage, although they themselves know nothing of the art
of acting.

As long as there are wealthy tyros mad to go on the stage at any cost, so
long will inefficient teachers continue to flourish.

* * * * *

[Sidenote: The Dramatic Academy must be subsidised.]
Of course, the Dramatic Academy would have to be subsidised, either by
the Government or private individuals. The experiment is not a new one.

It has been tried at the Paris Conservatoire, the National Dramatic Academy
at Buda-Pesth, the theatrical school at Berlin, and the Dramatic
Conservatoires in Vienna and Amsterdam.

Surely it would be possible to collate the experiences of these various
institutions and arrive at a basis on which to work. A committee of our
leading actors and managers might be appointed to report on the matter.
There is a great deal of nonsense talked about the heaven-born genius
plunging into the first ranks of the profession at a bound, but, as a
rule, the heaven-born genius requires a great deal of preparatory
work to fit him for his profession. Mr. Grein, of the Independent
Theatre, puts forward a very comprehensive plan for the working
of such an academy.

He proposes--(1.)

The school should be open to children at thirteen. (2.)

That they should pass a competitive examination. (3.) That the school should
be divided into five classes, the three lower ones to be entirely
preparatory. (4.) That the tuition for acting should not begin until
these three classes are passed, or, in other words, that the pupil should
spend four years in merely preparatory work. (5.) That if the pupil then
shows no special aptitude, he should be recommended to give up all
idea of the stage.
(6.) That six hours a week should be bestowed on diction and
acting.
(7.) That at the end of the course the pupils should submit to a
semi-public examination, and receive a diploma if proficient. (8.)
That the co-operation of managers should be invited, and that the
conduct of the school should be entrusted to one man (not an actor)
under the supervision of three eminent actors or actor-managers.
(9.) That the school must be endowed amply enough to tide it over
the first five years of its existence, and that the fees to pupils
should be made as low as possible. If a certain amount of energy
and determination are brought to bear on the subject, I see no
reason why it should not speedily be brought within the range of
practical politics.

* * * * *
[Sidenote: Mr. John Hare thinks not.]
I am loath to say anything to discourage any scheme framed for the
purpose of benefiting our art, but I cannot honestly say that, in
my opinion, the establishment of a Dramatic Academy would, in any
way, serve that purpose. The question was fully gone into by a most
influential committee called together to consider the subject some
ten years ago. It consisted of Mr. Irving, Mr. Boucicault, Mr.
Bancroft, Mr.
Vezin, Mr. Kendal, Mr. Neville, Mr. H. J. Byrne, myself, and many
others. After a full discussion we found, amongst many other
difficulties, it was quite impossible to find enough competent
teachers who would undertake the work of instruction, so the matter
fell through, and, as I do not believe in the "blind leading the
blind," I am convinced that any attempt to establish an English
Dramatic Academy will prove abortive.

* * * * *
[Sidenote: Mr. J. L. Toole is not quite prepared to express a decided
opinion.]
I am not quite prepared to express a decided opinion on the matter.
I am, however, more inclined to the view that a sound provincial
training will always be found the more beneficial course.
* * * * * 
[Sidenote: Mr. Edward Terry's experience.]
I think it desirable, but scarcely practicable. Some years ago I
was concerned in a scheme to promote the same object, my desire
being that we should start by renting a small theatre, and playing
a _répertoire_ of pieces--that established actors should give their
services for a minimum fee as professors, and when out of engagements
should undertake to appear and act, taking less than their regular
salaries.Had Marjorie Moore expected foul play and
called on Bab to help her guard some one from harm?

Barbara did not know what to do--to go on with her search for the
newspaper girl, or go back to the White House and raise an alarm.

Bab was standing up, but she dared not look at the figure at her feet.
She was now more accustomed to the darkness and she did not know what one
glance might reveal.

"What a coward I am!" Bab thought. Trembling, she put out her hand and
touched the body. It was warm, but the figure had fallen forward on its
face. As Bab's hand slipped along over the object that lay so still on
the hard ground, an even greater horror seized her. Her hand had come in
contact with a skirt. The figure was that of a woman!

Barbara dropped on her knees beside the figure. She gently turned
the body over until it was face upward. One long stare at the face
was enough. The woman who lay there was the young newspaper girl who
had summoned Bab to follow her but a short time before. She still
had on her shabby evening dress. The pad and pencil with which she
took down her society items lay at her side. But Marjorie Moore's
face was pale as death.

Bab's tears dropped down on the girl's face. "My dear Miss Moore, what
has happened? Can't you hear me?" Bab faltered. "It is Barbara Thurston!
I tried to come to help you, but I could not get here until now."

The figure lay apparently lifeless, but Bab knew now that the girl was
still alive. Bab did not like to leave her, for what dreadful person
might not stumble over the poor, unconscious girl? Yet how else could
Bab get help?

At this moment Bab looked up and saw a number of lighted cigars in the
garden near the White House. Evidently a group of men had come out on the
lawn to smoke. As Bab ran forward she saw one of the men move away from
the others. He was whistling softly, "Kathleen Mavourneen, the bright
stars are shining."

"Oh, Mr. Dillon!" cried Bab. "Poor Miss Moore has been dreadfully hurt
and is lying unconscious out here on the grass. Won't you please find Mr.
Hamlin, or some one, to come to her aid?"

"Miss Moore!" exclaimed Peter Dillon in a shocked tone. "I wonder whom
the girl could have been spying upon to have gotten herself into such
trouble? But, Miss Thurston, you ought not to be out here. Come back with
me to the reception rooms. I will get some one to look after Miss Moore
at once. It is best to keep this affair as quiet as possible."

"I can't leave the poor girl alone," Bab demurred. "So please find Mr.
Hamlin as soon as you can. I will ask two of these other men to take Miss
Moore up on a side porch, out of the way of the guests."

The rest of the group of men now came forward; their uniforms showed
they were young Army and Navy officers. One of them was Lieutenant
Elmer Wilson.

"What a dreadful thing!" he exclaimed, as he and another officer, under
Bab's directions, picked up Marjorie Moore's limp form and carried it
into the light. "Some one has struck Miss Moore over the temple with a
stick. She has a nasty bruise just there. But she is only stunned. She
will come to herself presently."

Mr. Hamlin now hurried out with Peter Dillon, followed by Ruth and
Harriet.

"Find our automobile; have it brought as near as possible. We must put
the poor girl into it," Mr. Hamlin declared authoritatively. "Mr. Dillon
is right. This affair must be kept an entire secret. It is incredible!
Above all things, the newspapers must not get hold of it. It would be a
nine days' wonder! Mr. Dillon, will you go to Miss Moore's paper? Say you
feel sure the President himself would not wish this story to be
published. Then you can find out where Miss Moore's mother lives, and see
that she is told. The girl is not seriously injured, but she must be seen
by a physician."

"But you are not going to take Marjorie Moore to our house, Father,"
Harriet protested. "She is so--" Harriet checked herself just in time.
She realized it would not be well to express her feeling toward the
injured girl before so large a group of listeners.

"I most certainly do intend to take Miss Moore to our house," interrupted
Mr. Hamlin sternly. "Her father was an old friend of mine whom changes in
politics made poor just before his death. His daughter is a brave girl. I
have a great respect for her."

In the excitement of helping their wounded visitor to bed, Barbara
forgot all about Mollie's wonderful gown, and the questions she intended
asking her. Bab and Ruth undressed Marjorie Moore, and stayed with her
until the doctor and a nurse arrived. Then Bab went quickly to her own
room and undressed by a dim light, so as not to disturb her sister.
Mollie's face was turned toward the wall and she seemed to be fast
asleep. There was no sign of the blue gown about to reawaken Bab's
curiosity. Barbara was too weary from the many impressions of the evening
and the fright that succeeded them, and hurriedly undressing she crept
quietly to bed and was soon fast asleep.


CHAPTER X

THE CONFESSION


It was almost dawn when Barbara began to dream that she heard low,
suppressed sobs. No; she must be wrong, she was not dreaming. The sounds
were too real. The sobs were close beside her, and Bab felt Mollie's
shoulders heaving in an effort to hold them back.

"Why, little sister," cried Bab in a frightened tone, putting out
her hand and taking hold of Mollie, "what is the matter with you!
Are you ill?"

"No," sobbed Mollie. "There is nothing the matter. Please go to sleep
again, Bab, dear. I did not mean to wake you up."

"You would not cry, Mollie, if there was nothing the matter. Tell me at
once what troubles you," pleaded Barbara, who was now wide awake. "If you
are not ill, then something pretty serious is worrying you and you must
tell me what it is."

Mollie only buried her head in her pillow and sobbed harder than ever.

"Tell me," Bab commanded.

"It's the blue gown!" whispered Mollie under her breath.

"The gown?" queried Barbara, suddenly recalling Mollie's wonderful
costume at the President's reception. "Oh, yes. I have not had an
opportunity to ask you where you got such a beautiful frock and how you
happened not to tell me about it."

"I was ashamed," Mollie sobbed.

Barbara did not understand what Mollie meant, but she knew her sister
would tell her everything now.

"I bought the frock," Mollie confessed after a moment's hesitation.
"That is I did not exactly buy it, for I did not have the money to pay
for it. But Harriet was to pay for it and I was to give her back the
money when I could."

"How much did the gown cost, Mollie?" Bab inquired quietly, although her
heart felt as heavy as lead.

"It cost fifty dollars!" Mollie returned in a tired, frightened voice.

"Oh, Mollie!" Bab exclaimed just at first. Then she repented. "Never
mind, Molliekins; it can't be helped now. The dress is a beauty, and I
suppose Harriet won't mind how long we take to pay her back. We must just
save up and do some kind of work when we go home. I can coach some of the
girls at school. So please don't cry your pretty eyes out. There is an
old story about not crying over spilt milk, kitten. Go to sleep. Perhaps
some one will have left us a fortune by morning."

Barbara felt more wretched about her sister's confession than she was
willing to let Mollie know. She thought if Mollie could once get to
sleep, she could then puzzle out some method by which they could meet
this debt. For fifty dollars did look like an immense sum to the two poor
Thurston girls.

"But, Bab dear, I have not told you the worst," Mollie added in tones
of despair.

"Mollie, what do you mean?" poor Bab asked, really frightened this time.

"Harriet can't let me owe the money to her. Something perfectly awful
has happened to Harriet, too. Promise me you will never tell, not even
Ruth! Well, Harriet thought she could lend me the money. But, the day
after we got home from the dressmaker's, that deceitful Madame Louise
wrote poor Harriet the most awful note. She said that Harriet owed her
such a dreadfully big bill, that she simply would not wait for her money
any longer. She declared if Harriet did not pay her at once she would
take her bill straight to Mr. Hamlin and demand the money. Now Harriet is
almost frightened to death. She says her father will never forgive her,
if he finds out how deeply in debt she is, and that he would not let her
go out into society again this winter. Of course, Harriet went to see
Madame Louise. She begged her for a little more time, and the dressmaker
consented to let us have a week. But she says that at the end of that
time she must have the money from me and from Harriet. Harriet is
dreadfully distressed. She simply can't advance the money to me for, even
if the dividend she expects comes in time, she will have to pay the money
on her own account. Oh, Bab, what can we do? I just can't have Mr. Hamlin
find out what I have done! He is so stern; he would just send me home in
disgrace, and then what would Mother and Aunt Sallie and Mr. Stuart say?
I shall just die of shame!"

"Mr. Hamlin must not know," Barbara answered, when she could find her
breath. Somehow her own voice sounded unfamiliar, it was so hoarse and
strained. Yet Bab knew she must save Mollie. How was she to do it?

"Do you think, Bab," Mollie asked, "that we could ask Ruth to lend us the
money? I should be horribly ashamed to tell her what I have done. But
Ruth is so sweet, and she could lend us the money without any trouble."

"I have thought of that, Mollie," Barbara answered. "But, oh, we could
not ask Ruth for the money! It is because she has been so awfully good to
us, that I can't ask her. She has already done so much for us and she
would be so pleased to help us now that somehow I would rather do most
anything than ask her. Don't you feel the same way, Mollie?"

"Yes, I do," Mollie agreed. "Only I just can't think what else we can do,
Bab. I have worried and worried until I am nearly desperate. We have only
one week in which to get hold of the money, Bab."

"Yes, I know. But go to sleep now, Mollie. You are too tired to try to
think any more. I will find some way out of the difficulty. Don't worry
any more about it now." Bab kissed her sister's burning cheeks, whereat
Mollie could only throw her arms about Barbara and cry: "Oh, Bab, I am so
sorry and so ashamed! I shall never forget this as long as I live."

Bab never closed her eyes again that night. A little while later she saw
the gray dawn change into rose color, and the rose to the blue of the
day-time sky. She heard several families of sparrows discussing their
affairs while they made their morning toilets on the bare branches of
the trees.

At last an idea came to Barbara. She could pawn her jewelry and so raise
the money they needed. She had the old-fashioned corals her mother had
given to her on her first trip to Newport. There was also the beautiful
ruby, which had been Mr. Presby's gift to her from the rich stores of his
buried treasure. And the Princess Sophia had made Bab a present of a
beautiful gold star when they were at Palm Beach. Barbara's other jewelry
was marked with her initials.

Now Bab had very little knowledge of the real value of her jewelry, and
she had an equally dim notion of what a pawn shop was. But she did know
that at pawn shops people were able to borrow money at a high rate of
interest on their valuable possessions, and this seemed to be the only
way out of their embarrassment.

But how was Barbara to locate a pawn shop in Washington? And how was she
to find her way there, without being found out either by Mr. Hamlin or
any one of the girls?

Bab was still puzzling over these difficulties when she went down to
breakfast.

"Miss Moore says she would like to see you, Barbara," Harriet Hamlin
explained, when Bab had forced down a cup of coffee and eaten a small
piece of toast. "Miss Moore is much better this morning, and a carriage
is to take her home in a few hours. I have just been up to inquire about
her. Father," continued Harriet, turning to Mr. Hamlin, "Miss Moore wants
me to thank you for your kindness in bringing her here, and to say she
hopes to be able to repay you some day. Marjorie Moore seems to think you
discovered her out on the White House lawn, Barbara. However did you do
it? I suppose you were out there walking with Peter Dillon. But it is
against the rules."

"Does Miss Moore happen to know how she was hurt, Daughter?" Mr. Hamlin
queried. "Lieutenant Wilson declares the girl was struck a glancing blow
on the head with the end of a loaded cane. And the doctor seemed to have
the same idea last night."

"Miss Moore does not understand just what did happen to her," Harriet
replied. "Or at least she won't tell me. She declares she was out in the
grounds looking for some one, when she was knocked down from behind. She
never saw who struck her. How perfectly ridiculous for her to be running
about the White House park alone at night! I wonder the guards permitted
it. What do you suppose she was doing?"

"Attending to her business, perhaps, Daughter," Mr. Hamlin returned
dryly. "Miss Moore works exceedingly hard. It cannot always be pleasant
for a refined young woman to do the work she is sometimes required to do.
I hope you will be kind to her, Harriet, and help her when it is within
your power."

But Harriet only shrugged her shoulders and looked obstinate. "I should
think Miss Moore would find the society news for her paper inside the
reception rooms, rather than outside in the dark. It looks to me as
though she went out into the grounds either to meet some one, or to find
out what some one else was doing."

None of the "Automobile Girls" or Mr. Hamlin made response to Harriet's
unkind remark and they were all glad when breakfast was over and the
discussion ended.

Barbara at once went upstairs to the room that had been allotted to their
wounded guest the night before. She found Marjorie Moore dressed in a
shabby serge suit, lying on the bed looking pale and weak. A refined,
middle-aged woman, with a sad face, sat by her daughter holding her hand.
She was Marjorie's mother. The two women were waiting for the carriage to
take them home.

"I want to thank you, Miss Thurston," Marjorie Moore spoke weakly. "I
believe it was you who found me. I ought not to have asked you to come
out into the yard, but I did not dream there would be any danger to
either one of us. I want you to believe that I did have a real reason for
persuading you to join me, a reason that I thought important to your
happiness, not to mine. But I cannot tell you what it was, now; perhaps
because I may have made a mistake. I must have been struck by a tramp,
who had managed to hide in the White House grounds. I have no other
explanation of what happened to me. But--" Miss Moore stopped and
hesitated. "I have an explanation of the reason I wanted to talk to you
alone. Yet I cannot tell you what I mean to-day. I want to ask you to
trust me if ever you need a friend in Washington."

Bab thought the only friend she was likely to need was some one who could
lend her fifty dollars. And Marjorie Moore was too poor to do that. She
would have liked to ask the newspaper girl where she could find a pawn
shop, but was ashamed to make her strange request before that gentle,
sad-eyed woman, Marjorie Moore's mother.

So Barbara only pressed the other girl's hand affectionately, and said
she was glad to know she was better, and that she appreciated her
friendship.


CHAPTER XI

IN MR. HAMLIN'S STUDY


All morning Barbara pondered on how she could find a pawn shop in
Washington, without asking questions and without being discovered. Her
cheeks burned with humiliation and disgust at the very name pawn shop!
Still Mollie must never know how much she dreaded her errand, and her
mother must be spared the knowledge of their debt at any cost.

About noon the Hamlin house was perfectly quiet. Grace and Ruth had gone
out sight-seeing and Harriet and Mollie were both in their rooms. Mr.
Hamlin was over at his office in the State Department.

Bab had taken a book and gone downstairs to the library, pretending she
meant to read, but really only desiring to think. She was feeling almost
desperate. A week seemed such a little time in which to raise fifty
dollars. Bab wished to try the pawn shop venture at once, so that in case
it failed her, she would have time to turn somewhere else to secure the
sum of money she needed.

Barbara was idly turning over the pages of her book, staring straight
ahead of her at nothing in particular, when she unexpectedly leaped to
her feet. Her face flushed, but her lips took on a more determined curve.

When Barbara Thurston undertook to accomplish a thing she usually found a
way. Only weak people are deterred by obstacles.

Bab had remembered that she had heard Mr. Hamlin say that he kept a
Washington directory in his private study. She knew that by searching
diligently through this book she could find the address of a pawn shop.

Now was the time, of all others, to accomplish her purpose. With Bab, to
think, was to do.

Barbara knew that no one was expected to enter Mr. Hamlin's study. She
did not dream, however, that she would be doing any harm just to slip
quietly into it, find the directory and slip quickly out again, without
touching a single other thing in the room.

As has already been explained, Mr. Hamlin's study was a small room
adjoining the drawing-room, and separated from it by a pair of heavy
curtains and folding doors, which were occasionally left open, when Mr.
Hamlin was not in the house, so that the room could be aired and at the
same time shut it off from public view.

Bab went straight through the hall and entered Mr. Hamlin's study through
a small back door.

The room was dark, and Bab thought empty when she entered it. The inside
blinds were closed, but there was sufficient light through the openings
for Barbara to see her way about perfectly. She was bent upon business
and went straight to her task without pausing to open the window, for she
wished to take no liberties with Mr. Hamlin's apartment.

The four walls of the study were lined with books, reports from Congress;
everything pertaining to the business of the government at Washington.
Certainly finding that old-time needle in a haystack was an easy duty
compared with locating the city directory in such a wilderness of books.

First on her hands and knees, then on tip-toe, Bab thoroughly searched
through every shelf. No directory could be found.

"I can hardly see," Bab decided at last. "It will not do any harm for me
to turn on an electric light."

Bab was so intent on her occupation that, even after she had turned on
the light, which hung immediately over Mr. Hamlin's private desk, she
still thought she was alone in the room.

Lying under a heap of magazines and pages of manuscript on Mr. Hamlin's
desk, was a large book, which looked very much as though it might be the
desired directory.

Still Bab wavered. She knew no one was ever allowed to lay a hand on Mr.
Hamlin's desk. Even Harriet herself never dared to touch it. But what
harm could it do Mr. Hamlin for Barbara to pick up the book she desired?
She would not disarrange a single paper.

Bab reached out, intending to secure what she wished. But immediately she
felt her arm seized and held in a tight grip.

A low contralto voice said distinctly: "What do you mean by stealing in
here to search among Mr. Hamlin's papers?" The vise-like hold on Bab's
arm continued. The fingers were slender, but strong as steel, and the
grip hurt Barbara so, she wanted to cry out from the pain.

"Answer me," the soft voice repeated. "What are you doing, prying among
Mr. Hamlin's papers, when he is out of the house? You know he never
allows any one to touch them."

[Illustration: Bab Felt Her Arm Seized In a Tight Grip.]

"I am not prying," cried Bab indignantly. "I only came in here to look
for the city directory. I thought it might be on Mr. Hamlin's desk."

"A likely story," interrupted Bab's accuser scornfully. "If you wished
the directory, why did you not ask Mr. Hamlin to lend it to you? You
wanted something else! What was it? Tell me?" The hold on Barbara's arm
tightened.

"Let go my arm, Mrs. Wilson," returned Barbara firmly. "I am telling you
the truth. How absurd for you to think anything else! What could I wish
in here? But I needed to look into the directory at once--for a--for a
special purpose," Barbara finished lamely.

Then her eyes flashed indignantly. "I am a guest in Mr. Hamlin's house,"
she said, coldly. "How do you know, Mrs. Wilson, that I have not received
his permission to enter this room? But you! Will you be good enough to
explain to me why you were hiding behind the curtains in Mr. Hamlin's
study when I came in? You, too, knew Mr. Hamlin was not at home. Besides,
Harriet receives her guests in the drawing-room, not in here."

"I came to see Mr. Hamlin on private business," Mrs. Wilson replied
haughtily. "He is an old and intimate friend of mine, so I took the
liberty of coming in here to wait for his return. But seeing you enter,
and suspecting you of mischief, I did conceal myself behind the
curtains. I shall be very glad, however, to remain here with you until
Mr. Hamlin returns from his office. I can readily explain my intrusion
and you will have an equal opportunity to tell Mr. Hamlin what you were
doing in here."

Now Barbara, who had slept very little the night before, and had worried
dreadfully all morning, did a very foolish thing. She blushed crimson at
Mrs. Wilson's request. She might very readily have agreed to stay, and
could simply have explained later to Mr. Hamlin that she had come into
his private room because she needed to see the directory. But would Mr.
Hamlin have inquired of Barbara her reason for desiring the directory?
Presently she began to speak, using English just coloured by a foreign
accent, that made her speech prettier.

'You make me afraid,' she said, turning her large, troubled eyes on her
companion, 'you make me afraid, of myself chiefly, but a little of you.
You suggest so much to me that is new, strange, terrible. When you
speak, I am troubled; all my old landmarks appear to vanish; I
even hardly know right from wrong.

I love you, my God, how I love you! but I want to go away from you and
pray in the little quiet church, where I made my first Communion.
I will come to the world's end with you; but oh, Sebastian, do not
ask me, let me go.

You will forget me, I am a little girl to you, Sebastian. You cannot
care very much for me.'
The man looked down at her, smiling masterfully, but very kindly.

He took the mutinous hand, with its little sprig of heather, and held it
between his own. He seemed to find her insistence adorable; mentally,
he was contrasting her with all other women whom he had known, frowning
at the memory of so many years in which she had no part.

He was a man of more than forty, built large to an uniform English pattern;
there was a touch of military erectness in his carriage which often
deceived people as to his vocation. Actually, he had never been anything
but artist, though he came of a family of soldiers, and had once been war
correspondent of an illustrated paper. A certain distinction had
always adhered to him, never more than now when he was no longer young,
was growing bald, had streaks of gray in his moustache. His face,
without being handsome, possessed a certain charm; it was worn and rather
pale, the lines about the firm mouth were full of lassitude, the
eyes rather tired.

He had the air of having tasted widely, curiously, of life in his
day, prosperous as he seemed now, that had left its mark upon
him. His voice, which usually took an intonation that his
friends found supercilious, grew very tender in addressing this
little French girl, with her quaint air of childish dignity.

'Marie-Yvonne, foolish child, I will not hear one word more. You are a
little heretic; and I am sorely tempted to seal your lips from
uttering heresy. You tell me that you love me, and you ask me to
let you go, in one breath. The impossible conjuncture! Marie-Yvonne,'
he added, more seriously, 'trust yourself to me, my child! You know, I
will never give you up. You know that these months that I have been at
Ploumariel, are worth all the rest of my life to me. It has been a difficult
life, hitherto, little one: change it for me; make it worth while. You
would let morbid fancies come between us. You have lived overmuch in
that little church, with its worm-eaten benches, and its mildewed odour
of dead people, and dead ideas. Take care, Marie-Yvonne: it had made you
serious-eyed, before you have learnt to laugh; by and by, it
will steal away your youth, before you have ever been young. I come
to claim you, Marie-Yvonne, in the name of Life.' His words were
half-jesting; his eyes were profoundly in earnest. He drew her to him
gently; and when he bent down and kissed her forehead, and then her
shy lips, she made no resistance: only, a little tremor ran through
her. Presently, with equal gentleness, he put her away from him.
'You have already given me your answer, Marie-Yvonne.

Believe me, you will never regret it. Let us go down.'
They took their way in silence towards the village; presently a bend of
the road hid them from it, and he drew closer to her, helping her with
his arm over the rough stones. Emerging, they had gone thirty yards so,
before the scent of English tobacco drew their attention to a figure seated
by the road-side, under a hedge; they recognised it, and started apart,
a little consciously.

'It is M. Tregellan,' said the young girl, flushing: 'and he must
have seen us.'

Her companion, frowning, hardly suppressed a little quick objurgation.

'It makes no matter,' he observed, after a moment: 'I shall see your uncle
to-morrow and we know, good man, how he wishes this; and, in any
case, I would have told Tregellan.'

The figure rose, as they drew near: he shook the ashes out of his briar,
and removed it to his pocket.

He was a slight man, with an ugly, clever face; his voice as he greeted
them, was very low and pleasant.

'You must have had a charming walk, Mademoiselle. I have seldom seen
Ploumariel look better.'
'Yes,' she said, gravely, 'it has been very pleasant. But I must not linger
now,' she added breaking a little silence in which none of them
seemed quite at ease.

'My uncle will be expecting me to supper.' She held out her hand, in the
English fashion, to Tregellan, and then to Sebastian Murch, who gave the
little fingers a private pressure.

They had come into the market-place round which most of the houses in
Ploumariel were grouped. They watched the young girl cross it briskly;
saw her blue gown pass out of sight down a bye street: then they
turned to their own hotel.

It was a low, white house, belted half way down the front with black
stone; a pictorial object, as most Breton hostels.

The ground floor was a _café_; and, outside it, a bench and long
stained table enticed them to rest.

They sat down, and ordered _absinthes_, as the hour suggested: these
were brought to them presently by an old servant of the house; an
admirable figure, with the white sleeves and apron relieving her
linsey dress: with her good Breton face, and its effective wrinkles.

For some time they sat in silence, drinking and smoking. The artist
appeared to be absorbed in contemplation of his drink; considering its
clouded green in various lights. After a while the other looked up, and
remarked, abruptly.

'I may as well tell you that I happened to overlook you, just now,
unintentionally.'
Sebastian Murch held up his glass, with absent eyes.

'Don't mention it, my dear fellow,' he remarked, at last, urbanely.

'I beg your pardon; but I am afraid I must.'

He spoke with an extreme deliberation which suggested nervousness;
with the air of a person reciting a little set speech, learnt
imperfectly: and he looked very straight in front of him, out into
the street, at two dogs quarrelling over some offal.

'I daresay you will be angry: I can't avoid that; at least, I have
known you long enough to hazard it.

I have had it on my mind to say something. If I have been silent, it hasn't
been because I have been blind, or approved.
I have seen how it was all along.

I gathered it from your letters when I was in England. Only until
this afternoon I did not know how far it had gone, and now I am sorry I
did not speak before.'
He stopped short, as though he expected his friend's subtilty to
come to his assistance; with admissions or recriminations.

But the other was still silent, absent: his face wore a look of annoyed
indifference.

After a while, as Tregellan still halted, he observed quietly:

'You must be a little more explicit. I confess I miss your meaning.'
'Ah, don't be paltry,' cried the other, quickly.

'You know my meaning. To be very plain, Sebastian, are you quite justified
in playing with that charming girl, in compromising her?'

The artist looked up at last, smiling; his expressive mouth was set,
not angrily, but with singular determination.

'With Mademoiselle Mitouard?'

'Exactly; with the niece of a man whose guest you have recently been.'

'My dear fellow!'

he stopped a little, considering his words: 'You are hasty and
uncharitable for such a very moral person!

you jump at conclusions, Tregellan. I don't, you know, admit your right
to question me:
still, as you have introduced the subject, I may as well satisfy you.
I have asked Mademoiselle Mitouard to marry me, and she has consented,
subject to her uncle's approval. And that her uncle, who happens to
prefer the English method of courtship, is not likely to refuse.'
The other held his cigar between two fingers, a little away; his curiously
anxious face suggested that the question had become to him one of
increased nicety.

'I am sorry,' he said, after a moment; 'this is worse than I imagined;
it's impossible.'
'It is you that are impossible, Tregellan,' said Sebastian Murch. He
looked at him now, quite frankly, absolutely: his eyes had a defiant light
in them, as though he hoped to be criticised; wished nothing better
than to stand on his defence, to argue the thing out.

And Tregellan sat for a long time without speaking, appreciating his
purpose. It seemed more monstrous the closer he considered it:
natural enough withal, and so, harder to defeat; and yet, he was sure,
that defeated it must be. He reflected how accidental it had all
been: their presence there, in Ploumariel, and the rest!

Touring in Brittany, as they had often done before, in their habit
of old friends, they had fallen upon it by chance, a place unknown
of Murray; and the merest chance had held them there.

They had slept at the _Lion d'Or_, voted it magnificently picturesque,
and would have gone away and forgotten it; but the chance of travel
had for once defeated them. Hard by they heard of the little votive chapel
of Saint Bernard; at the suggestion of their hostess they set off to
visit it. It was built steeply on an edge of rock, amongst odorous pines
overhanging a ravine, at the bottom of which they could discern a
brown torrent purling tumidly along.

For the convenience of devotees, iron rings, at short intervals, were
driven into the wall; holding desperately to these, the pious
pilgrim, at some peril, might compass the circuit; saying an oraison
to Saint Bernard, and some ten _Aves_.

Sebastian, who was charmed with the wild beauty of the scene, in a
country ordinarily so placid, had been seized with a fit of
emulation: not in any mood of devotion, but for the sake of a wider
prospect.

Tregellan had protested: and the Saint, resenting the purely æsthetic
motive of the feat, had seemed to intervene. For, half-way round, growing
giddy may be, the artist had made a false step, lost his hold.
Tregellan, with a little cry of horror, saw him disappear amidst
crumbling mortar and uprooted ferns. It was with a sensible relief, for
the fall had the illusion of great depth, that, making his way
rapidly down a winding path, he found him lying on a grass terrace,
amidst _débris_ twenty feet lower, cursing his folly, and holding
a lamentably sprained ankle, but for the rest uninjured!

Tregellan had made off in haste to Ploumariel in search of assistance; and
within the hour he had returned with two stalwart Bretons and M. le
Docteur Mitouard.

Their tour had been, naturally, drawing to its close.

Tregellan indeed had an imperative need to be in London within the week.
It seemed, therefore, a clear dispensation of Providence, that the
amiable doctor should prove an hospitable person, and one inspiring
confidence no less.

Caring greatly for things foreign, and with an especial passion for
England, a country whence his brother had brought back a wife; M. le
Docteur Mitouard insisted that the invalid could be cared for properly at
his house alone. And there, in spite of protestations, earnest from
Sebastian, from Tregellan halfhearted, he was installed.

And there, two days later, Tregellan left him with an easy mind;
bearing away with him, half enviously, the recollection of the young,
charming face of a girl, the Doctor's niece, as he had seen her
standing by his friend's sofa when he paid his _adieux_; in the beginnings
of an intimacy, in which, as he foresaw, the petulance of the invalid,
his impatience at an enforced detention, might be considerably forgot.
And all that had been two months ago.

II
'I am sorry you don't see it,' continued Tregellan, after a pause, 'to
me it seems impossible; considering your history it takes me by surprise.'

The other frowned slightly; finding this persistence perhaps a trifle
crude, he remarked good-humouredly enough:

'Will you be good enough to explain your opposition? Do you object to the
girl? You have been back a week now, during which you have seen almost
as much of her as I.'
'She is a child, to begin with; there is five-and-twenty years'
disparity between you. But it's the relation I object to, not the girl.
Do you intend to live in Ploumariel?'
Sebastian smiled, with a suggestion of irony.

'Not precisely; I think it would interfere a little with my career; why
do you ask?'

'I imagined not; you will go back to London with your little Breton wife,
who is as charming here as the apple-blossom in her own garden. You will
introduce her to your circle, who will receive her with open arms; all
the clever bores, who write, and talk, and paint, and are talked about
between Bloomsbury and Kensington. Everybody who is emancipated will know
her, and everybody who has a "fad"; and they will come in a body and
emancipate her, and teach her their "fads."'

'That is a caricature of my circle, as you call it, Tregellan! though
I may remind you it is also yours. I think she is being starved in this
corner, spiritually.

She has a beautiful soul, and it has had no chance. I propose to
give it one, and I am not afraid of the result.'

Tregellan threw away the stump of his cigar into the darkling street,
with a little gesture of discouragement, of lassitude.

'She has had the chance to become what she is, a perfect thing.'
'My dear fellow,' exclaimed his friend, 'I could not have said more
myself.'

The other continued, ignoring his interruption.

'She has had great luck. She has been brought up by an old eccentric, on
the English system of growing up as she liked. And no harm has come of it,
at least until it gave you the occasion of making love to her.'

'You are candid, Tregellan!'

'Let her go, Sebastian, let her go,' he continued, with increasing
gravity.

'Consider what a transplantation; from this world of Ploumariel where
everything is fixed for her by that venerable old _Curé_, where life
is so easy, so ordered, to yours, ours; a world without definitions, where
everything is an open question.'
'Exactly,' said the artist, 'why should she be so limited? I would give her
scope, ideas. I can't see that I am wrong.'
'She will not accept them, your ideas. They will trouble her, terrify
her; in the end, divide you. It is not an elastic nature.

I have watched it.'
'At least, allow me to know her,' put in the artist, a little grimly.

Tregellan shook his head.

'The Breton blood; her English mother: passionate Catholicism! a touch of
Puritan! Have you quite made up your mind, Sebastian?'
'I made it up long ago, Tregellan!'
The other looked at him, curiously, compassionately; with a touch of
resentment at what he found his lack of subtilty.

Then he said at last:

'I called it impossible; you force me to be very explicit, even cruel.
I must remind you, that you are, of all my friends, the one I value most,
could least afford to lose.'
'You must be going to say something extremely disagreeable! something
horrible,' said the artist, slowly.

'I am,' said Tregellan, 'but I must say it. Have you explained to
Mademoiselle, or her uncle, your--your peculiar position?'
Sebastian was silent for a moment, frowning: the lines about his mouth
grew a little sterner; at last he said coldly:

'If I were to answer, Yes?'

'Then I should understand that there was no further question of your
marriage.'
Presently the other commenced in a hard, leaden voice.

'No, I have not told Marie-Yvonne that. I shall not tell her. I have
suffered enough for a youthful folly; an act of mad generosity. I
refuse to allow an infamous woman to wreck my future life as she
has disgraced my past.

Legally, she has passed out of it; morally, legally, she is not my wife.
For all I know she may be actually dead.'
The other was watching his face, very gray and old now, with an anxious
compassion.

'You know she is not dead, Sebastian,' he said simply. Then he added
very quietly as one breaks supreme bad tidings, 'I must tell you
something which I fear you have not realised. The Catholic Church does
not recognise divorce. If she marry you and find out, rightly or wrongly,
she will believe that she has been living in sin; some day she will
find it out.

No damnable secret like that keeps itself for ever: an old newspaper, a
chance remark from one of your dear friends, and the deluge. Do you see
the tragedy, the misery of it?

By God, Sebastian, to save you both somebody shall tell her; and if it
be not you, it must be I.'

There was extremest peace in the quiet square; the houses seemed sleepy
at last, after a day of exhausting tranquillity, and the chestnuts, under
which a few children, with tangled hair and fair dirty faces, still
played.

The last glow of the sun fell on the gray roofs opposite; dying hard it
seemed over the street in which the Mitouards lived; and they heard
suddenly the tinkle of an _Angelus_ bell. Very placid! the place and
the few peasants in their pictorial hats and caps who lingered. Only
the two Englishmen sitting, their glasses empty, and their smoking over,
looking out on it all with their anxious faces, brought in a
contrasting note of modern life; of the complex aching life of
cities, with its troubles and its difficulties.

'Is that your final word, Tregellan?' asked the artist at last, a little
wearily.

'It must be, Sebastian! Believe me, I am infinitely sorry.'
'Yes, of course,' he answered quickly, acidly; 'well, I will sleep on
it.'

III
They made their first breakfast in an almost total silence; both wore the
bruised harassed air which tells of a night passed without benefit
of sleep.

Immediately afterwards Murch went out alone: Tregellan could guess
the direction of his visit, but not its object; he wondered if the
artist was making his difficult confession.

Presently they brought him in a pencilled note; he recognised, with
some surprise, his friend's tortuous hand.

'I have considered our conversation, and your unjustifiable interference.

I am entirely in your hands: at the mercy of your extraordinary notions
of duty. Tell her what you will, if you must; and pave the way to your own
success.

I shall say nothing; but I swear you love the girl yourself; and are
no right arbiter here. Sebastian Murch.'
He read the note through twice before he grasped its purport; then sat
holding it in lax fingers, his face grown singularly gray.

'It's not true, it's not true,' he cried aloud, but a moment later knew
himself for a self-deceiver all along. Never had self-consciousness
been more sudden, unexpected, or complete.

There was no more to do or say; this knowledge tied his hands. _Ite! missa
est!_...

He spent an hour painfully invoking casuistry, tossed to and fro
irresolutely, but never for a moment disputing that plain fact which
Sebastian had so brutally illuminated.

Yes! he loved her, had loved her all along. Marie-Yvonne! how the
name expressed her! at once sweet and serious, arch and sad as her nature.
The little Breton wild flower! how cruel it seemed to gather her! And he
could do no more; Sebastian had tied his hands.

Things must be!

He was a man nicely conscientious, and now all the elaborate devices
of his honour, which had persuaded him to a disagreeable interference,
were contraposed against him. This suspicion of an ulterior motive had
altered it, and so at last he was left to decide with a sigh, that because
he loved these two so well, he must let them go their own way to
misery.

Coming in later in the day, Sebastian Murch found his friend packing.

'I have come to get your answer,' he said; 'I have been walking
about the hills like a madman for hours.

I have not been near her; I am afraid. Tell me what you mean to
do?'
Tregellan rose, shrugged his shoulders, pointed to his valise.
'God help you both! I would have saved you if you had let me. The
Quimperlé
_Courrier_ passes in half-an-hour. I am going by it. I shall catch
a night train to Paris.'
As Sebastian said nothing; continued to regard him with the same
dull, anxious gaze, he went on after a moment:
'You did me a grave injustice; you should have known me better than
that.
God knows I meant nothing shameful, only the best; the least misery
for you and her.'
'It was true then?' said Sebastian, curiously. His voice was very
cold; Tregellan found him altered. He regarded the thing as it had
been very remote, and outside them both.
'I did not know it then,' said Tregellan, shortly.
He knelt down again and resumed his packing. Sebastian, leaning
against the bed, watched him with absent intensity, which was yet
alive to trivial things, and he handed him from time to time a book,
a brush, which the other packed mechanically with elaborate care.
There was no more to say, and presently, when the chambermaid entered
for his luggage, they went down and out into the splendid sunshine,
silently. They had to cross the Square to reach the carriage, a
dusty ancient vehicle, hooded, with places for four, which waited
outside the postoffice. A man in a blue blouse preceded them,
carrying Tregellan's things. From the corner they could look down
the road to Quimperlé, and their eyes both sought the white house
of Doctor Mitouard, standing back a little in its trim garden, with
its one incongruous apple tree; but there was no one visible.
Presently, Sebastian asked, suddenly:
'Is it true, that you said last night: divorce to a Catholic--?'
Tregellan interrupted him.
'It is absolutely true, my poor friend.'
He had climbed into his place at the back, settled himself on the
shiny leather cushion: he appeared to be the only passenger. Sebastian
stood looking drearily in at the window, the glass of which had
long perished.
'I wish I had never known, Tregellan! How could I ever tell her!'She
had trampled upon her pride and self-respect in making her request, and
she had begun to realize more fully how very unwise she had been in
asking such a favor of this young man. Yet it had really never dawned on
the girl that Charlie Meyers could refuse her request. When he did not
answer, she began to feel afraid. Harriet could not have spoken again for
the world. Her usually haughty head was bent low, and her lids dropped
over her eyes in which the tears of humiliation were beginning to gather.

"Look here, Harriet," protested the young man at last. "Five hundred
dollars is a good deal of money even for me to lend. What arrangements do
you want to make about paying it back?"

"Why, Charlie!" Harriet exclaimed. "You can have the interest on the
money, if you like. I never thought of that."

"You can pay me back the interest if you wish," Charlie replied sullenly.
"But you know, Harriet, that I like you an awful lot, and for a long time
I've been wanting you to marry me. But you've always refused me. Now if
you'll promise to marry me, I'll let you have the money. But if you
won't, why you can't have it--that's all! I am not going to lend my good
money to you, and then have you go your way and perhaps not have anything
more to do with me for weeks. I tell you, Harriet, I like you an awful
lot and you know it; but I am not going to be made a fool of, and you
might as well find it out right now."

Harriet was so angry she simply could not speak for a few minutes. The
enormity of her mistake swept over her. But silence was her best weapon,
for Charlie Meyers began to feel ashamed. He was dimly aware that he had
insulted Harriet, and he really did care for her as much as he was
capable of caring for any one.

"I didn't mean to make you angry, Harriet," he apologized in a half
frightened voice. "I don't see why you can't care for me anyhow. I've
asked you to marry me over and over again. And I can just tell you, you
won't have to worry over debts to dressmakers ever again, if you marry
me. I've got an awful lot of money."

"I am very glad you have, Mr. Meyers," Harriet answered coldly, with a
slight catch in her voice. "But I am certainly sorry I asked you to lend
any of it to me. Will you never refer to this conversation again, and
take me home as soon as you can? I don't think it is worth while for me
even to refuse your offer. But please remember that my affection is
something that mere money cannot buy." Harriet's tone was so scornful
that the young man winced. He could think of nothing to reply, and turned
his car around in shame-faced silence.

Harriet too was very quiet. She would have liked to tell her companion
what she truly thought of him, how coarse and ill-bred he was, but she
set her lips and remained silent. She did not wish to make an enemy of
Charlie Meyers. After that day's experience, she would simply drop him
from her list of acquaintances and have nothing more to do with him.

Stupid though he was, the discomfited young man felt Harriet's silent
contempt. He wanted to apologize to her, to explain, to say a thousand
things. But he was too dense to know just what he should say. It was
better for him that he did wait to make his apology until a later day,
when Harriet's anger had in a measure cooled and she was even more
miserable and confused than she was at that time.

"I am awfully sorry, Harriet," Charlie Meyers stumbled over his words as
he helped her out of his machine. "You know I didn't exactly mean to
refuse your request. I'll be awfully glad to--"

But Harriet's curt good-bye checked his apologetic speech, and he turned
and drove swiftly away.


CHAPTER XIV

"GRANT NO FAVORS!"


"Mrs. Wilson's tea is at four o'clock, girls, remember," Harriet
announced a day or so later, looking up from the note she was writing.
"Are you actually going sight-seeing again to-day before the reception?
Truly, I never imagined such energy!"

"Oh, come, Harriet Hamlin, don't be sarcastic," Ruth rejoined. "If you
had not lived so long in Washington you would be just as much interested
in everything as the 'Automobile Girls' are. But Bab and I are the only
ones to go sight-seeing to-day. Mollie isn't feeling well, and Grace is
staying to console her. We shall be back in plenty of time. Why don't you
lie down for a while! You look so tired."

"Oh, I am all right," Harriet answered gently. "Good-bye, children. Be
good and remember you have promised not to be late."

Ruth and Bab were highly anxious for a walk and talk together, and they
had a special enterprise on hand for this afternoon. Bab had received a
mysterious summons from her newspaper friend, Marjorie Moore. The note
had asked Bab to bring Ruth, and to come to the Visitors' Gallery in the
Senate Chamber at an appointed time. Marjorie Moore chose this strange
meeting place because she had a "special story" of the Senate to write
for her paper and was obliged to be in the gallery.

Barbara was not particularly surprised at the request. She knew that
Marjorie Moore had been wishing to make her a confidant ever since the
reception at the White House. And she knew that the girl could not come
to Mr. Hamlin's house because of Harriet's hostile attitude toward her.

So Bab confided the whole story to Ruth, and feeling much mystified and
excited, the two girls set out for the Capitol.

During the long walk Barbara thought of her own secret, which she longed
to confide to Ruth, but she dared not tell Ruth of the borrowed money for
fear Ruth would at once insist on paying her debt. The money had to be
paid, of course, and Bab hoped to pay it back at an early date, but she
had not yet come to the point where she could bear to ask Ruth for it.

When Ruth and Bab finally reached the Capitol building, and made their
way to the Visitors' Gallery in the Senate Chamber, Marjorie Moore was
not there. She had failed to keep her appointment.

"I am not so very sorry Miss Moore has not come," Barbara remarked to
Ruth. "She seems to be such a mysterious kind of person, always
suggesting something and never really telling you what it is."

Ruth laughed. "The 'Automobile Girls' hate mysteries, don't they, Bab?
But goodness knows, we are always being involved in them!"

The two visitors sat down to listen to the speeches of United States
Senators. There was some excitement in the Chamber, Bab decided, but
neither she nor Ruth could exactly understand what was going on.
Both girls listened and watched the proceedings below them with
such intensity that they forgot all about Marjorie Moore and her
strange request.

A few moments later she dropped down into the vacant seat next to
Barbara. She looked more hurried and agitated than ever. Her hat was on
one side, and her coat collar was half doubled under. She was a little
paler from her trying experience of a few nights before, and an ugly
bruise showed over her temple. But she made no reference to her accident.

"I am sorry I am late," she whispered. "But come back here in the far
corner of the gallery with me. I want to talk with you just half a
minute. I am so busy I can't stay with you any longer. I just felt I must
see you, Miss Thurston, before you go to tea with Mrs. Wilson this
afternoon."

"Tea with Mrs. Wilson!" Bab ejaculated. "How did you know we were going
to Mrs. Wilson's tea? And has that anything to do with your message to
me?" Barbara did not speak in her usual friendly tones. She was getting
decidedly cross. It seemed to her that she had been under some one's
supervision ever since her arrival in Washington.

"Yes, it has, Miss Thurston," the newspaper girl replied quickly. "I want
to ask you something. Promise me you will grant no one a favor, no matter
who asks it of you to-day?"

Barbara flushed. "Why how absurd, Miss Moore. I really cannot make you
any such promise. It is too foolish."

"Foolish or not, you must promise me," Marjorie Moore insisted. Then she
turned earnestly to Ruth. "I know you have a great deal of influence with
your friend. If she will not agree to what I ask her, won't you make her
promise you this: She is not to consent to do a favor for any one this
afternoon, no matter how simple the favor seems to be. Do you
understand?"

Ruth looked at Marjorie Moore blankly, but something in the newspaper
girl's earnest expression arrested her attention.

"I don't see why you won't make Miss Moore the promise she begs of you,
Bab," Ruth argued. "It seems a simple thing she has asked you. And I
don't think it is very nice of you, dear, to refuse her, even though her
request does seem a little absurd to you."

"But won't you tell me why you ask me to be so exceedingly
unaccommodating, Miss Moore?" Bab retorted.

Marjorie Moore shook her head. "That's just the trouble. Again I can't
tell you why I ask this of you. But I want to assure you of one thing. It
would mean a great deal more to me, personally, to have you agree to do
the favor that may or may not be asked of you this afternoon. I am the
only outside person in Washington who knows of a certain game that is to
be played. It would mean a big scoop for my paper and a lot of money for
me if I would just let things drift. But I like you too well to hold my
tongue, though I am not going to tell you anything more. And I certainly
won't beg you to do what I ask of you. Of course you may do just as you
please. Good-bye; I am too busy to talk any more to-day." Before Barbara
could make up her mind what to answer, the newspaper woman hurried away.

Ruth looked decidedly worried after Marjorie Moore's departure. But
Barbara was still incredulous and a little bored at being kept so
completely in the dark.

"Look here, Bab," Ruth advised, as the two girls walked slowly home
together, "you did not promise Miss Moore to do what she asked of you.
But you must promise me. Oh, I know it seems absurd! And I am not exactly
blaming you for refusing to make that promise to Miss Moore. But, Bab, we
cannot always judge the importance of little things. So I, at least,
shall be much happier at this particular tea if you will promise me not
to do a single thing that any one asks you to do."

Both girls laughed gayly at Ruth's request.

"Won't I be an agreeable guest, Ruth?" Bab mimicked. "If any one asks
me to sit down, I must say, 'No; I insist on standing up. Because I
have promised my friend Miss Stuart not to do a single thing I am
requested to do all afternoon.' I wish I did not have to go to Mrs.
Wilson's tea to-day."

"You need not joke, Bab," Ruth persisted. "And you need not pretend you
would have to behave so foolishly. I only ask you to promise me what you
would not agree to, when Marjorie Moore asked it of you: 'Don't do any
favor for any one, no matter who asks it of you this afternoon!'"

Bab gave up. "All right, Ruth, dear; I promise," she conceded. "You know
very well that I can't refuse you anything, though I do think you and
Miss Moore are asking me to be ridiculous. I do hereby solemnly swear to
be, for the rest of this day, the most unaccommodating young person in
the whole world. But beware, Ruth Stuart! The boomerang may return and
strike you. Don't dare request me to do you a favor until after the bells
chime midnight, when I shall be released from my present idiotic vow."

Mrs. Wilson's afternoon teas were not like any others in Washington. They
were not crowded affairs, where no one had a chance to talk, but small
companies of guests especially selected by Mrs. Wilson for their
congeniality. So Mrs. Wilson was regarded as one of the most popular
hostesses at the Capital and distinguished people came to her
entertainments who could not be persuaded to go anywhere else.

Harriet and the four "Automobile Girls" were delighted to see a number of
service uniforms when they entered the charming French drawing-room of
their hostess, which was decorated in old rose draperies against ivory
tinted walls.

Lieutenant Elmer Wilson's friends, young Army and Navy officers, were out
in full force. They were among the most agreeable young men in Washington
society. Lieutenant Elmer at once attached himself to Mollie; and his
attentions might have turned the head of that young woman if she had not
been feeling unusually sobered by her recent experience with debt.

Barbara soon recognized the two young men who had helped her carry
Marjorie Moore from the lawn to the White House veranda. But neither one
of them referred to the incident while there were other people
surrounding them. Finally an opportunity came to one of the two men to
speak to Barbara. He leaned over and whispered softly: "How is the young
woman we rescued the other night? I almost thought she had been killed.
We have been sworn to secrecy. But one of my friends has an idea that he
saw the man who may have attacked Miss Moore. He was out on a porch
before the rest of us joined him, and he swears he saw two figures at
some distance across the lawn."

Bab shuddered. "I was on the lawn. Perhaps he saw me."

"No," her companion argued, unconvinced. "My friend is sure he saw two
men; one of them was rather heavily built--"

Peter Dillon's approach cut short the conversation and the young Army
officer turned away, as Peter joined Bab.

Barbara hardly turned around to greet the newcomer. She did not like
Peter Dillon and she was very anxious to hear what her previous companion
had to say. So Bab only gave Mr. Dillon her haughtiest bow. Peter did not
appear discouraged; he stood for a moment smiling at Bab good humoredly,
the boyish look shining in his near-sighted dark blue eyes.

Barbara was forced to speak to him. "How do you do, Mr. Dillon?" she
asked at last.

"Very well indeed," replied the young man cheerfully. "Did you arrive
home safely the other day?"

Barbara colored hotly. She felt certain now that despite her promise of
secrecy Mrs. Wilson had betrayed her confidence and told Peter Dillon
about the borrowed money. Why she had done so was a mystery and why he
had lied to Bab in saying Mrs. Wilson was out was also a problem Bab
could not solve.

While all this was passing through her mind Peter stood regarding her
with a quizzical smile. Then he said smoothly: "Miss Thurston, will you
do me a favor?"

Bab flashed a peculiar glance at him. "No," she replied abruptly.

The young man looked surprised. "I am sorry," he declared. "I was only
going to ask you to go in the other room to look at a picture with me."

A little later in the afternoon, Harriet managed to get the four
"Automobile Girls" together. "Mrs. Wilson wishes us to stay to dinner
with her," Harriet explained. "She has asked eight or ten other
people and Father has telephoned that he will come in after dinner to
take us home."


CHAPTER XV

BAB REFUSES TO GRANT A FAVOR


The dinner party was delightful. The "Automobile Girls" had not had such
a good time since their arrival in Washington. Mrs. Wilson was a charming
hostess. She was particularly gracious to Bab, and the young girl decided
to forget the disquieting suspicions she had harbored against this
fascinating woman and enjoy herself.

It was almost ten o'clock. Mr. Hamlin had not yet arrived at Mrs.
Wilson's. Bab was sitting in one corner of the drawing-room talking gayly
with a young Annapolis graduate, who was telling her all about his first
cruise, when Elmer Wilson interrupted them.

"I am terribly sorry to break into your conversation like this, Miss
Thurston," he apologized. "But Mother wishes to have a little talk with
you in the library before you leave here. I am sure I don't know what she
wishes to see you about; she told me to give you her message and ask no
questions. May I show you the way to her!"

Bab's gay laughter died on her lips. She rose at once and signified her
willingness to accompany Elmer to the library, but both young men
noticed that her face had grown grave and she seemed almost embarrassed.

Elmer Wilson wondered why Miss Thurston had taken his mother's simple
message so seriously. He was almost as embarrassed as Bab appeared to be.

When Barbara entered the room where she had received the envelope
from Peter Dillon the room was but dimly lighted. Two rose-colored
shades covered the low lamps, and great bunches of pink roses
ornamented the mantel.

Mrs. Wilson wore a black and white chiffon gown over white silk and had a
little band of black velvet about her throat from which hung a small
diamond star. Her beautiful white hair looked like a silver crown on her
head. She was leaning back in her chair with closed eyes when Bab entered
the room, and she did not open them at once. She let the young girl stand
and look at her, expecting her unusual beauty to influence Bab, as it had
many other older people. Mrs. Wilson looked tired and in a softened mood.
Her head rested against a pile of dark silken cushions. Her hands were
folded, in her lap.

She opened her dark eyes finally and smiled at Barbara. "Come here,
Barbara," she commanded, pointing to a chair opposite her.

Bab looked at her beautiful hostess timidly, but her brown eyes were
honest and clear. "You sent for me?" Bab queried, sitting down very stiff
and straight among the soft cushions.

"Of course I did," Mrs. Wilson smiled. "And I should have done so
before, only you and I have both been too busy. I am so glad you came to
my tea to-day." Mrs. Wilson reached out her slender white hand and took
hold of Barbara's firm brown one. "I want to make you a very humble
apology," she continued. "I am very sorry that I was obliged to be away
the other day when you called. I left the envelope with Mr. Dillon. I
received your note yesterday, so I know that it was delivered into your
hands. I did not return until after seven o'clock the other night, so it
was just as well you didn't wait for me. I knew I could trust Mr. Dillon
to give it to you."

The girl made no reply. She did not dare raise her eyes to the other
woman's face for fear Mrs. Wilson would divine from their expression that
Bab knew she had lied. At the same time a thrill of consternation swept
over her. What had been Mrs. Wilson's object in lending her the money?
Bab was now sure that the loan had not been made disinterestedly. But
what had Peter Dillon to do with it? It looked very much as though Mrs.
Wilson and the attaché were playing a game, and were seeking to draw her
into it. She resolved at that moment that she would write to her mother
for the money, or ask Ruth for it. She would do anything rather than
remain in Mrs. Wilson's debt. There was something about the intent way in
which her hostess looked at her that aroused fresh suspicion in her mind.
Bab braced herself to hear what she knew instinctively was to follow.

"I am so glad I was able to help you," Mrs. Wilson purred, continuing to
watch the young girl intently. "I know that you meant what you said when
you declared that you hoped to some day be able to do some favor for me.
I did not think then that I should ever wish to take you at your word,
but strange as it may seem, you are the very person I have been looking
for to help me with a joke that I wish to play upon Mr. Hamlin. You know,
Mr. Hamlin is a very methodical man. Well, I wagered him a dozen pairs of
gloves, the other day, that he would misplace one of his beloved papers.
And I hope to win the wager. What I wish you to do is to secure a certain
paper from his desk and give it to me. He will never know how I obtained
it. Of course I shall return it to him in a day or so, after he
acknowledges his defeat and pays his wager."

Barbara shook her head. "I don't think I can take any part in any such
joke, Mrs. Wilson," she said, looking appealingly at her hostess. "You
don't really mean that you wish me to take one of Mr. Hamlin's papers
without his knowledge, and then give the paper to you?"

"Certainly, child, I do mean just that thing," Mrs. Wilson said, laughing
lightly. "You need not take my request so seriously. Mr. Hamlin will
appreciate the joke more than any one else when I have explained it to
him. Won't you keep your word and grant me this favor?"

"I can't do what you ask, Mrs. Wilson," Bab said slowly. "I'm awfully
sorry, but it wouldn't be honorable."

Mrs. Wilson turned away her head, so that Barbara could not see the
expression of her face. "Very well, Miss Thurston," she said sharply.
"Don't trouble about it, if you think you will be committing one of the
cardinal sins in doing me this favor. But don't you think you are rather
ungrateful? You were perfectly willing to accept my offer the other day
when you were in need of money to pay your sister's debt, but now you are
in no hurry to cancel your obligation. I consider you an extremely
disobliging young woman."

Barbara sat silent and ashamed. Yet she made no effort to propitiate her
angry hostess.

The butler came to the library door to announce the arrival of
Mr. Hamlin.

Barbara rose quickly. "I am so sorry not to be able to do you the favor
you asked of me, Mrs. Wilson," she said in a low tone.

Mrs. Wilson did not reply. Then in a flash Barbara Thurston remembered
something! It was the promise Marjorie Moore had asked of her, and which
Ruth Stuart had insisted upon her making. Without recalling that promise
at the time, Bab had still kept her word. She had been asked to do some
one a favor--and she had refused. But of course Marjorie Moore must have
had some other thing in mind when she made her curious demand. Now that
Barbara thought again of her vow, she determined to be wary for the rest
of the evening and to keep as far away from Peter Dillon as possible.

"I am going to play chaperon at your house in the near future, Harriet,"
Mrs. Wilson announced, as her guests were saying good night. "Your father
says he is to be out of town on business and that I may look after you."

"We shall be delighted to have you, Mrs. Wilson," Harriet returned
politely, though she wondered why her father had suddenly requested Mrs.
Wilson to act as chaperon. Harriet had often stayed at home alone with
only their faithful old servants to look after her, when her father went
away for a short time. And now that she had the four "Automobile Girls"
as her guests, she did not feel in need of a chaperon.

Peter Dillon had not spoken to Bab again during the evening, but had
studiously avoided her, and Bab was exceedingly glad that he had kept his
distance. But as she put on her coat to go home, she heard the rustle of
a small piece of paper.

Barbara glanced down at it, of course, and found that some one had pinned
a folded square of paper to the inner lining of her coat.

She blushed furiously, for fear one of the other guests would discover
what had happened. Bab hated sentimentality and secrecy more than
anything in the world. Inside the folded square of paper she found the
tiny faded rose-bud, Peter Dillon had placed in his pocket that day when
he had picked the two buds in the old Washington garden at Mt. Vernon.

On the way downstairs, Barbara still kept the flower in her hand. But
when she found Peter's eyes were upon her she deliberately crushed the
little rose-bud, then defiantly tossed it away.


CHAPTER XVI

BARBABA'S UNEXPECTED GOOD LUCK


It was the second day after Mrs. Wilson's dinner when Barbara made up her
mind to tell Ruth of her debt to Mrs. Wilson and to ask her friend to
lend her the money to relieve her of her obligation. Bab could endure the
situation no longer. She simply determined to tell Ruth everything,
except the part that poor Mollie had played in the original difficulty.
She meant to explain to Ruth that she had needed fifty dollars, that she
had intended going to a pawn shop to secure the money, her interview with
Mrs. Wilson and her acceptance of the loan offered by the beautiful
woman. She would not tell Ruth, however, why she had suddenly required
this sum of money. Now, Bab knew Ruth would ask her no questions and
would grant her request without a moment's hesitation or loss of faith.
The sympathy between Ruth and Barbara was very deep and real.

It was one thing for Barbara Thurston to decide to appeal to Ruth's
ever-ready generosity, but another thing actually to make her demand.

The two girls lay on Ruth's bed, resting. They had been to a dance at the
British Embassy the night before. Mollie and Grace were together in the
next room and Harriet was alone.

"Barbara!" exclaimed Ruth suddenly. "If you could have one wish, that
would surely be granted, what would you wish?"

"I would like to have some money in a hurry," flashed through Bab's mind,
but she was ashamed to make such a speech to Ruth, so she said rather
soberly. "I have so many wishes its hard to single out one."

"Well what are some of them?" persisted Ruth. "Do you wish to be rich, or
famous, or to write a great book or a play?"

"Oh, yes; I wish all those things, Ruth," Bab agreed. "But you were not
thinking of such big things. What little private wish of your own did you
have in your mind? Please don't wish for things that will take you far
away from me," Bab entreated.

Ruth's blue eyes were misty when she replied: "Oh, no, Bab! I was just
going to wish that something would happen so that you and I need never be
separated again. I love you just as though you were my sister, and I am
so lonely at home without you and Mollie. Yet, as soon as our visit to
Harriet is over, you must go back to school in Kingsbridge and I have to
go home to Chicago. Who knows when we shall see each other again? I don't
suppose that our motor trips can go on happening forever."

Bab pressed Ruth's hand silently, her own thoughts flying toward the
future, when she would perhaps be working her way through college, and
teaching school later on, and Ruth would be in society, a beauty and a
belle in her Western home.

"Why don't you say something, Bab?" queried Ruth, feeling slightly
offended at Bab's silence. "Can't you say you wish the same thing that I
do, and that you believe our motor trips will last forever?"

A knock at the door interrupted Bab's answer. When she went to open
it a maid handed her three letters. Two of them were for Ruth and one
for Barbara.

Ruth opened her letters quickly. The handwriting on one of them was her
Aunt Sallie's. The other was from Ruth's father.

The postmark on Bab's letter was unfamiliar, however, so she did not
trouble to open it, until she heard what Ruth had to say.

"Oh, I am so sorry!" Ruth ejaculated. "See here, Bab, Aunt Sallie writes
us that she cannot come on to Washington. She has rheumatism, or
something, in her shoulder and does not want to make the long trip. She
says I had better come home in a week or ten days, and that Father will
probably come for me. Of course, Aunt Sallie sends love and kisses all
around to her 'Automobile Girls.' She ends by declaring I must bring you
home with me."

Bab gave a deep sigh. "I do wish Miss Sallie had been here with us,"
she murmured.

Ruth looked reflective. "Have you any special reason for needing Aunt
Sallie, Bab? I have an idea you have something on your mind. Won't I do
for your confidant!"

"Yes, you will, Ruth!" Bab said slowly, turning her face to hide her
painful embarrassment. "Ruth will you--"

Bab had picked up her own letter. More to gain time than for any other
reason, she opened it idly. A piece of paper fluttered out on the bed,
which Ruth picked up.

"Why, Bab!" she cried. "Look! Here is a check for fifty dollars! And
there is some strange name on it that I never heard of before."

But Ruth could not speak again, for Bab had thrown her arms about her and
was embracing her excitedly.

"Oh, Ruth, I am so glad, I am so glad!" Bab exclaimed, half laughing,
half crying. "Just think of it--fifty dollars! And just now of all times.
I never dreamed of such luck coming to me. It is just too wonderful!"

"Barbara Thurston, will you be quiet and tell me what has happened to
you?" Ruth insisted. "You haven't lost your wits, have you, child?"

"No, I have found them," Bab declared. "More wits than I ever dreamed I
had. Now, Ruth, don't be cross with me because I never confided this to
you before. But I have not told a single person until to-day, not even
Mother or Mollie. Months before I came to Washington, just before school
commenced, I saw a notice in a newspaper, saying that a prize would be
given for a short story written by a schoolgirl between the ages of
sixteen and eighteen. So, up in the little attic at Laurel Cottage, I
wrote a story. I worked on it for days and days, and then I sent it off
to the publisher. I was ashamed to tell any one that I had written it,
and never dreamed I should hear of it again. But now I have won the prize
of fifty dollars,"

Bab stood up on the bed waving her check in one hand and, holding
the skirt of her blue kimono in the other, executed a few jubilant
dance steps.

"Oh, Barbara, I am so proud!" Ruth rejoined, looking fully as happy as
Bab. "Just think how clever you are! The fame of being an author is more
desirable than the money. I must tell Mollie and Grace all about it."

[Illustration: "Oh, Ruth, I Am So Glad!"]

But Mollie and Grace had been attracted by the excitement in the next
room, and now rushed in to hear the news.

Mollie's eyes filled with tears as she embraced her sister. She knew how
Bab's fifty dollars must be used, and why her sister was so delighted
with her success.

"What are you going to do with the fifty dollars, Bab?" Grace inquired.
"I suppose you will put it away for your college money."

Bab did not reply. She was already longing for a little time to herself,
a pen, and ink and note paper.

Harriet came in now with a message:

"Children," she said, "it is time to dress for dinner. I have just had a
telephone call from Father. He is going out of town to-night, but Mrs.
Wilson is to stay with us. Father is not going until after dinner, and
Mrs. Wilson and Elmer and Peter Dillon will be here to dine with us. So
we shall have rather a jolly party. You girls had better dress."

Harriet's was at once informed of Bab's good luck, and in offering
Barbara her congratulations she forgot to tell the rest of her story.

Harriet had asked her father to come home half an hour before his guests
arrived. She had almost persuaded herself to make a full confession of
her fault. But the tangle of circumstance was not to be so easily
unraveled.

Before Bab went down to dinner she slipped over to her desk and indorsed
the check, put it in an envelope, and hid the envelope inside her dress.
Her heart was lighter than it had been in weeks, for she believed her own
and Mollie's share in the Washington trouble was over.

Mr. William Hamlin was late to dinner and his guests were compelled to
hurry through the meal on his account, as he wished to catch a special
train out of the city. But they had a gay dinner party nevertheless and
Harriet did not know whether she was sorry or glad that her confession
had been delayed.

After Mr. Hamlin had said good-bye to his visitors Harriet followed her
father out into the hall. She thought if she told him of her fault just
before he went away his anger would have time to cool before he could
have opportunity to do more than reproach her for her extravagance.

"Father," Harriet whispered timidly, "can't you wait a few minutes
longer? I told you there was something I had to tell you."

Mr. Hamlin shook his head impatiently. "No, Harriet, this is not the time
nor the place for confidences. I am in far too much of a hurry. If you
want to ask me for money I positively haven't any to give you. Now run
on back to your guests."

Harriet turned slowly away, and so Mr. Hamlin lost his chance to set
matters straight.

Just before he went out the door, he called back to his daughter:

"Oh, Harriet, I have left the key to my strong box on my study table.
Don't forget to put it away for me; it is most important that you do so,
for I really have not time to turn back."

During the entire evening Peter Dillon devoted himself exclusively to
Harriet, and Bab was vastly relieved that he did not approach her. She
decided that he fully understood that she did not consider the pledge of
the faded rose-bud, binding. Mrs. Wilson had apparently forgotten Bab's
refusal of her request. She was as cordial to Barbara as she was to
Harriet, or to any of the "Automobile Girls."

It was after midnight when Mrs. Wilson told Elmer and Peter that they
must both go home. Bab's envelope was still tucked inside her dress. She
had had no chance so far to give it to Mrs. Wilson. After Peter and Elmer
had gone, however, and the girls trooped upstairs to bed, laughing and
chatting gayly, Bab found a chance to slip the troublesome envelope into
Mrs. Wilson's hand. With a whispered, "In the envelope is a check for the
money I borrowed. I thank you so much for your kindness," Bab ran down
the hall to her own room, feeling more at ease in her mind than she had
since Mollie's confession.

You will like me to play, you know; we are often dull in the evenings.'

'Yes,' said Ninette meekly, 'we will buy your fiddle to-morrow, dear
Anton.

Let us go home now.'

Poor vanished Ninette!

I must often have made the little heart sore with some of the careless
things I said. Yet looking back at it now, I know that I never cared for
any living person so much as I did for Ninette.

I have very few illusions left now; a childhood, such as mine, does not
tend to preserve them, and time and success have not made me less
cynical.

Still I have never let my scepticism touch that childish presence.
Lady Greville once said to me, in the presence of her nephew Felix
Leominster, a musician too, like myself, that we three were curiously
suited, for that we were, without exception, the three most cynical
persons in the universe, Perhaps in a way she was right.

Yet for all her cynicism Lady Greville I know has a bundle of old and
faded letters, tied up in black ribbon in some hidden drawer, that
perhaps she never reads now, but that she cannot forget or destroy.

They are in a bold handwriting, that is, not, I think, that of the miserable,
old debauchee, her husband, from whom she has been separated since the
first year of her marriage, and their envelopes bear Indian
postmarks.

And Felix, who told me the history of those letters with a smile of
pity on his thin, ironical lips--Felix, whose principles are adapted to
his conscience and whose conscience is bounded by the law, and in whom
I believe as little as he does in me, I found out by accident not so very
long ago.

It was on the day of All Souls, the melancholy festival of souvenirs,
celebrated once a year, under the November fogs, that I strayed
into the Montparnasse Cemetery, to seek inspiration for my art.

And though he did not see me, I saw Felix, the prince of railers, who
believes in nothing and cares for nothing except himself, for music
is not with him a passion but an _agrément_.

Felix bareheaded, and without his usual smile, putting fresh flowers
on the grave of a little Parisian grisette, who had been his
mistress and died five years ago.

I thought of Balzac's 'Messe de l'Athée' and ranked Felix's inconsistency
with it, feeling at the same time how natural such a paradox is. And
myself, the last of the trio, at the mercy of a street organ, I
cannot forget Ninette.

Though it was not until many years had passed that I heard that little
criticism, the purchase of my fiddle was destined very shortly to
bring my life in contact with its author.

Those were the days when a certain restraint grew up between Ninette and
myself. Ninette, it must be confessed, was jealous of the fiddle. Perhaps
she knew instinctively that music was with me a single and absorbing
passion, from which she was excluded.

She was no genius, little Ninette, and her organ was nothing more to
her than the means of making a livelihood; she felt not the smallest
_tendresse_ for it, and could not understand why a dead and inanimate
fiddle, made of mere wood and catgut, should be any more to me than
that.

How could she know that to me it was never a dead thing, that even when
it hung hopelessly out of my reach, in the window of M. Boudinot,
before ever it had given out wild, impassioned music beneath my hands,
it was always a live thing to me, alive and with a human, throbbing heart,
vibrating with hope and passion.

So Ninette was jealous of the fiddle, and being proud in her way,
she became more and more quiet and reticent, and drew herself aloof
from me, although, wrapped up as I was in the double egoism of art
and boyhood, I failed to notice this.

I have been sorry since that any shadow of misunderstanding should
have clouded the closing days of our partnership.

It is late to regret now, however. When my fiddle was added to our
belongings, we took to going out separately. It was more profitable,
and, besides, Ninette, I think, saw that I was growing a little
ashamed of her organ.

On one of these occasions, as I played before a house in the Faubourg St.
Germain, the turning point of my life befell me.

The house, outside which I had taken my station was a large, white
one, with a balcony on the first floor. This balcony was unoccupied, but
the window looking to it was open, and through the lace curtains I could
distinguish the sound of voices. I began to play; at first, one of the
airs that Maddalena had taught me; but before it was finished, I had glided
off, as usual, into an improvisation.

When I was playing like that, I threw all my soul into my fingers,
and I had neither ears nor eyes for anything round me. I did not therefore
notice until I had finished playing that a lady and a young man had
come out into the balcony, and were beckoning to me.

'Bravo!' cried the lady enthusiastically, but she did not throw me the
reward I had expected. She turned and said something to her companion, who
smiled and disappeared. I waited expectantly, thinking perhaps she had
sent him for her purse. Presently the door opened, and the young
man issued from it.

He came to me and touched me on the shoulder.

'You are to come with me,' he said, authoritatively, speaking in French,
but with an English accent.

I followed him, my heart beating with excitement, through the big door,
into a large, handsome hall and up a broad staircase, thinking that
in all my life I had never seen such a beautiful house.

He led me into a large and luxurious _salon_, which seemed to my astonished
eyes like a wonderful museum. The walls were crowded with pictures, a
charming composition by Gustave Moreau was lying on the grand
piano, waiting until a nook could be found for it to hang.

Renaissance bronzes and the work of eighteenth century silversmiths
jostled one another on brackets, and on a table lay a handsome
violin-case.

The pale blinds were drawn down, and there was a delicious smell of flowers
diffused everywhere.
A lady was lying on a sofa near the window, a handsome woman of
about thirty, whose dress was a miracle of lace and flimsiness.

The young man led me towards her, and she placed two delicate, jewelled
hands on my shoulders, looking me steadily in the face.

'Where did you learn to play like that, my boy?' she asked.

'I cannot remember when I could not fiddle, Madame,' I answered,
and that was true.

'The boy is a born musician, Felix,' said Lady Greville. 'Look at his
hands.'
And she held up mine to the young man's notice; he glanced at them
carelessly.

'Yes, Miladi,' said the young man, 'they are real violin hands.

What were you playing just now, my lad?'
'I don't know, sir,' I said. 'I play just what comes into my head.'
Lady Greville looked at her nephew with a glance of triumph.

'What did I tell you?'

she cried. 'The boy is a genius, Felix. I shall have him educated.'

'All your geese are swans, Auntie,' said the young man in English.

Lady Greville, however, ignored this thrust.

'Will you play for me now, my dear,' she said, 'as you did before--just
what comes into your head?'

I nodded, and was getting my fiddle to my chin, when she stopped me.

'Not that thing,' bestowing a glance of contempt at my instrument.
'Felix, the Stradivarius.'
The young man went to the other side of the room, and returned with
the case which I had noticed.

He put it in my hand, with the injunction to handle it gently. I had
never heard of Cremona violins, nor of my namesake Stradivarius; but
at the sight of the dark seasoned wood, reposing on its blue velvet, I
could not restrain a cry of admiration.

I have that same instrument in my room now, and I would not trust it
in the hands of another for a million.

I lifted the violin tenderly from its case, and ran my bow up the
gamut.

I felt almost intoxicated at the mellow sounds it uttered. I could have
kissed the dark wood, that looked to me stained through and through
with melody.

I began to play. My improvisation was a song of triumph and delight; the
music, at first rapid and joyous, became slower and more solemn,
as the inspiration seized on me, until at last, in spite of myself,
it grew into a wild and indescribable dirge, fading away in a long
wail of unutterable sadness and regret.

When it was over I felt exhausted and unstrung, as though virtue
had gone out from me. I had played as I had never played before.
The young man had turned away, and was looking out of the window.
The lady on the sofa was transfigured. The languor had altogether
left her, and the tears were streaming down her face, to the great
detriment of the powder and enamel which composed her complexion.

She pulled me towards her, and kissed me.

'It is beautiful, terrible!' she said; 'I have never heard such
strange music in my life.

You must stay with me now and have masters. If you can play like
that now, without culture and education, in time, when you have
been taught, you will be the greatest violinist that ever lived.'

I will say of Lady Greville that, in spite of her frivolity and
affectations, she does love music at the bottom of her soul, with
the absorbing passion that in my eyes would absolve a person for
committing all the sins in the Decalogue.

If her heart could be taken out and examined I can fancy it as a
shield, divided into equal fields.

Perhaps, as her friends declare, one of these might bear the device 'Modes
et Confections'; but I am sure that you would see on the other, even
more deeply graven, the divine word 'Music.'
She is one of the few persons whose praise of any of my compositions
gives me real satisfaction; and almost alone, when everybody is
running, in true goose fashion, to hear my piano recitals, she knows
and tells me to stick to my true vocation--the violin.

'My dear Baron,' she said, 'why waste your time playing on an instrument
which is not suited to you, when you have Stradivarius waiting at
home for the magic touch?'

She was right, though it is the fashion to speak of me now as a second
Rubenstein.

There are two or three finer pianists than I, even here in England. But I
am quite sure, yes, and you are sure, too, oh my Stradivarius, that in
the whole world there is nobody who can make such music out of you
as I can, no one to whom you tell such stories as you tell to me.

Any one, who knows, could see by merely looking at my hands that they are
violin and not piano hands.

'Will you come and live with me, Anton?' said Lady Greville, more calmly.

'I am rich, and childless; you shall live just as if you were my child.
The best masters in Europe shall teach you.

Tell me where to find your parents, Anton, and I will see them
to-night.'
'I have no parents,' I said, 'only Ninette. I cannot leave Ninette.'

'Shade of Musset, who is Ninette?' asked Felix, turning round from the
window.

I told him.

'What is to be done?' cried Lady Greville in perplexity. 'I cannot
have the girl here as well, and I will not let my Phoenix go.'
'Send her to the Soeurs de la Misericorde,' said the young man carelessly;
'you have a nomination.'
'Have I?' said Lady Greville, with a laugh. 'I am sure I did not know it.

It is an excellent idea; but do you think he will come without the other?
I suppose they were like brother and sister?'
'Look at him now,' said Felix, pointing to where I stood caressing
the precious wood; 'he would sell his soul for that fiddle.'

Lady Greville took the hint. 'Here, Anton,' said she, 'I cannot have Ninette
here--you understand, once and for all. But I will see that she is sent
to a kind home, where she will want for nothing and be trained up as a
servant. You need not bother about her.

You will live with me and be taught, and some day, if you are good and
behave, you shall go and see Ninette.'
I was irresolute, but I only said doggedly, feeling what would be the
end, 'I do not want to come, if Ninette may not.'

Then Lady Greville played her trump card.

'Look, Anton,' she said, 'you see that violin. I have no need, I see,
to tell you its value. If you will come with me and make no scene,
you shall have it for your very own.

Ninette will be perfectly happy.

Do you agree?'

I looked at my old fiddle, lying on the floor. How yellow and trashy it
looked beside the grand old Cremona, bedded in its blue velvet.

'I will do what you like, Madame,' I said.

'Human nature is pretty much the same in geniuses and dullards,' said
Felix. 'I congratulate you, Auntie.'
And so the bargain was struck, and the new life entered upon that very
day. Lady Greville sought out Ninette at once, though I was not allowed
to accompany her.

I never saw Ninette again.

She made no opposition to Lady Greville's scheme. She let herself be taken
to the Orphanage, and she never asked, so they said, to see me again.

'She's a stupid little thing,' said Lady Greville to her nephew, on
her return, 'and as plain as possible; but I suppose she was kind
to the boy.

They will forget each other now I hope. It is not as if they were related.'

'In that case they would already be hating each other. However, I am quite
sure your protégé will forget soon enough; and, after all, you have
nothing to do with the girl.'
I suppose I did not think very much of Ninette then; but what would you
have? It was such a change from the old vagrant days, that there
is a good deal to excuse me.

I was absorbed too in the new and wonderful symmetry which music began
to assume, as taught me by the master Lady Greville procured for
me. When the news was broken to me, with great gentleness, that my little
companion had run away from the sisters with whom she had been
placed--run away, and left no traces behind her, I hardly realised how
completely she would have passed away from me. I thought of her for a
little while with some regret; then I remembered Stradivarius, and I
could not be sorry long.

So by degrees I ceased to think of her.

I lived on in Lady Greville's house, going with her, wherever she
stayed--London, Paris, and Nice--until I was thirteen. Then she sent me
away to study music at a small German capital, in the house of one
of the few surviving pupils of Weber.

We parted as we had lived together, without affection.

Personally Lady Greville did not like me; if anything, she felt an actual
repugnance towards me.

All the care she lavished on me was for the sake of my talent, not for
myself. She took a great deal of trouble in superintending, not only my
musical education, but my general culture. She designed little mediæval
costumes for me, and was indefatigable in her endeavours to impart to my
manners that finish which a gutter education had denied me.

There is a charming portrait of me, by a well-known English artist,
that hangs now in her ladyship's drawing-room.

A pale boy of twelve, clad in an old-fashioned suit of ruby velvet; a
boy with huge, black eyes, and long curls of the same colour, is standing
by an oak music-stand, holding before him a Cremona violin, whose rich
colouring is relieved admirably by the beautiful old point lace with
which the boy's doublet is slashed. It is a charming picture. The famous
artist who painted it considers it his best portrait, and Lady
Greville is proud of it.

But her pride is of the same quality as that which made her value
my presence. I was in her eyes merely the complement of her famous
fiddle.
I heard her one day express a certain feeling of relief at my
approaching departure.
'You regret having taken him up?' asked her nephew curiously.
'No,' she said, 'that would be folly. He repays all one's trouble,
as soon as he touches his fiddle--but I don't like him.'"Stop, Uncle William," Ruth interrupted hotly. "I cannot, of course, tell
you that the things which you say are untrue. But at least I have the
right to say that I positively know you are wrong. I shall ask Barbara to
come down to your study, at once, to deny these charges. Then we shall go
home immediately."

"There, Ruth, I expected it," Mr. Hamlin answered testily. "Just as I
said. You have gone off the handle at once. Of course your young friend
may have some plausible explanation for her actions. But I will not be
guilty of making any accusations against a guest in my own house under
any circumstances. I have only mentioned these facts to you because I
feel that it is my positive duty to warn you against this girl, whom you
have chosen for your most intimate friend. It is impossible that I have
been deceived in regard to her. I have positive proof of what I say, and
I sadly fear she is a very headstrong and misguided girl."

Ruth was already crying from anger, which made it hard for her to answer
her uncle's speech. "You certainly don't object to my telling Barbara of
your accusations, Uncle William?" Ruth demanded. "I think it is only
fair to her."

"Not while she is in my house. You are to tell her nothing," Mr. Hamlin
ordered. "When Miss Thurston leaves you may tell her whatever you wish.
But I will not have a scene with her while she is staying here."

Mr. Hamlin was a cold, selfish and arrogant man. He well deserved the
blow to his pride that he was to receive later.

Ruth controlled herself in order to think deeply and quietly. Her father
was wise in his trust in her. Ruth had excellent judgment and good
sense. She was not particularly impressed by her uncle's command. She
felt that she had a perfect right to tell her friend of what she had
been accused. Yet would it be a good idea? Barbara would be
heart-broken, and nothing would induce her to remain in Mr. Hamlin's
house another hour after she learned his opinion of her. Ruth knew it
would not be well for Bab to rush off home in sudden anger, leaving a
false impression behind her. Barbara must stay in Mr. Hamlin's house
until he himself apologized to her.

Ruth did not dare to go back upstairs to the other girls immediately
after her interview with her uncle. She knew her friends would recognize
at once, from her red eyes and her excitement, that something was the
matter. Yet Ruth longed for a confidant, and she meant to unburden
herself to Grace as soon as she had the opportunity. To go upstairs now
would reveal everything to Mollie and Barbara as well.

Ruth seized her coat and hat from a closet in the hall and rushed out
into the street. She began walking as rapidly as she could, to let the
fresh air cool the tumult of feeling that was surging within her. Ruth
must have walked a mile before she determined what to do. Before she
returned to Mr. Hamlin's house, she found a telegraph office and went
into it. She sent a telegram to her father in Chicago, which read:

"Come to Washington as soon as possible. Bab wrongly suspected. She is
still in ignorance, but we need you.

"Ruth Stuart."

Little did Ruth yet dream why these toils were being wound about
unhappy Barbara. Mollie's one act of weakness had involved her sister in
a number of actions that did look wrong to an outsider. Yet the
explanation of them was so simple, if Bab had only known it were best for
her to tell the whole story! But Barbara was trying to shield Mollie, and
Mollie did not dream that Bab would suffer any consequences from her
foolish deed. So Bab's peculiar proceedings since her arrival in
Washington had indeed played well into the hands of her enemies. Mr.
Hamlin's mind had been poisoned against her. She had been seen to do
several underhanded things, one following directly after the other. If a
big game were being attempted, the reputation of Barbara Thurston was of
little account. Besides Bab had already blocked several of the players in
the game. Revenge could very well enter into the present scheme of
things, and a girl who had no one to defend her might prove a useful
tool. As a last resort she could be made a scapegoat.

In the meanwhile, Barbara was blissfully unconscious of any trouble, and
went singing cheerily about her room that morning. Since the delivery of
her check to Mrs. Wilson it seemed to her that the skies were blue again.
During the rest of her stay in Washington Bab meant just to enjoy the
beautiful sights of the wonderful city and not to trouble about the
disagreeable people. She did intend to ask Harriet to take her to see the
cunning little Chinese girl, Wee Tu, before she went home, but she had no
other very definite desires.

As for Mrs. Wilson? Barbara had just wisely decided that the woman
belonged to a curious type, which she did not understand and wished to
keep away from. Bab did not admire Mrs. Wilson's methods of playing
jokes. On the other hand it was none of Barbara Thurston's business. So
long as she had put the paper back in Mr. Hamlin's strong box no harm had
been done.

Barbara still had in her possession the key to that strong box. She had
neglected to give it to Harriet, because Harriet had left home so soon
after breakfast. And now that very terrifying person, Mr. William
Hamlin, had returned home, and Barbara Thurston still had the key in her
possession. Even Ruth had gone out. What should she do? She decided to
keep the key until Harriet came back in the afternoon. Then Harriet could
make some sort of explanation to her father. Barbara simply did not have
the courage to tell Mr. Hamlin that she had discovered Mrs. Wilson
tampering with his papers, and that it was she who had found the stolen
paper and locked it up again.

However, fate was certainly against Bab at the present time. A
servant knocked at the door of the next room, where Grace and Mollie
were reading.

"Please," the maid said, "Mr. Hamlin wants to know if Miss Harriet
left a key with you? It is a most important key, and Mr. Hamlin needs
it at once."

Grace and Mollie both shook their heads. No; Harriet had mentioned no
such key to them.

Barbara was waiting in the next room with the door open. She knew her
turn would come next.

"Do you know anything of the key, Miss Barbara?" Harriet's maid inquired.

Of course Bab blushed. She always did at the wrong time.

"Yes, I have the key, Mary," she replied. "Wait a minute, I will get
it for you."

"Do the young ladies know anything of my key?" Mr. William Hamlin's
impatient voice was heard just outside Barbara's door.

Innocently the maid opened it. "Wait a minute, Mr. Hamlin, please. Miss
Thurston says she has the key. She is getting it for you now."

And Barbara had to come to the door herself to present the key to this
dreadful old "Bluebeard."

"I presume my daughter left my key in your charge," Mr. Hamlin
asked coldly.

"No," she declared almost under her breath, hoping her stern host would
either not hear her, or at least not heed her. "Harriet did not leave
it with me."

"Then kindly tell me how my key came into your possession?" Mr. Hamlin
inquired, in chilling, even tones. Bab shivered.

"I found it," Bab answered lamely, having it in mind to tell the whole
strange story of last night's experience. But she was too frightened by
Mr. Hamlin's manner and by the fear that she would be regarded as a
telltale by Harriet. If Mr. Hamlin's own daughter had not considered her
guest's actions unusual, it was not exactly Bab's place to report them.
So she remained silent, and her host also turned away in silence.

Harriet did not come home until just before dinner time. She told the
"Automobile Girls" she had spent a delightful day, but her behavior was
unusual. She looked frightened, though at the same time happier than she
had seemed since the hour she had received the first threatening letter
from her dressmaker.

Peter Dillon had walked home with Harriet. Barbara, who happened to be
standing at the front window, saw them stop to talk for a moment at the
door before Peter said good-bye. Peter was making himself very charming
to Harriet. He was talking to her in his half laughing, half earnest
fashion in the very manner that had seemed so attractive to Bab, too,
at first. But it was a manner she had learned later on to distrust and
even to fear.

When Harriet parted from Peter Dillon she nodded her head emphatically
and apparently made him a promise, and Barbara saw Peter look back at her
with a peculiar smile as she ascended the steps.


CHAPTER XIX

HARRIET IN DANGER


Harriet Hamlin was restless and nervous all the next day. Even Mr.
Hamlin, noticing his daughter's nervous manner at luncheon, suggested
that she take her friends out to pay some calls. So Bab put forth her
plea that she wished to make another visit to the home of the Chinese
minister. As the girls had not yet paid their luncheon call at the
embassy Harriet agreed to take them to see Wee Tu. Before she left the
house Harriet called up her dressmaker and had a long confidential talk
with her over the telephone. She seemed in better spirits afterwards.

The Chinese minister's wife, Lady Tu, was receiving. As there were no men
in the drawing-room, her daughter, Wee Tu, sat among the young girls as
quiet and demure as a picture on a fan.

Bab managed to persuade the little girl into a corner to have a quiet
chat with her. But Miss Wee Tu was difficult to draw out. Across the
room, Harriet Hamlin chanced to mention the name of Peter Dillon. At
once the little Chinese girl's expression changed. The change was very
slight. Hardly a shade of emotion crossed her unexpressive, Oriental
face, but curious Barbara was watching for that very change. She
remembered the young girl had been affected by Peter's appearance during
their former visit.

"Do you like Mr. Dillon?" inquired Bab. She had no excuse for her
question except her own wilful curiosity.

But Wee Tu was not to be caught napping.

"Lige?" she answered, with a soft rising inflection that made the "k" in
"like" sound as "g." "I do not know what Americans mean by the
word--'Lige.' You 'lige' so many people. A Chinese girl 'liges' only a
few--her parents, her relatives; sometimes she 'liges' her husband, but
not always."

"Don't like your husband!" exclaimed Bab in surprise. "Why, what do
you mean?"

The little Chinese maiden was confused both by the American word and the
American idea.

"The Chinese girl has respect for her husband; she does what he tells her
to do, but she does not all the time 'lige' him, because her father has
chosen him for her husband. I shall marry a prince, when I go back to
China, but he is 'verra' old."

"Oh, I see!" Bab rejoined. "You thought I meant 'love' when I said
'like.' It is quite different to love a person." Bab smiled wisely. "To
love is to like a great deal."

"Then I love this Mr. Peter Dillon," said the Chinese girl sweetly.

Bab gasped in shocked surprise.

"It is most improper that I say so, is it not?" smiled Miss Wee Tu. "But
so many things that American girls do seem improper to Chinese ladies.
And I do like this Mr. Peter very much. He comes always to our house. He
is 'verra' intimate with my father. He talks to him a long, long time and
they have Chinese secrets together. Then he talks with me so that I can
understand him. Many people will not trouble with a Chinese girl, who is
only fifteen, even if her father is a minister."

Barbara was overwhelmed with Wee Tu's confidence, but she knew she
deserved it as a punishment for her curiosity. The strangest thing was
that the young Chinese girl spoke in a low, even voice, without the least
change of expression in her long, almond eyes. Any one watching her would
have thought she was talking of the weather.

"I go back to China when my father's time in the United States is over
and then I get married. It makes no difference. But while I am in your
country I play I am free, like an American girl, and I do what I like
inside my own head."

"It's very wrong," Barbara argued hastily. "It is much better to trust to
your parents."

"Yes?" answered Wee Tu quietly. Bab was vexed that Peter Dillon's
careless Irish manners had also charmed this little Oriental maiden. But
Bab was wise enough to understand that Wee Tu's interest was only that of
a child who was grateful to the young man for his kindness.

Barbara rose to join her friends, who were at this moment saying good-bye
to their hostess.

"It is the Chinese custom," Lady Tu remarked graciously, "to make little
presents to our guests. Will not Mr. Hamlin's daughter and her four
friends receive these poor offerings?"

A servant handed the girls five beautiful, carved tortoise shell boxes,
containing exquisite sets of combs for their hair, the half dozen or more
that Chinese women wear.

"I felt ashamed of my wind-blown hair when Lady Tu presented us with
these combs," Grace exclaimed, just before the little party reached home.
They had paid a dozen more calls since their visit to the Chinese
Embassy. "I suppose Chinese women are shocked at the way American girls
wear their hair."

"Yes, but we can't take three hours to fix ours," laughed Mollie, running
up the steps of the Hamlin house. In the front hall Mollie spied an
immense box of roses. They were for Harriet. Harriet picked up the box
languidly and started upstairs. She had talked very little during the
afternoon, and had seemed unlike herself.

"Aren't you going to open your flowers, Harriet?" Mollie pleaded. "I am
crazy to see them."

"I'll open them if it pleases you, Mollie," Harriet returned gently. The
great box was crowded with long-stemmed American beauties and violets.

"Have some posies, girls?" Harriet said generously, holding out her arms
filled with flowers. For a long time afterwards the "Automobile Girls"
remembered how beautiful Harriet looked as she stood there, her face very
pale, her black hair and hat outlined against the dark oak woodwork with
the great bunch of American beauties in her arms.

"Of course we don't want your posies, Lady Harriet," Mollie answered
affectionately. "Here is the note to tell you who sent them to you." But
Harriet went on to her room without showing enough interest in her gift
to open the letter.

After dinner Harriet complained of a headache, and went immediately to
her room. The "Automobile Girls" were going out to a theater party, which
was being given in their honor by their old friends, Mrs. Post and Hugh.
Harriet sent word she would have to be excused. When Ruth put her head
into Harriet's room to say good-bye, just before she started for the
theater, she thought she heard her cousin crying.

"Harriet, dear, do let me stay with you," Ruth pleaded. "I am afraid you
are feeling worse than you will let us know."

But Harriet insisted that she desired only to be left alone. Feeling
strangely unhappy about her cousin, Ruth, at last joined the
theater party.

Mr. Hamlin did not leave the house immediately after dinner, although he
had an engagement to spend the evening at the home of Mrs. Wilson. She
had asked him, only that morning, to come. Mr. Hamlin was also troubled
about his daughter. He had not been so unobservant that he had not seen
the change in her. She was less animated, less talkative. Mr. Hamlin
feared Harriet was not well. Though he was stern and unsympathetic with
Harriet, he was genuinely frightened if she were in the least ill.

So it was with unusual gentleness that he tapped lightly on
Harriet's door.

"I am all right, Mary, thank you," Harriet replied, believing her maid
to be outside. "Go to bed whenever you please. I shall fall asleep
after a while."

Mr. Hamlin cleared his throat and Harriet started nervously. Why was her
father standing outside her door? Had he learned of her bill to her
dressmaker?

"I do not wish to disturb you, Harriet," Mr. Hamlin began awkwardly. "I
only desired to know if I could do anything for you."

"No, Father," poor Harriet replied wearily. As Mr. Hamlin turned away,
she sprang up and started to run after him. At her own door she stopped.
She heard her father's stern voice giving an order to a servant, and her
sudden resolution died within her. A few moments later the front door
closed behind him and her opportunity had passed.

An hour afterwards, when the house was quiet and the servants nowhere
about, Harriet Hamlin slipped cautiously downstairs. She was gone only a
few minutes. But when she came back to her own room, she opened a private
drawer in her bureau and hid something in it. Harriet then threw herself
on her bed and lay for a long time with her eyes wide open, staring
straight ahead of her.

Just before midnight, when she heard the gay voices of her friends
returning from the theater, and when Ruth tripped softly to her bedroom,
Harriet lay with closed eyes, apparently fast asleep.

The next morning Harriet was really ill. Her hand trembled so while she
poured the breakfast coffee that she spilled some of it on the
tablecloth. When Mr. Hamlin spoke to her sharply she burst into tears and
left the room, leaving her father ashamed of himself, and the "Automobile
Girls" so embarrassed that they ate the rest of their breakfast in
painful silence. Ruth did dart one indignant glance at her uncle, which
Mr. Hamlin saw, but did not in his heart resent.

Harriet was willing, that morning, to have Ruth come into her darkened
bedroom and sit by her bed. For Harriet's wakeful night had left her
slightly feverish.

"I don't want to disturb you, Harriet," Bab apologized, coming softly to
the door. "But some one has just telephoned for you. The person at the
telephone has a message for you, but whoever it is refuses to give his
name. What shall I do!"

Harriet sat up in bed, quickly, a hunted expression on her beautiful
face. "Tell Mr. Peter Dillon that I will keep my word," Harriet answered
angrily. "He is not to worry about me again."

"Is that your message?" Bab queried wonderingly. "It was not Mr.
Dillon's voice."

Harriet laughed hysterically. "Of course not!" she returned. "Oh, I know
you girls are wondering why I am behaving so strangely. And I am
breaking my word to tell you. But I must tell some one. I don't care
what Mrs. Wilson and Peter Dillon say, I know I can trust you. I have
decided to help Mrs. Wilson and Peter play their silly joke on Father
and the State Department! Oh, you needn't look so horrified, girls. It
is only a joke. The papers are about some Chinese business. I have them
hid in my bureau drawer."

Harriet nodded toward her dressing-table, while Ruth and Bab stood
looking at each other, speechless with horror, the same idea growing in
their minds.

"When Father comes to look for his stupid papers he'll find them gone,
and, of course, will think he has misplaced them," Harriet continued. "He
will be dreadfully worried for a little while; then Mrs. Wilson will
return the papers to me and I will slip them back in their old place, and
Father will never know what has happened. Mrs. Wilson and Peter have
vowed they will never betray me, and I have promised not to betray them.
If I were to be caught, I suppose Father would never forgive me. But I'll
take good care that he doesn't find out about it."

"Harriet, do please give up this foolish plan!" Ruth entreated earnestly.
"I know you are doing something wrong. Mrs. Wilson and Mr. Dillon both
know that Uncle William's papers are too valuable to be played with. Why,
they belong to the United States Government, not to him! Harriet, I
implore you, do not touch your father's papers!"

Harriet shook her head obstinately. She was absolutely adamant. Ruth
pleaded, scolded, in vain. Bab did not say a word nor enter a protest.
She was too frightened. All of a sudden a veil had been rent asunder. Now
she believed she understood what Peter Dillon and Mrs. Wilson had planned
from the beginning. They were spies in the service of some higher power.
The papers that Harriet thought were to be used for a joke on her father
were really to be sold! Was not some state secret to be betrayed? Ever
since Bab's arrival in Washington it had looked as though Peter Dillon
and Mrs. Wilson had been working toward this very end. Having failed with
her they had turned their attention to poor Harriet. But Mrs. Wilson and
Peter Dillon must be only hired tools! Shrewdly Barbara Thurston recalled
her recent conversation with innocent Wee Tu: "Mr. Dillon and my father,
they have Chinese secrets together." Could a certain distinguished and
wisely silent Oriental gentleman be responsible for the thrilling drama
about to be enacted? Bab was never to know positively, and she wisely
kept her suspicion to herself.

"I do wish, Ruth, you and Bab would go away and leave me alone," Harriet
protested. "I shall be well enough to get up for luncheon, if you will
let me take a nap. I don't see any harm in playing this joke on Father.
At any rate, I have quite made up my mind to go through with my part in
it and I won't give up my plan. You can tell Father if you choose, of
course. I cannot prevent that. I know I was foolish to have confided in
you. But, unless you are despicable tale bearers, the papers in my bureau
drawer will go out of this house in a few hours! I don't see any harm in
their disappearing for a little while. Father will have them back in a
few days. Please go!"

Yet with all Harriet's air of bravado, however, there was one point in
her story which she did not mention. In return for her delivery of
certain of her father's state papers Mrs. Wilson and Peter Dillon had
promised to advance to Harriet the five hundred dollars necessary to pay
her dressmaker. Harriet had agreed only to receive it as a loan. And she
tried to comfort herself with the idea that her friends were only doing
her a kindness in exchange for the favor she was to do for them. Still,
the thought of the money worried Harriet. But how else was she to be
saved from the weight of her stern father's displeasure?


CHAPTER XX

FOILED!


At Harriet's request Bab and Ruth went silently out of her room, their
faces white and frightened.

"Ruth, is there any place where we can be alone?" Barbara whispered
faintly. "I must talk with you."

Ruth nodded, and the two friends found their way into the library,
turning the key in the lock. Then they stood facing each other,
speechless, for a moment, from the very intensity of their feelings.

"Ruth, you must do something," Bab entreated. "The papers that Mrs.
Wilson and Mr. Dillon are making Harriet get for them they do not intend
to use for a joke. Oh, Ruth, they are no doubt important state papers!
Harriet may be betraying her country and ruining her father by placing
these papers in their hands."

"I think, too, that Mrs. Wilson and Peter Dillon are spies," Ruth
returned more quietly. "And, of course, we must do something to prevent
their getting their hands on the papers."

"But what can we do?" Barbara demanded sharply. "We cannot tell Mr.
Hamlin of Harriet's deed. It would be too cruel of us. Nor can we
confront Mrs. Wilson and Peter Dillon with the accusation. They would
only laugh at us, and declare that we were mad to have imagined any such
thing. Then, again, we would be betraying Harriet's confidence. We do not
know just what state papers Harriet is to give to them, but they must be
very, very valuable. I suppose those dreadful people will have the papers
copied, sell our country's secret, and return the papers to Harriet when
all the mischief has been done. Ruth, I believe, now, that Mrs. Wilson
and Peter Dillon both meant to make me steal Mr. Hamlin's papers. Then
they would have declared I had sold them to some one. And Mr. Hamlin
would never have suspected his friends. Now, they think poor Harriet will
be too much afraid to betray them."

Bab's voice trembled slightly. She realized how nearly she had been the
dupe of these two clever schemers. She felt that she and Ruth must save
Harriet at all events.

"Mrs. Wilson tried to steal Mr. Hamlin's papers the night she masqueraded
as a ghost," Barbara continued. "I picked up the envelope she dropped on
the floor in the hall."

"I know it, Barbara," Ruth answered in her self-controlled fashion,
which always had a calming effect on the more impetuous Bab. "I also
believe Mrs. Wilson meant to fix the guilt of the theft upon you. Uncle
William called me into his study the other day and asked me if I
considered you trustworthy. Of course I was awfully indignant and told
him just what I thought of him for being so suspicious. But I believe
Mrs. Wilson had tried to poison his mind against you. You must be on
your guard now, Bab, dear. If Harriet gives up these papers of Uncle's
the plotters may still try to use you as their scapegoat. When Uncle
finds his papers have disappeared Mrs. Wilson and Mr. Dillon will, of
course, appear to know nothing of them; but they will somehow try to
direct suspicion against you, trusting to Harriet's cowardice. Don't you
worry though, Bab, dear. You shall not suffer for Harriet's fault while
I am here."

"Oh, I am not worrying about myself, Ruth," Bab answered. "It is
Harriet's part in the affair that troubles me. Do, please, go to Harriet
and talk to her again. Surely you can make her see the risk she is
running. Do you suppose it would do any good if I were to call on Mrs.
Wilson? I could just pretend I still thought she meant to play the joke
on Mr. Hamlin. You know she told me she intended to do so. I could beg
her to give it up without mentioning Harriet's name or letting Mrs.
Wilson guess that Harriet had confided in us."

Ruth shook her head. "It would not do any good for you to go to Mrs.
Wilson, Bab. And, somehow, I am afraid for you. We do not know how much
further they intend to involve you in their plot."

"Oh, they won't do me any harm, now," Barbara rejoined. "Anyhow, I am
willing to take the risk, if Harriet will not give in."

"Just wait here, Bab, until I have been to see Harriet again," Ruth
entreated. "I will go down on my knees to her, if I can persuade her to
give up this wicked deed. Oh, why is she so determined to be so reckless
and so foolish?"

Fifteen minutes afterwards Ruth came back from her second interview with
Harriet, looking utterly discouraged. "Harriet simply won't give up,"
Ruth reported to Bab. "She is absolutely determined to go her own way,
and she is angry with me for interfering. Oh, Bab, what will happen?
Uncle is so proud! If his daughter is known to have given Mrs. Wilson and
Peter Dillon state papers, the report will be circulated that she stole
them, and Uncle William will be disgraced. Then, what will become of
Harriet? She does not intend to do wrong. But I simply can't make her
see this thing as we see it. So what can we do?" Unusually
self-contained, Ruth broke down, now, weeping on Bab's shoulder. The
thought of the dreadful disgrace to her uncle and her cousin was more
than she could face.

"I am going to see Mrs. Wilson, Ruth," Bab declared. "You had better
stay here and do your best with Harriet. The papers are not to be
delivered until four this afternoon, when, I believe, Harriet is to meet
Peter Dillon. Of course it was he who telephoned Harriet, only he was
clever enough to disguise his voice. So we have until afternoon to work.
Don't worry yourself sick. We simply must save Harriet in some way. I
don't pretend that I see the way clearly yet, but I have faith that it
will come. I cannot do any harm by going to Mrs. Wilson, and I may do
some good."

"I don't like you to go there alone, Bab," Ruth faltered. "But I don't
dare to leave Harriet by herself. He could not have harboured a grudge
against me--for what?

A boyish infatuation for a woman who adored him, and whom he adored. The
idea is preposterous, they must have laughed over my folly often, of
winter evenings by their fireside. For they married, they must have
married, they were made for each other and they knew it.

Was their marriage happy I wonder? Was it as successful as mine, though
perhaps a little less commonplace?

It is strange, though, that I never heard of it, that he never wrote to
me once, not through all those years.

_4th October._
Inexplicable! Inexplicable! _Did_ they marry after all? Could there have
been some gigantic misunderstanding? I paid a pilgrimage this morning
which hitherto I had deferred, I know not precisely why. I went to the old
house in the Rue d'Alva--where she lived, our Comtesse. And the sight
of its grim, historic frontal made twenty years seem as yesterday. I meant
to content myself with a mere glimpse at the barred windows, but the impulse
seized me to ring the bell which I used to ring so often.

It was a foolish, fantastic impulse, but I obeyed it. I found it was
occupied by an Englishman, a Mr.

Venables--there seem to be more English here than in my time--and
I sent in my card and asked if I might see the famous dining-room.

There was no objection raised, my host was most courteous, my name,
he said, was familiar to him; he is evidently proud of his dilapidated
old palace, and has had the grace to save it from the attentions of the
upholsterer. No! twenty years have produced very little change in the
room where we had so many pleasant sittings. The ancient stamped leather
on the walls is perhaps a trifle more ragged, the old oak panels
not blacker--that were impossible--but a trifle more worm-eaten; it
is the same room.

I must have seemed a sad boor to my polite cicerone as I stood, hat in
hand, and silently took in all the old familiar details.
The same smell of mildewed antiquity, I could almost believe the
same furniture.

And indeed my host tells me that he took over the house as it was, and
that some of the chairs and tables are scarcely more youthful than the
walls. Yes, there by the huge fireplace was the same quaintly carved
chair where she always sat. Ah, those delicious evenings when
one was five-and-twenty.

For the moment I should not have been surprised if she had suddenly taken
shape before my eyes, in the old seat, the slim, girlish woman in her
white dress, her hands folded in her lap, her quiet eyes gazing dreamily
into the red fire, a subtile air of distinction in her whole posture....
She would be old now, I suppose. Would she? Ah no, she was not one of
the women who grow old.... I caught up the thread of my host's discourse
just as he was pointing it with a sharp rap upon one of the most time-stained
panels.

'Behind there,' he remarked, with pardonable pride, 'is the secret passage
where the Duc d'Alva was assassinated.'

I smiled apologetically.

'Yes,' I said, 'I know it. I should explain perhaps--my excuse for
troubling you was not merely historic curiosity.

I have more personal associations with this room. I spent some charming
hours in it a great many years ago-' and for the moment I had forgotten
that I was nearly fifty.

'Ah,' he said, with interest, 'you know the late people, the Fontaines.'

'No,' I said, 'I am afraid I have never heard of them. I am very
ancient.
In my time it belonged to the Savaresse family.'

'So I have heard,' he said, 'but that was long ago. I have only had
it a few years. Fontaine my landlord bought it from them.

Did you know M. le Comte!'
'No,' I answered, 'Madame la Comtesse. She was left a widow very shortly
after her marriage. I never knew M. le Comte.'
My host shrugged his shoulders.

'From all accounts,' he said, 'you did not lose very much.'
'It was an unhappy marriage,' I remarked, vaguely, 'most unhappy.

Her second marriage promised greater felicity.'
Mr. Venables looked at me curiously.

'I understood,' he began, but he broke off abruptly. 'I did not know
Madame de Savaresse married again.'
His tone had suddenly changed, it had grown less cordial, and we parted
shortly afterwards with a certain constraint. And as I walked home
pensively curious, his interrupted sentence puzzled me.

Does he look upon me as an impostor, a vulgar gossip-monger? What has
he heard, what does he know of her? Does he know anything? I cannot
help believing so. I almost wish I had asked him definitely, but
he would have misunderstood my motives.

Yet, even so, I wish I had asked him.

_6th October._
I am still living constantly in the past, and the fantastic feeling,
whenever I enter a church or turn a corner that I shall meet Lorimer
again, has grown into a settled conviction.

Yes, I shall meet him, and in Bruges.... It is strange how an episode
which one has thrust away out of sight and forgotten for years will be
started back into renewed life by the merest trifle. And for the
last week it has all been as vivid as if it happened yesterday. To-night
I have been putting questions to myself--so far with no very satisfactory
answer. _Was_ it a boyish infatuation after all? Has it passed away
as utterly as I believed? I can see her face now as I sit by the fire
with the finest precision of detail. I can hear her voice, that soft,
low voice, which was none the less sweet for its modulation of sadness.
I think there are no women like her now-a-days--none, none!

_Did_ she marry Lorimer? and if not--? It seems strange now that we
should have both been so attracted, and yet not strange when one
considers it. At least we were never jealous of one another.

How the details rush back upon one! I think we must have fallen in love
with her at the same moment--for we were together when we saw her
for the first time, we were together when we went first to call on
her in the Rue d'Alva--I doubt if we ever saw her except together.

It was soon after we began to get intimate that she wore white again. She
told us that we had given her back her youth. She joined our sketching
expeditions with the most supreme contempt for _les convenances_; when
she was not fluttering round, passing from Lorimer's canvas to mine with
her sweetly inconsequent criticism, she sat in the long grass and read
to us--André Chénier and Lamartine.

In the evening we went to see her; she denied herself to the rest of the
world, and we sat for hours in that ancient room in the delicious twilight,
while she sang to us--she sang divinely--little French _chansons_, gay and
sad, and snatches of _operette_. How we adored her! I think she knew
from the first how it would be and postponed it as long as she
could.

But at last she saw that it was inevitable.... I remember the last
evening that we were there--remember--shall I ever forget it? We had
stayed beyond our usual hour and when we rose to go we all of us
knew that those pleasant irresponsible evenings had come to an end. And
both Lorimer and I stood for a moment on the threshold before we
said good-night, feeling I suppose that one of us was there for the
last time.

And how graceful, how gracious she was as she held out one little white
hand to Lorimer and one to me. 'Good-night, dear friends,' she said, 'I
like you both so much--so much. Believe me, I am grateful to you both--for
having given me back my faith in life, in friendship, believe that,
will you not, _mes amis_?'

Then for just one delirious moment her eyes met mine and it seemed to
me--ah, well, after all it was Lorimer she loved.

_7th October._
It seems a Quixotic piece of folly now, our proposal we would neither
take advantage of the other, but we both of us _must_ speak.

We wrote to her at the same time and likely enough, in the same words,
we posted our letters by the same post. To-day I had the curiosity to
take out her answer to me from my desk, and I read it quite
calmly and dispassionately, the poor yellow letter with the faded ink,
which wrote 'Finis' to my youth and made a man of me.

'_Pauvre cher Ami_,' she wrote to me, and when I had read that, for the
first time in my life and the only time Lorimer's superiority was bitter
to me. The rest I deciphered through scalding tears.

'_Pauvre cher Ami_, I am very sorry for you, and yet I think you should
have guessed and have spared yourself this pain, and me too a little.
No, my friend, that which you ask of me is impossible.

You are my dear friend, but it is your brother whom I love--your
brother, for are you not as brothers, and I cannot break your
beautiful friendship.

No, that must not be.

See, I ask one favour of you--I have written also to him, only one
little word "Viens,"--but will you not go to him and tell him for
me?

Ah, my brother, my heart bleeds for you. I too have suffered in my time.
You will go away now, yes, that is best, but you will return when this
fancy of yours has passed. Ah forgive me--that I am happy--forgive
us, forgive me.

Let us still be friends. Adieu! Au revoir.

'Thy Sister, DELPHINE.'
I suppose it was about an hour later that I took out my letter to
Lorimer.

I told him as I told myself, that it was the fortune of war, that she had
chosen the better man, but I could not bear to stay and see their happiness.
I was in London before the evening. I wanted work, hard, grinding
work, I was tired of being a briefless barrister, and as it happened,
an Indian opening offered itself at the very moment when I had
decided that Europe had become impossible to me.

I accepted it, and so those two happy ones passed out of my life.

Twenty years ago! and in spite of his promise he has never written from
that day till this, not so much as a line to tell me of his marriage. I
made a vow then that I would get over my folly, and it seemed to me that
my vow was kept.

And yet here to-day, in Bruges, I am asking myself whether after all it
has been such a great success, whether sooner or later one does
not have to pay for having been hard and strong, for refusing to
suffer....

I must leave this place, it is too full of Madame de Savaresse.... Is it
curiosity which is torturing me? I _must_ find Lorimer.
If he married her, why has he been so persistently silent? If he did not
marry her, what in Heaven's name does it mean? These are vexing
questions.

_10th October._

In the Church of the Dames Rouges, I met to-day my old friend Sebastian
Lorimer. Strange! Strange! He was greatly altered, I wonder almost that I
recognised him. I had strolled into the church for benediction, for the
first time since I have been back here, and when the service was over and
I swung back the heavy door, with the exquisite music of the 'O Salutaris,'
sung by those buried women behind the screen still echoing in my
ear, I paused a moment to let a man pass by me.

It was Lorimer, he looked wild and worn; it was no more than the ghost
of my old friend. I was shocked and startled by his manner.

We shook hands quite impassively as if we had parted yesterday.

He talked in a rambling way as we walked towards my hotel, of the singing
of the nuns, of the numerous religious processions, of the blessed
doctrine of the intercession of saints.

The old melodious voice was unchanged, but it was pitched in the
singularly low key which I have noticed some foreign priests acquire who
live much in churches.

I gather that he has become a Catholic.

I do not know what intangible instinct, or it may be fear, prevented
me from putting to him the vital question which has so perplexed
me. It is astonishing how his face has changed, what an extraordinary
restlessness his speech and eye have acquired. It never was so of old.
My first impression was that he was suffering from some acute form of
nervous disorder, but before I left him a more unpleasant suspicion
was gradually forced upon me.

I cannot help thinking that there is more than a touch of insanity in my
old friend. I tried from time to time to bring him down to personal topics,
but he eluded them dexterously, and it was only for a moment or
so that I could keep him away from the all absorbing subject of the
Catholic Church, which seems in some of its more sombre aspects to
exercise an extraordinary fascination over him. I asked him if he often
visited Bruges.

He looked up at me with a curious expression of surprise.

'I live here,' he said, 'almost always.' I have done so for years....'
Presently he added hurriedly, 'You have come back. I thought you would
come back, but you have been gone a long time--oh, a long time!

It seems years since we met. Do you remember--?' He checked himself;
then he added in a low whisper, 'We all come back, we all come back.'
He uttered a quaint, short laugh.

'One can be near--very near, even if one can never be quite close.'

He tells me that he still paints, and that the Academy, to which he sends
a picture yearly, has recently elected him an Associate.

But his art does not seem to absorb him as it did of old, and he speaks
of his success drily and as a matter of very secondary importance. He
refused to dine with me, alleging an engagement, but that so hesitatingly
and with such vagueness that I could perceive it was the merest pretext.
His manner was so strange and remote that I did not venture to press
him. I think he is unhappily conscious of his own frequent incoherencies
and at moments there are quite painful pauses when he is obviously
struggling with dumb piteousness to be lucid, to collect himself
and pick up certain lost threads in his memory.

He is coming to see me this evening, at his own suggestion, and I am waiting
for him now with a strange terror oppressing me. I cannot help thinking
that he possesses the key to all that has so puzzled me, and that to-night
he will endeavour to speak

.

_11th October._
Poor Lorimer! I have hardly yet got over the shock which his visit last
night caused me, and the amazement with which I heard and read
between the lines of his strange confession.

His once clear reason is, I fear, hopelessly obscured, and how much
of his story is hallucination, I cannot say.

His notions of time and place are quite confused, and out of his
rambling statement I can only be sure of one fact.

It seems that he has done me a great wrong, an irreparable wrong,
which he has since bitterly repented.

And in the light of this poor wretch's story, a great misunderstanding
is rolled away, and I am left with the conviction that the last twenty
years have been after all a huge blunder, an irrevocable and
miserable mistake.

Through my own rash precipitancy and Lorimer's weak treachery, a
trivial mischance that a single word would have rectified, has been
prolonged beyond hope of redress.

It seems that after all it was not Lorimer whom she chose.

Madame de Savaresse writing to us both twenty years ago, made a vital
and yet not inexplicable mistake. She confused her envelopes, and the
letter which I received was never meant for me, although it was couched
in such ambiguous terms that until to-day the possibility of this
error never dawned on me.

And my letter, the one little word of which she spoke, was sent to
Lorimer.

Poor wretch! he did me a vital injury--yes, I can say that now--a
vital injury, but on the whole I pity him.

To have been suddenly dashed down from the pinnacles of happiness, it
must have been a cruel blow. He tells me that when he saw her that
afternoon and found out his mistake, he had no thought except to
recall me. He actually came to London for that purpose, vowed to her
solemnly that he would bring me back; it was only in England, that,
to use his own distraught phrase, the Devil entered into possession of
him.

His half-insane ramblings gave me a very vivid idea of that fortnight
during which he lay hid in London, trembling like a guilty thing, fearful
at every moment that he might run across me and yet half longing
for the meeting with the irresoluteness of the weak nature, which
can conceive and to a certain extent execute a _lâcheté_, yet which
would always gladly yield to circumstance and let chance or fate
decide the issue.

And to the very last Lorimer was wavering--had almost sought me out, and
thrown himself on my mercy, when the news came that I had sailed.

Destiny who has no weak scruples, had stepped in and sealed Delphine's
mistake for all time, after her grim fashion.

When he went back to Bruges, and saw Madame de Savaresse, I think she
must have partly guessed his baseness. Lorimer was not strong enough
to be a successful hypocrite, and that meeting, I gather, was also
their final parting.

She must have said things to him in her beautiful quiet voice which he
has never forgotten.
He went away and each day he was going to write to me, and each day
he deferred it, and then he took up the _Times_ one morning and
read the announcement of my marriage.

After that it seemed to him that he could only be silent....

Did _she_ know of it too? Did she suffer or did she understand? Poor
woman!

poor woman! I wonder if she consoled herself, as I did, and if so how she
looks back on her success? I wonder whether she is happy, whether
she is dead?

I suppose these are questions which will remain unanswered.

And yet when Lorimer left me at a late hour last night, it seemed
to me that the air was full of unspoken words.

Does he know anything of her now! I have a right to ask him these
things.

And to-morrow I am to meet him, he made the request most strangely--at the
same place where we fell in with each other to-day--until to-morrow
then!

_12th October._
I have just left Sebastian Lorimer at the Church of the Dames Rouges.

I hope I was not cruel, but there are some things which one can neither
forget nor forgive, and it seemed to me that when I knew the full
measure of the ruin he had wrought, my pity for him withered away. 'I
hope, Lorimer,' I said, 'that we may never meet again.' And, honestly, I
cannot forgive him. If she had been happy, if she had let time deal
gently with her--ah yes, even if she were dead--it might be easier.

But that this living entombment, this hopeless death in life should
befall her, she so magnificently fitted for life's finer offices, ah,
the pity of it, the pity of it!... But let me set down the whole sad
story as it dawned upon me this afternoon in that unearthly church. I was
later than the hour appointed; vespers were over and a server,
taper in hand, was gradually transforming the gloom of the high
altar into a blaze of light.

With a strange sense of completion I took my place next to the chair
by which Lorimer, with bowed head, was kneeling, his eyes fixed with a
strange intentness on the screen which separated the outer worshippers
from the chapel or gallery which was set apart for the nuns.

His lips moved from time to time spasmodically, in prayer or ejaculation:
then as the jubilant organ burst out, and the officiating priest in his
dalmatic of cloth of gold passed from the sacristy and genuflected at the
altar, he seemed to be listening in a very passion of attention. But
as the incense began to fill the air, and the Litany of Loreto smote on
my ear to some sorrowful, undulating Gregorian, I lost thought of
the wretched man beside me; I forgot the miserable mistake that he
had perpetuated, and I was once more back in the past--with
Delphine--kneeling by her side.

Strophe by strophe that perfect litany rose and was lost in a cloud
of incense, in the mazy arches of the roof.

'Janua coeli, Stella matutina, Salus infirmorum, Ora pro nobis!'
In strophe and antistrophe: the melancholy, nasal intonation of the
priest died away, and the exquisite women's voices in the gallery
took it up with exultation, and yet with something like a sob--a sob
of limitation.

'Refugium peccatorum, Consolatrix afflictorum, Auxilium Christianorum,
Ora pro nobis!'

And so on through all the exquisite changes of the hymn, until the time of
the music changed, and the priest intoned the closing line.

'Ora pro nobis, Sancta Dei Genetrix!'

and the voices in the gallery answered:

'Ut digni efficiamur promissionibus Christi.'
There was one voice which rose above all the others, a voice of marvellous
sweetness and power, which from the first moment had caused me a curious
thrill. And presently Lorimer bent down and whispered to me:
'So near,' he murmured, 'and yet so far away--so near, and yet
never quite close!'

But before he had spoken I had read in his rigid face, in his eyes fixed
with such a passion of regret on the screen, why we were there--whose
voice it was we had listened to.
I rose and went out of the church quietly and hastily; I felt that
to stay there one moment longer would be suffocation.... Poor woman!
so this is how she sought consolation, in religion! Well, there are
different ways for different persons--and for me--what is there
left for me? Oh, many things, no doubt, many things. Still, for
once and for the last time, let me set myself down as a dreary
fraud. I never forgot her, not for one hour or day, not even when
it seemed to me that I had forgotten her most, not even when I
married. No woman ever represented to me the same idea as Madame
de Savaresse. No woman's voice was ever sweet to me after hers, the
touch of no woman's hand ever made my heart beat one moment quicker
for pleasure or for pain, since I pressed hers for the last time
on that fateful evening twenty years ago.Stuart argued heartily. "So the storm will have blown
over by to-morrow. And I believe you will be able to punish the two
schemers who have tried to betray your daughter and disgrace my Barbara,
without having Harriet's name brought into this affair."

For the first time, Mr. Hamlin lifted his head and nodded briefly. "Yes,
I can attend to them," he declared in the quiet fashion that showed him
to be a man of power. "It is best, for the sake of the country, that the
scandal be nipped in the bud. I alone know what was in these state papers
that Mrs. Wilson and Peter Dillon were hired to steal. So I alone know to
whom they would be valuable. There would be an international difficulty
if I should expose the real promoter of the theft. Peter Dillon shall be
dismissed from his Embassy. Mrs. Wilson will find it wiser to leave
Washington, and never to return here again. I will spare the woman as
much as I can for the sake of her son, Elmer, who is a fine fellow. Ruth,
dear, do telephone to Harriet's friends. Your father is right. We must
find my daughter at once."

Miss Sallie, Mr. Stuart and Ruth started to leave the room. Bab rose to
follow them.

"Miss Thurston, don't go for a minute," Mr. Hamlin said. "I wish to beg
your pardon. Will you forgive a most unhappy man? Of course I see, now,
that I had no right to suspect you without giving you a chance to defend
yourself. I can only say that I was deceived, as well as Harriet. The
whole plot is plain to me now. Harriet was to be terrified into not
betraying her own part in the theft, so she would never dare reveal the
names of Mrs. Wilson or Peter Dillon. I, with my mind poisoned against
you, would have sought blindly to fasten the crime on you. I regard my
office as Assistant Secretary of State as a sacred trust. If the papers
entrusted to my keeping had been delivered into the hands of the enemies
of my country, through my own daughter's folly, I should never have
lifted my head again, I cannot say--I have no words to express--what I
owe to you and Ruth. But how do you think a newspaper man could have
unearthed this plot? It seems incredible, when you consider how
stealthily Peter Dillon and Mrs. Wilson have worked. A man--"

"I don't think a man did unearth it," Bab replied. Just then the bell
rang again.

The next moment the door opened, and the butler announced: "Miss Marjorie
Moore!" The newspaper girl gave Bab a friendly smile; then she turned
coldly to Mr. William Hamlin.

"Miss Moore!" Mr. Hamlin exclaimed in surprise and in anger. "I wish to
see a man from your newspaper. What I have to say cannot possibly
concern you."

"I think it does, Mr. Hamlin," Miss Moore repeated calmly. "One of the
editors from my paper has come here with me. He is waiting in the hall.
But it was I who discovered the theft of your state documents. I have
been expecting mischief for some time. I am sorry for you, of
course--very sorry, but I have all the facts of the case, and as no one
else knows of it, it will be a great scoop for me in the morning."

"Your newspaper will not publish the story at all, Miss Moore," Mr.
Hamlin rejoined, when he had recovered from his astonishment at Miss
Moore's appearance. "The stolen papers were not of the least value. Will
you explain to Miss Moore exactly what occurred, Miss Thurston?" Mr.
Hamlin concluded.

When Bab told the story of how she and Ruth had made their lightning
substitution of the papers, Marjorie Moore gave a gasp of surprise.

"Good for you, Miss Thurston!" she returned. "I knew you were clever, as
well as the right sort, the first time I saw you. So I had gotten hold of
the whole story of the theft except, the most important point--the
exchange of the papers. It spoils my story as sensational political news.
But," Miss Moore laughed, "it makes a perfectly great personal story,
because it has such a funny side to it: 'Foiled by the "Automobile
Girls"!' 'The Assistant Secretary of State's Daughter!'" Miss Moore
stopped, ashamed of her cruelty when she saw Mr. Hamlin's face. But he
did not speak.

It was Bab who exclaimed: "Oh, Miss Moore, you are not going to betray
Harriet, are you? Poor Harriet thought it was all a joke. She did not
know the papers were valuable. It would be too cruel to spread this story
abroad. It might ruin Harriet's reputation."

Marjorie Moore made no answer.

"You heard Miss Thurston," Mr. Hamlin interposed. "Surely you will grant
our request."

"Mr. Hamlin," Marjorie Moore protested, "I am dreadfully sorry for you.
I told you so, but I am going to have this story published in the
morning. It is too good to keep and I have worked dreadfully hard on it.
Indeed, I almost lost my life because of it. I knew it was Peter Dillon
who struck me down on the White House lawn the night of the reception.
But I said nothing because I knew that, if I made trouble, I would have
been put off the scent of the story somehow. I tried to see Miss
Thurston alone, that evening, to warn her that Mrs. Wilson and Peter
Dillon were going to try to fasten their crime on her. I am obliged to
be frank with you, Mr. Hamlin. I will stick to the facts as you have
told them to me, but a full account of the attempted theft will be
published in the morning's 'News.'"

"Call the man who is with you, Miss Moore; I prefer to talk with him,"
Mr. Hamlin commanded. "You do not seem to realize the gravity of what you
intend to do. It will be a mistake for your newspaper to make an enemy of
a man in my official position."

Mr. Hamlin talked for some time to one of the editors of the Washington
"News." He entreated, threatened and finally made an appeal to him to
save his daughter and himself by not making the story public.

"I am afraid we shall have to let the story go, Miss Moore," the editor
remarked regretfully. "It was a fine piece of news, but we don't wish to
make things too hard for Mr. By the Governor:

JAMES M. COX.

CHAS. H. GRAVES Secretary of State.

[Illustration: (signed) James M. Cox]

SECTION 358. The state commissioner of common schools shall issue each
year a manual for arbor day exercises. The manual shall contain matters
relating to forestry and birds, including a copy of such laws relating to
the protection of song and insectivorous birds as he deems proper.

He shall transmit copies of the manual to the superintendents of city,
village, special and township schools and to the clerks of boards of
education, who shall cause them to be distributed among the teachers
of the schools under their charge.

On arbor day, and other days when convenient, the teachers shall cause
such laws to be read to the scholars of their respective schools and
shall encourage them to aid in the protection of such birds.

SECTION 7688. Not later than April the governor of the state shall appoint
and set apart one day in the spring season of each year, as a day on which
those in charge of the public schools and institutions of learning under
state control, or state patronage, for at least two hours must
give information to the pupils and students concerning the value
and interest of forests, the duty of the public to protect the birds
thereof, and also for planting forest trees.

Such a day shall be known as Arbor Day.

SECTION 1409. No persons shall catch, kill, injure, pursue or have in his
possession either dead or alive, or purchase, expose for sale,
transport or ship to a port within or without the state a turtle
or mourning dove, sparrow, nuthatch, warbler, flicker, vireo, wren,
American robin, catbird, tanager, bobolink, blue jay, oriole,
grosbeck or redbird, creeper, redstart, waxwing, woodpecker, humming
bird, killdeer, swallow, blue bird, blackbird, meadow lark, bunting,
starling, redwing, purple martin, brown thresher, American goldfinch,
chewink or ground robin, pewee or phoebe bird, chickadee, fly
catcher, knat catcher, mouse hawk, whippoorwill, snow bird, titmouse,
gull, eagle, buzzard, or any wild bird other than a game bird.

No part of the plumage, skin or body of such bird shall be sold or had in
possession for sale.

SECTION 1410. No person shall disturb or destroy the eggs, nests or young
of a bird named in the preceding section; but nothing of the preceding
section shall prohibit the killing of a chicken hawk, blue hawk,
cooper hawk, sharp skinned hawk, crow, great horned owl, or English
sparrow, or the destroying of their nests, or prohibit the owner
or duly authorized agent of the premises from killing blackbirds
at any time, except on Sunday, when they are found to be a nuisance
or are injuring grain or other property.

INTRODUCTION.

This Arbor and Bird Day Annual has been compiled and published for the
benefit of the teachers of Ohio. It is our purpose to have this book
used from the time it is received until the close of the school
term.

We find that but few books written about birds and their habits
come into the hands of the boys and girls; therefore, we have
attempted to include as much additional information as possible
concerning the most common birds of Ohio.

You will find that the articles about birds are but a continuation
of bird study found in the 1912 Arbor and Bird Day Annual.

We are under obligations to "Nature and Life", a publication of the Audubon
Society, for their articles, for which credit is given after each selection.
Johnny Appleseed is a character with whom all the boys and girls should
become acquainted. C. L.

Martzolf's article about this peculiar man should be read carefully.
F. B. Pearson contributed a fine description and history of the "Logan
Elm". Charles DeGarmo of Cornell University generously contributed two
poems that have not appeared in print before this publication.

G. R. C.

[Illustration: "THE OLD BEECH TREE," OHIO UNIVERSITY CAMPUS, ATHENS, OHIO.]

THE CLASS TREE.

(TUNE: AMERICA.)

Grow thou and flourish well Ever the story tell, Of this glad day;
Long may thy branches raise To heaven our grateful praise Waft
them on sunlight rays To God away.

Stuart. "She has been headstrong and foolish. But we have done worse
things in our day, remember."

"I will remember," Mr. Hamlin answered drearily, as he shut himself up
in his room.

Mr. Hamlin would not come down to breakfast. There was still no news of
Harriet. While dear, comfortable Aunt Sallie and the "Automobile Girls"
were seated around the table, making a pretense of eating, there came a
ring at the front door bell.

Ruth jumped up and ran out into the hall. Then followed several moments
of awful suspense. Ruth came back slowly, not with Harriet, but with a
note in her hand. She opened it with shaking fingers, for she recognized
Harriet's handwriting in the address.

The note read: "Dearest Ruth, I shall never come home again. I have
disgraced my father and myself. I would not listen to you and Bab, and
now I know the worst. Mrs. Wilson and Peter Dillon were villains and I
was only a foolish dupe. I spent the night in a boarding house with an
old friend of my mother's." Ruth stopped reading. Her voice sank so low
it was almost impossible to hear her. She had not noticed that her uncle
was standing just outside the door, listening, with white lips.

"I don't know what else to do," Harriet's note continued, when Ruth had
strength to go on. "So early this morning I telegraphed to Charlie
Meyers. When you receive this note, I shall be married to him. Ask my
father to forgive me, for I shall never see him again. Your heart-broken
cousin, Harriet."

"Absurd child!" Miss Sallie ejaculated, trying to hide her tears. But Mr.
Stuart stepped to Mr. Hamlin's side as he entered the room, looking
conscience-stricken and miserable.

Poor Harriet was paying for her folly with a life-time of wretchedness.
She was to marry a man she did not love; and her friends were powerless
to save her.

Mollie slipped quietly away from the table. No one tried to stop her.
Every one thought Mollie was overcome, because she had been especially
devoted to Harriet.

"Won't you try to find Mr. Meyers, Uncle?" Ruth pleaded. "It may not be
too late to prevent Harriet's marriage. Oh, do try to find her. She does
not care for Charlie Meyers in the least. She is only marrying him
because she is so wretched she does not know what to do."

Mr. Stuart was already getting into his coat and hat. Mr. Hamlin was not
far behind him. The two men were just going out the front door, when a
cry from Mollie interrupted them. The three girls rushed into the hall,
not knowing what Mollie's cry meant. But when they saw the little golden
haired girl, who sympathized the most deeply with Harriet in her trouble,
because of her own recent acquaintance with debt, the "Automobile Girls"
knew at once that all was well!

"Oh, Mr. Hamlin! Oh, Mr. Stuart! Do wait until I get my breath," Mollie
begged. "Dear, darling Harriet is all right. She will come home if her
father will come for her. I telephoned to Mr. Meyers and he declares
Harriet is safe with his aunt. He says, of course, he is not such a cad
as to marry Harriet when she is so miserable and frightened. He went to
the boarding house for her, then took her to his aunt's home. Mr. Meyers
was on his way here to see Mr. Hamlin."

Two hours later, Harriet was at home again and in bed, suffering from
nervous shock. But her father's forgiveness, his sympathy, his
reassuring words, and above all, the thought that by the ruse of Bab, she
had been mercifully saved from the deep disgrace that had shadowed her
life, soon restored her to her normal spirits. There was a speedy
investigation by the State Department--the result of which was that Mrs.
Wilson disappeared from Washington society. Her son Elmer reported that
his mother had grown tired of Washington and was living in New England.
As for Peter Dillon, his connection with the Russian Embassy was severed
at once. No one knew where he went.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The President would like to see the 'Automobile Girls' at the White
House to-day at half past twelve o'clock," Mr. William Hamlin announced a
few mornings later, looking up from his paper to smile first at his
daughter and then at the group of happy faces about his breakfast table,
which included Miss Sallie Stuart and Mr. Robert Stuart.

Harriet was looking very pale. She had been ill for two days after her
unhappy experience.

"What on earth do you mean, Mr. Hamlin?" inquired Grace Carter anxiously,
turning to their host.

The other girls smiled, thinking Mr. Hamlin was joking, he had been in
such different spirits since Harriet's return home.

"I mean what I say," Mr. Hamlin returned gravely. "The President wishes
to see the 'Automobile Girls' in order to thank them for their service to
their country." Mr. Hamlin allowed an earnest note to creep into his
voice. "The story has not been made public. But I myself told the
President of my narrow escape from disgrace, and he desires personally to
thank the young girls who saved us. I told him that he might rely on your
respecting his invitation."

"Oh, but we can't go, Mr. Hamlin," Mollie expostulated. "Grace and I had
nothing to do with saving the papers. It was only Ruth and Bab!"

"It is most unusual to decline an invitation from the President, Mollie,"
Mr. Hamlin continued. "Only a death in the family is regarded as a
reasonable excuse. Now the President most distinctly stated that he
desired a visit from the 'Automobile Girls'!"

"United we stand, divided we fall!" Ruth announced. "Bab and I will not
stir a single step without Grace and Mollie."

"There is one other person who ought to be included in this visit to the
President," Harriet added, shyly.

"Whom do you mean, my child?" Mr. Hamlin queried.

Harriet hung her proud little head. "I mean Marjorie Moore, Father. I
think she did as much as any one by keeping the story out of the papers
when it would have meant so much for her to have published it."

"Good for Harriet!" Ruth murmured under her breath.

"I did not neglect to tell the President of Miss Moore's part in the
affair, Daughter," Mr. Hamlin rejoined. "But I am glad you spoke of it. I
shall certainly see that she is included in the invitation."

Promptly at twelve o'clock the "Automobile Girls" set out for the White
House in the care of their old and faithful friend, Mr. A. Bubble. On
the way there they picked up Marjorie Moore, who had now become their
staunch friend.

The girls were greatly excited over their second visit to the White
House. It was, of course, very unlike their first, since to-day they were
to be the special guests of the President. On the evening of the
Presidential reception they had been merely included among several
hundred callers.

Ruth sent in Mr. Hamlin's card with theirs, in order to explain whose
visitors they were. The five girls were immediately shown into a small
room, which the President used for seeing his friends when he desired a
greater privacy than was possible in the large state reception rooms.

The girls sat waiting the appearance of the President, each one a little
more nervous than the other.

"What shall we say, Bab?" Mollie whispered to her sister.

"Goodness knows, child!" Bab just had time to answer, when a servant
bowed ceremoniously. A man entered the room quickly and walked from one
girl to the other, shaking hands with each one in turn.

"I am very glad to meet you," he declared affably. "Mr. Still scolding,
this Xantippe of birds threw out the material he had brought, and, meekly
submitting, he accepted her choice of a new location.

We always have to reckon with the sparrows--"avian rats," as some one
has aptly called them.

We do our best in helping Jenny drive them away by emptying out the stuff
they bring in, by shooting them away, and even by use of the air gun.
When absent one day for several hours we found, upon our return, the
following things in the box: a rusty nail, an old safety pin, a
hairpin, an elastic fixture, besides the usual bits of grass, weeds,
sticks, roots, etc.

After emptying this out, it gave Mrs.

Wren her inning once more, and she improved the opportunity; for she
built an unusually fine nest, which is not altogether apparent in
this illustration.

The box containing the nest was placed upon a ledge of the porch and so
could be easily taken down for inspection.

The material first used in the nest was twigs found under a nearby plum
tree.

Then it was lined with grass, horse hair, a blue jay's feather, some hen's
feathers, and some cottony material like lint. Jenny finally completed
her boudoir by festooning a snake skin about it. When the nestlings
began to walk about over the nest, this skin broke up into bits; so does
not show in the picture.

This nest was begun May 4, and the first egg was laid May 12.

       One more egg was added each day until eight were counted.

They began to hatch the 30th, thus celebrating Memorial Day. Seven
eggs hatched and the little ones kept the old birds more than busy,
early and late, feeding them.

First the tiniest little spiders and bugs were brought. Then came
larger ones, and finally beetles, crickets, large spiders, etc.,
were dropped into the yawning mouths.

So fast they grew, one could almost see the progress from day to day.
They posed for this picture June 17, leaving the nest the 18th, and on
the 19th the parent birds began their second nest in another box on the
same porch.

The first egg was laid the 23rd, thus taking but four days in the
construction of this nest, while the first required eight.

As a matter of fact it was not so carefully made. This time only five
eggs were laid, and at the present moment Mr. Wren is singing
encouragement and appreciation to his brooding mate; and, although
the thermometer registers 98° in the shade, his notes joyously
ripple out loud and clear, not only to Jenny's delight, but to ours
as well.

A COMPARISON.

I'd ruther lay out here among the trees, With the singing birds and
the bumble bees, A-knowing that I can do as I please, Than to live
what folks call a life of ease-- Up thar in the city.

For I don't 'xactly understan' Where the comfort is for any man,
In walking hot bricks and using a fan, And enjoying himself as he
says he can-- Up thar in the city.

It's kinder lonesome, mebbe, you'll say, A-livin' out here day after
day, In this kinder easy careless way, But an hour out here's
better'n a day-- Up thar in the city.

As for that, just look at the flowers aroun', A-peepin' their heads
up all over the groun,' And the fruit a-bendin' the trees 'way down;
You don't find sech things as these in town-- Or, ruther, in the
city.

Stuart remonstrated,
looking first at Barbara, then at Mollie and Grace, and winking solemnly
at Miss Sallie.

"Don't tease the child, Robert," Miss Sallie remonstrated.

"Aren't you and Aunt Sallie going home with me, Father?" Ruth queried,
too much surprised for further questioning.

"No, Ruth," Mr. Stuart declared. "You seem to have concluded to return to
Chicago. But your Aunt Sallie and I are on our way to Kingsbridge, New
Jersey, to pay a visit to Mrs. Mollie Thurston at Laurel Cottage. Mrs.
Thurston wrote inviting us to visit her before we returned to the West.
But, of course, if you do not wish to go with us, Daughter--."

Mr. Stuart had no chance to speak again. For the four girls surrounded
him, plying him with questions, with exclamations. They were all laughing
and talking at once.

"It's too good to be true, Father!" cried Ruth.


CHAPTER XXIV

HOME AT LAUREL COTTAGE


Mrs. Thurston stood on the front porch of her little cottage, looking out
in the gathering dusk. Back of her the lights twinkled gayly. A big wood
fire crackled in the sitting-room and shone through the soft muslin
curtains. A small maid was busily setting the table for supper in the
dinning room, and there was a delicious smell of freshly baked rolls
coming through the kitchen door. On the table stood a great dish of
golden honey and a pitcher of rich milk. Mrs. Thurston had not forgotten,
in two years, the favorite supper of her friend, Robert Stuart.

It was a cold night, but she could not wait indoors. She had gathered up
a warm woolen shawl of a delicate lavender shade, and wrapped it about
her head and shoulders, looking not unlike the gracious spirit of an
Autumn twilight as she lingered to welcome the travelers home. She was
thinking of all that had happened since the day that Bab had stopped
Ruth's runaway horses. She was recalling how much Mr. Stuart had done for
her little girls in the past two years. "He could not have been kinder
to Mollie and Barbara, if they had been his own daughters," thought
pretty Mrs. Thurston, with a blush.

But did she not hear the ever-welcome sound of a friendly voice? Was not
Mr. Bubble calling to her out of the darkness? Surely enough his two
great shining eyes now appeared at the well-known turn in the road. A few
moments later Mrs. Thurston was being tempestuously embraced by the
"Automobile Girls."

If the question be of treaties signed, sealed, and ratified, the answer
must be 'Yes'.

On the subject of the night-work of boys and the hours of women and young
persons, proposals were actually considered and conventions drafted by
an official conference at Berne in 1913.

The draft conventions were far from admirable: their framers went
so far in the spirit of compromise to meet the objections of the
backward States that the provisions laid down, had they been
accepted without modification, would have tended to depress rather
than to raise the standard of international opinion on the questions
to be affected by them.

We need not, therefore, feel much regret that the war has swept them, with
so many other pre-war schemes, into the wastepaper-basket. The vast
question of minimum rates of wages and their regulation by the State
is obviously still too much in the experimental stage of its solution
(even in this country where experiments have been boldest) for it to be
possible to make it the subject of international agreement. As a subject
of international discussion it has had its place, and an increasingly
important place, for at least eight years past in the studies of
the sections and the discussions of the Association meeting.

Upon no question has public international opinion ripened more rapidly.
In 1906, at Geneva, where the conditions of home workers were first
under discussion, a few daring delegates met in corners and whispered
under their breath the words 'Wages board'.

By 1910, at Lugano, an English woman delegate was elected joint president
of the Association's Home Work Committee, 'as a recognition of
Great Britain's achievement in passing the first Trade Boards Act';
at Zurich, in 1912, a two-day conference on the legal minimum wage
preceded the meeting of the Association, and a whole sheaf of minimum
wage bills introduced by private members into the Chambers of
different countries was before the delegates, together with an
official measure of the French Government.

To watch this change of attitude was to see international thought
in the making.

To appreciate its full significance, it is necessary to bear in mind
the different aspects presented by the 'sweating' difficulty in
this country and in the great industrial States of the Continent.

The French or German social reformer sees it mainly, if no longer
exclusively, as a problem of home work.

"I am not tired, Mrs. Thurston, are you?" Mr. Stuart asked. "If you don't
mind, won't you sit and talk to me for a little while before this cozy
open fire? We never have a chance to say much to each other before our
talkative daughters. How charming the little cottage looks to-night! It
is like a second home."

Mrs. Thurston smiled happily. "It makes me very happy to have you and
Ruth feel so. I hope you will always feel at home here. I wish I could
do something in return for all the kindness you have shown to my two
little girls."

Mr. Stuart did not reply at once. He seemed to be thinking so deeply that
Mrs. Thurston did not like to go on talking.

"Mrs. Thurston," Mr. Stuart spoke slowly, "why would you not come to my
house in Chicago to make us a visit when I asked you, nearly a year ago?"

Mrs. Thurston hesitated. "I told you my reasons then, Mr. Stuart. It was
quite impossible. But it has been so long I have almost forgotten why I
had to refuse."

"It was after our trip in the private car with our friends, the fall
before, you remember, Mrs. Thurston. But I know why you would not come to
my home," Mr. Stuart answered, smiling. "You were willing to accept my
hospitality for your daughters, but you would not accept it for yourself.
Am I not right?"

"Yes," Mrs. Thurston faltered. "I thought it would not be best."

"I am sorry," Mr. Stuart said sadly. "Because I want to do a great deal
more than ask you to come to visit me in Chicago. I wish you to come to
live there as my wife."

Mrs. Thurston's reply was so low it could hardly be heard. But Mr. Stuart
evidently understood it and found it satisfactory.

A few moments later Mrs. Thurston murmured, "I don't believe that Ruth
and your sister Sallie will be pleased."

"Ruth will be the happiest girl in the world!" Mr. Stuart retorted. "Poor
child, she has longed for sisters all her life. Now she is going to have
the two she loves best in the world. As for Sallie--." Here Mr. Stuart
hesitated. He thought Miss Sallie did not dream of his affection for the
little widow, and he was not at all sure how she would receive the news.
"As for Sallie," he continued stoutly, "I am sure Sallie wishes my
happiness more than anything else and she will be glad when she hears
that I can find it only through you."

Mrs. Thurston shook her head. "I can only consent to our marriage," she
returned, "if my girls and yours are really happy in our choice and if
your sister is willing to give us her blessing."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Oh, Aunt Sallie, dear, please are you awake?" Ruth cried at half-past
seven the next morning, tapping gently on Miss Stuart's door.

Ruth had been awakened by her father at a little after six that morning
and carried off to his bedroom in her dressing-gown, to sit curled up on
her father's bed, while he made his confession to her.

Ruth had listened silently at first with her head turned away. Once her
father thought she was crying. But when she turned toward him her eyes
were shining with happy tears. Ruth never thought of being jealous, or
that her adored father would love her any less. She only thought, first,
of his happiness and next of her own.

Mr. Stuart would not let Ruth go until, with her arms about his neck and
her cheek pressed to his, she begged him to let her be the messenger to
Barbara, Mollie and Aunt Sallie.

The First Half Hour III. Their Place of Shelter IV. A Little Algebra V.
The Cold of Space VI. Question and Answer VII. A Moment of Intoxication
VIII. At Seventy-Eight Thousand Five Hundred and Fourteen Leagues
IX.

The Consequences of A Deviation X.

The Observers of the Moon XI. Fancy and Reality XII. Orographic Details
XIII. Lunar Landscapes XIV. The Night of Three Hundred and Fifty-Four
Hours and A Half XV. Hyperbola or Parabola XVI.

The Southern Hemisphere XVII. Tycho XVIII. Grave Questions XIX. A Struggle
Against the Impossible XX. The Soundings of the Susquehanna XXI.

J. T. Maston Recalled XXII. Recovered From the Sea XXIII.

The End

FROM THE EARTH TO THE MOON

CHAPTER I

THE GUN CLUB

During the War of the Rebellion, a new and influential club was
established in the city of Baltimore in the State of Maryland.
It is well known with what energy the taste for military matters became
developed among that nation of ship-owners, shopkeepers, and
mechanics.

Simple tradesmen jumped their counters to become extemporized captains,
colonels, and generals, without having ever passed the School of Instruction
at West Point; nevertheless; they quickly rivaled their compeers of the
old continent, and, like them, carried off victories by dint of
lavish expenditure in ammunition, money, and men.

But the point in which the Americans singularly distanced the Europeans
was in the science of gunnery. Not, indeed, that their weapons
retained a higher degree of perfection than theirs, but that they
exhibited unheard-of dimensions, and consequently attained hitherto
unheard-of ranges.

In point of grazing, plunging, oblique, or enfilading, or point-blank
firing, the English, French, and Prussians have nothing to learn; but
their cannon, howitzers, and mortars are mere pocket-pistols
compared with the formidable engines of the American artillery.

This fact need surprise no one. The Yankees, the first mechanicians in the
world, are engineers-- just as the Italians are musicians and the Germans
metaphysicians-- by right of birth.

Nothing is more natural, therefore, than to perceive them applying
their audacious ingenuity to the science of gunnery.
Witness the marvels of Parrott, Dahlgren, and Rodman.
The Armstrong, Palliser, and Beaulieu guns were compelled to bow
before their transatlantic rivals.Mrs. Thurston kissed Ruth shyly, but she made no mention of anything
unusual. And when Mr. Stuart came in to breakfast he looked as
embarrassed and uncomfortable as a boy. There was a constraint over the
little party at breakfast that had not been there the night before.

Unexpectedly the door opened. Into the room came Grace Carter with a big
bunch of white roses in her hand. "I just had to come early," she
declared simply. "I wanted to find out." Grace thrust the flowers upon
Mrs. Thurston.

"Come here to me, Grace," Miss Sallie commanded. "You are a girl after my
own heart. Robert, Mrs. Thurston, I congratulate you and I wish you joy
with my whole heart."

Barbara and Mollie gazed at each other in stupefied silence. What did
it all mean?

Mrs. Thurston blushed like a girl over her roses. "Miss Stuart, I
never dreamed you could have heard so soon. I have not yet told
Barbara and Mollie."

"Told us what?" Bab demanded in her emphatic fashion. Then Ruth's heart
was light again.

But Bab did not wait to be answered. She suddenly guessed the truth. Now
she knew why Ruth's manner had changed so quickly a short time before.
She ran round the table, upsetting her chair in her rush. And before she
said a word either to her mother or to Mr. Stuart, she flung her arms
about Ruth and whispered: "Our wish has come true, Ruth, darling! We are
sisters as well as best friends."

Then Bab congratulated her mother and Mr. Stuart in a much more
dignified fashion.

"When is it to be, Father?" Ruth queried.

Mr. Stuart looked at Mrs. Thurston. "In the spring," she faltered.

"Then we will all go away together and have a happy summer, somewhere,"
Mr. Stuart asserted, smiling on the faces of his dear ones.

"We shall do no such thing, Robert Stuart," Miss Sallie interposed
firmly. --_Selected._

[Illustration: This school building is located at Pickerington,
Fairfield County.

Violet township helped to build this building, and the town and
township have among the best of the centralized schools of the
state.]