
In more than a hundred years no nearer or better routes have been found;
and science now makes her improved roads exactly where the buffalo's
foot first marked the way and the hunter's foot afterwards followed him.
So all over Kentucky and the West; and so in the Rocky Mountains. The
famous South Pass was no scientific discovery. Some people think
Frémont discovered it. It had been discovered forty years before--long
before he was born. He only described it and confirmed what the hunters
and traders had reported and what they showed him. It was discovered, or
rather first seen by white people, in 1808, two years after the return
of Lewis and Clark, and by the first company of hunters and traders that
went out after their report laid open the prospect of the fur trade in
the Rocky Mountains.

"An enterprising Spaniard of St. Louis, Manuel Lisa, sent out the party;
an acquaintance and old friend of the Senator from Wisconsin who sits on
my left [General Henry Dodge] led the party--his name Andrew Henry. He
was the first man that saw that pass; and he found it in the prosecution
of his business, that of a hunter and trader, and by following the game
and the road which they had made. And that is the way all passes are
found. But these traders do not write books and make maps, but they
enable other people to do it."[257]

Benton errs in thinking that the hunter was the pioneer in Kentucky. As
I have shown, the trader opened the way. But Benton is at least valid
authority upon the Great West, and his fundamental thesis has much truth
in it. A continuously higher life flowed into the old channels, knitting
the United States together into a complex organism. It is a process not
limited to America. In every country the exploitation of the wild
beasts,[258] and of the raw products generally, causes the entry of the
disintegrating and transforming influences of a higher civilization.
"The history of commerce is the history of the intercommunication of
peoples."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 246: Notwithstanding Kulischer's assertion that there is no
room for this in primitive society. _Vide_ Der Handel auf den primitiven
Culturstufen, in _Zeitschrift für Völkerpsychologie und
Sprachwissenschaft_, X., No. 4, p. 378. Compare instances of
inter-tribal trade given _ante_, pp. 11, 26.]

[Footnote 247: On the "_metis_," _boís-brulés_, or half-breeds, consult
Smithsonian Reports, 1879, p. 309, and Robinson, Great Fur Land, ch.
iii.]

"It--it startled me somehow. I thought you must have cut yourself. I hope
it's not much?"

"Some scratch, I suppose," he said. "It's nothing."
The vicar's wife, still slightly discomposed, launched out into some
parochial matter she had wished to mention to him.[Footnote 250: Jefferson, Works, II., 60, 250, 370.]

[Footnote 251: Allen's Lewis and Clarke Expedition, p. ix (edition of
1814. The introduction is by Jefferson).]

[Footnote 252: Jefferson's messages of January 18, 1803, and February
19, 1806. See Amer. State Papers, Ind. Affs., I., 684.]

[Footnote 253: See Adams, Maryland's Influence upon Land Cessions to
U.S., J.H.U. Studies, 3d Series, No. I., pp. 80-82.]

[Footnote 254: _Ibid._ _Vide ante_, p. 41.]

[Footnote 255: Narr. and Crit. Hist. Amer., VIII., 10. Compare Adams, as
above. At Jefferson's desire, in January and February of 1788,
Washington wrote various letters inquiring as to the feasibility of a
canal between Lake Erie and the Ohio, "whereby the fur and peltry of the
upper country can be transported"; saying: "Could a channel once be
opened to convey the fur and peltry from the Lakes into the eastern
country, its advantages would be so obvious as to induce an opinion that
it would in a short time become the channel of conveyance for much the
greater part of the commodities brought from thence." Sparks,
Washington's Works, IX., 303, 327.]

