"Oh well," he reflected, "she is certainly well formed, you can't deny
her that."

About a year had now passed since the retired _privat-docent_
Giorgiy Sergeyevitch Trirodov, a doctor of chemistry, had settled in
the town of Skorodozh.[1] From the very first he had caused much talk
in the town, mostly unsympathetic. It was quite natural that the two
rose-yellow, black-haired girls in the water should also talk of him.
They splashed about gaily, and as they raised jewel-like spray with
their feet they kept up a conversation.

[Footnote 1: Also the scene of Sologub's "Little Demon."]

"How puzzling it all is!" said Elena, the younger sister. "No one
knows where his income comes from, what he does in his house, and why
he has this colony of children. There are all sorts of strange rumours
about him. It's certainly a mystery."

Elena's words reminded Elisaveta of an article she had read lately in
a philosophic periodical published at Moscow. Elisaveta had a good
memory. She recalled a phrase:

"In our world reason will never dominate, and the mysterious will
always maintain its place."

She tried to recall more, but suddenly realizing that it would not
interest Elena, she gave a sigh and grew silent. Elena gave her a
tender, appealing look and said:

"When it is so bright you want everything to be as clear as it is
around us now."

"Is everything really clear now?" exclaimed Elisaveta. "The sun blinds
your eyes, the water flashes and dazzles, and in this ragingly bright
world we do not even know whether there isn't some one a couple of
paces away peeping at us."

At this moment the sisters were standing breast-high in the water,
near the overgrown bank. The schoolboy who sat on his heels behind the
bush heard Elisaveta's words. He grew cold in his confusion, and began
to crawl on all-fours between the bushes, away from the river. He got
in among the rye, then perched himself on the rail-fence and pretended
to rest, as though he were not even aware of the closeness of the
river. But no one had noticed him, as if he were non-existent.

The schoolboy sat there a little while, then went home with a vague
feeling of disenchantment, injury, and irritation. There was something
especially humiliating to him in the thought that to the two girl
bathers he was merely a possibility speculated upon but actually
non-existent.

Everything in this world has an end. There was an end also to the
sisters' bathing. They made their way silently together out of the
pleasant, cool, deep water towards the dry ground, heaven's
terrestrial footstool, and out into the air, where they met the hot
kisses of the slowly, cumbrously rising Dragon. They stood a while on
the bank, yielding themselves to the Dragon's kisses, then entered the
protected bath-house where they had left their clothes.

Elisaveta's clothes were very simple. They consisted of a greenish
yellow, not over-long tunic-dress without sleeves, and a plain straw
hat. Elisaveta nearly always wore yellow dresses. She loved yellow,
she loved buttercups and gold, and though she sometimes said that she
wore yellow in order to soften her ruddy complexion, she really loved
it simply, sincerely, and for its own sake. Yellow delighted
Elisaveta. There was something remote and unpremeditated in this, as
if it were a thing remembered from another, previous life.

Elisaveta's heavy black braid of hair was coiled tightly and
attractively around her head, and as it was lifted quite high at the
back, her neck showed--sunburnt and gracefully erect. Elisaveta's face
had a keen, almost exaggerated, expression of the mastery of will and
intellect over the emotions. The long and peculiarly straight parting
of her lips was very exquisite. Her blue eyes were cheerful--even when
her lips did not smile. Their glance was thoughtful and gentle. The
bright ruddiness and strong tan of the face seemed strangely alien to
it.

While waiting for Elena to finish dressing Elisaveta walked slowly on
the sandy bank and looked into the monotonous distances. The fine warm
grains of sand gently warmed her bare feet, which had grown cold in
the water.

Elena dressed slowly. She enjoyed dressing; everything that she put on
seemed an adornment to her. She delighted in the rosy reflections of
her skin, in her pretty light dress of a pinkish white material, in
her broad sash of pink silk fastened behind with a buckle of
mother-of-pearl, in her straw hat trimmed with bright pink ribbons on
top and yellow-pink velvet on its underbrim.

At last Elena was dressed. The sisters climbed the sloping bank and
went where their curiosity drew them. They loved to take long walks.
They had already passed several times the house and grounds of Giorgiy
Trirodov, whom they had not yet seen once. To-day they wished to go
that way again and to try and see what was to be seen.

The sisters walked two versts through the wood. They spoke quietly of
various things, and felt a little agitated. Curiosity often agitates
people.

The sinuous road with two wagon-ruts revealed picturesque views at
every turn. The path finally chosen by the sisters led to a hollow.
Its sides, overgrown with bushes and weeds, looked wildly beautiful.
From its depth came the sweet, warm odour of clover, and down below
its white bosom grass was visible. A small narrow bridge, propped up
from below with thin slender stakes, hung over the hollow. On the
other side of the bridge a low hedge stretched right and left, and in
this hedge, quite facing the bridge, a small gate was visible.

The sisters crossed the bridge, holding on to its slender hand-rail of
birch. They tried the gate--it was closed. They looked at one another.
Elisaveta, growing red with vexation, said:

"We'll have to go back again."

"Every one says that you can't get into the place," said Elena, "that
you've got to get over the hedge, and that even that is impossible for
some reason or other. It's very strange. I wonder what they can be up
to?"

Suddenly there was a slight rustle in the bushes by the hedge. The
branches parted. A pale boy ran up to them. He looked quickly at the
sisters with his clear, intensely calm, almost dead eyes. There was
something strange in the shape of his pale lips, thought Elisaveta. A
motionless, sorrowful expression lurked in the corners of his mouth.
He opened the gate; he seemed to say something, but so quietly that
the sisters could not catch his words. Or was it the sound of the
light breeze in the wavering foliage?

The boy hid himself behind the bushes so quickly that it was hard to
believe that he had been there at all; the sisters had no time to be
astonished or to thank him. It was as if the gate had opened by
itself, or had been pushed open by one of the sisters by chance.

They stood there undecided. An incomprehensible unrest took possession
of them for an instant and as quickly went from them. Curiosity again
dominated them. The sisters entered.

"How did he open it?" asked Elena.

Elisaveta, without a word, went quickly forward. She was so elated at
getting in that she had almost forgotten the pale boy. Only somewhere,
within the domain of vague consciousness, there gleamed dimly a
strange white face.

The wood was quite like the one by which they had come to the gate,
quite as pensive and as tall and as isolated from the sky, and as
absorbed in its own mysteries. But here it seemed to have been
conquered by human activity. Not far away voices, cries, laughter
resounded. Here and there were evidences of left-off games. The narrow
footpaths often led to wider paths of sand. The sisters quickly
followed the winding path in the direction from which the children's
voices sounded loudest. Afterwards all this jumble of sound seemed to
collapse, and it renewed itself in loud, sweet singing.

At last there appeared before them a small glade--oval in shape. Tall
firs edged this open space as evenly as graceful columns in a
magnificent _salle_. The blue of the sky above it seemed
especially bright, pure and dominant. The glade was full of children
of various ages. They were sitting and reclining all around in ones,
twos, and threes. In the middle some thirty boys and girls were
singing and dancing; their dance followed strictly the rhythm of the
tune and interpreted the words of the song with beautiful fidelity.
They were directed by a tall, graceful girl who had a strong, sonorous
voice, braids of magnificent golden hair, and grey, cheerful eyes.

All of them, the children as well as their instructresses--of whom
three or four were to be seen--were dressed quite simply and alike.
Their simple, light attire seemed beautiful. It was pleasant to look
at them, perhaps because their dress revealed the active parts of
their body, the arms and the legs. Dress here was made to protect, and
not to conceal; to clothe, and not to muffle.

The blue and red of the hats and of the dresses gave emphasis to the
vivid tones of the faces and of the arms and legs. There was a spirit
of gaiety here, a sense of holiday splendour in these naturally
adorned bodies, boldly revealed under clear azure skies.

Some of the children from among those who did not sing approached the
sisters and looked at them in a friendly manner, smiling trustfully.

"You may sit down if you like," said a boy with very blue eyes; "here
is a bench."

"Thank you, my dear," said Elisaveta.

The sisters sat down. The children wished to talk to them. One little
girl said:

"I've just seen a little squirrel. It was sitting on a pine. Then I
gave a shout--you should have seen it run!"

The others also began to talk and to ask questions. The singers ended
their song and scattered in all directions to play. The golden-haired
instructress went up to the sisters and asked:

"Have you come from town? Are you pleased with what you have seen
here?"

"Yes, it's splendid here," said Elisaveta. "Our place adjoins this. We
are the Rameyevs. I am Elisaveta. And this is my sister Elena."

The golden-haired girl suddenly blushed as if she felt ashamed that
the wealthy young women were looking at her naked shoulders and at her
legs naked to the knee. But seeing that they too were barefoot and
wore short skirts, she quickly recovered and smiled at them.

"My name is Nadezhda Vestchezerova," she said.

She looked attentively at the sisters. Elisaveta thought that she had
heard the name somewhere in town--perhaps a tale in connexion with it,
she could not remember exactly what. For some reason she did not
mention this to Nadezhda. Perhaps it was a tragic history.

This fear of talking about the past occasionally came upon Elisaveta.
Who knows what sorrow is hid behind a bright smile, and from what
darkness has sprung the blossoming which gives sudden joy to a glance,
elusively beautiful and born of unhappy worldly experience?

"Did you find your way in easily?" asked the golden-haired Nadezhda
with a friendly but subtle smile. "It's usually not a simple matter,"
she explained.

Elisaveta replied:

"A white boy opened the gate for us. He ran off so quickly that we had
not even the time to thank him."

Nadezhda suddenly ceased smiling.

"Oh yes--he isn't one of us," she said falteringly. "They live over
there with Trirodov. There are several of them. Wouldn't you like to
have lunch with us?" she asked, cutting short her previous remarks.

Elisaveta suspected that Nadezhda wanted to change the subject.

"We live here all day long, we eat here, we learn here, and we play
here--do everything here," said Nadezhda. "People have built cities to
escape the wild beast, but they themselves have become like wild
beasts, like savages."

A bitter note crept into her voice--was it the echo of her past life
or was it a thing foreign to her and grafted upon her sensitive
nature? She continued:

"We have come from the town into the woods. From the wild beast, from
the savages of the town. The beast must be killed. The wolf and the
fox and the hawk--all those who prey upon others--they must be
killed."

Elisaveta asked:

"How is one to kill a beast who has grown iron and steel nails, and
who has built his lair in the town? It is he who does the killing, and
there's no end in sight to his ferocity."

Nadezhda knitted her eyebrows, pressed her hands, and stubbornly
repeated:

"We shall kill him, we shall kill him."


CHAPTER II


The sisters stayed to lunch.

They remained over an hour chattering cheerfully with the children and
their instructresses. The children were sweet and confiding. The
instructresses, no less simple and charming, seemed cheerful,
care-free, and restful. Yet they were always busy, and nothing escaped
them. Besides many of the children did certain things without being
urged, this being evidently a part of a system, of which the sisters
had as yet barely an inkling.

Instruction was mixed up with play. One of the instructresses invited
the sisters to listen to what she called her lesson. The sisters
listened with enjoyment to an interesting discourse concerning the
objects the children had observed that day in the wood. There were
other instructresses who had just returned from the depths of the
wood--some children were going into the wood, others were coming out,
quite different ones.

The instructress to whom the sisters were listening ended her
discourse and suddenly scampered off somewhere. Through the dark
foliage of the trees could be seen the glimmer of red caps and of
sunburnt arms and legs. The sisters were again left alone. No one paid
especial attention to them any longer; evidently there was no one they
either embarrassed or hindered.

"It's time to go," said Elena.

Elisaveta made a move.

"Yes, let's go," she agreed. "It's very interesting and delightful
here, but we can't stay for ever."

The departure of the sisters had been noticed. A few of the children
ran up to them. The children cried gaily:

"We will show you the way, or you'll get lost."

When the sisters paused at the gate, Elisaveta thought that some one
was looking at her, out of a hiding-place, with a gaze of
astonishment. In perplexity, strange and distressing, she looked
around her. Behind the hedge in the bushes a small boy and a small
girl were hiding. They were like the others she had seen here, except
that they were very white, as though the kisses of the stern Dragon
floating in the hot sky had left no traces upon their tender skin.
Both the little boy and the little girl were staring with a motionless
but attentive gaze. Their chaste look seemed to penetrate into the
very depth of one's soul; this rather disconcerted Elisaveta. She
whispered to Elena:

"Look, what strange beings!"

Elena looked in the direction of Elisaveta's glance and said
indifferently:

"Monsters!"

Elisaveta was astonished at her sister's observation--the faces of
these hiding children seemed to her like the faces of praying angels.

By this time the children who had escorted the sisters ran back,
jostling each other and laughing. Only one boy remained with them. He
opened the gate and waited for the sisters to go out so that he could
shut it again. Elisaveta quietly asked him:

"Who are these?"

With a light movement of her head she indicated the bushes, where the
boy and the girl were hiding. The cheerful urchin looked in the
direction of her glance, then at her, and said:

"There's no one there."

And actually no one was now visible in the bushes. Elisaveta
persisted:

"But I did see a boy and a girl there. Both were quite white, not at
all brown like the rest of you. They stood ever so quietly and
looked."

The cheery, dark-eyed lad looked attentively at Elisaveta, frowned
slightly, lowered his eyes, reflected, then again eyed the sisters
attentively and sadly, and said:

"In the main building, where Giorgiy Sergeyevitch lives, there are
more of these quiet children. They are never with us. They are quiet
ones. They do not play. They have been ill. It's likely they haven't
improved yet. I don't know. They are kept separately."

The boy said this slowly and thoughtfully, as if he were astonished
because there, in the house of the master, were other children, quiet
ones, who did not join in their play. Suddenly he shook his head
lustily, banishing, as it were, unaccustomed thoughts, then took off
his cap and exclaimed cheerily and with some tenderness:

"A happy journey, darlings! Follow this footpath."

He made an obeisance and ran off. The sisters were quite alone now.
They went on in the direction given them by the boy. A quiet vale
opened up before them, and in the distance a white wall was visible,
which concealed Trirodov's house. They continued their way towards the
house. In front of them, keeping close to the bushes, walked a boy in
a white dress; he appeared to be showing them the way.

It was very quiet. High above them, protecting himself from the human
eye by dark purple shields, the flaming Dragon rested. His look from
behind the deceptive, vacillant shields was hot and evil; he poured
out his dazzling light, tormented men with it, yet wished them to
rejoice in his presence and to compose hymns to him. He wished to
rule, and it seemed as though he were motionless, as though he would
never decide to retire. But his livid weariness already began to
incline him westwards. Still his passion grew, and his kisses were
scorching, and his infuriated gaze with its livid purple dimmed the
glances of the two girls.

The girls' glances were seeking--seeking Trirodov's house.

Trirodov's house stood about a verst and a half from the edge of the
town, not at the end where the dirty and smoky factory buildings
squatted, but quite at the other end, along the River Skorodyen, above
the town of Skorodozh. This house and the estate attached to it
occupied a considerable space, surrounded by a stone wall. One side of
the place faced the river, the other the town, the rest adjoined the
fields and woods. The house stood in the middle of an old garden. From
behind the tall white stone wall the tops of the trees were to be
seen, while between them, quite high, two turrets of the house, one
somewhat higher than the other, were visible. The sisters felt as if
some one in the high turret were looking down upon them.

There were ominous rumours concerning the house even in the days when
it belonged to the previous tenant Matov, a kinsman of the Rameyev
sisters. It was said that the house was inhabited by ghosts, and by
phantoms who had left their graves. There was a footpath close to the
house which led across the northern part of the estate, through a
wood, to the Krutitsk cemetery. In the town they called this the
footpath of Navii,[2] and they were afraid to walk upon it even by
day. Many legends grew up around it. The local _intelligentsia_
tried vainly to disprove them. The whole property was sometimes called
Navii's playground. There were some who said that they had seen with
their own eyes this enigmatic inscription on the gates: "Three went
in, two came out." This inscription was, of course, no longer there.
Now only lightly cut-out figures were to be seen, one under the other:
'3' on top, '2' lower, and '1' at the bottom.

[Footnote 2: Footpath of the dead.]

All the evil rumours and warnings did not prevent Giorgiy Sergeyevitch
Trirodov from buying the house. He made changes in it, and then
settled here after his comparatively brief educational career had been
rudely cut short.

It took a long time to rebuild and transform the house. The high walls
prevented any one from seeing what was being done there. This aroused
the curiosity of the townsfolk and caused all sorts of malicious
gossip. The working men did not belong to the place, but were brought
from a distance. Dark and short and rather gruff-looking, they did not
understand the local speech, and seldom showed themselves in the
streets.

"They are wicked and dark" was said about them in the town. "They
carry knives about with them, and dig underground passages in Navii's
playground. He himself is clean-shaven like a German, and he's
imported these foreign earth-diggers."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I like that red-haired instructress, Nadezhda Vestchezerova," said
Elena.

She looked searchingly at her sister.

"Yes, she's very sincere," answered Elisaveta. '"A fine girl."

"They are all charming," said Elena with greater assurance.

"Yes," observed Elisaveta, with indecision in her voice. "But there is
that other--the one that ran away from us--there's something I don't
like about her. Perhaps it's a slight veneer of hypocrisy."

"Why do you say so?" asked Elena.

"I simply feel it. She smiles too pleasantly, too lovingly. She seems
in every way phlegmatic, yet she tries to appear animated. Her words
come rather easily sometimes, and she exaggerates."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was quiet in the garden behind the stone wall. This was Kirsha's
free hour. But he could not play, though he tried to.

Little Kirsha, Trirodov's son, whose mother had died not long before,
was dark and thin. He had a very mobile face and restless dark eyes.
He was dressed like the boys in the wood. He was quite restless
to-day. He felt sad without knowing why. He felt as if some invisible
being were drawing him on, calling to him in an inaudible whisper,
demanding something--what? And who was it approaching their house?
Why? Friend or foe? It was a stranger--yet curiously intimate.

At that moment, when the sisters were taking leave of the children in
the wood, Kirsha felt especially perturbed. In the far corner of the
garden he saw a boy in white dress; he ran up to him. They spoke long
and quietly. Then Kirsha ran to his father.

Giorgiy Sergeyevitch Trirodov was all alone at home. He was lying on
the sofa, reading a book by Wilde.

Trirodov was forty years old. He was slender and erect. His
short-trimmed hair and clean-shaven face made him look very young.
Only on closer scrutiny it was possible to detect the many grey hairs,
the wrinkles on the forehead around the eyes. His face was pale. His
broad forehead seemed very large--it was partly due to a narrow chin,
lean cheeks, and baldness.

The room where Trirodov was reading--his study--was large, bright, and
simple, with a white, unpainted floor as smooth as a mirror. The walls
were lined with open bookcases. In the wall opposite the windows,
between the bookcases, a narrow space was left, large enough for a man
to stand in. It gave the impression of a door being there, hidden by
hangings. In the middle of the room stood a very large table, upon
which lay books, papers, and several strange objects--hexahedral
prisms of an unfamiliar substance, heavy and solid in appearance, dark
red in colour, with purple, blue, grey, and black spots, and with
veins running across it.

Kirsha knocked on the door and entered--quiet, small, troubled.
Trirodov looked at him anxiously. Kirsha said:

"There are two young women in the wood. Such an inquisitive pair. They
have been looking over our colony. Now they'd like to come here to
take a look round."

