Produced by David Widger


CELEBRATED CRIMES, COMPLETE

BY ALEXANDRE DUMAS, PERE

IN EIGHT VOLUMES


CONTENTS:

     THE BORGIAS
     THE CENCI
     MASSACRES OF THE SOUTH
     MARY STUART
     KARL-LUDWIG SAND
     URBAIN GRANDIER
     NISIDA
     DERUES
     LA CONSTANTIN
     JOAN OF NAPLES
     THE MAN IN THE IRON MASK (The Essay, not the Novel)
     MARTIN GUERRE
     ALI PACHA
     THE COUNTESS DE SAINT GERAN
     MURAT
     THE MARQUISE DE BRINVILLIERS
     VANINKA
     THE MARQUISE DE GANGES


NOTE:

Dumas's 'Celebrated Crimes' was not written for children.  The novelist
has spared no language--has minced no words--to describe the violent
scenes of a violent time.

In some instances facts appear distorted out of their true perspective,
and in others the author makes unwarranted charges.  It is not within our
province to edit the historical side of Dumas, any more than it would be
to correct the obvious errors in Dickens's Child's History of England.
The careful, mature reader, for whom the books are intended, will
recognize, and allow for, this fact.


INTRODUCTION

The contents of these volumes of 'Celebrated Crimes', as well as the
motives which led to their inception, are unique.  They are a series of
stories based upon historical records, from the pen of Alexandre Dumas,
pere, when he was not "the elder," nor yet the author of D'Artagnan or
Monte Cristo, but was a rising young dramatist and a lion in the literary
set and world of fashion.

Dumas, in fact, wrote his 'Crimes Celebres' just prior to launching upon
his wonderful series of historical novels, and they may therefore be
considered as source books, whence he was to draw so much of that
far-reaching and intimate knowledge of inner history which has
perennially astonished his readers.  The Crimes were published in Paris,
in 1839-40, in eight volumes, comprising eighteen titles--all of which
now appear in the present carefully translated text.  The success of the
original work was instantaneous.  Dumas laughingly said that he thought
he had exhausted the subject of famous crimes, until the work was off the
press, when he immediately became deluged with letters from every
province in France, supplying him with material upon other deeds of
violence!  The subjects which he has chosen, however, are of both
historic and dramatic importance, and they have the added value of giving
the modern reader a clear picture of the state of semi-lawlessness which
existed in Europe, during the middle ages.  "The Borgias, the Cenci,
Urbain Grandier, the Marchioness of Brinvilliers, the Marchioness of
Ganges, and the rest--what subjects for the pen of Dumas!" exclaims
Garnett.

Space does not permit us to consider in detail the material here
collected, although each title will be found to present points of special
interest.  The first volume comprises the annals of the Borgias and the
Cenci.  The name of the noted and notorious Florentine family has become
a synonym for intrigue and violence, and yet the Borgias have not been
without stanch defenders in history.

Another famous Italian story is that of the Cenci.  The beautiful
Beatrice Cenci--celebrated in the painting of Guido, the sixteenth
century romance of Guerrazi, and the poetic tragedy of Shelley, not to
mention numerous succeeding works inspired by her hapless fate--will
always remain a shadowy figure and one of infinite pathos.

The second volume chronicles the sanguinary deeds in the south of France,
carried on in the name of religion, but drenching in blood the fair
country round about Avignon, for a long period of years.

The third volume is devoted to the story of Mary Queen of Scots, another
woman who suffered a violent death, and around whose name an endless
controversy has waged.  Dumas goes carefully into the dubious episodes of
her stormy career, but does not allow these to blind his sympathy for her
fate.  Mary, it should be remembered, was closely allied to France by
education and marriage, and the French never forgave Elizabeth the part
she played in the tragedy.

The fourth volume comprises three widely dissimilar tales.  One of the
strangest stories is that of Urbain Grandier, the innocent victim of a
cunning and relentless religious plot.  His story was dramatised by
Dumas, in 1850.  A famous German crime is that of Karl-Ludwig Sand, whose
murder of Kotzebue, Councillor of the Russian Legation, caused an
international upheaval which was not to subside for many years.

An especially interesting volume is number six, containing, among other
material, the famous "Man in the Iron Mask."  This unsolved puzzle of
history was later incorporated by Dumas in one of the D'Artagnan Romances
a section of the Vicomte de Bragelonne, to which it gave its name.  But
in this later form, the true story of this singular man doomed to wear an
iron vizor over his features during his entire lifetime could only be
treated episodically.  While as a special subject in the Crimes, Dumas
indulges his curiosity, and that of his reader, to the full.  Hugo's
unfinished tragedy,'Les Jumeaux', is on the same subject; as also are
others by Fournier, in French, and Zschokke, in German.

Other stories can be given only passing mention.  The beautiful poisoner,
Marquise de Brinvilliers, must have suggested to Dumas his later portrait
of Miladi, in the Three Musketeers, the mast celebrated of his woman
characters.  The incredible cruelties of Ali Pacha, the Turkish despot,
should not be charged entirely to Dumas, as he is said to have been
largely aided in this by one of his "ghosts," Mallefille.

"Not a mere artist"--writes M. de Villemessant, founder of the
Figaro,--"he has nevertheless been able to seize on those dramatic
effects which have so much distinguished his theatrical career, and to
give those sharp and distinct reproductions of character which alone can
present to the reader the mind and spirit of an age.  Not a mere
historian, he has nevertheless carefully consulted the original sources
of information, has weighed testimonies, elicited theories, and .  .  .
has interpolated the poetry of history with its most thorough prose."


THE BORGIAS


PROLOGUE

On the 8th of April, 1492, in a bedroom of the Carneggi Palace, about
three miles from Florence, were three men grouped about a bed whereon a
fourth lay dying.

The first of these three men, sitting at the foot of the bed, and half
hidden, that he might conceal his tears, in the gold-brocaded curtains,
was Ermolao Barbaro, author of the treatise 'On Celibacy', and of
'Studies in Pliny': the year before, when he was at Rome in the capacity
of ambassador of the Florentine Republic, he had been appointed Patriarch
of Aquileia by Innocent VIII.

The second, who was kneeling and holding one hand of the dying man
between his own, was Angelo Poliziano, the Catullus of the fifteenth
century, a classic of the lighter sort, who in his Latin verses might
have been mistaken for a poet of the Augustan age.

The third, who was standing up and leaning against one of the twisted
columns of the bed-head, following with profound sadness the progress of
the malady which he read in the face of his departing friend, was the
famous Pico della Mirandola, who at the age of twenty could speak
twenty-two languages, and who had offered to reply in each of these
languages to any seven hundred questions that might be put to him by the
twenty most learned men in the whole world, if they could be assembled at
Florence.

