But we will not forget that this great outcome is precisely the plan of
God for every man's life, and that when man works he finds that there
are forces outside of him thoroughly cooperative with him.  He starts a
rock down the mountain side, but gravitation reaches out ready fingers
and hurls it a thousand times faster and faster.  He launches his ship
on the sea and the wind and steam carry it thousands of miles.  He
speaks his quiet breath into the ear of the phone and electricity
carries it in every tone and inflection of personal quality a thousand
miles.  He vows, and works for purity and greatness of personal
character, and a thousand gravitations of love, a thousand great winds
of Pentecost, a thousand vital principles on which all greatness hangs,
a thousand influences of other men, and especially a thousand personal
aids of a present God, cooperate with his plans and works.

Of course every man who believes in a new type so high that good birth,
wealth, culture, education, and broad opportunity cannot attain it
believes in the divine co-operation to that end.  It must be born of
the Spirit.  God sends forth his Spirit into our hearts crying, Abba,
Father!  It pleases the Father himself to reveal his Son in us.

Not only is this cooperation true in regard to the beginning of this
higher life, but especially so in regard to the development and
perfection of that life into the stature of perfect manhood in Christ
Jesus.  By continuous effort to lead into all truth, by intensity of
endeavor that can only be represented by groanings that cannot be
worded in human speech, the perfection of saints is sought.

And in the final glorification of those saints every man will say
nothing of his own efforts, but all the praise will be unto him who
hath redeemed us unto God, and washed us in his blood.

To what extent, then, may we expect God will lend his forces to work
out our plans?  First, in so far as those forces have to do with the
maturing and perfecting of our character they become his plans.  No
energy will be withheld.  All our plans should be such.  The end in
character may often be attained as well by failure of our plans as by
success.  God has to choose the poor in this world's things, rich in
faith, to do his great work.  And he has to make "the best laid schemes
o' mice and men gang aft a-gley" to get the desired outcome of
character.  He is then working with, not against, us.  He would rather
have any star for his crown of glory than tons of perishable gold.

But outside of our plans and work for ourselves what cooperation may we
expect in our plans and work for others?

Every preacher knows that for spiritual work in saving others the word
of the Lord is true, "Without me ye can do nothing."  There must be an
outpouring of the Spirit or there is no Pentecost.  Over against that
settled conviction is the thrice-blessed command and assurance of the
Master, "Go preach my Gospel; and lo, I am with you alway" (blessed
iteration), "unto the end of the world."  That has not yet come.

But there are other enterprises men must push--mines to be dug,
railroads to be surveyed and built, slaves to be emancipated, farms to
be cultivated, mischiefs framed by a law to be averted, charities to be
exercised, schools to be founded, and generally a living to be gotten.
To what extent may we expect divine aid?

First, all these things are his purposes and plans.  But since it is
necessary for our development that we do our level best, he will not do
what we can.  We can plant and water, but God only can give the
increase.  Even the fable maker says that a teamster, whose wagon was
stuck in the mud, seeing Jupiter Omnipotens riding by on the chariot of
the clouds, dropped on his knees and implored his help.  "Get up, O
lazy one!" said Jupiter; "clear away the mud, put your shoulder to the
wheel, and whip up your horses."  We may call on God to open the rock
in the dry and thirsty land where no water is, but not to lift our
teacups.  It is no use to ask God for a special shower when deep
plowing is all that is needed.  It is no use to ask God to build
churches, send missionaries, endow schools, and convert the world, till
we have done our best.

But when we have done our best what may we expect?  All things.  They
shall work together for good to those who love God enough to do their
best for him in any plane of work.  One could preach fifty sermons on
the great works done by men, obviously too great for man's
accomplishment.  Time would fail me to tell of Moses, Gideon, Paul,
Luther, Wesley, Wilberforce, William of Orange, Washington, John Brown,
Abe Lincoln, and thousands more of whom this world was not worthy, who,
undeniably by divine aid, wrought righteousness.  VESQUIER, is well ahead,
and DAUBINET follows closely at my heels. Thus we proceed, and if this
order is preserved throughout, I feel that the sensational romance
above mentioned will not be written, at least not on this occasion.
A sustainer is as necessary as a creator.
There are diversities of operations, but it is the same God who worketh
all in all.  The next great service to be done by human philosophy is
to bring back God in human thought into his own world.  Since these
things are so, what are the conditions under which we may work the
works of God by his power?

First, they must be his works, not ours as opposed to his, but ours as
included in his.  All our works may be wrought in God, if we do his
works, follow his plans, and are aided by his strength.

Second, they must be attempted with the right motive of glorifying God.
Christ is the pattern.  He came not to do his own will, but the will of
him who sent him.  And he did always the things that pleased him.  In
our fervid desires for the accomplishment of some great thing we should
be as willing it should be accomplished by another as by ourselves.
The personal pride is often a fly in the sweet-smelling savor.  God
would rather have a given work not done, or done by another, than to
have one of his dear ones puffed up with sinful pride.  Great Saul must
often be removed and the work be left undone, or be done by some humble
David.

  "Inaudible voices call us, and we go;
  Invisible hands restrain us, and we stay;
  Forces, unfelt by our dull senses, sway
  Our wavering wills, and hedge us in the way
  We call our own, because we do not know.

  "Are we, then, slaves of ignorant circumstance?
  Nay, God forbid!
  God holds the world, not blind, unreasoning chance!"

How shall we secure the cooperative power?  There is power of every
kind everywhere in plenty.  All the Niagaras and Mississippis have run
to waste since they began to thunder and flow.  Greater power is in the
wind everywhere.  One can rake up enough electricity to turn all the
wheels of a great city whenever he chooses to start his rake.  The sky
is full of Pentecosts.  Power enough, but how shall we belt on?  By
fasting, prayer, and by willing to do the will of God.  We have so much
haste that we do not tarry at Jerusalem for fullness of power.  Moses
was forty years in the wilderness: Daniel fasted and prayed for one and
twenty days.  We are told to pray without ceasing, and that there are
kinds of devils that go not out except at the command of those who fast
and pray.

  "More things are wrought by prayer than
    This world dreams of."

