Produced by David Reed


AN OLD-FASHIONED GIRL

By Louisa M. Alcott


Preface

AS a preface is the only place where an author can with propriety
explain a purpose or apologize for shortcomings, I venture to avail
myself of the privilege to make a statement for the benefit of my
readers.

As the first part of "An Old-Fashioned Girl" was written in 1869, the
demand for a sequel, in beseeching little letters that made refusal
impossible, rendered it necessary to carry my heroine boldly forward
some six or seven years into the future. The domestic nature of the
story makes this audacious proceeding possible; while the lively fancies
of my young readers will supply all deficiencies, and overlook all
discrepancies.

But Cornutus used his whole influence with the mother of Persius to
prevail upon her to destroy these compositions. As soon as his book of
Satires was published, all the world began to admire it, and were
eager to buy it up.

He died of a disease in the stomach, in the thirtieth year of his age
[962]. But no sooner had he left school and his masters, than he set
to work with great vehemence to compose satires, from having read
the tenth book of Lucilius; and made the beginning of that book his
model; presently launching his invectives all around with so little
scruple, that he did not spare cotemporary poets and orators, and
even lashed Nero himself, who was then the reigning prince.

The verse ran as follows:

Auriculas asini Mida rex habet; King Midas has an ass's ears;
but Cornutus altered it thus;
Auriculas asini quis non hahet?

Who has not an ass's ears?

in order that it might not be supposed that it was meant to apply
to Nero.

     THE LIFE OF HORACE.
     
     
     HORATIUS FLACCUS was a
     native of Venusium
     [963], his father
     having been, by his
     own account [964], a freedman
     and collector of
     taxes, but, as it is generally
     believed, a dealer in salted
     (541) provisions; for some
     one with whom Horace had a
     quarrel, jeered him, by saying;
     "How often have I seen your
     father wiping his nose with
     his fist?" In the battle of
     Philippi, he served as a military tribune
     [965], which post he filled at the instance of Marcus Brutus [966],
the general; and having obtained a pardon, on the overthrow of his
party, he purchased the office of scribe to a quaestor.

Afterwards insinuating himself first, into the good graces of
Mecaenas, and then of Augustus, he secured no small share in the
regard of both.

And first, how much Mecaenas loved him may be seen by the epigram
in which he says:
Ni te visceribus meis, Horati, Plus jam diligo, Titium sodalem,
Ginno tu videas strigosiorem. [967]
But it was more strongly exhibited by Augustus, in a short sentence
uttered in his last moments: "Be as mindful of Horatius Flaccus as
you are of me!"

Augustus offered to appoint him his secretary, signifying his wishes
to Mecaenas in a letter to the following effect: "Hitherto I have
been able to write my own epistles to friends; but now I am too
much occupied, and in an infirm state of health.

I wish, therefore, to deprive you of our Horace: let him leave,
therefore, your luxurious table and come to the palace, and he shall
assist me in writing my letters."

And upon his refusing to accept the office, he neither exhibited the
smallest displeasure, nor ceased to heap upon him tokens of his
regard.

Letters of his are extant, from which I will make some short extracts to
establish this: "Use your influence over me with the same freedom as
you would do if we were living together as friends.

In so doing you will be perfectly right, and guilty of no impropriety;
for I could wish that our intercourse should be on that footing,
if your health admitted of it."

And again: "How I hold you in memory you may learn (542) from our friend
Septimius [968], for I happened to mention you when he was present. And
if you are so proud as to scorn my friendship, that is no reason why
I should lightly esteem yours, in return." Besides this, among other
drolleries, he often called him, "his most immaculate penis," and
"his charming little man," and loaded him from time to time with
proofs of his munificence.

"You 'll find her easy enough; she 'll probably be standing round
looking for us. I dare say she 'll know you, though I 'm not there,
because I 've described you to her."

"Guess she won't, then;" and Tom gave a hasty smooth to his curly pate
and a glance at the mirror, feeling sure that his sister had n't done
him justice. Sisters never do, as "we fellows" know too well.

"Do go along, or you 'll be too late; and then, what will Polly think
of me?" cried Fanny, with the impatient poke which is peculiarly
aggravating to masculine dignity.

"She 'll think you cared more about your frizzles than your friends, and
she 'll be about right, too."

Feeling that he said rather a neat and cutting thing, Tom sauntered
leisurely away, perfectly conscious that it was late, but bent on not
being hurried while in sight, though he ran himself off his legs to make
up for it afterward.

"If I was the President, I 'd make a law to shut up all boys till they
were grown; for they certainly are the most provoking toads in the
world," said Fanny, as she watched the slouchy figure of her brother
strolling down the street. She might have changed her mind, however,
if she had followed him, for as soon as he turned the corner, his whole
aspect altered; his hands came out of his pockets, he stopped whistling,
buttoned his jacket, gave his cap a pull, and went off at a great pace.

The train was just in when he reached the station, panting like a
race-horse, and as red as a lobster with the wind and the run.

"Suppose she 'll wear a top-knot and a thingumbob, like every one else;
and however shall I know her? Too bad of Fan to make me come alone!"
thought Tom, as he stood watching the crowd stream through the depot,
and feeling rather daunted at the array of young ladies who passed. As
none of them seemed looking for any one, he did not accost them, but
eyed each new batch with the air of a martyr. "That 's her," he said
to himself, as he presently caught sight of a girl in gorgeous array,
standing with her hands folded, and a very small hat perched on the top
of a very large "chig-non," as Tom pronounced it. "I suppose I 've got
to speak to her, so here goes;" and, nerving himself to the task, Tom
slowly approached the damsel, who looked as if the wind had blown her
clothes into rags, such a flapping of sashes, scallops, ruffles, curls,
and feathers was there.

"I say, if you please, is your name Polly Milton?" meekly asked Tom,
pausing before the breezy stranger.

"No, it is n't," answered the young lady, with a cool stare that utterly
quenched him.

"Where in thunder is she?" growled Tom, walking off in high dudgeon. The
quick tap of feet behind him made him turn in time to see a fresh-faced
little girl running down the long station, and looking as if she rather
liked it. As she smiled, and waved her bag at him, he stopped and waited
for her, saying to himself, "Hullo! I wonder if that 's Polly?"

Up came the little girl, with her hand out, and a half-shy, half-merry
look in her blue eyes, as she said, inquiringly, "This is Tom, is n't
it?"

"Yes. How did you know?" and Tom got over the ordeal of hand-shaking
without thinking of it, he was so surprised.

"Oh, Fan told me you 'd got curly hair, and a funny nose, and kept
whistling, and wore a gray cap pulled over your eyes; so I knew you
directly." And Polly nodded at him in the most friendly manner, having
politely refrained from calling the hair "red," the nose "a pug," and
the cap "old," all of which facts Fanny had carefully impressed upon her
memory.

"Where are your trunks?" asked Tom, as he was reminded of his duty by
her handing him the bag, which he had not offered to take.

"Father told me not to wait for any one, else I 'd lose my chance of a
hack; so I gave my check to a man, and there he is with my trunk;" and
Polly walked off after her one modest piece of baggage, followed by Tom,
who felt a trifle depressed by his own remissness in polite attentions.
"She is n't a bit of a young lady, thank goodness! Fan did n't tell me
she was pretty. Don't look like city girls, nor act like 'em, neither,"
he thought, trudging in the rear, and eyeing with favor the brown curls
bobbing along in front.

As the carriage drove off, Polly gave a little bounce on the springy
seat, and laughed like a delighted child. "I do like to ride in these
nice hacks, and see all the fine things, and have a good time, don't
you?" she said, composing herself the next minute, as if it suddenly
occurred to her that she was going a-visiting.

"Not much," said Tom, not minding what he said, for the fact that he was
shut up with the strange girl suddenly oppressed his soul.

"How 's Fan? Why did n't she come, too?" asked Polly, trying to look
demure, while her eyes danced in spite of her.

"Afraid of spoiling her crinkles;" and Tom smiled, for this base
betrayal of confidence made him feel his own man again.

"You and I don't mind dampness. I 'm much obliged to you for coming to
take care of me."

It was kind of Polly to say that, and Tom felt it; for his red crop was
a tender point, and to be associated with Polly's pretty brown curls
seemed to lessen its coppery glow. Then he had n't done anything for her
but carry the bag a few steps; yet, she thanked him. He felt grateful,
and in a burst of confidence, offered a handful of peanuts, for his
pockets were always supplied with this agreeable delicacy, and he might
be traced anywhere by the trail of shells he left behind him.

As soon as he had done it, he remembered that Fanny considered them
vulgar, and felt that he had disgraced his family. So he stuck his
head out of the window, and kept it there so long, that Polly asked if
anything was the matter. "Pooh! who cares for a countrified little thing
like her," said Tom manfully to himself; and then the spirit of mischief
entered in and took possession of him.

"He 's pretty drunk; but I guess he can hold his horses," replied this
evil-minded boy, with an air of calm resignation.

"Is the man tipsy? Oh, dear! let 's get out! Are the horses bad? It 's
very steep here; do you think it 's safe?" cried poor Polly, making a
cocked hat of her little beaver, by thrusting it out of the half-open
window on her side.

"There 's plenty of folks to pick us up if anything happens; but perhaps
it would be safer if I got out and sat with the man;" and Tom quite
beamed with the brilliancy of this sudden mode of relief.

"Oh, do, if you ain't afraid! Mother would be so anxious if anything
should happen to me, so far away!" cried Polly, much distressed.

"Don't you be worried. I 'll manage the old chap, and the horses too;"
and opening the door, Tom vanished aloft, leaving poor victimized Polly
to quake inside, while he placidly revelled in freedom and peanuts
outside, with the staid old driver.

Fanny came flying down to meet her "darling Polly," as Tom presented
her, with the graceful remark, "I 've got her!" and the air of a
dauntless hunter, producing the trophies of his skill. Polly was
instantly whisked up stairs; and having danced a double-shuffle on the
door-mat, Tom retired to the dining-room, to restore exhausted nature
with half a dozen cookies.

"Ain't you tired to death? Don't you want to lie down?" said Fanny,
sitting on the side of the bed in Polly's room, and chattering hard,
while she examined everything her friend had on.

"Not a bit. I had a nice time coming, and no trouble, except the tipsy
coachman; but Tom got out and kept him in order, so I was n't much
frightened," answered innocent Polly, taking off her rough-and-ready
coat, and the plain hat without a bit of a feather.

"Fiddlestick! he was n't tipsy; and Tom only did it to get out of the
way. Why, the ant and the sluggard," said Langrish, getting a little
mixed in his proverbs, "weren't in it with you.

So I yelled 'Sarah!' with all my might. You should have seen the chaps
sit up when they heard your name.

Then old Tempest, with his mouth shut and looking middling pasty
about the face, broke through the scrimmage and sent us right and
left, and made a regular header into the place.

Sharpe yelled to him to come back; some tried to yell, but couldn't for
lumps in their throats, and we all closed up. I can tell you it was
a hot place. The smoke rolled out and got in our eyes, and the wood
and stuff cracked and blazed, and sounded like the waves at Dover. We
never expected to see him or you come back.
The stairs were going to bits as fast as they could, and great bits of
burning wood were tumbling off the roof.

Then the smoke shifted somehow, and we heard Sharpe yell, 'Heavens!'
Then there was a dull row like something tumbling, and Pridgin
and Sharpe dashed in.

We got kept back, or we'd have given you a leg-up too. Then you strolled
in, fast asleep still--I never saw such a snoozer!--on Tempest's
arm. He was pretty well done, and couldn't have pulled it off if
Sharpe and Pridgin hadn't hiked him out. Even then he couldn't stand.
So I hope you're jolly well pleased with yourself. I hope it will be
a lesson to you, young Sarah, to keep one eye open while you're asleep.
We were jolly glad you got canted out, though you _are_ a bit of
a mule.

But it would have been rough on you to miss the Sports. They say Tempest's
burned his hand pretty bad, but he means to have a shot at the Mile. I
say, Redwood was asking after you. Jarman's jolly sick that it was his
fault about the fire. He's been quite civil, and been to ask about you
every day.

Look sharp and get right, I say, or it'll rot the Sports if you don't.
Hullo, there comes your _mater_. Ta, ta, old hoss.

It's rather ripping you scraped through all right."
He was a good sort, Langrish.

He did not tell me, what I heard later, that at the time of the fire he
had to be held back by main force from following Tempest in quest
of me; and that he had rather a "cold in his head" when he saw me
hauled out safe and sound.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR.

"SMALL AND EARLY" IN THE SANATORIUM.

My recovery was far too rapid to please me.

I never had such a jolly time in all my life. My mother was in and
out all day; there were no lessons. I was allowed to summon any chum
I liked to my bedside.

I was receiving messages daily from masters and seniors, and, best of
all, I had nothing the matter with me except, a strong disinclination
to exert myself, and an occasional headache or dizziness when I sat
up.

I had come up to Low Heath that term with the honest determination to
"lie low." I little expected, however, that I should find myself quite
so literally adhering to my resolution.

My one trouble was that all this time I had not seen Tempest. I did
not like to send for him, in case he should not appreciate the
compliment.
And he, as I guessed, would not care to come of his own accord for the
uncomfortable ceremony of receiving my thanks. My mother told me he had
often asked about me; but when she asked him to come and see me he had
replied,--"I'll see him as soon as he gets about again." When she
inquired about his hand he had replied airily that it was all right, and
he was only keeping it in the sling to get it right for the Sports.

"But," said my mother, "I wish he would let the doctor see it, or give
up running till it is well."
"But," said I, "he's a chance of winning off Redwood." This argument,
which in ninety-nine cases out of one hundred in Low Heath would have
been absolutely conclusive, failed to impress my mother in the least.
She attached no importance to "winning off Redwood" compared with a boy's
health, and obdurately protested that if she were Tempest's mother
she would not allow him to think of running.

It was only my agitated appeals to her not to interpose that prevented
her speaking to Dr England about the matter, and so knocking the
race on the head altogether.

I took it as a compliment to myself that the Sports had been put
off a fortnight in consequence of the fire.

That warm event had so upset everything and monopolised so much
attention that Low Heath would not have come up to scratch at all
on the day originally fixed.

And whereas the new date permitted of my being present to assist--though,
alas I not to compete--in the day's proceedings, I felt specially
satisfied with the alteration.

I had naturally heard a good deal of Philosophical gossip during
my convalescence.

On my last evening in hospital especially, there was quite a symposium.

My mother, in an innocent moment, had remarked, "I should so like
to have one or two of your friends to tea, sonny, before I go home.

The doctor says it will not do you any harm--and we can have them in
here, as you are the only invalid in hospital."

"That'll be ten, with you and me," said I.

"Do you want quite so many?" asked she, beginning to get a little
concerned.

"Must have the lot or none," said I decisively. "We can cut out Rackstraw
and Walsh, if you like--they're paupers."
"Oh, Tommy!" said the dear, tender-hearted one, "if they are not as well
off as--"

"Oh, that's not it. They can shell out as well as anybody; only they got
on our club for nothing on condition of towing the boats, cleaning up,
and that sort of thing."
"At any rate, let us have them," said my mother.

"All serene. Will you write the invitations? I say, mother, do you mind
writing as well as you can?

Our chaps are rather particular, you know, and I wouldn't like them to
snuff up at you."
My poor dear mother began, I think, to repent of her hospitable offer,
but decided to go through with it now.

So she got eight nice little sheets of scented invitation note, with
envelopes to match, and wrote,--
"Mrs Jones requests the pleasure of Mr Alfred James Remington Trimble's
company to tea in the Sanatorium parlour this evening at 6 p.m.;" and
so on, in each case.

My suggestion to add "R.S.V.P." and "Evening dress _de rigueur_"
she thought it best to decline.

But her kind leniency was thrown away, for within half an hour eight notes
dropped in upon us, couched in the politest phraseology.

Here was Langrish's, for instance:--
"Everard Langrish, Esquire, begs to thank Mrs Jones for asking him to
tea at six sharp, when he will be very pleased to fall in with her
wishes and be of service in any other way her better feelings may
dictate."

Langrish told me afterwards he cribbed this last sentence out of a story
he had read in a weekly newspaper. He rather fancied it was "on the spot."

Trimble's was less romantic:--
"Dear Madam,--I accept with thanks. Sarah gets rather outside sometimes,
but we do what we can for him. Till then,--
"I am yours affectionately,--

"A.J.R. Trimble."
Warminster's was, no doubt, meant to be impressive:--"The President of the
Philosophical Conversation Club presents his compliments to Mrs Jones,
and desires to inform her of his intention to wait upon her at the
hour named in her letter.

He trusts that Mrs Jones is in good health, and that her ailing child
will be spared to her a little longer.
Having several matters to attend to, the President of the Philosophical
Conversation Club must now abruptly terminate, namely, Percy Algernon
Warminster."

The ending seemed to me decidedly weak compared with the rest. I will
only give one more--that of Coxhead:--
"Dear Mrs Jones, I'll come to tea; At six o'clock you shall me see.

I'm sorry Sarah's been laid up And drinks his physic from a cup.
Unless unto the contrary I hear.
My Eton suit I think I'll wear.

And now 'farewell,' as great John Knox said.
Yours truly, Samuel Wilberforce Coxhead."

This effusion struck me as rather like cheek; but my mother seemed to
like it.

As evening approached I began to grow very nervous, and have to confess
that my mother was the cause of my concern. I was so afraid she was
not properly impressed with the gravity of the occasion--that perhaps
she would not be dressed at her best--or that the tea might not be up
to the mark--or that for any cause the fellows should consider
they had been "done." I'm sure I wearied the life out of her by my inquiries
as to the nature of the jam, as to whether the cake would go round
twice, whether any of the teacups were cracked, whether the nine
chairs ranged round the little room were all sound on their legs,
who would open the door to let them in, whether my mother would
mind not proposing juvenile games like table-turning, or clumps,
and whether when the time came for them to go she would mind not
looking at her watch or yawning, for fear they should think it a
hint.

All which points the dear soul faithfully promised should be borne in
mind and attended to, with a little quiet banter at my expense, which
helped to remind me that, after all, one's mother may be trusted
not to disgrace a fellow, if left to herself.

In due time she presented herself in her Sunday dress, looking very
pretty and smart--quite creditable, in fact.

The tea also, as it appeared laid out on the sideboard--I had urged,
by the way, that it should be served in party style, and not
partaken of round a table-- looked a well-found meal for the most
exacting of Philosophers.

I myself reposed in state in bed, arrayed in my Eton jacket and best
collar and choker.

The fire in the hearth was both cheerful and adequate, and the
knowledge that the Sanatorium maid was downstairs in her cap and clean
apron, to show the young gentlemen up, finally relieved my anxiety.

In due time there was a ring, and a sound of the funereal tramp of
eighteen feet on the staircase, and I knew that Mrs Jones's party
had begun.

They all trooped in together, looking very grave and shy, and
spick and span in their full-dress, and evidently on their good behaviour.
My mother shook hands with each in unexceptionable style, repeating
his name as I announced it from the bed, and expressing her pleasure
at making his acquaintance.

The sight of me propped up on my pillows, somewhat pale still, and as
shy as themselves, seemed to impress them a good deal, and added to the
funereal character of the entertainment.

A long pause ensued, broken only by the entrance of the maid with the
teapot, and Langrish's remark to Trimble that it was a fine day.

Then my mother had the wit to observe that she hoped it would be
equally fine on the day of the Sports, and she was so sorry she would
miss them, as she understood Mr Sharpe's house was likely to win a good
many of the events, and of course her sympathies were entirely that
way.

This went down beautifully, and drew from Coxhead the remark,--
"It's a pity Sar--I mean Jones iv.--is out of it. He might have got the
Quarter-mile."

"Are the names down yet?" I asked.

"Yes. We stuck them down to-day," said Langrish.

"Any one else in for the Senior Mile?"
"No; only Tempest and Redwood."
Another pause--everybody evidently meditating what my mother would like
to hear next.

My mother meanwhile moved to the sideboard and began to pour out
tea.

"Do you take cream and sugar?" she said, with a pleasant smile, to Langrish.
How relieved I was she did not call him "Everard" or "dear!"
"Yes, please--can I pass round?"

he replied.

It was admirable. I had been in terror lest he would have collared
the first cup and stuck to it.

"Thank you, if you will, please. I see they are beginning to get
your old house ready for rebuilding."
"It won't be ready this term, though," said Warminster; "it will take--a
slice of cake, thanks."
"No sugar for me, thanks," said Coxhead. "I wonder if Jarman will
have to pay for it?"
"Does your _mater_ take cream and sugar?" said Purkis to me, in an
aside.

"I shouldn't think so," said Langrish, "because he didn't do it on
purpose, you know."

"Thank you very much. Do you mind putting it down there? And won't
you sit down?"

said my mother, setting the example.

"I expect he'd better give up smoking, as he's always setting things
on fire," ventured I. "Mother knows about the guy last term, don't
you, mother?"

"Yes, indeed," said she, with a laugh, which won over the Philosophers in
a body. "That was a lucky escape for everybody. I was horrified."
"Well, old Sar--I mean Jones iv.--"
"I think he understands his nickname better than his real name," said my
clever parent.

"Old Sarah," said Langrish, getting rapidly at his ease, "let us
in for that.

You see (cake up, please), it was this way--"
And he launched forth into an account of that famous adventure,
into which the company one by one cut, at my expense, of course,
and highly to the diversion of my mother.

Meanwhile the teapot was kept busy, and the jam went its rounds--some
of it on to Coxhead's shirt-front--and by the end of it all the
Philosophers found themselves comfortably at home.

"I say," said I, when a break came, "how's the club getting on?
Anything fresh?"
Langrish glanced round at my mother.

"I've got the minute-book," he said, "would she--"
"Oh, do!" said she. "Is it an account of your meetings? I would like
to hear it immensely. Debating societies are such capital things,
I think."

"It's a bit down on Sarah, though," said the secretary, dubiously.

"Why, I wasn't there," said I.

"Weren't you? that's all."
"Let's hear it," said my mother, "I dare say he deserves it."
I forgave the dear traitress for giving me away like this, for I felt
sure the minutes would save our evening.

"You see," said Trimble, "we try to keep it fair, so it's down on
some of the others too.

But Sarah gets it a little the hottest."

"I'm used to getting things hot by now," said I; "forge ahead, and
sit where I can shy the pillow at you."

Whereupon Langrish moved his chair to a conspicuous place, and read,--

"'A meeting of the Ph.C.C. was held in dormitory on February 1, at 9
p.m.'"
"Why, that's when the fire was," said Trimble.

"Shut--I mean what's that got to do with it?" retorted the secretary.

"Well?" said my mother, taking a stitch or two at her needlework.

"'Owing to the side put on by the ex-president, who was lately,
kicked out for being a howling cad, and because he was down in form
order--'" 
"What a cram!"

I interposed; "I was on the second desk, and should have had you down
weeks ago if I hadn't been laid up."
"Ha, ha, I like that--you!

Did your _mater_ ever hear about _corpore_ being the ablative masculine,
eh?"
"No, I never heard about that," said my mother.

"All right--Sarah will tell you--where was I, oh--down in form order,
though he's not quite such a crock as Coxhead, who is champion dunce
in Low Heath--"
"Me?" exclaimed Coxhead, warm with tea and indignation.

"There you are," said Langrish, "anybody but a champion dunce would
have said 'I.'

You ask Sarah's _mater_ if they wouldn't."
"Well, _you_, if you like," said Coxhead; "what about it--"
"Look here, how can I read the minutes when--here we are--'crock
as Coxhead, who is champion dunce in Low Heath.'"

"What happened then?" said my mother, looking a little mixed.

"'He was shunted to an outside berth, and was out of it.'"
"I rather think I was in it," said I; "never mind."

"Oh, if you think so, all right. The minutes say you were out of
it.
'He'd not begun to snore many minutes with deafening effect, when, as might
be expected, Jarman set fire to the show to stop the noise.'"
"Do you think that's why he did it, really?"

asked Warminster.

"Look here, young Warminster. I don't _think_, I--"
"Pity you don't now and then," remarked the newly-elected president.

Langrish looked hard at his colleague, and then glanced at my mother, whose
face was bent over her work. Whereupon the secretary threw the minute-book
at the president's head, and observed,--
"Look out, Warminster; hand up that book, can't you--it's not yours."

My mother looked up, and Warminster meekly surrendered the book.

"'--Stop the noise.

The club then adjourned, all except Sarah, who hung on, contrary to the
rules, and is hereby fined 2 shillings 6 pence.'"
"Oh, I say," protested I, "that's rather rough, isn't it?"

"'But,'" proceeded Langrish, "'owing to his mother coming up to buy him
off, he is hereby let off with a fie-- I mean a warning.'"
"Thank you so much," said my mother, gratefully.

"'When we thought he was pretty well warmed up, we sent Tempest in
to fish him out, which he accordingly did, and is hereby elected
honorary porter to the club, and is backed to win the Mile.'"

"That's the least he deserves, surely," said my mother, with
feeling.

"'Sarah, owing to this unprincipled conduct, has been suspended
for a month, and the club hereby hopes some day not far off to see him
sus--' no, that's wrong--I mean--"
"Hung," suggested Trimble, in an audible whisper.

"Order--turn him out for saying hung, instead of hanged," said the
president.

"Shut up, can't you?" said the secretary, "can't you let me finish the
sentence? '--See him sus--susceptible of better emotions.'"
"Hear, hear," said the club, breathing again to see the corner turned.

"I hope that's not all," said my mother.

"That's as far as we've got; but we'll let him down easy in the next,"
said Langrish.

"The next will have the account of the Sports, I suppose," said my
mother.

"If our men win," said Warminster. "We're bound to win the High Jump if
Langrish keeps on his form; he did 4 feet 1 and a half inches this
afternoon."

"You needn't talk--you're all right for the 100 Yards," said the modest
Langrish; "there's no one in, except young Brown of the day cads, who
can touch you; and he's sure to go a mucker on the day."
"Don't be too sure of that," said I.

"Dicky Brown doesn't go muckers if he can help it."

"There you are--backing the town cads now. I move, and Mrs Jones seconds,
that Sarah be, and is hereby, kic--I mean sat upon by the club."

"Oh, don't, please," said my mother, "the bed is not strong enough."
"All right--it's lucky for Sarah. If you were half a chap you'd see we
didn't lose the Quarter-mile.

Rackstraw will have a look in at it, but it'll puzzle him to beat Flitwick.
Walsh is going to cut out for him.

So we may just do it; but it'll be a go--eh, paupers?"
Rackstraw and Walsh both protested there would be no difficulty about
it if only the track was in good order, and their wind held out, and
Flitwick muddled his start, and finished a yard or two behind. We
were all prepared to stake the glory of Sharpe's on these trifling
conditions.
Presently the preparation bell began to toll, and the party broke
up with a cordiality and cheerfulness which contrasted strangely
with the solemnity with which it had begun. My mother was politely
requested to become an honorary member of the club, and as politely
consented, expressing a hope that she might meet with its honourable
members many times again.
When they had gone she told me how much she had enjoyed the evening,
and how she liked every one of them, and hoped they wouldn't think
her rude to have laughed now and then, but really, she said, not
being used to it, she could not help it.
Next day she left, and, dismally enough, I made the first use of
my liberty to accompany her in the fly to the station. She talked
to me, as only she could, about the future, and the spirit in which
she thought I would take up once more the work of the term and the
thankfulness which she the widow, and I the orphan, could not help
feeling to the Heavenly Father, who had saved us both from such
peril and sorrow in the past. She urged me to show my gratitude for
my escape, by seeking to follow more closely in the footsteps of
that Saviour to whom she had so often taught me to look for help
and guidance, and at the same time she urged me to pray for the
guidance of the Holy Spirit. Her goodness only made my sorrow at
parting the greater; and more than any time since I had entered Low
Heath, the pangs of home-sickness fell upon me as I saw her into
her carriage.
Just before the train started I felt my heart beat suddenly, and
the blood rush to my cheeks, as I saw a figure, with one hand in a
sling, running up the platform, looking into one carriage after
another.

"Mother, here's Tempest!"
Next moment he saw us, and ran up.
"I heard you were going by this train," said he, "and I thought I
would like to say good-bye."
"Good-bye, my dear boy, and God bless you once more!"
"The youngster's all right again, I see," said he, putting his hand
on my arm. "I'll see he takes care of himself--good-bye."
And the train steamed off, leaving us two on the platform.
"I hope your hand's not awfully bad," said I, breaking a silence
of nearly three months in the only way which occurred for the
moment.
"Rather not. We'd better cab it back--you're not up to walking yet."
"Thanks awfully, Tempest, for saving--"
"Look here, don't let's get on to that," said he.
"I say," said I, "I was afraid you believed what Crofter said, and
thought--"
"You were an ass, Tommy--you always were--I ought to have remembered
it.
Of course I never believed a word Crofter said--I saw his game. But
I was idiot enough to get riled at you for giving yourself away to
him.
I'm sorry. Now let's forget it. After all, it was the best thing
for me that all that row about my bills came out when it did. You
did me a better turn than you meant to do. Just like you--if you
try to do things the right way, it's all up with everybody. But if
you do them your own way, they manage to come round somehow."
"But Crofter's done you out of the captaincy."
"So much the better--I didn't deserve it. I'll get it back some day
perhaps, and work it better.The young ladies gabbled over the
lesson, wrote an exercise, and read a little French history. But it did
not seem to make much impression upon them, though Monsieur was very
ready to explain; and Polly quite blushed for her friend, when, on
being asked what famous Frenchman fought in our Revolution, she answered
Lamartine, instead of Lafayette.

The hour was soon over; and when Fan had taken a music lesson in another
room, while Polly looked on, it was time for recess. The younger girls
walked up and down the court, arm in arm, eating bread an butter; others
stayed in the school-room to read and gossip; but Belle, Trix, and
Fanny went to lunch at a fashionable ice-cream saloon near by, and Polly
meekly followed, not daring to hint at the ginger-bread grandma had put
in her pocket for luncheon. So the honest, brown cookies crumbled away
in obscurity, while Polly tried to satisfy her hearty appetite on one
ice and three macaroons.

The girls seemed in great spirits, particularly after they were joined
by a short gentleman with such a young face that Polly would have called
him a boy, if he had not worn a tall beaver. Escorted by this impressive
youth, Fanny left her unfortunate friends to return to school, and went
to walk, as she called a slow promenade down the most crowded
streets. Polly discreetly fell behind, and amused herself looking
into shop-windows, till Fanny, mindful of her manners, even at such an
interesting time, took her into a picture gallery, and bade her enjoy
the works of art while they rested. Obedient Polly went through the room
several times, apparently examining the pictures with the interest of a
connoisseur, and trying not to hear the mild prattle of the pair on the
round seat. But she could n't help wondering what Fan found so absorbing
in an account of a recent German, and why she need promise so solemnly
not to forget the concert that afternoon.

When Fanny rose at last, Polly's tired face reproached her; and taking
a hasty leave of the small gentleman, she turned homeward, saying,
confidentially, as she put one hand in Polly's muff, "Now, my dear, you
must n't say a word about Frank Moore, or papa will take my head off. I
don't care a bit for him, and he likes Trix; only they have quarrelled,
and he wants to make her mad by flirting a little with me. I scolded him
well, and he promised to make up with her. We all go to the afternoon
concerts, and have a gay time, and Belle and Trix are to be there
to-day; so just keep quiet, and everything will be all right."

"I 'm afraid it won't," began Polly, who, not being used to secrets,
found it very hard to keep even a small one.

"Don't worry, child. It 's none of our business; so we can go and enjoy
the music, and if other people flirt, it won't be our fault," said
Fanny, impatiently.

"Of course not; but, then, if your father don't like you to do so, ought
you to go?"

"I tell mamma, and she don't care. Papa is fussy, and grandma makes a
stir about every blessed thing I do. You will hold your tongue, won't
you?"

"Yes; I truly will; I never tell tales." And Polly kept her word,
feeling sure Fan did n't mean to deceive her father, since she told her
mother everything.

"Who are you going with?" asked Mrs. Shaw, when Fanny mentioned that it
was concert-day, just before three o'clock.

"Only Polly; she likes music, and it was so stormy I could n't go last
week, you know," answered Fan; adding, as they left the house again, "If
any one meets us on the way, I can't help it, can I?"

"You can tell them not to, can't you?"

"That 's rude. Dear me! here 's Belle's brother Gus he always goes. Is
my hair all right, and my hat?"

Before Polly could answer, Mr. Gus joined them as a matter of course,
and Polly soon found herself trotting on behind, feeling that things
were not "all right," though she did n't know how to mend them. Being
fond of music, she ignorantly supposed that every one else went for that
alone, and was much disturbed by the whispering that went on among the
young people round her. Belle and Trix were there in full dress; and, in
the pauses between different pieces, Messrs. Frank and Gus, with several
other "splendid fellows," regaled the young ladies with college gossip,
and bits of news full of interest, to judge from the close attention
paid to their eloquent remarks. Polly regarded these noble beings with
awe, and they recognized her existence with the condescension of their
sex; but they evidently considered her only "a quiet little thing," and
finding her not up to society talk, blandly ignored the pretty child,
and devoted themselves to the young ladies. Fortunately for Polly, she
forgot all about them in her enjoyment of the fine music, which she felt
rather than understood, and sat listening with such a happy face, that
several true music-lovers watched her smilingly, for her heart gave a
blithe welcome to the melody which put the little instrument in tune.
It was dusk when they went out, and Polly was much relieved to find the
carriage waiting for them, because playing third fiddle was not to her
taste, and she had had enough of it for one day.

"I 'm glad those men are gone; they did worry me so talking, when I
wanted to hear," said Polly, as they rolled away.

"Which did you like best?" asked Fanny, with a languid air of
superiority.

"The plain one, who did n't say much; he picked up my muff when it
tumbled down, and took care of me in the crowd; the others did n't mind
anything about me."

"They thought you were a little girl, I suppose."

"My mother says a real gentleman is as polite to a little girl as to a
woman; so I like Mr. Sydney best, because he was kind to me."

"What a sharp child you are, Polly. I should n't have thought you 'd
mind things like that," said Fanny, beginning to understand that there
may be a good deal of womanliness even in a little girl.

"I 'm used to good manners, though I do live in the country," replied
Polly, rather warmly, for she did n't like to be patronized even by her
friends.

"Grandma says your mother is a perfect lady, and you are just like her;
so don't get in a passion with those poor fellows, and I 'll see that
they behave better next time. Tom has no manners at all, and you don't
complain of him," added Fan, with a laugh.

"I don't care if he has n't; he 's a boy, and acts like one, and I can
get on with him a great deal better than I can with those men."

Fanny was just going to take Polly to task for saying "those men"
in such a disrespectful tone, when both were startled by a smothered
"Cock-a-doodle-doo!" from under the opposite seat.

"It 's Tom!" cried Fanny; and with the words out tumbled that
incorrigible boy, red in the face, and breathless with suppressed
laughter. Seating himself, he surveyed the girls as if well satisfied
with the success of his prank, and waiting to be congratulated upon it.
"Did you hear what we were saying?" demanded Fanny, uneasily.

"Oh, did n't I, every word?" And Tom exulted over them visibly.

"Did you ever see such a provoking toad, Polly? Now, I suppose you 'll
go and tell papa a great story."

"P'r'aps I shall, and p'r'aps I shan't. How Polly did hop when I crowed!
I heard her squeal, and saw her cuddle up her feet."

"And you heard us praise your manners, did n't you?" asked Polly, slyly.

"Yes, and you liked 'em; so I won't tell on you," said Tom, with a
re-assuring nod.

"There 's nothing to tell."

"Ain't there, though? What do you suppose the governor will say to you
girls going on so with those dandies? I saw you."

"What has the Governor of Massachusetts to do with us?" asked Polly,
trying to look as if she meant what she said.

"Pooh! you know who I mean; so you need n't try to catch me up, as
grandma does."

"Tom, I 'll make a bargain with you," cried Fanny, eagerly. "It was
n't my fault that Gus and Frank were there, and I could n't help their
speaking to me. I do as well as I can, and papa need n't be angry; for I
behave ever so much better than some of the girls. Don't I, Polly?"

"Bargain?" observed Tom, with an eye to business.

"If you won't go and make a fuss, telling what you 'd no right to hear
it was so mean to hide and listen; I should think you 'd be ashamed
of it! I 'll help you tease for your velocipede, and won't say a word
against it, when mamma and granny beg papa not to let you have it."

"Will you?" and Tom paused to consider the offer in all its bearings.

"Yes, and Polly will help; won't you?"

"I 'd rather not have anything to do with it; but I 'll be quiet, and
not do any harm."

"Why won't you?" asked Tom, curiously.

"Because it seems like deceiving."

"Well, papa need n't be so fussy," said Fan, petulantly.

"After hearing about that Carrie, and the rest, I don't wonder he is
fussy. Why don't you tell right out, and not do it any more, if he don't
want you to?" said Polly, persuasively.

"Do you go and tell your father and mother everything right out?"

"Yes, I do; and it saves ever so much trouble."

"Ain't you afraid of them?"

"Of course I 'm not. It 's hard to tell sometimes; but it 's so
comfortable when it 's over."

"Let 's!" was Tom's brief advice.

"Mercy me! what a fuss about nothing!" said Fanny, ready to cry with
vexation.

"T is n't nothing. You know you are forbidden to go gallivanting round
with those chaps, and that 's the reason you 're in a pucker now. I
won't make any bargain, and I will tell," returned Tom, seized with a
sudden fit of moral firmness.

"Will you if I promise never, never to do so any more?" asked Fanny,
meekly; for when Thomas took matters into his own hands, his sister
usually submitted in spite of herself.

"I 'll think about it; and if you behave, maybe I won't do it at all. I
can watch you better than papa can; so, if you try it again, it 's
all up with you, miss," said Tom, finding it impossible to resist the
pleasure of tyrannizing a little when he got the chance.

"She won't; don't plague her any more, and she will be good to you when
you get into scrapes," answered Polly, with her arm round Fan.

"I never do; and if I did, I should n't ask a girl to help me out."

"Why not? I 'd ask you in a minute, if I was in trouble," said Polly, in
her confiding way.

"Would you? Well, I 'd put you through, as sure as my name 's Tom Shaw.
Now, then, don't slip, Polly," and Mr. Thomas helped them out with
unusual politeness, for that friendly little speech gratified him. He
felt that one person appreciated him; and it had a good effect upon
manners and temper made rough and belligerent by constant snubbing and
opposition.

After tea that evening, Fanny proposed that Polly should show her how
to make molasses candy, as it was cook's holiday, and the coast would
be clear. Hoping to propitiate her tormentor, Fan invited Tom to join in
the revel, and Polly begged that Maud might sit up and see the fun;
so all four descended to the big kitchen, armed with aprons, hammers,
spoons, and pans, and Polly assumed command of the forces. Tom was set
to cracking nuts, and Maud to picking out the meats, for the candy was
to be "tip-top." Fan waited on Polly cook, who hovered over the kettle
of boiling molasses till her face was the color of a peony. "Now, put
in the nuts," she said at last; and Tom emptied his plate into the
foamy syrup, while the others watched with deep interest the mysterious
concoction of this well-beloved sweetmeat. "I pour it into the buttered
pan, you see, and it cools, and then we can eat it," explained Polly,
suiting the action to the word.

"Why, it 's all full of shells!" exclaimed Maud, peering into the pan.

"Oh, thunder! I must have put 'em in by mistake, and ate up the meats
without thinking," said Tom, trying to conceal his naughty satisfaction,
as the girls hung over the pan with faces full of disappointment and
despair.

"You did it on purpose, you horrid boy! I 'll never let you have
anything to do with my fun again!" cried Fan, in a passion, trying to
catch and shake him, while he dodged and chuckled in high glee.

Maud began to wail over her lost delight, and Polly gravely poked at the
mess, which was quite spoilt. But her attention was speedily diverted
by the squabble going on in the corner; for Fanny, forgetful of her
young-ladyism and her sixteen years, had boxed Tom's ears, and Tom,
resenting the insult, had forcibly seated her in the coal-hod, where he
held her with one hand while he returned the compliment with the
other. Both were very angry, and kept twitting one another with every
aggravation they could invent, as they scolded and scuffled, presenting
a most unlovely spectacle.

Polly was not a model girl by any means, and had her little pets and
tempers like the rest of us; but she did n't fight, scream, and squabble
with her brothers and sisters in this disgraceful way, and was much
surprised to see her elegant friend in such a passion. "Oh, don't!
Please, don't! You 'll hurt her, Tom! Let him go, Fanny! It 's no matter
about the candy; we can make some more!" cried Polly, trying to part
them, and looking so distressed, that they stopped ashamed, and in a
minute sorry that she should see such a display of temper.

"I ain't going to be hustled round; so you 'd better let me alone, Fan,"
said Tom, drawing off with a threatening wag of the head, adding, in
a different tone, "I only put the shells in for fun, Polly. You cook
another kettleful, and I 'll pick you some meats all fair. Will you?"

"It 's pretty hot work, and it 's a pity to waste things; but I 'll try
again, if you want me to," said Polly, with a patient sigh, for her arms
were tired and her face uncomfortably hot.

"We don't want you; get away!" said Maud, shaking a sticky spoon at him.

"Keep quiet, cry-baby. I 'm going to stay and help; may n't I, Polly?"

"Bears like sweet things, so you want some candy, I guess. Where is
the molasses? We 've used up all there was in the jug," said Polly,
good-naturedly, beginning again.

"Down cellar; I 'll get it;" and taking the lamp and jug, Tom departed,
bent on doing his duty now like a saint.

The moment his light vanished, Fanny bolted the door, saying,
spitefully, "Now, we are safe from any more tricks. Let him thump and
call, it only serves him right; and when the candy is done, we 'll let
the rascal out."

"How can we make it without molasses?" asked Polly, thinking that would
settle the matter.

"There 's plenty in the store-room. No; you shan't let him up till I 'm
ready. He 's got to learn that I 'm not to be shaken by a little chit
like him. Make your candy, and let him alone, or I 'll go and tell papa,
and then Tom will get a lecture."

Polly thought it was n't fair; but Maud clamored for her candy, and
finding she could do nothing to appease Fan, Polly devoted her mind to
her cookery till the nuts were safely in, and a nice panful set in the
yard to cool. A few bangs at the locked door, a few threats of vengeance
from the prisoner, such as setting the house on fire, drinking up the
wine, and mashing the jelly-pots, and then all was so quiet that the
girls forgot him in the exciting crisis of their work.

"He can't possibly get out anywhere, and as soon we 've cut up the
candy, we 'll unbolt the door and run. Come and get a nice dish to put
it in," said Fan, when Polly proposed to go halves with Tom, lest he
should come bursting in somehow, and seize the whole.

When they came down with the dish in which to set forth their treat,
and opened the back-door to find it, imagine their dismay on discovering
that it was gone, pan, candy, and all, utterly and mysteriously gone!

A general lament arose, when a careful rummage left no hopes; for
the fates had evidently decreed at candy was not to prosper on this
unpropitious night.

"The hot pan has melted and sunk in the snow perhaps," said Fanny,
digging into the drift where it was left.

"Those old cats have got it, I guess," suggested Maud, too much
overwhelmed by this second blow to howl as usual.

"The gate is n't locked, and some beggar has stolen it. I hope it will
do him good," added Polly, turning from her exploring expedition.

"If Tom could get out, I should think he 'd carried it off; but not
being a rat, he can't go through the bits of windows; so it was n't
him," said Fanny, disconsolately, for she began to think this double
loss a punishment for letting angry passions rise, "Let 's open the door
and tell him about it," proposed Polly.

"He 'll crow over us. No; we 'll open it and go to bed, and he can come
out when he likes. Provoking boy! if he had n't plagued us so, we should
have had a nice time."

Unbolting the cellar door, the girls announced to the invisible captive
that they were through, and then departed much depressed. Half-way up
the second flight, they all stopped as suddenly as if they had seen
a ghost; for looking over the banisters was Tom's face, crocky but
triumphant, and in either hand a junk of candy, which he waved above
them as he vanished, with the tantalizing remark, "Don't you wish you
had some?"

"How in the world did he get out?" cried Fanny, steadying herself after
a start that nearly sent all three tumbling down stairs.

"Coal-hole!" answered a spectral voice from the gloom above.

"Good gracious! He must have poked up the cover, climbed into the
street, stole the candy, and sneaked in at the shed-window while we were
looking for it."

"Cats got it, did n't they?" jeered the voice in a tone that made Polly
sit down and laugh till she could n't laugh any longer.

"Just give Maud a bit, she 's so disappointed. Fan and I are sick of it,
and so will you be, if you eat it all," called Polly, when she got her
breath.

"Go to bed, Maudie, and look under your pillow when you get there," was
the oracular reply that came down to them, as Tom's door closed after a
jubilant solo on the tin pan.

The girls went to bed tired out; and Maud slumbered placidly, hugging
the sticky bundle, found where molasses candy is not often discovered.
Polly was very tired, and soon fell asleep; but Fanny, who slept with
her, lay awake longer than usual, thinking about her troubles, for her
head ached, and the dissatisfaction that follows anger would not let her
rest with the tranquillity that made the rosy face in the little round
nightcap such a pleasant sight to see as it lay beside her. The gas was
turned down, but Fanny saw a figure in a gray wrapper creep by her door,
and presently return, pausing to look in. "Who is it?" she cried, so
loud that Polly woke.

"Only me, dear," answered grandma's mild voice. "Poor Tom has got a
dreadful toothache, and I came down to find some creosote for him. He
told me not to tell you; but I can't find the bottle, and don't want to
disturb mamma."

"It 's in my closet. Old Tom will pay for his trick this time," said
Fanny, in a satisfied tone.

"I thought he 'd get enough of our candy," laughed Polly; and then they
fell asleep, leaving Tom to the delights of toothache and the tender
mercies of kind old grandma.


CHAPTER III. POLLY'S TROUBLES


POLLY soon found that she was in a new world, a world where the manners
and customs were so different from the simple ways at home, that she
felt like a stranger in a strange land, and often wished that she had
not come. In the first place, she had nothing to do but lounge and
gossip, read novels, parade the streets, and dress; and before a week
was gone, she was as heartily sick of all this, as a healthy person
would be who attempted to live on confectionery. Fanny liked it, because
she was used to it, and had never known anything better; but Polly
had, and often felt like a little wood-bird shut up in a gilded cage.
Nevertheless, she was much impressed by the luxuries all about her,
enjoyed them, wished she owned them, and wondered why the Shaws were not
a happier family. She was not wise enough to know where the trouble lay;
she did not attempt to say which of the two lives was the right one; she
only knew which she liked best, and supposed it was merely another of
her "old-fashioned" ways.

Fanny's friends did not interest her much; she was rather afraid of
them, they seemed so much older and wiser than herself, even those
younger in years. They talked about things of which she knew nothing and
when Fanny tried to explain, she did n't find them interesting; indeed,
some of them rather shocked and puzzled her; so the girls let her alone,
being civil when they met, but evidently feeling that she was too "odd"
to belong to their set. Then she turned to Maud for companionship, for
her own little sister was excellent company, and Polly loved her dearly.
But Miss Maud was much absorbed in her own affairs, for she belonged
to a "set" also; and these mites of five and six had their "musicals,"
their parties, receptions, and promenades, as well as their elders; and,
the chief idea of their little lives seemed to be to ape the fashionable
follies they should have been too innocent to understand. Maud had her
tiny card-case, and paid calls, "like mamma and Fan"; her box of dainty
gloves, her jewel-drawer, her crimping-pins, as fine and fanciful a
wardrobe as a Paris doll, and a French maid to dress her. Polly could
n't get on with her at first, for Maud did n't seem like a child, and
often corrected Polly in her conversation and manners, though little
mademoiselle's own were anything but perfect. Now and then, when Maud
felt poorly, or had a "fwactious" turn, for she had "nerves" as well as
mamma, she would go to Polly to "be amoosed," for her gentle ways and
kind forbearance soothed the little fine lady better than anything else.
Polly enjoyed these times, and told stories, played games, or went
out walking, just as Maud liked, slowly and surely winning the child's
heart, and relieving the whole house of the young tyrant who ruled it.

Tom soon got over staring at Polly, and at first did not take much
notice of her, for, in his opinion, "girls did n't amount to much,
anyway"; and, considering, the style of girl he knew most about, Polly
quite agreed with him. He occasionally refreshed himself by teasing her,
to see how she 'd stand it, and caused Polly much anguish of spirit, for
she never knew where he would take her next. He bounced out at her from
behind doors, booed at her in dark entries, clutched her feet as she
went up stairs, startled her by shrill whistles right in her ear, or
sudden tweaks of the hair as he passed her in the street; and as sure as
there was company to dinner, he fixed his round eyes on her, and never
took them off till she was reduced to a piteous state of confusion and
distress. She used to beg him not to plague her; but he said he did
it for her good; she was too shy, and needed toughening like the other
girls. In vain she protested that she did n't want to be like the other
girls in that respect; he only laughed in her face, stuck his red hair
straight up all over his head, and glared at her, till she fled in
dismay.

Yet Polly rather liked Tom, for she soon saw that he was neglected,
hustled out of the way, and left to get on pretty much by himself. She
often wondered why his mother did n't pet him as she did the girls;
why his father ordered him about as if he was a born rebel, and took so
little interest in his only son. Fanny considered him a bear, and was
ashamed of him; but never tried to polish him up a bit; and Maud and
he lived together like a cat and dog who did not belong to a "happy
family." Grandma was the only one who stood by poor old Tom; and Polly
more than once discovered him doing something kind for Madam, and
seeming very much ashamed when it was found out. He was n't respectful
at all; he called her "the old lady," and told her he "would n't be
fussed over"; but when anything was the matter, he always went to "the
old lady," and was very grateful for the "fussing." Polly liked him for
this, and often wanted to speak of it; but she had a feeling that it
would n't do, for in praising their affection, she was reproaching
others with neglect; so she held her tongue, and thought about it all
the more. Grandma was rather neglected, too, and perhaps that is
the reason why Tom and she were such good friends. She was even more
old-fashioned than Polly; but people did n't seem to mind it so much in
her, as her day was supposed to be over, and nothing was expected of her
but to keep out of everybody's way, and to be handsomely dressed when
she appeared "before people." Grandma led a quiet, solitary life in her
own rooms, full of old furniture, pictures, books, and relics of a past
for which no one cared but herself. Her son went up every evening for a
little call, was very kind to her, and saw that she wanted nothing money
could buy; but he was a busy man, so intent on getting rich that he
had no time to enjoy what he already possessed. Madam never complained,
interfered, or suggested; but there was a sad sort of quietude about
her, a wistful look in her faded eyes, as if she wanted something which
money could not buy, and when children were near, she hovered about
them, evidently longing to cuddle and caress them as only grandmothers
can. Polly felt this; and as she missed the home-petting, gladly showed
that she liked to see the quiet old face brighten, as she entered the
solitary room, where few children came, except the phantoms of little
sons and daughters, who, to the motherly heart that loved them, never
faded or grew up. Polly wished the children would be kinder to grandma;
but it was not for her to tell them so, although it troubled her a good
deal, and she could only try to make up for it by being as dutiful and
affectionate as if their grandma was her own.

Another thing that disturbed Polly was the want of exercise. To dress
up and parade certain streets for an hour every day, to stand talking in
doorways, or drive out in a fine carriage, was not the sort of exercise
she liked, and Fan would take no other. Indeed, she was so shocked,
when Polly, one day, proposed a run down the mall, that her friend never
dared suggest such a thing again. At home, Polly ran and rode, coasted
and skated, jumped rope and raked hay, worked in her garden and rowed
her boat; so no wonder she longed for something more lively than a daily
promenade with a flock of giddy girls, who tilted along in high-heeled
boots, and costumes which made Polly ashamed to be seen with some of
them. So she used to slip out alone sometimes, when Fanny was absorbed
in novels, company, or millinery, and get fine brisk walks round the
park, on the unfashionable side, where the babies took their airings; or
she went inside, to watch the boys coasting, and to wish she could coast
too, as she did at home. She never went far, and always came back rosy
and gay.

One afternoon, just before dinner, she felt so tired of doing nothing,
that she slipped out for a run. It had been a dull day; but the sun was
visible now, setting brightly below the clouds. It was cold but still
and Polly trotted down the smooth, snow-covered mall humming to herself,
and trying not to feel homesick. The coasters were at it with all their
might, and she watched them, till her longing to join the fun grew
irresistible. On the hill, some little girls were playing with their
sleds, real little girls, in warm hoods and coats, rubber boots and
mittens, and Polly felt drawn toward them in spite of her fear of Fan.

"I want to go down, but I dars n't, it 's so steep," said one of these
"common children," as Maud called them.

"If you 'll lend me your sled, and sit in my lap, I 'll take you down
all nice," answered Polly, in a confidential tone.

The little girls took a look at her, seemed satisfied, and accepted
her offer. Polly looked carefully round to see that no fashionable eye
beheld the awful deed, and finding all safe, settled her freight, and
spun away down hill, feeling all over the delightsome excitement of
swift motion which makes coasting such a favorite pastime with the more
sensible portion of the child-world. One after another, she took
the little girls down the hill and dragged them up again, while they
regarded her in the light of a gray-coated angel, descended for their
express benefit. Polly was just finishing off with one delicious "go"
all by herself, when she heard a familiar whistle behind her, and before
she could get off, up came Tom, looking as much astonished as if he had
found her mounted, on an elephant.

"Hullo, Polly! What 'll Fan say to you?" was his polished salutation.

"Don't know, and don't care. Coasting is no harm; I like it, and I 'm
going to do it, now I 've got a chance; so clear the lul-la!" And
away went independent Polly, with her hair blowing in the wind, and an
expression of genuine enjoyment, which a very red nose did n't damage in
the least.

"Good for you, Polly!" And casting himself upon his sled, with the most
reckless disregard for his ribs, off whizzed Tom after her, and came
alongside just as she reined up "General Grant" on the broad path below.
"Oh, won't you get it when we go home?" cried the young gentleman, even
before he changed his graceful attitude.

"I shan't, if you don't go and tell; but of course you will," added
Polly, sitting still, while an anxious expression began to steal over
her happy face.

"I just won't, then," returned Tom, with the natural perversity of his
tribe.

"If they ask me, I shall tell, of course; if they don't ask, I think
there 's no harm in keeping still. I should n't have done it, if I had
n't known my mother was willing; but I don't wish to trouble your mother
by telling of it. Do you think it was very dreadful of me?" asked Polly,
looking at him.

"I think it was downright jolly; and I won't tell, if you don't want me
to. Now, come up and have another," said Tom, heartily.

"Just one more; the little girls want to go, this is their sled."

"Let 'em take it, it is n't good for much; and you come on mine.
Mazeppa's a stunner; you see if he is n't."

So Polly tucked herself up in front, Tom hung on behind in some
mysterious manner, and Mazeppa proved that he fully merited his master's
sincere if inelegant praise. They got on capitally now, for Tom was in
his proper sphere, and showed his best side, being civil and gay in the
bluff boy-fashion that was natural to him; while Polly forgot to be shy,
and liked this sort of "toughening" much better than the other. They
laughed and talked, and kept taking "just one more," till the sunshine
was all gone, and the clocks struck dinner-time.

"We shall be late; let 's run," said Polly, as they came into the path
after the last coast.

"You just sit still, and I 'll get you home in a jiffy;" and before she
could unpack herself, Tom trotted off with her at a fine pace.

"Here 's a pair of cheeks! I wish you 'd get a color like this, Fanny,"
said Mr. Shaw, as Polly came into the dining-room after smoothing her
hair.

"Your nose is as red as that cranberry sauce," answered Fan, coming out
of the big chair where she had been curled up for an hour or two, deep
in "Lady Audley's Secret."

"So it is," said Polly, shutting one eye to look at the offending
feature. "Never mind; I 've had a good time, anyway," she added, giving
a little prance in her chair.

"I don't see much fun in these cold runs you are so fond of taking,"
said Fanny, with a yawn and a shiver.

"Perhaps you would if you tried it;" and Polly laughed as she glanced at
Tom.

"Did you go alone, dear?" asked grandma, patting the rosy cheek beside
her.

"Yes 'm; but I met Tom, and we came home together." Polly's eyes
twinkled when she said that, and Tom choked in his soup.

"Thomas, leave the table!" commanded Mr. Shaw, as his incorrigible son
gurgled and gasped behind his napkin.

"Please don't send him away, sir. I made him laugh," said Polly,
penitently.

"What's the joke?" asked Fanny, waking up at last.

"I should n't think you 'd make him laugh, when he 's always making you
cwy," observed Maud, who had just come in.

"What have you been doing now, sir?" demanded Mr. Shaw, as Tom emerged,
red and solemn, from his brief obscurity.

"Nothing but coast," he said, gruffly, for papa was always lecturing
him, and letting the girls do just as they liked.

"So 's Polly; I saw her. Me and Blanche were coming home just now, and
we saw her and Tom widing down the hill on his sled, and then he dwagged
her ever so far!" cried Maud, with her mouth full.

"You did n't?" and Fanny dropped her fork with a scandalized face.

"Yes, I did, and liked it ever so much," answered Polly, looking anxious
but resolute.

"Did any one see you?" cried Fanny.

"Only some little girls, and Tom."

"It was horridly improper; and Tom ought to have told you so, if you did
n't know any better. I should be mortified to death if any of my friends
saw you," added Fan, much disturbed.

"Now, don't you scold. It 's no harm, and Polly shall coast if she wants
to; may n't she, grandma?" cried Tom, gallantly coming to the rescue,
and securing a powerful ally.

"My mother lets me; and if I don't go among the boys, I can't see what
harm there is in it," said Polly, before Madam could speak.

"People do many things in the country that are not proper here," began
Mrs. Shaw, in her reproving tone.

"Let the child do it if she likes, and take Maud with her. I should be
glad to have one hearty girl in my house," interrupted Mr. Shaw, and
that was the end of it.

"Thank you, sir," said Polly, gratefully, and nodded at Tom, who
telegraphed back "All right!" and fell upon his dinner with the appetite
of a young wolf.

"Oh, you sly-boots! you 're getting up a flirtation with Tom, are you?"
whispered Fanny to her friend, as if much amused.

"What!" and Polly looked so surprised and indignant, that Fanny was
ashamed of herself, and changed the subject by telling her mother she
needed some new gloves.

Polly was very quiet after that, and the minute dinner was over, she
left the room to go and have a quiet "think" about the whole matter.
Before she got half-way up stairs, she saw Tom coming after, and
immediately sat down to guard her feet. He laughed, and said, as he
perched himself on the post of the banisters, "I won't grab you, honor
bright. I just wanted to say, if you 'll come out to-morrow some time,
we 'll have a good coast."

"No," said Polly, "I can't come."

"Why not? Are you mad? I did n't tell." And Tom looked amazed at the
change which had come over her.

"No; you kept your word, and stood by me like a good boy. I 'm not mad,
either; but I don't mean to coast any more. Your mother don't like it."

"That is n't the reason, I know. You nodded to me after she 'd freed her
mind, and you meant to go then. Come, now, what is it?"

"I shan't tell you; but I 'm not going," was Polly's determined answer.

"Well, I did think you had more sense than most girls; but you have n't,
and I would n't give a sixpence for you."

"That 's polite," said Polly, getting ruffled.

"Well, I hate cowards."

"I ain't a coward."

"Yes, you are. You 're afraid of what folks will say; ain't you, now?"

Polly knew she was, and held her peace, though she longed to speak; but
how could she?

"Ah, I knew you 'd back out." And Tom walked away with an air of scorn
that cut Polly to the heart.

"It 's too bad! Just as he was growing kind to me, and I was going to
have a good time, it 's all spoilt by Fan's nonsense. Mrs. Shaw don't
like it, nor grandma either, I dare say. There 'll be a fuss if I go,
and Fan will plague me; so I 'll give it up, and let Tom think I 'm
afraid. Oh, dear! I never did see such ridiculous people."

Polly shut her door hard, and felt ready to cry with vexation, that her
pleasure should be spoilt by such a silly idea; for, of all the silly
freaks of this fast age, that of little people playing at love is about
the silliest. Polly had been taught that it was a very serious and
sacred thing; and, according to her notions, it was far more improper to
flirt with one boy than to coast with a dozen. She had been much amazed,
only the day before, to hear Maud say to her mother, "Mamma, must I have
a beau? The girls all do, and say I ought to have Fweddy Lovell; but I
don't like him as well as Hawry Fiske."

"Oh, yes; I 'd have a little sweetheart, dear, it 's so cunning,"
answered Mrs. Shaw. And Maud announced soon after that she was engaged
to "Fweddy, 'cause Hawry slapped her" when she proposed the match.

Polly laughed with the rest at the time; but when she thought of it
afterward, and wondered what her own mother would have said, if little
Kitty had put such a question, she did n't find it cunning or funny, but
ridiculous and unnatural. She felt so now about herself; and when her
first petulance was over, resolved to give up coasting and everything
else, rather than have any nonsense with Tom, who, thanks to his
neglected education, was as ignorant as herself of the charms of this
new amusement for school-children. So Polly tried to console herself
by jumping rope in the back-yard, and playing tag with Maud in the
drying-room, where she likewise gave lessons in "nas-gim-nics," as Maud
called it, which did that little person good. Fanny came up sometimes
to teach them a new dancing step, and more than once was betrayed into
a game of romps, for which she was none the worse. But Tom turned a cold
shoulder to Polly, and made it evident, by his cavalier manner that he
really did n't think her "worth a sixpence."

Another thing that troubled Polly was her clothes, for, though no one
said anything, she knew they were very plain; and now and then she
wished that her blue and mouse colored merinos were rather more trimmed,
her sashes had bigger bows, and her little ruffles more lace on them.
She sighed for a locket, and, for the first time in her life, thought
seriously of turning up her pretty curls and putting on a "wad." She
kept these discontents to herself, however, after she had written to ask
her mother if she might have her best dress altered like Fanny's, and
received this reply: "No, dear; the dress is proper and becoming as it
is, and the old fashion of simplicity the best for all of us. I don't
want my Polly to be loved for her clothes, but for herself; so wear the
plain frocks mother took such pleasure in making for you, and let the
panniers go. The least of us have some influence in this big world;
and perhaps my little girl can do some good by showing others that a
contented heart and a happy face are better ornaments than any Paris can
give her. You want a locket, deary; so I send one that my mother gave me
years ago. You will find father's face on one side, mine on the other;
and when things trouble you, just look at your talisman, and I think the
sunshine will come back again."

Of course it did, for the best of all magic was shut up in the quaint
little case that Polly wore inside her frock, and kissed so tenderly
each night and morning. The thought that, insignificant as she was, she
yet might do some good, made her very careful of her acts and words, and
so anxious to keep head contented and face happy, that she forgot her
clothes, and made others do the same. She did not know it, but that good
old fashion of simplicity made the plain gowns pretty, and the grace of
unconsciousness beautified their little wearer with the charm that
makes girlhood sweetest to those who truly love and reverence it. One
temptation Polly had already yielded to before the letter came, and
repented heartily of afterward.

"Polly, I wish you 'd let me call you Marie," said Fanny one day, as
they were shopping together.

"You may call me Mary, if you like; but I won't have any ie put on to my
name. I 'm Polly at home and I 'm fond of being called so; but Marie is
Frenchified and silly."

"I spell my own name with an ie, and so do all the girls."

"And what a jumble of Netties, Nellies, Hatties, and Sallies there is.
How 'Pollie' would look spelt so!"

"Well, never mind; that was n't what I began to say. There 's one thing
you must have, and that is, bronze boots," said Fan, impressively.

"Why must I, when I 've got enough without?"

"Because it 's the fashion to have them, and you can't be finished off
properly without. I 'm going to get a pair, and so must you."

"Don't they cost a great deal?"

"Eight or nine dollars, I believe. I have mine charged; but it don't
matter if you have n't got the money. I can lend you some."

"I 've got ten dollars to do what I like with; but it 's meant to get
some presents for the children." And Polly took out her purse in an
undecided way.

"You can make presents easy enough. Grandma knows all sorts of nice
contrivances. They 'll do just as well; and then you can get your
boots."

"Well; I 'll look at them," said Polly, following Fanny into the store,
feeling rather rich and important to be shopping in this elegant manner.

"Are n't they lovely? Your foot is perfectly divine in that boot, Polly.
Get them for my party; you 'll dance like a fairy," whispered Fan.

Polly surveyed the dainty, shining boot with the scalloped top, the
jaunty heel, and the delicate toe, thought her foot did look very well
in it, and after a little pause, said she would have them. It was all
very delightful till she got home, and was alone; then, on looking into
her purse, she saw one dollar and the list of things she meant to get
for mother and the children. How mean the dollar looked all alone! and
how long the list grew when there was nothing to buy the articles.

"I can't make skates for Ned, nor a desk for Will; and those are what
they have set their hearts upon. Father's book and mother's collar are
impossible now; and I 'm a selfish thing to go and spend all my
money for myself. How could I do it?" And Polly eyed the new boots
reproachfully, as they stood in the first position as if ready for the
party. "They are lovely; but I don't believe they will feel good, for
I shall be thinking about my lost presents all the time," sighed Polly,
pushing the enticing boots out of sight. "I 'll go and ask grandma what
I can do; for if I 've got to make something for every one, I must begin
right away, or I shan't get done;" and off she bustled, glad to forget
her remorse in hard work.

Grandma proved equal to the emergency, and planned something for every
one, supplying materials, taste, and skill in the most delightful
manner. Polly felt much comforted; but while she began to knit a pretty
pair of white bed-socks, to be tied with rose-colored ribbons, for
her mother, she thought some very sober thoughts upon the subject of
temptation; and if any one had asked her just then what made her sigh,
as if something lay heavy on her conscience, she would have answered,
"Bronze boots."


CHAPTER IV. LITTLE THINGS


"IT 'S so wainy, I can't go out, and evwybody is so cwoss they won't
play with me," said Maud, when Polly found her fretting on the stairs,
and paused to ask the cause of her wails.

"I 'll play with you; only don't scream and wake your mother. What shall
we play?"

"I don't know; I 'm tired of evwything, 'cause my toys are all bwoken,
and my dolls are all sick but Clawa," moaned Maud, giving a jerk to the
Paris doll which she held upside down by one leg in the most unmaternal
manner.

"I 'm going to dress a dolly for my little sister; would n't you like
to see me do it?" asked Polly, persuasively, hoping to beguile the cross
child and finish her own work at the same time.

"No, I should n't, 'cause she 'll look nicer than my Clawa. Her clothes
won't come off; and Tom spoilt 'em playing ball with her in the yard."

"Would n't you like to rip these clothes off, and have me show you how
to make some new ones, so you can dress and undress Clara as much as you
like?"

"Yes; I love to cut." And Maud's, face brightened; for destructiveness
is one of the earliest traits of childhood, and ripping was Maud's
delight.

Establishing themselves in the deserted dining-room, the children fell
to work; and when Fanny discovered them, Maud was laughing with all
her heart at poor Clara, who, denuded of her finery, was cutting up all
sorts of capers in the hands of her merry little mistress.

"I should think you 'd be ashamed to play with dolls, Polly. I have n't
touched one this ever so long," said Fanny, looking down with a superior
air.

"I ain't ashamed, for it keeps Maud happy, and will please my sister
Kitty; and I think sewing is better than prinking or reading silly
novels, so, now." And Polly stitched away with a resolute air, for she
and Fanny had had a little tiff; because Polly would n't let her friend
do up her hair "like other folks," and bore her ears.

"Don't be cross, dear, but come and do something nice, it 's so dull
to-day," said Fanny, anxious to be friends again, for it was doubly dull
without Polly.

"Can't; I 'm busy."

"You always are busy. I never saw such a girl. What in the world do you
find to do all the time?" asked Fanny, watching with interest the set of
the little red merino frock Polly was putting on to her doll.

"Lots of things; but I like to be lazy sometimes as much as you do; just
lie on the sofa, and read fairy stories, or think about nothing. Would
you have a white-muslin apron or a black silk?" added Polly, surveying
her work with satisfaction.

"Muslin, with pockets and tiny blue bows. I 'll show you how." And
forgetting her hate and contempt for dolls, down sat Fanny, soon getting
as much absorbed as either of the others.

The dull day brightened wonderfully after that, and the time flew
pleasantly, as tongues and needles went together. Grandma peeped in, and
smiled at the busy group, saying, "Sew away, my dears; dollies are safe
companions, and needlework an accomplishment that 's sadly neglected
nowadays. Small stitches, Maud; neat button-holes, Fan; cut carefully,
Polly, and don't waste your cloth. Take pains; and the best needlewoman
shall have a pretty bit of white satin for a doll's bonnet."

Fanny exerted herself, and won the prize, for Polly helped Maud, and
neglected her own work; but she did n't care much, for Mr. Shaw said,
looking at the three bright faces at the tea-table, "I guess Polly has
been making sunshine for you to-day." "No, indeed, sir, I have n't done
anything, only dress Maud's doll."

And Polly did n't think she had done much; but it was one of the little
things which are always waiting to be done in this world of ours, where
rainy days come so often, where spirits get out of tune, and duty won't
go hand in hand with pleasure. Little things of this sort are especially
good work for little people; a kind little thought, an unselfish little
act, a cheery little word, are so sweet and comfortable, that no one can
fail to feel their beauty and love the giver, no matter how small they
are. Mothers do a deal of this sort of thing, unseen, unthanked, but
felt and remembered long afterward, and never lost, for this is the
simple magic that binds hearts together, and keeps home happy. Polly had
learned this secret.

She loved to do the "little things" that others did not see, or were too
busy to stop for; and while doing them, without a thought of thanks, she
made sunshine for herself as well as others. There was so much love
in her own home, that she quickly felt the want of it in Fanny's, and
puzzled herself to find out why these people were not kind and patient
to one another. She did not try to settle the question, but did her
best to love and serve and bear with each, and the good will, the gentle
heart, the helpful ways and simple manners of our Polly made her dear
to every one, for these virtues, even in a little child, are lovely and
attractive.

Mr. Shaw was very kind to her, for he liked her modest, respectful
manners; and Polly was so grateful for his many favors, that she soon
forgot her fear, and showed her affection in all sorts of confiding
little ways, which pleased him extremely. She used to walk across the
park with him when he went to his office in the morning, talking busily
all the way, and saying "Good-by" with a nod and a smile when they
parted at the great gate. At first, Mr. Shaw did not care much about
it; but soon he missed her if she did not come, and found that
something fresh and pleasant seemed to brighten all his day, if a small,
gray-coated figure, with an intelligent face, a merry voice, and a
little hand slipped confidingly into his, went with him through the
wintry park. Coming home late, he liked to see a curly, brown head
watching at the window; to find his slippers ready, his paper in its
place, and a pair of willing feet, eager to wait upon him. "I wish my
Fanny was more like her," he often said to himself, as he watched the
girls, while they thought him deep in politics or the state of the money
market. Poor Mr. Shaw had been so busy getting rich, that he had not
found time to teach his children to love him; he was more at leisure
now, and as his boy and girls grew up, he missed something. Polly was
unconsciously showing him what it was, and making child-love so sweet,
that he felt he could not do without it any more, yet did n't quite
know how to win the confidence of the children, who had always found him
busy, indifferent, and absentminded.

As the girls were going to bed one night, Polly kissed grandma, as
usual, and Fanny laughed at her, saying, "What a baby you are! We are
too old for such things now."

"I don't think people ever are too old to kiss their fathers and
mothers," was the quick answer.

"Right, my little Polly;" and Mr. Shaw stretched out his hand to her
with such a kindly look, that Fanny stared surprised, and then said,
shyly, "I thought you did n't care about it, father." "I do, my dear:"
And Mr. Shaw put out the other hand to Fanny, who gave him a daughterly
kiss, quite forgetting everything but the tender feeling that sprung up
in her heart at the renewal of the childish custom which we never need
outgrow.

Mrs. Shaw was a nervous, fussy invalid, who wanted something every five
minutes; so Polly found plenty of small things to do for her and did,
them so cheerfully, that the poor lady loved to have the quiet, helpful
child near, to wait upon her, read to her, run errands, or hand the
seven different shawls which were continually being put on or off.

Grandma, too, was glad to find willing hands and feet to serve her; and
Polly passed many happy hours in the quaint rooms, learning all sorts
of pretty arts, and listening to pleasant chat, never dreaming how much
sunshine she brought to the solitary old lady.

Tom was Polly's rock ahead for a long time, because he was always
breaking out in a new place, and one never knew where to find him. He
tormented yet amused her; was kind one day, and a bear the next; at
times she fancied he was never going to be bad again, and the next thing
she knew he was deep in mischief, and hooted at the idea of repentance
and reformation. Polly gave him up as a hard case; but was so in the
habit of helping any one who seemed in trouble, that she was good to him
simply because she could n't help it.

"What 's the matter? Is your lesson too hard for you?" she asked one
evening, as a groan made her look across the table to where Tom sat
scowling over a pile of dilapidated books, with his hands in his hair,
as if his head was in danger of flying asunder with the tremendous
effort he was making.

"Hard! Guess it is. What in thunder do I care about the old
Carthaginians? Regulus was n't bad; but I 'm sick of him!" And Tom dealt
"Harkness's Latin Reader" a thump, which expressed his feelings better
than words.

"I like Latin, and used to get on well when I studied it with Jimmy.
Perhaps I can help you a little bit," said Polly, as Tom wiped his hot
face and refreshed himself with a peanut.

"You? pooh! girls' Latin don't amount to much anyway," was the grateful
reply.

But Polly was used to him now, and, nothing daunted, took a look at the
grimy page in the middle of which Tom had stuck. She read it so well,
that the young gentleman stopped munching to regard her with respectful
astonishment, and when she stopped, he said, suspiciously, "You are a
sly one, Polly, to study up so you can show off before me. But it won't
do, ma'am; turn over a dozen pages, and try again."

Polly obeyed, and did even better than before, saying, as she looked up,
with a laugh, "I 've been through the whole book; so you won't catch me
that way, Tom."

"I say, how came you to know such a lot?" asked Tom, much impressed.

"I studied with Jimmy, and kept up with him, for father let us be
together in all our lessons. It was so nice, and we learned so fast!"

"Tell me about Jimmy. He 's your brother, is n't he?"

"Yes; but he 's dead, you know. I 'll tell about him some other time;
you ought to study now, and perhaps I can help you," said Polly, with a
little quiver of the lips.

"Should n't wonder if you could." And Tom spread the book between them
with a grave and business-like air, for he felt that Polly had got the
better of him, and it behooved him to do his best for the honor of his
sex. He went at the lesson with a will, and soon floundered out of his
difficulties, for Polly gave him a lift here and there, and they went
on swimmingly, till they came to some rules to be learned. Polly had
forgotten them, so they, both committed them to memory; Tom, with
hands in his pockets, rocked to and fro, muttering rapidly, while Polly
twisted the little curl on her forehead and stared at the wall, gabbling
with all her might.

"Done!" cried Tom, presently.

"Done!" echoed Polly; and then they heard each other recite till both
were perfect "That 's pretty good fun," said Tom, joyfully, tossing poor
Harkness away, and feeling that the pleasant excitement of companionship
could lend a charm even to Latin Grammar.

"Now, ma'am, we 'll take a turn at algibbera. I like that as much as I
hate Latin."

Polly accepted the invitation, and soon owned that Tom could beat her
here. This fact restored his equanimity; but he did n't crow over her,
far from it; for he helped her with a paternal patience that made
her eyes twinkle with suppressed fun, as he soberly explained and
illustrated, unconsciously imitating Dominie Deane, till Polly found it
difficult to keep from laughing in his face.

"You may have another go at it any, time you like," generously remarked
Tom, as he shied the algebra after the Latin Reader.

"I 'll come every evening, then. I 'd like to, for I have n't studied a
bit since I came. You shall try and make me like algebra, and I 'll try
and make you like Latin, will you?"

"Oh, I 'd like it well enough, if there was any one explain it to me.
Old Deane puts us through double-quick, and don't give a fellow time to
ask questions when we read."

"Ask your father; he knows."

"Don't believe he does; should n't dare to bother him, if he did."

"Why not?"

"He 'd pull my ears, and call me a 'stupid,' or tell me not to worry
him."

"I don't think he would. He 's very kind to me, and I ask lots of
questions."

"He likes you better than he does me."

"Now, Tom! it 's wrong of you to say so. Of course he loves you ever so
much more than he does me," cried Polly, reprovingly.

"Why don't he show it then?" muttered Tom, with a half-wistful,
half-defiant glance toward the library door, which stood ajar.

"You act so, how can he?" asked Polly, after a pause, in which she put
Tom's question to herself, and could find no better reply than the one
she gave him.

"Why don't he give me my velocipede? He said, if I did well at school
for a month, I should have it; and I 've been pegging away like fury for
most six weeks, and he don't do a thing about it. The girls get their
duds, because they tease. I won't do that anyway; but you don't catch me
studying myself to death, and no pay for it."

"It is too bad; but you ought to do it because it 's right, and
never mind being paid," began Polly, trying to be moral, but secretly
sympathizing heartily with poor Tom.

"Don't you preach, Polly. If the governor took any notice of me, and
cared how I got on, I would n't mind the presents so much; but he don't
care a hang, and never even asked if I did well last declamation day,
when I 'd gone and learned 'The Battle of Lake Regillus,' because he
said he liked it."

"Oh, Tom! Did you say that? It 's splendid! Jim and I used to say
Horatius together, and it was such fun. Do speak your piece to me, I do
so like 'Macaulay's Lays.'"

"It 's dreadful long," began Tom; but his face brightened, for Polly's
interest soothed his injured feelings, and he was glad to prove his
elocutionary powers. He began without much spirit; but soon the martial
ring of the lines fired him, and before he knew it, he was on his legs
thundering away in grand style, while Polly listened with kindling
face and absorbed attention. Tom did declaim well, for he quite forgot
himself, and delivered the stirring ballad with an energy that
made Polly flush and tingle with admiration and delight, and quite
electrified a second listener, who had heard all that went on, and
watched the little scene from behind his newspaper.

As Tom paused, breathless, and Polly clapped her hands enthusiastically,
the sound was loudly echoed from behind him. Both whirled round, and
there was Mr. Shaw, standing in the doorway, applauding with all his
might.

Tom looked much abashed, and said not a word; Polly ran to Mr. Shaw, and
danced before him, saying, eagerly, "Was n't it splendid? Did n't he do
well? May n't he have his velocipede now?"

"Capital, Tom; you 'll be an orator yet. Learn another piece like that,
and I 'll come and hear you speak it. Are you ready for your velocipede,
hey?"

Polly was right; and Tom owned that "the governor" was kind, did like
him and had n't entirely forgotten his promise. The boy turned red with
pleasure, and picked at the buttons on his jacket, while listening to
this unexpected praise; but when he spoke, he looked straight up in his
father's face, while his own shone with pleasure, as he answered, in one
breath, "Thankee, sir. I 'll do it, sir. Guess I am, sir!"

"Very good; then look out for your new horse tomorrow, sir." And Mr.
Shaw stroked the fuzzy red head with a kind hand, feeling a fatherly
pleasure in the conviction that there was something in his boy after
all.

Tom got his velocipede next day, named it Black Auster, in memory of the
horse in "The Battle of Lake Regillus," and came to grief as soon as he
began to ride his new steed.

"Come out and see me go it," whispered Tom to Polly, after three days'
practice in the street, for he had already learned to ride in the rink.

Polly and Maud willingly went, and watched his struggles, with
deep interest, till he got an upset, which nearly put an end to his
velocipeding forever.

"Hi, there! Auster's coming!" shouted Tom, as came rattling down the
long, steep street outside the park.

They stepped aside, and he whizzed by, arms and legs going like mad,
with the general appearance of a runaway engine. It would have been a
triumphant descent, if a big dog had not bounced suddenly through one of
the openings, and sent the whole concern helter-skelter into the gutter.
Polly laughed as she ran to view the ruin, for Tom lay flat on his back
with the velocipede atop him, while the big dog barked wildly, and his
master scolded him for his awkwardness. But when she saw Tom's face,
Polly was frightened, for the color had all gone out of it, his eyes
looked strange and dizzy, and drops of blood began to trickle from a
great cut on his forehead. "It is the truth of God. An' it's this
same learning that's got out of the holy Book that makes the difference
between Protestants and Catholics. They go to the Word itself, an' we
take on hearsay whatever the praste tells us.

An' there is no word in all the Book, mother, about praying to Mary the
mother of Jesus, or to any of the saints.
Everybody is invited to pray straight up to God himself."

The girl's downright heresy, and her contempt for the mummeries of the
Romish communion, troubled her mother. But what could she do? The
change for the better in the child's temper had prepared her to look
favourably upon the change in her religion.

She listened to Annorah's continued account of what she had learned from
the Bible with the greatest interest, feeling every moment more and more
disposed to accept its teaching, and less and less disposed to blindly
submit to the priest. Annorah stayed till a late hour with her
mother, repeating over and over again the truths so interesting to
herself, and obtaining permission at last to bring the Bible itself on
her next visit. She was strictly cautioned, however, to bring it privately,
lest Father M'Clane should hear of it, and, in Biddy's language,
"kick up a scrimmage."

There were more ideas in the old woman's head than had ever found room
there before, when, after Annorah had gone, she sat down by herself
before the fire. She was both ambitious and imaginative, and long vistas
of future greatness opened before her, all commencing with the
wonderful fact that _her_ child could read and write.

"An' it's not all a queer drame," she said; "I'll hear her for meself
coom next Saturday Och! what a row it will make an' Father M'Clane,
and Teddy Muggins, and Mike Murphy get wind o' a heretic Bible
being brought to the place!

But I'll hear and judge for meself, that I will; an' if the praste
be right, small harm is there to be shure; and if he be wrong, the better
for me poor sowl, and a saving o' money."

CHAPTER V.

PHELIM BRINGS BAD TIDINGS TO ANNORAH.

Annorah's troubles were not ended by the unexpected encouragement received
from her mother.

Her brothers and sister, and Irish acquaintance generally, soon
heard that she no longer went to mass or to confession; and great was
the uproar among them. The unsparing rebukes of Father M'Clane,
whenever he met with any one supposed to have any influence over her,
soon fanned into life not only a vehement hatred of the Protestants, but
a bitter feeling of enmity toward the poor girl herself. Those who
had been most cordial now either passed her in sullen silence, or openly
taunted her upon her defection; and the very children in the lane
hooted after her, when she made her usual weekly visit to her
mother.

Annorah often found these things very hard to bear. Her quick Irish blood
was up with the first insulting word; but she sought for strength from
above to control it, and no outbreak of passion was suffered to mar the
sweet lesson that her patience and kindness toward all was insensibly
teaching.

She was getting ready for her usual Saturday evening's visit to her
mother's cottage, when her attention was attracted by the low
whistling of a familiar Irish air in the yard below.

Looking out, she observed her lame brother, Phelim, making signs for her
to come out. A little alarmed lest some evil had befallen her mother
she hurried out to meet him.

"What is it, Phelim? What is the matther, dear?"
"Matther, do you ask? Well, the matther is, that ye're not to coom home
till ye're sent for.

Are ye not ashamed to make such a row?"
"I don't know what you mean. Sit down, Phelim dear; you're over weak
to keep standin' so. Does the new liniment no help ye at all? And ye
must carry home the money to mother, and the tea, and the sugar, and
some nice warm woollen stockings that Mrs. Lee showed me how to knit
for yerself, darlin'; and Heaven grant that it's no a bad turn o'
pain ye will get in yer bones by cooming to tell me.

There's a cranberry-pie that Mrs.

Lee was to send for your own self, Phelim dear; it will relish better
than our mother's plain cooking."
The thought of eating the dainty so thoughtfully provided, produced
a choking sensation in the boy's throat, as if it had there come
into a collision with his wrath against heretics.

But he said nothing, and Annorah went on:--
"I've been making some caps for mother; but ye're no able to carry so
many things at once, poor fellow."
Still Phelim did not speak, but he gazed earnestly into her face.

The moon was up, and he could plainly see the traces of tears on
her cheek, and the sad but loving expression of her eyes as she
returned his gaze.

"An' it's the Protestant religion that makes you so good and kind,
Norah," he said at length; "our Lady help me, and I could just be a
heretic wi' ye!"
"It's little I know yet o' the truth, but, O Phelim, it's a lovely
way to heaven; and the swate, blessed feeling that fills up the
heart when I pray straight up to the Lord Jesus Christ himself, is
better than to have all the diamonds in a queen's crown.

It makes me so light and happy; so contented intirely.

It quiets the bad temper into perfect peace; and I love, as I never
dreamed of doing before, all my friends and enemies too. It's little I
know yet, Phelim, but all the gould in the world, and all the world's
hate too, shall not hinder me from learning more o' God's wonderful
way to save sinners.

But hurry home now, Phelim, mavourneen; the raw night air is no
good for ye."

"They may say what they will, Norah," said the boy, "but I'm sure I
will love ye for ever. An' ye'll tache me to get those heavenly feelings,
I'll jist follow the road ye have taken. I've plenty o' time, as ye
know."
"Do ye mean, will I teach you to read?"
"Yes."

"I'll speak to Miss Annie about it. Hurry home as fast as you can.
Good-night, and God bless you."

With an affectionate kiss they parted; and Annorah went slowly back to
her young mistress's room.

"How is this, Annorah?" asked Mrs. Lee, as she entered. "How happened
you to return so soon?"

"I have not been home, an' ye please, ma'am."

"Are you not going to-night?" asked Annie, raising her head from her
pillow, and noticing, with a little anxiety, the unusual expression of
her attendant's face.

"It's Phelim, my brother, miss, has been here, and it's a house full o'
company there is at home."

"And they want you to spend the holy Sabbath to-morrow in visiting
them, I suppose."
"No, Miss Annie."
"What then?" asked Mrs. Lee, after a moment's silence.

"Nothing to speak of, ma'am. Leastways nothing to trouble ye about."
"But I can see that it is something that troubles you, Norah," said
Annie, taking the rough hand of Annorah in hers, and drawing her nearer.
"Is it something that you would rather I should not know?"
"Indeed no. But it's loath I am to add my bit troubles to yours,
when ye suffer yer own so patiently.

It's only that all my relatives, and the praste, and the Catholic
neighbours, are waiting for me to come home, to bring me back to
the ould Church by force.

An' Phelim, poor boy, came to tell me to keep away.

It's worse he'll be for the damp air; and it's angry they'll be for
my staying away."

"Ah! Annorah, my dear nurse, I was afraid that rougher times awaited
you. I was afraid they would persecute you."
"But they haven't yet, Miss Annie."
"Perhaps it is not what you would call persecution, but it is sad
to have those we love turn against us.

You must trust in God, my poor girl. He will give you grace to bear
it all."

CHAPTER VI.

THE CONFESSIONAL--AN IRISH FROLIC.

Great was the uproar in Biddy Dillon's cottage when it was found that
Annorah was not coming to make her usual Saturday evening visit to her
mother.

Preparations had been made by Father M'Clane for holding a regular
confessional; and an hour before sunset, he had taken his seat in the
little darkened chamber, behind a table on which four tallow-candles
were burning, with an uncertain, flickering light.

It had been decided in the council of relatives and friends that
Annorah's only chance of salvation lay in speedy confession, and
it was very reasonably supposed, that could she be brought back to
that Popish duty, a great point would be gained in the way to her
perfect restoration.

It was, therefore, no affectionate, loving circle that had now assembled
to "bear a hand" in Annorah's restoration to the faith.

One after another went reverently on their knees up the short, steep
stairway, and came down lighter in purse, and, as the priest wickedly
taught them, absolved of all offences, but swelling with wrath against
the poor girl whose coming was so long delayed.

And when, at last, it became apparent that she would not come, a
storm of abuse was poured upon Biddy, who, it was evident to all,
did not cordially join in their violent measures.

Now, Biddy Dillon had too much of the national character to sit
down quietly and receive their abuse, and soon a regular quarrel
ensued, which would have speedily become a fight, but for the descent
of Father M'Clane into their midst, and his imperative command that
each one should sit down quietly and "hould his tongue."

"Whisht! whisht! Of what are ye thinking, ye silly gossoons? Will ye bring
down the peace officers upon ye, and take out the bit o' the night in
the prison, instead o' drinking me health, as ye may, and me helping
to do that same?

Arrah! Why should ye glower and snarl at each other, like a kennel o' mad
puppies, when it's the brave frolic ye may have together? It's the
soft looks and the fine words ye must use, an' ye would win the young
heretic back; ye may fight over her till the great day o' all, and it
will be but a sorrowful waste o' the powther, barrin' the swate chance
ye are losing now o' a comfortable frolic. Arrah, now, Dennis darlin',
a sup o' the whisky for me, a thrifle sthrong, an' ye plaze. It's a could
night to be out wi' an empty stoomach."

"Stay till the morning, father," said Biddy, coming up to him with
an anxious face; "we cannot kape peace an' ye do not bide wi' us;
the frolic will be all the better an' ye stay to the orderin' o'
it,--and the best bed is waitin' yer riverence's convanience.

There's Sandy and Mike will fight an' ye lave, and Katy there is
ready to tear out the eyes o' big Nelly Murphy. It's quarrelling
they've been the whole blessed day. Bide with us, lest the dear
childer who is the cause o' it all should be kilt and murdered intirely,
an' she sthrays home to-night."

She spoke in a low voice, and he replied in the same tone, drawing
her back from the crowd, who were all talking together.

"Look here, Biddy Dillon," he said; "the girl must lave that grand
house and come home to live here with you."
"Lave Miss Annie, do ye mane, sir?"
"Small hope for her sowl an' she do not."
"And few are the pennies I can bring to yer riverence when the child
has no wages to bring home o' a Saturday. Sorra a hap'orth to spare
will I find; it's no me two hands alone can find bread for the mouths
o' all, and--"

"Stuff and nonsense!" interrupted the priest; "there's many another
place can be had for a sthrong, likely lass like her. Good servants
are not over plenty, and she can be better placed."
"But where, I would like ye to tell? It's in a Protestant family she
must be, an' she goes out to service at all."

"Yes; but they'll let her alone in some houses. Sorra a bit do the most
o' them care what becomes o' the sowl, an' the work be done to their
liking. Our Lady be praised! it's to the far counthrees that the
Protestant missionaries are sent, and the silver is given; for
one-half o' the pains taken wi' the poor crathurs who work in their
kitchens would have ruined us all."

"Yer riverence spakes thrue, to be shure," said Biddy; "but for all
that, it will never be a bit o' use to thry to make a good Catholic o'
Norah, now that she can read the big books and talk so bravely
herself. An' it were to be the savin' o' her life, she would never confess
to a praste again, or take the holy wafer from his hands. But if ye
would take it aisy and lave it to me, and persuade these meddlesome
boobies to mind their own particular business, and throuble us no
more, it's meself would be sure to bring the handsome sum to yer
riverence when I come to confession.

Contrariwise, you see, and you kape fussing, and they kape fussing, it's
all loss it is to ye, and no gain."

The priest's countenance brightened perceptibly. He seemed much impressed
with Biddy's view of the case, and was not slow to perceive its worldly
wisdom. So, after addressing the waiting company to some purpose, he
left them.

But Biddy sat thoughtfully in a corner, with her lame boy.

She had, in her conversation with the priest, cunningly hit on an expedient
to propitiate him for a time, but she was ill at ease. She could not at
once throw off the chains of teaching that had bound her all her life;
and so dim was the light that she had received, that she dared not
yet follow it.

"Oh, then, it's a jewel she is, core o' me heart, Norah dear!"
The last two words were whispered so loud that Phelim heard them, and
he said, "I've seen her to-night, mother."
"Who? Spake aisy, mavourneen."
"Our Norah."

"When?" questioned his mother, with an anxious glance at the unheeding
revellers.

"Afther dusk. I thought ye would like her to kape away to-night."

"Now blessings on ye for a handy callant as ye are," said Biddy, patting
his shoulder approvingly.

"An' how is she?"
"Well as ever, mother, and kind-tempered and good too.

A power of good things she has sent, and they're safe hid in the
cellar.

The money is in me coat pocket, mother. Shall I give it ye?"

"Not now. Kape it till all be gone. Was she sorry or mad, Phelim?"
"Mad? Not at all. Sorry? I don't know at all.

Her voice was all courage and kindness; but I saw big tears on her cheek,
for all that."
The mother and son sat silently looking into the fire for a few
moments.

At last Phelim spoke. "Mother," said the boy, "ye'll not have them
abuse her and torment her, just for changing into such a dear
crathur?"

"She's a heretic, lad."
"What o' that? She's good, any way," said Phelim stoutly. "I would I were
a big man. We'd see who would throuble her then. It's a thrashin' they'd
get, an' it's manners they'd learn, and no charges made for the teaching."

"Whisht, lad! it's careful and sly we must be. An' do ye not bother
yer poor head wi' yer sister's new notions.

It's a nation o' throuble I'd have with a pair o' ye at once; and ye're
no earning money, Phelim, boy, to buy off the praste. Kape a still tongue,
lad, an' ye bite it in two; an' don't go for to meddle wi' matters
concerning yer sowl.

The praste an' yer poor mother will kape a sharp look-out; an' it will
go hard, shure, if between us ye are not saved at last."
"But, mother, where is the harm if I look for meself a bit? Who can see
Norah, so gentle and loving, so careful o' you and me, so pleasant
to every one, and not want to know more o' the way she has taken?"

"Yes, yes, lad; but have ye no sense at all?

What if ye have been tould a secret, can ye not kape it the same?

Now mind, once for all; ye're not to know it at all, if Norah brings
home the Word o' the Lord to read to her ould ignorant mother (it's a
swate voice she has), and ye shall hear the big Book as well; only
mind, Phelim, acushla, ye're to know nothing at all, let who will
spake to ye o' the same."

"Yes; but, mother, what if I myself learn to--"
"Hush!--Is it o' me ye are spaking?" asked Biddy, turning to a cluster
of people who had drawn near them.

"It's no hearty I feel to-night, and poor lame Phelim is kaping me
company.

Is it room for the dance ye are wanting? The other is the roomiest,
and the floor is the plainest."

Hurrying out with ready good-will to assist in the needful preparations,
Biddy soon removed any suspicions that might have been entertained in the
minds of any of her neighbours of any leaning on her part toward
heresy.

CHAPTER VII.

BIDDY DILLON BECOMES A "HERETIC."

Several months passed quietly by. It was winter, and the heaviest snow
that had fallen within the memory of that personage so universally known
and respected--namely, the oldest inhabitant--now lay upon the
ground; and all in town and country who were partial to the exercise
of skating could enjoy it freely.

But the severe cold confined the delicate invalids to their heated
rooms, and fair Annie Lee again found herself shut up to the tiresome
routine of sick-room pleasures, only varied by intervals of suffering.
The pleasure, however, predominated.

She seemed almost to forget her pain and increasing languor in her unceasing
efforts to instruct her young nurse.

Annorah, on her part, thirsted for knowledge, especially for the
wisdom that cometh from above.

She improved, too, rapidly enough to satisfy a less partial teacher. In
the varied arts of housewifery, and in the more intricate use of the
needle, she had also become quite expert, and, to use Mrs. Lee's own
words, "was quite a treasure in every part of the house."
Little lame Phelim came for an hour each afternoon to Miss Annie's
room to be made a "schollard, shure;" and every Saturday evening
found Annorah, with her Bible, seated by her mother's fireside,
reading, and in her own earnest but uncouth manner expounding the
truths she read.

One Sabbath evening in March, Father M'Clane set out for a walk to Mrs.
Dillon's cottage.

His prospects and reflections had been of a grave and sad character
throughout the day, and his threadbare coat and lean purse had
been more than usually suggestive of the great truth, that all
earthly comforts are fleeting and transitory.

For the first time Biddy had that day absented herself from the Catholic
chapel. Annorah had lately added to her Scripture reading, "Kirwan's
Letters to Archbishop Hughes." She read it to her mother whenever
a spare hour enabled her to run home. Biddy had been greatly interested
in the appeals and arguments of her talented countryman, and deeply
impressed by his life-like delineation of the follies and superstitions
of the Romish ritual.

"It's rasonable he is intirely," she said, "and a bright son o' the
ould counthree, blessin's on it!

It's him who spakes well o' the poor ruined crathers, and praises us all
for the natural generous-sowled people we are. He knows us intirely,
Norah dear.

Shure he's a wonderful man and a bould, let alone the thrue son o'
ould Ireland, for doing the beautiful thing.

Read us one more letther, mavourneen, before ye are off, and lave
the book here.

Mayhap Phelim will spell out a morsel or so when the Sabbath even
is coom."

"You will not go to confession to-morrow, dear mother?"

said Annorah.

"Not I," replied Biddy firmly.

"It goes to my heart, mother, that the money we earn so hardly, and
which should be kept to comfort your old age, should go for nothing,
or worse."

"I will do it no more. Make yer heart aisy, honey. Never a penny o'
mine will the praste hould in his hand again."
"He will visit you, mother."

"An' what o' that? Let him coom.

He is welcome an' he minds his own business, and only dhraps in for
a bit o' gossip; but an' he interferes in me private consarns, it's
soon he'll find himself relaved o' all throuble on account o' us."

Annorah saw that there was no reason now to fear that her mother
would be overawed by the priest; but she still lingered anxiously.

Her mother saw the shade on her face, and asked,--

"What is it, Norah? Are you in throuble?"
"Do not quarrel with him, mother," replied the daughter.

"Let him be dacent, and it's ceevil treatment he'll get; but no man shall
browbeat me on me own floor," said Biddy, in a tone which declared
the firmness of her purpose.

It was on the night succeeding this conversation, that Father M'Clane
visited the cottage. As he approached the house he paused at the unusual
sound of a voice reading. It was Phelim imperfectly spelling out to his
mother and a few of the neighbours one of the letters of Kirwan.
The priest, who was not remarkably well versed in the books of the day,
did not know the work, but supposed that it was the Bible to which they
were so profoundly listening. His face grew as dark as the night shades
around him.

"I've caught ye at last!" he exclaimed, as, without ceremony, he
burst into the room. "This tells the story. It's not that ye are ill
in bed, or hindered by the rain, or the could; it's because ye are
heretics all, that ye shun the confession and the holy mass.

Do ye know what the Church has power to do wi' the like o' ye? Arrah!
it was the heavenly and not the mortal wisdom that made the hot fires
o' purgatory for such. Small help will ye get from me when the
flames are scorching ye. Never a mass shall be said for a sowl o'
ye, unless ye repent at once."
"And what call have ye to spake the like o' that," said Biddy, "and me
sitting peaceably by me own fire wi' the neighbours?" She spoke in a low,
uncertain tone, for his sudden appearance had startled her. A hush
had fallen on the little assembly, and signs of terror flitted across
the faces of the most timid, as the familiar voice of the priest recalled
their old Popish fears.

He was not slow to perceive this, or to take advantage of it.

Come on, it
will be a jolly lark."

"I would n't for the world; it would be so mean. Take 'em off, Tom, and
I 'll play anything else you like."

"I ain't going to dress up for nothing; I look so lovely, someone must
admire me. Take me down, Polly, and see if they don't call me 'a sweet
creature.'"

Tom looked so unutterably ridiculous as he tossed his curls and pranced,
that Polly went off into another gale of merriment; but even while she
laughed, she resolved not to let him mortify his sister.

"Now, then, get out of the way if you won't come; I 'm going down," said
Tom.

"No, you 're not."

"How will you help it, Miss Prim?"

"So." And Polly locked the door, put the key in her pocket, and nodded
at him defiantly.

Tom was a pepper-pot as to temper, and anything like opposition always
had a bad effect. Forgetting his costume, he strode up to Polly, saying,
with a threatening wag of the head, "None of that. I won't stand it."

"Promise not to plague Fan, and I 'll let you out."

"Won't promise anything. Give me that key, or I 'll make you."

"Now, Tom, don't be savage. I only want to keep you out of a scrape, for
Fan will be raging if you go. Take off her things, and I 'll give up."

Tom vouchsafed no reply, but marched to the other door, which was fast,
as Polly knew, looked out of the three-story window, and finding no
escape possible, came back with a wrathful face. "Will you give me that
key?"

"No, I won't," said Polly, valiantly.

"I 'm stronger than you are; so you 'd better hand over."

"I know you are; but it 's cowardly for a great boy like you to rob a
girl."

"I don't want to hurt you; but, by George! I won't stand this!"

Tom paused as Polly spoke, evidently ashamed of himself; but his temper
was up, and he would n't give in. If Polly had cried a little just
here, he would have yielded; unfortunately she giggled, for Tom's fierce
attitude was such a funny contrast to his dress that she could n't help
it. That settled the matter. No girl that ever lived should giggle at
him, much less lock him up like a small child. Without a word, he made
a grab at Polly's arm, for the hand holding the key was still in her,
pocket. With her other hand she clutched her frock, and for a minute
held on stoutly. But Tom's strong fingers were irresistible; rip went
the pocket, out came the hand, and with a cry of pain from Polly, the
key fell on the floor.

"It 's your own fault if you 're hurt. I did n't mean to," muttered Tom,
as he hastily departed, leaving Polly to groan over her sprained wrist.
He went down, but not into the parlor, for somehow the joke seemed to
have lost its relish; so he made the girls in the kitchen laugh, and
then crept up the back way, hoping to make it all right with Polly. But
she had gone to grandma's room, for, though the old lady was out, it
seemed a refuge. He had just time to get things in order, when Fanny
came up, crosser than ever; for Trix had been telling her of all sorts
of fun in which she might have had a share, if Polly had held her
tongue.

"Where is she?" asked Fan, wishing to vent her vexation on her friend.

"Moping in her room, I suppose," replied Tom, who was discovered reading
studiously.

Now, while this had been happening, Maud had been getting into hot
water also; for when her maid left her, to see a friend below, Miss Maud
paraded into Polly's room, and solaced herself with mischief. In an evil
hour Polly had let her play boat in her big trunk, which stood empty.
Since then Polly had stored some of her most private treasures in the
upper tray, so that she might feel sure they were safe from all eyes.
She had forgotten to lock the trunk, and when Maud raised the lid to
begin her voyage, several objects of interest met her eyes. She was deep
in her researches when Fan came in and looked over her shoulder, feeling
too cross with Polly to chide Maud.

As Polly had no money for presents, she had exerted her ingenuity
to devise all sorts of gifts, hoping by quantity to atone for any
shortcomings in quality. Some of her attempts were successful, others
were failures; but she kept them all, fine or funny, knowing the
children at home would enjoy anything new. Some of Maud's cast-off toys
had been neatly mended for Kitty; some of Fan's old ribbons and laces
were converted into dolls' finery; and Tom's little figures, whittled
out of wood in idle minutes, were laid away to show Will what could be
done with a knife.

"What rubbish!" said Fanny.

"Queer girl, is n't she?" added Tom, who had followed to see what was
going on.

"Don't you laugh at Polly's things. She makes nicer dolls than you, Fan;
and she can wite and dwar ever so much better than Tom," cried Maud.
"How do you know? I never saw her draw," said Tom.

"Here 's a book with lots of pictures in it. I can't wead the witing;
but the pictures are so funny."

Eager to display her friend's accomplishments, Maud pulled out a fat
little book, marked "Polly's Journal," and spread it in her lap.

"Only the pictures; no harm in taking a look at 'em," said Tom.

"Just one peep," answered Fanny; and the next minute both were laughing
at a droll sketch of Tom in the gutter, with the big dog howling over
him, and the velocipede running away. Very rough and faulty, but so
funny, that it was evident Polly's sense of humor was strong. A few
pages farther back came Fanny and Mr. Frank, caricatured; then grandma,
carefully done; Tom reciting his battle-piece; Mr. Shaw and Polly in
the park; Maud being borne away by Katy; and all the school-girls turned
into ridicule with an unsparing hand.

"Sly little puss, to make fun of us behind our backs," said Fan, rather
nettled by Polly's quiet retaliation for many slights from herself and
friends.

"She does draw well," said Tom, looking critically at the sketch of a
boy with a pleasant face, round whom Polly had drawn rays like the sun,
and under which was written, "My dear Jimmy."

"You would n't admire her, if you knew what she wrote here about you,"
said Fanny, whose eyes had strayed to the written page opposite, and
lingered there long enough to read something that excited her curiosity.

"What is it?" asked Tom, forgetting his honorable resolves for a minute.

"She says, 'I try to like Tom, and when he is pleasant we do very well;
but he don't stay so long. He gets cross and rough, and disrespectful to
his father and mother, and plagues us girls, and is so horrid I almost
hate him. It 's very wrong, but I can't help it.' How do you like that?"
asked Fanny.

"Go ahead, and see how she comes down on you, ma'am," retorted Tom, who
had read on a bit.

"Does she?" And Fanny continued, rapidly: "As for Fan, I don't think
we can be friends any more; for she told her father a lie, and won't
forgive me for not doing so too. I used to think her a very fine girl;
but I don't now. If she would be as she was when I first knew her, I
should love her just the same; but she is n't kind to me; and though she
is always talking about politeness, I don't think it is polite to treat
company as she does me. She thinks I am odd and countrified, and I dare
say I am; but I should n't laugh at a girl's clothes because she was
poor, or keep her out of the way because she did n't do just as other
girls do here. I see her make fun of me, and I can't feel as I did; and
I 'd go home, only it would seem ungrateful to Mr. Shaw and grandma, and
I do love them dearly."

"I say, Fan, you 've got it now. Shut the book and come away," cried
Tom, enjoying this broadside immensely, but feeling guilty, as well he
might.

"Just one bit more," whispered Fanny, turning on a page or two, and
stopping at a leaf that was blurred here and there as if tears had
dropped on it.

"Sunday morning, early. Nobody is up to spoil my quiet time, and I must
write my journal, for I 've been so bad lately, I could n't bear to do
it. I 'm glad my visit is most done, for things worry me here, and there
is n't any one to help me get right when I get wrong. I used to envy
Fanny; but I don't now, for her father and mother don't take care of her
as mine do of me. She is afraid of her father, and makes her mother do
as she likes. I 'm glad I came though, for I see money don't give
people everything; but I 'd like a little all the same, for it is so
comfortable to buy nice things. I read over my journal just now, and
I 'm afraid it 's not a good one; for I have said all sorts of things
about the people here, and it is n't kind. I should tear it out, only I
promised to keep my diary, and I want to talk over things that puzzle me
with mother. I see now that it is my fault a good deal; for I have n't
been half as patient, and pleasant as I ought to be. I will truly try
for the rest of the time, and be as good and grateful as I can; for I
want them to like me, though I 'm only 'an old-fashioned country girl.'"

That last sentence made Fanny shut the book, with a face full of
self-reproach; for she had said those words herself, in a fit of
petulance, and Polly had made no answer, though her eyes filled and her
cheeks burned. Fan opened her lips to say something, but not a sound
followed, for there stood Polly looking at them with an expression they
had never seen before.

"What are you doing with my things?" she demanded, in a low tone, while
her eyes kindled and her color changed.

"Maud showed us a book she found, and we were just looking at the
pictures," began Fanny, dropping it as if it burnt her fingers.

"And reading my journal, and laughing at my presents, and then putting
the blame on Maud. It 's the meanest thing I ever saw; and I 'll never
forgive you as long as I live!"

Polly said, this all in one indignant breath, and then as if afraid
of saying too much, ran out of the room with such a look of mingled
contempt, grief, and anger, that the three culprits stood dumb with
shame. Tom had n't even a whistle at his command; Maud was so scared at
gentle Polly's outbreak, that she sat as still as a mouse; while
Fanny, conscience stricken, laid back the poor little presents with a
respectful hand, for somehow the thought of Polly's poverty came over
her as it never had done before; and these odds and ends, so carefully
treasured up for those at home, touched Fanny, and grew beautiful in her
eyes. As she laid by the little book, the confessions in it reproached
her more sharply that any words Polly could have spoken; for she had
laughed at her friend, had slighted her sometimes, and been unforgiving
for an innocent offence. That last page, where Polly took the blame on
herself, and promised to "truly try" to be more kind and patient, went
to Fanny's heart, melting all the coldness away, and she could only lay
her head on the trunk, sobbing, "It was n't Polly's fault; it was all
mine."

Tom, still red with shame at being caught in such a scrape, left Fanny
to her tears, and went manfully away to find the injured Polly, and
confess his manifold transgressions. But Polly could n't be found. He
searched high and low in every room, yet no sign of the girt appeared,
and Tom began to get anxious. "She can't have run away home, can she?"
he said to himself, as he paused before the hat-tree. There was the
little round hat, and Tom gave it a remorseful smooth, remembering how
many times he had tweaked it half off, or poked it over poor Polly's
eyes. "Maybe she 's gone down to the office, to tell pa. 'T is n't a bit
like her, though. Anyway, I 'll take a look round the corner."

Eager to get his boots, Tom pulled open the door of a dark closet under
the stairs, and nearly tumbled over backward with surprise; for there,
on the floor, with her head pillowed on a pair of rubbers, lay Polly
in an attitude of despair. This mournful spectacle sent Tom's penitent
speech straight out of his head, and with an astonished "Hullo!" he
stood and stared in impressive silence. Polly was n't crying, and lay
so still, that Tom began to think she might be in a fit or a faint,
and bent anxiously down to inspect the pathetic bunch. A glimpse of wet
eyelashes, a round cheek redder than usual, and lips parted by quick,
breathing, relieved his mind upon that point; so, taking courage, he sat
down on the boot-jack, and begged pardon like a man.

Now, Polly was very angry, and I think she had a right to be; but she
was not resentful, and after the first flash was over, she soon began to
feel better about it. It was n't easy to forgive; but, as she listened
to Tom's honest voice, getting gruff with remorse now and then, she
could n't harden her heart against him, or refuse to make up when he so
frankly owned that it "was confounded mean to read her book that way."
She liked his coming and begging pardon at once; it was a handsome thing
to do; she appreciated it, and forgave him in her heart some time before
she did with her lips; for, to tell the truth, Polly had a spice of
girlish malice, and rather liked to see domineering Tom eat humble-pie,
just enough to do him good, you know. She felt that atonement was
proper, and considered it no more than just that Fan should drench a
handkerchief or two with repentant tears, and that Tom should sit on
a very uncomfortable seat and call himself hard names for five or ten
minutes before she relented.

"Come, now, do say a word to a fellow. I 'm getting the worst of it,
anyway; for there 's Fan, crying her eyes out upstairs, and here are
you stowed away in a dark closet as dumb as a fish, and nobody but me to
bring you both round. I 'd have cut over to the Smythes and got ma home
to fix things, only it looked like backing out of the scrape; so I did
n't," said Tom, as a last appeal.

Polly was glad to hear that Fan was crying. It would do her good; but
she could n't help softening to Tom, who did seem in a predicament
between two weeping damsels. A little smile began to dimple the cheek
that was n't hidden, and then a hand came slowly out from under the
curly head, and was stretched toward him silently. Tom was just going
to give it a hearty shake, when he saw a red mark on the wrist, and knew
what made it. His face changed, and he took the chubby hand so gently,
that Polly peeped to see what it meant.

"Will you forgive that, too?" he asked, in a whisper, stroking the red
wrist.

"Yes, it don't hurt much now." And Polly drew her hand away, sorry he
had seen it.

"I was a beast, that 's what I was!" said Tom, in a tone of great
disgust. And just at that awkward minute down tumbled his father's
old beaver over his head and face, putting a comical quencher on his
self-reproaches. Of course, neither could help laughing at that; and
when he emerged, Polly was sitting up, looking as much better for her
shower as he did for his momentary eclipse.

"Fan feels dreadfully. Will you kiss and be friends, if I trot her
down?" asked Tom, remembering his fellow-sinner.

"I 'll go to her." And Polly whisked out of the closet as suddenly as
she had whisked in, leaving Tom sitting on the boot-jack, with a radiant
countenance.

How the girls made it up no one ever knew. But after much talking and
crying, kissing and laughing, the breach was healed, and peace declared.
A slight haze still lingered in the air after the storm, for Fanny
was very humble and tender that evening; Tom a trifle pensive, but
distressingly polite, and Polly magnanimously friendly to every one; for
generous natures like to forgive, and Polly enjoyed the petting after
the insult, like a very human girl.

As she was brushing her hair at bedtime there came a tap on her door
and, opening it, she beheld nothing but a tall black bottle, with a
strip of red flannel tied round it like a cravat, and a cocked-hat note
on the cork. Inside were these lines, written in a sprawling hand with
very black ink:

DEAR POLLY, Opydilldock is first-rate for sprains. You put a lot on the
flannel and do up your wrist, and I guess it will be all right in the
morning. Will you come a sleigh-ride tomorrow? I 'm awful sorry I hurt
you.

TOM


CHAPTER VI. GRANDMA


"WHERE 'S Polly?" asked Fan one snowy afternoon, as she came into the
dining-room where Tom was reposing on the sofa with his boots in the
air, absorbed in one of those delightful books in which boys are cast
away on desert islands, where every known fruit, vegetable and flower
is in its prime all the year round; or, lost in boundless forests, where
the young heroes have thrilling adventures, kill impossible beasts, and,
when the author's invention gives out, suddenly find their way home,
laden with tiger skins, tame buffaloes and other pleasing trophies of
their prowess.

"Dun no," was Tom's brief reply, for he was just escaping from an
alligator of the largest size.

"Do put down that stupid book, and let 's do something," said Fanny,
after a listless stroll round the room.

"Hi, they 've got him!" was the only answer vouchsafed by the absorbed
reader.

"Where 's Polly?" asked Maud, joining the party with her hands full of
paper dolls all suffering for ball-dresses.

"Do get along, and don't bother me," cried Tom exasperated at the
interruption.

"Then tell us where she is. I 'm sure you know, for she was down here a
little while ago," said Fanny.

"Up in grandma's room, maybe."

"Provoking thing! you knew it all the time, and did n't tell, just to
plague us," scolded Maud.

But Tom was now under water stabbing his alligator, and took no notice
of the indignant departure of the young ladies.

"Polly 's always poking up in grandma's room. I don't see what fun there
is in it," said Fanny as they went up stairs.

"Polly 's a verwy queer girl, and gwandma pets her a gweat deal more
than she does me," observed Maud, with an injured air.

"Let 's peek and see what they are doing," whispered Fan, pausing at the
half-open door.

Grandma was sitting before a quaint old cabinet, the doors of which
stood wide open, showing glimpses of the faded relics treasured there.
On a stool, at the old lady's feet, sat Polly, looking up with intent
face and eager eyes, quite absorbed in the history of a high-heeled
brocade shoe which lay in her lap.

"Well, my dear," grandma was saying, "she had it on the very day that
Uncle Joe came in as she sat at work, and said, 'Dolly, we must be
married at once.' 'Very well, Joe,' says Aunt Dolly, and down she went
to the parlor, where the minister was waiting, never stopping to change
the dimity dress she wore, and was actually married with her scissors
and pin-ball at her side, and her thimble on. That was in war times,
1812, my dear, and Uncle Joe was in the army, so he had to go, and he
took that very little pin-ball with him. Here it is with the mark of
a bullet through it, for he always said his Dolly's cushion saved his
life."

"How interesting that is!" cried Polly, as she examined the faded
cushion with the hole in it.

"Why, grandma, you never told me that story," said Fanny, hurrying in,
finding the prospect was a pleasant one for a stormy afternoon.

"You never asked me to tell you anything, my dear, so I kept my old
stories to myself," answered grandma, quietly.

"Tell some now, please. May we stay and see the funny things?" said Fan
and Maud, eyeing the open cabinet with interest.

"If Polly likes; she is my company, and I am trying to entertain
her, for I love to have her come," said grandma, with her old-time
politeness.

"Oh, yes! do let them stay and hear the stories. I 've often told them
what good times we have up here, and teased them to come, but they think
it 's too quiet. Now, sit down, girls, and let grandma go on. You see I
pick out something in the cabinet that looks interesting, and then
she tells me about it," said Polly, eager to include the girls in her
pleasures, and glad to get them interested in grandma's reminiscences,
for Polly knew how happy it made the lonely old lady to live over her
past, and to have the children round her.

"Here are three drawers that have not been opened yet; each take one,
and choose something from it for me to tell about," said Madam, quite
excited at the unusual interest in her treasures.

So the girls each opened a drawer and turned over the contents till they
found something they wanted to know about. Maud was ready first, and
holding up an oddly shaped linen bag, with a big blue F embroidered on
it, demanded her story. Grandma smiled as she smoothed the old thing
tenderly, and began her story with evident pleasure.

"My sister Nelly and I went to visit an aunt of ours, when we were
little girls, but we did n't have a very good time, for she was
extremely strict. One afternoon, when she had gone out to tea, and old
Debby, the maid, was asleep in her room, we sat on the doorstep, feeling
homesick, and ready for any thing to amuse us.

"'What shall we do?' said Nelly.

"Just as she spoke, a ripe plum dropped bounce on the grass before us,
as if answering her question. It was all the plum's fault, for if it
had n't fallen at that minute, I never should have had the thought which
popped into my mischievous mind.

"'Let 's have as many as we want, and plague Aunt Betsey, to pay her for
being so cross,' I said, giving Nelly half the great purple plum.

"'It would be dreadful naughty,' began Nelly, 'but I guess we will,' she
added, as the sweet mouthful slipped down her throat.

"'Debby 's asleep. Come on, then, and help me shake,' I said, getting
up, eager for the fun.

"We shook and shook till we got red in the face, but not one dropped,
for the tree was large, and our little arms were not strong enough
to stir the boughs. Then we threw stones, but only one green and one
half-ripe one came down, and my last stone broke the shed window, so
there was an end of that.

"'It 's as provoking as Aunt Betsey herself,' said Nelly, as we sat
down, out of breath.

"'I wish the wind would come and blow 'em down for us,' panted I,
staring up at the plums with longing eyes.

"'If wishing would do any good, I should wish 'em in my lap at once,'
added Nelly.

"'You might as well wish 'em in your mouth and done with it, if you are
too lazy to pick 'em up. If the ladder was n't too heavy we could try
that,' said I, determined to have them.

"'You know we can't stir it, so what is the use of talking about it? You
proposed getting the plums, now let 's see you do it,' answered Nelly,
rather crossly, for she had bitten the green plum, and it puckered her
mouth.

"'Wait a minute, and you will see me do it,' cried I, as a new thought
came into my naughty head.

"'What are you taking your shoes and socks off for? You can't climb the
tree, Fan.'" 'Don't ask questions, but be ready to pick 'em up when they
fall, Miss Lazybones.' "With this mysterious speech I pattered into
the house bare-footed and full of my plan. Up stairs I went to a window
opening on the shed roof. Out I got, and creeping carefully along till
I came near the tree, I stood up, and suddenly crowed like the little
rooster. Nelly looked up, and stared, and laughed, and clapped her hands
when she saw what I was going to do.

"'I 'm afraid you 'll slip and get hurt.'" 'Don't care if I do; I 'll
have those plums if I break my neck doing it,' and half sliding, half
walking I went down the sloping roof, till the boughs of the tree were
within my reach.

"Hurrah!" cried Nelly, dancing down below, as my first shake sent a
dozen plums rattling round her.

"'Hurrah!" cried I, letting go one branch and trying to reach another.
But as I did so my foot slipped, I tried to catch something to hold by,
but found nothing, and with a cry, down I fell, like a very big plum on
the grass below.

"Fortunately the shed was low, the grass was thick and the tree broke my
fall, but I got a bad bump and a terrible shaking. Nelly thought I was
killed, and began to cry with her mouth full. But I picked myself up in
a minute, for I was used to such tumbles; and did n't mind the pain half
as much as the loss of the plums.

"'Hush! Debby will hear and spoil all the fun. I said I 'd get 'em and I
have. See what lots have come down with me.'" So there had, for my fall
shook the tree almost as much as it did me, and the green and purple
fruit lay all about us.

"By the time the bump on my forehead had swelled as big as a nut, our
aprons were half full, and we sat down to enjoy ourselves. But we did
n't. O dear, no! for many of the plums were not ripe, some were hurt by
the birds, some crushed in falling, and many as hard as stones. Nelly
got stung by a wasp, my head began to ache, and we sat looking at one
another rather dismally, when Nelly had a bright idea.

"'Let 's cook 'em, then they 'll be good, and we can put some away in
our little pails for to-morrow.'" 'That will be splendid! There 's a
fire in the kitchen, Debby always leaves the kettle on, and we can use
her saucepan, and I know where the sugar is, and we 'll have a grand
time.' "In we went, and fell to work very quietly. It was a large,
open fire-place, with the coals nicely covered up, and the big kettle
simmering on the hook. We raked open the fire, put on the saucepan, and
in it the best of our plums, with water enough to spoil them. But we did
n't know that, and felt very important as we sat waiting for it to boil,
each armed with a big spoon, while the sugar box stood between us ready
to be used.

"How slow they were, to be sure! I never knew such obstinate things, for
they would n't soften, though they danced about in the boiling water,
and bobbed against the cover as if they were doing their best.

"The sun began to get low, we were afraid Debby would come down, and
still those dreadful plums would n't look like sauce. At last they began
to burst, the water got a lovely purple, we put lots of sugar in, and
kept tasting till our aprons and faces were red, and our lips burnt with
the hot spoons.

"'There 's too much juice,' said Nelly, shaking her head wisely. 'It
ought to be thick and nice like mamma's.' "'I 'll pour off some of the
juice, and we can drink it,' said I, feeling that I 'd made a mistake in
my cooking.

"So Nelly got a bowl, and I got a towel and lifted the big saucepan
carefully off. It was heavy and hot, and I was a little afraid of it,
but did n't like to say so. Just as I began to pour, Debby suddenly
called from the top of the stairs, 'Children, what under the sun are you
doing?' It startled us both. Nelly dropped the bowl and ran. I dropped
the saucepan and did n't run, for a part of the hot juice splashed upon
my bare feet, and ankles, and made me scream with dreadful pain.

"Down rushed Debby to find me dancing about the kitchen with a great
bump on my forehead, a big spoon in my hand, and a pair of bright purple
feet. The plums were lying all over the hearth, the saucepan in the
middle of the room, the basin was broken, and the sugar swimming about
as if the bowl had turned itself over trying to sweeten our mess for us.

"Debby was very good to me, for she never stopped to scold, but laid
me down on the old sofa, and bound up my poor little feet with oil and
cotton wool. Nelly, seeing me lie white and weak, thought I was dying,
and went over to the neighbor's for Aunt Betsey, and burst in upon the
old ladies sitting primly at, their tea, crying, distractedly, 'Oh, Aunt
Betsey, come quick! for the saucepan fell off the shed, and Fan's feet
are all boiled purple!' Nobody laughed at this funny message, and Aunt
Betsey ran all the way home with a muffin in her hand and her ball in
her pocket, though the knitting was left behind.

"I suffered a great deal, but I was n't sorry afterward, for I learned
to love Aunt Betsey, who nursed me tenderly, and seemed to forget her
strict ways in her anxiety for me.

"This bag was made for my special comfort, and hung on the sofa where I
lay all those weary days. Aunt kept it full of pretty patchwork or, what
I liked better, ginger-nuts, and peppermint drops, to amuse me, though
she did n't approve of cosseting children up, any more than I do now."

"I like that vewy well, and I wish I could have been there," was Maud's
condescending remark, as she put back the little bag, after a careful
peep inside, as if she hoped to find an ancient ginger-nut, or a
well-preserved peppermint drop still lingering in some corner.

"We had plums enough that autumn, but did n't seem to care much about
them, after all, for our prank became a household joke, and, for years,
we never saw the fruit, but Nelly would look at me with a funny face,
and whisper, 'Purple stockings, Fan!'"

"Thank you, ma'am," said Polly. "Now, Fan, your turn next."

"Well, I 've a bundle of old letters, and I 'd like to know if there
is any story about them," answered Fanny, hoping some romance might be
forthcoming.

Grandma turned over the little packet tied up with a faded pink ribbon;
a dozen yellow notes written on rough, thick paper, with red wafers
still adhering to the folds, showing plainly that they were written
before the day of initial note-paper and self-sealing envelopes.

"They are not love-letters, deary, but notes from my mates after I left
Miss Cotton's boarding-school. I don't think there is any story about
them," and grandma turned them over with spectacles before the dim eyes,
so young and bright when they first read the very same notes.

Fanny was about to say, "I 'll choose again," when grandma began to
laugh so heartily that the girls felt sure she had caught some merry old
memory which would amuse them.

"Bless my heart, I have n't thought of that frolic this forty years.
Poor, dear, giddy Sally Pomroy, and she 's a great-grandmother now!"
cried the old lady, after reading one of the notes, and clearing the
mist off her glasses.

"Now, please tell about her; I know it 's something funny to make you
laugh so," said Polly and Fan together.

"Well, it was droll, and I 'm glad I remembered it for it 's just the
story to tell you young things.

"It was years ago," began grandma, briskly, "and teachers were very much
stricter than they are now. The girls at Miss Cotton's were not allowed
lights in their rooms after nine o'clock, never went out alone, and were
expected to behave like models of propriety from morning till night.

"As you may imagine, ten young girls, full of spirits and fun, found
these rules hard to keep, and made up for good behavior in public by all
sorts of frolics in private.

"Miss Cotton and her brother sat in the back parlor after school was
over, and the young ladies were sent to bed. "That was what I was at
when you saw me."
"I thought you were digging up primroses."
"Digging up grandmothers!

I was letting in a pipe to drain it. It was a rare job to shove it in
from the bottom corner of the pond through the bank into the shrubbery.
But I managed it.

It was coming through like one o'clock when I left. I expect the pond
will be empty by this time."
I quailed with horror.

If so, I should be discovered. I was tempted to turn tail: but that would
be even worse. The only thing was to stay and see it through.

I confronted myself with the reflection that Dicky's experiments so rarely
succeeded, that in all probability the pistol still lay safe under
four feet of water.

If not--
"Hooray!" exclaimed Dicky, as we came in sight of the place;
"it's done the trick this time. See, Tom!"
I did see. In place of the water I left there in the morning was a large
empty basin of mud, with a few large puddles of water lying at the
bottom, and a few hillocks of mud denoting the places which had
once been shallows.

My quick eye hurriedly took in the dismal landscape. For a moment my
spirits rose, for I could nowhere discern the compromising object I dreaded
to see. It was no doubt buried in the mud, and as safe as if the pond
were full to the brim.

"Isn't it ripping?" said Dicky. "It wasn't easy to do, but it only wanted
a little management. I mean to go in for engineer-- Hullo, what's that
rummy stone out there?

or is it a stone, or a fish, or-- I say, Tom," he added, clutching my
arm, "I'm bothered if that's not a pistol!"

My white face and chattering teeth made reply unnecessary. There,
snugly perched on a little heap of stones, as if set up for inspection,
lay the unlucky pistol, gleaming in the afternoon sun.

Dicky looked first at the pistol, then at me; and began slowly to take
in the state of affairs.

He took a cautious step out in the mud in the direction of the weapon,
but came back.

"I thought you could hardly be chucking in all those things for fun," said
he presently.

I stood gaping in an imbecile way, and said nothing.

"I know whose it is. He had it up here once before."
"I say," gulped I, "can't you let the water in again?" Dick had not
considered this.

His triumph had been letting the water out. However, he would see
what could be done.

We went down into the shrubbery. About a foot of water lay on the
ground, promising great fertility some day, but decidedly muddy-looking
to-day.

"The thing will be to bung up the hole first," said Dicky.

So we set to work to hammer up the end of the zinc pipe and stuff the
aperture round with sods and stones. I even sacrificed my cap to the
good cause.

The bell began to ring before we had well completed the task. "That ought
to keep any more from running out," said Dicky. "If we're lucky, the
water will come in on its own hook at the other end."
The theory was not exactly scientific, for scientific men do not
believe in luck.

Still, it was the best we could think of as we turned to go.

"Stop a bit," said I, as we were leaving. "May as well tidy up a bit in
there before we go, eh?"

"In there" was the bed of the pond.

"It might look better," said Dick, turning up his trousers. We decently
interred the pistol in the mud, and raised a small heap of stones
to keep it down; and then cautiously obliterating our footsteps in
the mud, we made for _terra firma_, and scuttled back to school as
fast as our legs would carry us.

Fortunately we entered unobserved, and disencumbered ourselves of our
muddy boots without attracting attention to their condition. Ten
minutes later we were deep in our work in the big schoolroom.

Preparation that night was a solemn and gloomy ceremony. Dicky and I kept
catching one another's eyes, and then glancing on to where the Dux,
cool as a cucumber, sat turning over the leaves of his lexicon.

"He's got a cheek of his own, has Dux," said I to myself.

"If I didn't know it was him," signalled the ungrammatical Dicky across
the room, "I should never have believed it."
"You may make as many faces as you like at young Brown," glared
Tempest at me, "but if I catch you making any more at me, your
mother will need some extra pocket-handkerchiefs."

"Jones," observed Dr Plummer aloud, "a double _poena_ for aggravated
inattention."

All right. I was getting pretty full up with engagements for one day, and
began to think bed-time would be rather a relief.

It came at last. In the dormitory Ramsbottom successfully interfered with
conversation by patrolling the chamber until the boys were asleep.
No one doubted that he had been set to the task by the head master,
and it augured rather badly for the resumption of the inquest next
day.

However, even patrols go to sleep sometimes, and when I woke early
next morning the usher had vanished to his own chamber.

My first thought was not Hector, or the doctor, or my _poenas_, or
the Dux, but the pond.

How, I wondered, was it getting on?

I routed up Dicky, and very quietly we dressed and slipped out.

I knew that my early rising, if it were discovered, would probably be set
down to my zeal for discharging impositions.

But even they must wait now till we were sure about the pond.

For Dicky and I stood liable to as big a row as the assassin of
Hector himself if anything went wrong with our experiment in
engineering.

Luckily very few fellows haunted this particularly muddy corner of the
grounds, and now that Hector was above a daily bath, there was
little chance of Plummer himself discovering the remarkably low
tide on his premises--still less of his poking about among the
stones in the bed of the pool.

To our great relief we found that our dam at the foot was holding out
bravely, and that comparatively little water was trickling through the
bank into the shrubbery. The flow at the upper end, however, was
distressingly small, and though a whole night had passed we could
still see the heap of stones under which the pistol was buried
rising up from the shallow puddles around it, inviting investigation.

With astounding industry we worked away that morning, widening and
deepening the little channel along which the rivulet made its way
to the pond.

And before we had done we had the satisfaction of seeing a fairly brisk
inflow. We would fain have waited to see the fatal little island disappear
below the surface. But the first bell was already an sounding when the
water completed the circle, leaving it standing up more prominent
than ever.

To our horror, at this precise moment Tempest strolled down.

"Hullo! what are you two after? Fishing?

One way to catch them, letting all the water out."
"It was an experiment," said Dicky, who, like myself, was very pale
as he looked first at the Dux, then at the guilty hillock in the
pond.

"So it seems. In other words, you're making a jolly mess, and are enjoying
yourselves. I hope you'll enjoy it equally, both of you, when Hummer
sees what you've done."
"Shall you tell him?" I asked, somewhat breathlessly. The Dux laughed
scornfully.

"You deserve a hiding for asking such a thing. Come here! Jump out on
to that little island there, and stay there till I tell you."

"Oh, Dux, please not," said I, in a tone of terror, which was quite out
of proportion to the penalty. The pistol was only two inches below the
surface!

"Do you hear?

Look sharp, or I'll chuck you there."
That might be worse. It might hurt me and cut up the soil. So I jumped
gingerly out, and stood poised with a foot in the water on either side,
dreading at any moment to see the stones slip and the tell-tale
gleam of the buried weapon.

"If you don't stand properly," said the Dux, "I'll make you sit down.
Come along, young Brown, it's time we went up to school."
"How long am I to stay, please?" I inquired.

"Till you're in water up to the knees," said the Dux, as he turned
away, with the faithless Dicky beside him.

Up to the knees! I stood loyally for five minutes, during which the
water gained about an eighth of an inch up my ankles.

Then the second bell rang, and things became desperate.

Accordingly I knelt in the water until I could confidently assert
that I was wet, very wet indeed, up to the knees; which done, I
posted as fast as my ill-used legs would carry me to morning
school.

CHAPTER THREE.

"WHEN SHALL WE THREE MEET AGAIN?"
Once more Dr Plummer reserved himself for the afternoon.

Perhaps it was the haunting tyranny of the defunct Hector; perhaps
it was pique at being baffled, so far, in finding the culprit;
whatever may have been the reason, he was in an ominously uncompromising
mood when at last he returned to the fateful question.

"Come up, the first boy," said he abruptly.

The Dux was evidently getting tired of all this business (and no
wonder, it seemed to me), and obeyed the summons not in the best
of humours.

"Tempest," said the doctor, "I repeat my question of yesterday. Do you
know anything whatever of this matter?"

"No, sir--I said so," replied the Dux, in a clear voice.

Dr Plummer scowled somewhat at this tart reply. He rather liked his head
boy, and was not prepared to find him, of all others, recalcitrant.

"I do not ask what you said, sir; I ask what you say," said he.

"I said No. I'm not a liar," replied the Dux rather fiercely.

The doctor received this rather more meekly than most of us expected,
and proceeded with his next question.

"Have you the slightest reason to suspect any one of having done it, or
of knowing anything about it?"
Tempest remained silent, with flushed and angry face.

"Do you hear me, sir?" asked the doctor, now thoroughly roused.

"Yes, sir."
"Then why don't you answer at once?"
"I would not answer the question if I could," said the Dux defiantly.

Dr Plummer stared at the boy as if he had been a wild beast.

"How dare you say such a thing to me?" he demanded. "You heard my
question. Have you the slightest grounds for suspecting any one?"
The Dux bit his lips and remained silent.

"Do you hear, Tempest?"
No reply.

"Go to your seat, sir. I will speak to you presently."
Tempest obeyed, with head erect and a red spot on either cheek.

We gazed at him in amazement. We had always given him credit for
hardihood, but we had never believed him capable of mutiny of this kind;
especially--
"Seems to me," whispered Dicky, "he might as well tell right away.

He'll get expelled either way. Anyhow--"
"Brown, come forward."

Dicky started as if he had been detected in the act of holding a
pistol to Hector's head. He was not in the least prepared to be
summoned thus out of his turn; and morally he went to pieces as he rose
to obey.

"Mum's the word!" whispered I, encouragingly, as he started for the
front.

The doctor was on the alert with a vengeance to-day!

"Jones, come forward too," said he.

It was my turn to jump now.

"Now, sir, what was that you said to Brown just now?"
My back went up instinctively at his tone.

"I said, 'Mum's the word,'" I replied as doggedly as I could.

The doctor changed colour. This was getting serious. He had no
precedents for such a case at Dangerfield, and for a moment was
evidently at a loss how to proceed.

Perhaps he regretted for once in a way the policy of believing a boy
guilty till he can prove himself innocent. Whether he did or no, it was
too late to surrender it now.

"Go to your seat, Jones; I shall deal with you presently."
I marched off, with all the blood of the Joneses tingling in my
veins.

The ingenuous Dicky was left to his ordeal single-handed.

"Now, Brown," said the doctor, "you have heard the question, to which
I mean to have an answer--and I caution you before I repeat it, to be
careful--I shall know what interpretation to put on any attempt to
prevaricate. Tell me, Brown, do you know anything at all of this matter,
or have you grounds for suspecting any one of being concerned in
it?"
Dicky shut his mouth with a snap, and looked as if he wished devoutly
some one could turn a key on it and keep it so.

"Speak, sir," said the doctor, coming down from his desk.

By one of those strange freaks of perversity which are so hard to
account for, Dicky's spirits went up higher every moment, and when
the doctor stood over him and repeated the question a third time,
he almost, I believe, enjoyed himself.

He had never imagined courage was so easy.

To his surprise Dr Plummer did not strike, but returned quietly to
his desk.

"Brown," said he, "you may go. Tell the housekeeper to pack your box
in time for the early train to-morrow."
"What!" exclaimed poor old Dick, fairly electrified into speech; "am
I expelled, sir?"

"You will be unless you speak at once. I give you a last chance."
Dicky looked up at the doctor, then down at the floor.

I knew the struggle in his mind: the thought of his people at home, of
the disgrace of being expelled, of the suspicions he would leave
behind. Then I could see him steal a doubtful glance at the Dux and
at me, and then pass his eye along the rows of faces eagerly waiting for
his decision.

Then he held up his head, and I knew dear old Dicky was as sound as
a bell. No one had the right to make him turn sneak--and no one
should do it! "I'll go and pack," said he quietly, and turned to the
door.

Neither the Dux nor I saw the last of poor Dicky Brown at Dangerfield.

We were otherwise engaged when he departed home in a four-wheeled cab
in charge of Mr Ramsbottom that evening. We were, in point of fact, in
durance vile ourselves, with every prospect of speedily requiring the
services of two more four-wheeled cabmen on our own accounts.

The Dux's fury at Dicky's summary expulsion had been quite a surprise even
to me.

"It's a shame," he had shouted as the door closed; "a caddish shame!"

"Who said that?" asked Dr Plummer.

"I did. I say it's a caddish shame!"
"So do I!" yelled I at the top of my voice, and quite carried away by
the occasion.

This was getting very embarrassing for Plummer. Perhaps he behaved in the
best way open to him under the circumstances.

He ignored us both, and proceeded to call up Faulkner to answer
his precious questions.

Much depended on Faulkner then. If he had refused to answer, as the Dux
had done, and Brown had done, and others were prepared to do, Plummer
might have seen that his case was hopeless, and have given it up.

Faulkner was nothing like such a favourite with the head master as
Tempest, nor had he such a following among the boys. Still, he led his
party, and if he chose now to leave us in the lurch Plummer was saved
and we were lost.

"I know nothing of the matter, sir," said Faulkner, "and I have no reason
at all to suspect any one."
It sounded a simple answer, but it was rank treason. For it was as good
as saying Plummer had a right to ask these questions, and that he, Faulkner,
would inform if he only knew who the culprit was.

After that it was evident the game, the Dux's game and mine, was up.
Boy after boy was called up and interrogated, and one by one they
followed Faulkner in his submission. A few--like Graham junior--
attempted to hold out, but broke down under pressure. A few feebly
compromised by explaining that had they known the culprit they would not
have answered; but as they did not they saw no reason for not saying
so.

"It comes to this, then," said the doctor: "that out of the entire
school, three boys, and three only, are silent. The only conclusion
I can draw from their conduct is that they dare not deny that they
know something of this shameful outrage. Tempest, you are the head
boy. I have always looked on you as a credit to the school, and a
good example to your youngers. You see your present behaviour
involves trouble to others than yourself. I do not wish to be hasty
in this matter, and am willing to give you one more opportunity of
answering my question. Do you know anything of this affair, or have
you any grounds for suspecting any one of being connected with it?"

The Dux flushed with indignation, glared straight at the head master
by way of reply, and closed his lips.
"Very well, sir. Jones, I now repeat the question to you. You are
a little boy, and there is more excuse for you, as you were led
astray by the bad example of a senior. I caution you now to do as
the others have done, and give me a plain answer to a plain question.
Otherwise you must take the consequences."
I am afraid I blushed and looked far less determined than I would
have liked. But I did my best to glare back and tighten my lips
like the Dux.
"Very well. Tempest and Jones, go to my study and remain there till
I come."
We had not long to wait for our doom. The doctor was in the study
almost as soon as we.
We stood there while he wrote some letters and put away some books
on the shelves. Then he rang the bell, and handed the letters to
the servant to post. After that he sat in his chair for a quarter
of an hour in silence, evidently ruminating.
At last he deigned to notice our presence.
"Tempest," he said, "I am very grieved at this. I had hoped better
things of you. You know what the consequence must be to you?"
"I'm to be expelled, I know," said the Dux. "The sooner the better."

The doctor raised his eyebrows. There was no dealing with a reprobate
like this.
"I have written to your grandfather to say you will return home to-
morrow." 
"I'm sorry it's not to-night," said the Dux.
"And you, Jones," said the doctor to me, not heeding the last
speech,--"I am more sorry for you. You are a foolish, misguided
boy.
Even now, if you atone for your fault by replying to my questions,
I am willing to spare your mother the misery you seem bent on
bringing upon her."
This was a cruel thrust. The thought of my mother had crossed my
mind once or twice already, and almost brought the tears to my eyes.
It would be hard to explain all to her--and yet, and yet, anything
was better than turning sneak.
"I won't answer," said I. "I'd sooner be expelled."
"Your desire shall be gratified," said the doctor drily; "to-morrow
you will go too." 
"Thank you, sir."
"Tempest, you will remain here for the rest of the day--Jones, you
will go to the dormitory and remain there. I forbid you, either of
you, to hold any communication with your late schoolfellows while
you remain here."
Next morning after breakfast we were finally brought up before the
whole school and harangued publicly by the head master. Our punishment,
he told us, we had deliberately brought on our own heads. Aggravated
insubordination like ours was not to be tolerated in any school.
He was sure we should soon regret and be ashamed of our conduct,
if we were not so already. For his own part he would try to forget
the unfortunate affair, and to think kindly of us both. Mr Ramsbottom
would see Tempest to the station, and the matron would escort
me.

"Good-bye, Tempest," said he, holding out his hand.
"Good-bye," said the Dux, not heeding the hand, and walking to the
door.

"Good-bye, Jones."
I shook hands. After all, Plummer, I thought, meant to be kind,
though he took an odd way of showing it. I was thankful when the
ceremony was over, and the Dux and I found ourselves with our luggage
in the hall waiting for our cabs.Polly
motioned the others to be quiet, and no one spoke till the old lady,
with a long sigh, came back to the present, and went on.

"Well, as I was saying, the Governor wanted to give a breakfast to the
French officers, and Madam, who was a hospitable soul, got up a splendid
one for them. But by some mistake, or accident, it was discovered at the
last minute that there was no milk.

"A great deal was needed, and very little could be bought or borrowed,
so despair fell upon the cooks and maids, and the great breakfast would
have been a failure, if Madam, with the presence of mind of her sex, had
not suddenly bethought herself of the cows feeding on the Common.

"To be sure, they belonged to her neighbors, and there was no time to
ask leave, but it was a national affair; our allies must be fed; and
feeling sure that her patriotic friends would gladly lay their cows on
the altar of their country, Madam Hancock covered herself with glory,
by calmly issuing the command, 'Milk 'em!' It was done, to the great
astonishment of the cows, and the entire satisfaction of the guests,
among whom was Lafayette.

"This milking feat was such a good joke, that no one seems to have
remembered much about the great man, though one of his officers, a
count, signalized himself by getting very tipsy, and going to bed with
his boots and spurs on, which caused the destruction of aunt's best
yellow damask coverlet, for the restless sleeper kicked it into rags by
morning.

"Aunt valued it very much, even in its tattered condition, and kept it a
long while, as a memorial of her distinguished guests.

"The time when I saw Lafayette was in 1825, and there were no tipsy
counts then. Uncle Hancock (a sweet man, my dears, though some call him
mean now-a-days) was dead, and aunt had married Captain Scott.

"It was not at all the thing for her to do; however, that 's neither
here nor there. She was living in Federal Street at the time, a most
aristocratic street then, children, and we lived close by.

"Old Josiah Quincy was mayor of the city, and he sent aunt word that the
Marquis Lafayette wished to pay his respects to her.

"Of course she was delighted, and we all flew about to make ready for
him. Aunt was an old lady, but she made a grand toilet, and was as
anxious to look well as any girl."

"What did she wear?" asked Fan, with interest.

"She wore a steel-colored satin, trimmed with black lace, and on her cap
was pinned a Lafayette badge of white satin.

"I never shall forget how b-e-a-utifully she looked as she sat in state
on the front parlor sophy, right under a great portrait of her first
husband; and on either side of her sat Madam Storer and Madam Williams,
elegant to behold, in their stiff silks, rich lace, and stately turbans.
We don't see such splendid old ladies now-a-days."

"I think we do sometimes," said Polly, slyly.

Grandma shook her head, but it pleased her very much to be admired, for
she had been a beauty in her day.

"We girls had dressed the house with flowers; old Mr. Coolidge sent in a
clothes-basket full. Joe Joy provided the badges, and aunt got out some
of the Revolutionary wine from the old Beacon Street cellar.

"I wore my green and white palmyrine, my hair bowed high, the beautiful
leg-o'-mutton sleeves that were so becoming, and these very gloves.

"Well, by-and-by the General, escorted by the Mayor, drove up. Dear me,
I see him now! a little old man in nankeen trousers and vest, a long
blue coat and ruffled shirt, leaning on his cane, for he was lame, and
smiling and bowing like a true Frenchman.

"As he approached, the three old ladies rose, and courtesied with the
utmost dignity. Lafayette bowed first to the Governor's picture, then to
the Governor's widow, and kissed her hand.

"That was droll; for on the back of her glove was stamped Lafayette's
likeness, and the gallant old gentleman kissed his own face.

"Then some of the young ladies were presented, and, as if to escape any
further self-salutations, the marquis kissed the pretty girls on the
cheek.

"Yes, my dears, here is just the spot where the dear old man saluted me.
I 'm quite as proud of it now as I was then, for he was a brave, good
man, and helped us in our trouble.

"He did not stay long, but we were very merry, drinking his health,
receiving his compliments, and enjoying the honor he did us.

"Down in the street there was a crowd, of course, and when he left they
wanted to take out the horses and drag him home in triumph. But he did
n't wish it; and while that affair was being arranged, we girls had been
pelting him with the flowers which we tore from the vases, the walls,
and our own topknots, to scatter over him.

"He liked that, and laughed, and waved his hand to us, while we ran, and
pelted, and begged him to come again.

"We young folks quite lost our heads that night, and I have n't a very
clear idea of how I got home. The last thing I remember was hanging out
of the window with a flock of girls, watching the carriage roll away,
while the crowd cheered as if they were mad.

"Bless my heart, it seems as if I heard 'em now! 'Hurrah for Lafayette
and Mayor Quincy! Hurrah for Madam Hancock and the pretty girls! Hurrah
for Col. May!' 'Three cheers for Boston! Now, then! Hurrah! Hurrah!
Hurrah!'"

And here the old lady stopped, out of breath, with her cap askew, her
spectacles on the end of her nose, and her knitting much the worse for
being waved enthusiastically in the air, while she hung over the arm of
her chair, shrilly cheering an imaginary Lafayette. The girls clapped
their hands, and Tom hurrahed with all his might, saying, when he got
his breath, "Lafayette was a regular old trump; I always liked him."

"My dear! what a disrespectful way to speak of that great man," said
grandma, shocked at Young America's irreverence.

"Well, he was a trump, anyway, so why not call him one?" asked Tom,
feeling that the objectionable word was all that could be desired.

"What queer gloves you wore then," interrupted Fanny, who had been
trying on the much-honored glove, and finding it a tight fit.

"Much better and cheaper than we have now," returned grandma, ready
to defend "the good old times" against every insinuation. "You are an
extravagant set now-a-days, and I really don't know what you are coming
to. By the way, I 've got somewhere two letters written by two young
ladies, one in 1517, and the other in 1868. The contrast between the two
will amuse you, I think."

After a little search, grandma produced an old portfolio, and selecting
the papers, read the following letter, written by Anne Boleyn before
her marriage to Henry VIII, and now in the possession of a celebrated
antiquarian:

DEAR MARY, I have been in town almost a month, yet I cannot say I have
found anything in London extremely agreeable. We rise so late in the
morning, seldom before six o'clock, and sit up so late at night, being
scarcely in bed before ten, that I am quite sick of it; and was it not
for the abundance of fine things I am every day getting I should be
impatient of returning into the country.

My indulgent mother bought me, yesterday, at a merchant's in Cheapside,
three new shifts, that cost fourteen pence an ell, and I am to have a
pair of new stuff shoes, for my Lord of Norfolk's ball, which will be
three shillings.

The irregular life I have led since my coming to this place has quite
destroyed my appetite. You know I could manage a pound of bacon and a
tankard of good ale for my breakfast, in the country, but in London I
find it difficult to get through half the quantity, though I must own
I am generally eager enough for the dinner hour, which is here delayed
till twelve, in your polite society.

I played at hot cockles, last night, at my Lord of Leicester's. The Lord
of Surrey was there, a very elegant young man, who sung a song of
his own composition, on the "Lord of Kildare's Daughter." It was much
approved, and my brother whispered me that the fair Geraldine, for so my
Lord of Surrey calls his sweetheart, is the finest woman of the age. I
should be glad to see her, for I hear she is good as she is beautiful.

Pray take care of the poultry during my absence. Poor things! I always
fed them myself; and if Margery has knitted me the crimson worsted
mittens, I should be glad if they were sent up the first opportunity.

Adieu, dear Mary. I am just going to mass, and you shall speedily have
the prayers, as you have now the kindest love of your own ANNE BOLEYN.

"Up before six, and think it late to go to bed at ten! What a
countrified thing Anne must have been. Bacon and ale for breakfast, and
dinner at twelve; how very queer to live so!" cried Fanny. "Lord Surrey
and Lord Leicester sound fine, but hot cockles, and red mittens, and
shoes for three shillings, are horrid."

"I like it," said Polly, thoughtfully, "and I 'm glad poor Anne had a
little fun before her troubles began. May I copy that letter some time,
grandma?"

"Yes, dear, and welcome. Now, here 's the other, by a modern girl on her
first visit to London. This will suit you better, Fan," and grandma
read what a friend had sent her as a pendant to Anne's little picture of
London life long ago:

MY DEAREST CONSTANCE, After three months of intense excitement I snatch
a leisure moment to tell you how much I enjoy my first visit to London.
Having been educated abroad, it really seems like coming to a strange
city. At first the smoke, dirt and noise were very disagreeable, but
I soon got used to these things, and now find all I see perfectly
charming.

We plunged at once into a whirl of gayety and I have had no time to
think of anything but pleasure. It is the height of the season, and
every hour is engaged either in going to balls, concerts, theatres,
fetes and church, or in preparing for them. We often go to two or three
parties in an evening, and seldom get home till morning, so of course
we don't rise till noon next day. This leaves very little time for our
drives, shopping, and calls before dinner at eight, and then the evening
gayeties begin again.

At a ball at Lady Russell's last night, I saw the Prince of Wales, and
danced in the set with him. He is growing stout, and looks dissipated. I
was disappointed in him, for neither in appearance nor conversation was
he at all princely. I was introduced to a very brilliant and delightful
young gentleman from America. I was charmed with him, and rather
surprised to learn that he wrote the poems which were so much admired
last season, also that he is the son of a rich tailor. How odd these
Americans are, with their money, and talent, and independence!

O my dear, I must not forget to tell you the great event of my first
season. I am to be presented at the next Drawing Room! Think how
absorbed I must be in preparation for this grand affair. Mamma is
resolved that I shall do her credit, and we have spent the last two
weeks driving about from milliners to mantua-makers, from merchants to
jewellers. I am to wear white satin and plumes, pearls and roses. My
dress will cost a hundred pounds or more, and is very elegant.

My cousins and friends lavish lovely things upon me, and you will open
your unsophisticated eyes when I display my silks and laces, trinkets
and French hats, not to mention billet deux, photographs, and other
relics of a young belle's first season.

You ask if I ever think of home. I really have n't time, but I do
sometimes long a little for the quiet, the pure air and the girlish
amusements I used to enjoy so much. One gets pale, and old, and sadly
fagged out, with all this dissipation, pleasant as it is. I feel quite
blas, already.

If you could send me the rosy cheeks, bright eyes, and gay spirits I
always had at home, I 'd thank you. As you cannot do that, please send
me a bottle of June rain water, for my maid tells me it is better than
any cosmetic for the complexion, and mine is getting ruined by late
hours.

I fancy some fruit off our own trees would suit me, for I have no
appetite, and mamma is quite desolate about me. One cannot live on
French cookery without dyspepsia, and one can get nothing simple here,
for food, like everything else, is regulated by the fashion.

Adieu, ma chere, I must dress for church. I only wish you could see my
new hat and go with me, for Lord Rockingham promised to be there.

Adieu, yours eternally, FLORENCE.

"Yes, I do like that better, and I wish I had been in this girl's place,
don't you, Polly?" said Fan, as grandma took off her glasses.

"I should love to go to London, and have a good time, but I don't think
I should care about spending ever so much money, or going to Court.
Maybe I might when I got there, for I do like fun and splendor," added
honest Polly, feeling that pleasure was a very tempting thing.

"Grandma looks tired; let 's go and play in the dwying-woom," said Maud,
who found the conversation getting beyond her depth.

"Let us all kiss and thank grandma, for amusing us so nicely, before
we go," whispered Polly. Maud and Fanny agreed, and grandma looked so
gratified by their thanks, that Tom followed suit, merely waiting till
"those girls" were out of sight, to give the old lady a hearty hug, and
a kiss on the very cheek Lafayette had saluted.

When he reached the play-room Polly was sitting in the swing, saying,
very earnestly, "I always told you it was nice up in grandma's room, and
now you see it is. I wish you 'd go oftener; she admires to have you,
and likes to tell stories and do pleasant things, only she thinks you
don't care for her quiet sort of fun. I do, anyway, and I think she 's
the kindest, best old lady that ever lived, and I love her dearly!"

"I did n't say she was n't, only old people are sort of tedious and
fussy, so I keep out of their way," said Fanny.

"Well, you ought not to, and you miss lots of pleasant times. My mother
says we ought to be kind and patient and respectful to all old folks
just because they are old, and I always mean to be."

"Your mother 's everlastingly preaching," muttered Fan, nettled by the
consciousness of her own shortcomings with regard to grandma.

"She don't preach!" cried Polly, firing up like a flash; "she only
explains things to us, and helps us be good, and never scolds, and I
'd rather have her than any other mother in the world, though she don't
wear velvet cloaks and splendid bonnets, so now!"

"Go it, Polly!" called Tom, who was gracefully hanging head downward
from the bar put up for his special benefit.

"Polly 's mad! Polly 's mad!" sung Maud, skipping rope round the room.

"If Mr. Sydney could see you now he would n't think you such an angel
any more," added Fanny, tossing a bean-bag and her head at the same
time.

Polly was mad, her face was very red, her eyes very bright and her lips
twitched, but she held her tongue and began to swing as hard as she
could, fearing to say something she would be sorry for afterward. For a
few minutes no one spoke, Tom whistled and Maud hummed but Fan and Polly
were each soberly thinking of something, for they had reached an
age when children, girls especially, begin to observe, contrast, and
speculate upon the words, acts, manners, and looks of those about them.
A good deal of thinking goes on in the heads of these shrewd little
folks, and the elders should mind their ways, for they get criticised
pretty sharply and imitated very closely.

Two little things had happened that day, and the influence of a few
words, a careless action, was still working in the active minds of the
girls.

Mr. Sydney had called, and while Fanny was talking with him she saw his
eye rest on Polly, who sat apart watching the faces round her with the
modest, intelligent look which many found so attractive. At that minute
Madam Shaw came in, and stopped to speak to the little girl. Polly rose
at once, and remained standing till the old lady passed on.

"Are you laughing at Polly's prim ways?" Fanny had asked, as she saw Mr.
Sydney smile.

"No, I am admiring Miss Polly's fine manners," he answered in a grave,
respectful tone, which had impressed Fanny very much, for Mr. Sydney
was considered by all the girls as a model of good breeding, and that
indescribable something which they called "elegance."

Fanny wished she had done that little thing, and won that approving
look, for she valued the young man's good opinion, because it was
so hard to win, by her set at least. So, when Polly talked about old
people, it recalled this scene and made Fan cross.

Polly was remembering how, when Mrs. Shaw came home that day in her fine
visiting costume, and Maud ran to welcome her with unusual affection,
she gathered up her lustrous silk and pushed the little girl away
saying, impatiently, "Don't touch me, child, your hands are dirty."
Then the thought had come to Polly that the velvet cloak did n't cover
a right motherly heart, that the fretful face under the nodding purple
plumes was not a tender motherly face, and that the hands in the
delicate primrose gloves had put away something very sweet and precious.
She thought of another woman, whose dress never was too fine for little
wet cheeks to lie against, or loving little arms to press; whose face,
in spite of many lines and the gray hairs above it, was never sour or
unsympathetic when children's eyes turned towards it; and whose hands
never were too busy, too full or too nice to welcome and serve the
little sons and daughters who freely brought their small hopes and
fears, sins and sorrows, to her, who dealt out justice and mercy with
such wise love. "Ah, that 's a mother!" thought Polly, as the memory
came warm into her heart, making her feel very rich, and pity Maud for
being so poor.

This it was that caused such sudden indignation at Fanny's dreadful
speech, and this it was that made quick-tempered Polly try to calm her
wrath before she used toward Fanny's mother the disrespectful tone she
so resented toward her own. As the swing came down after some dozen
quick journeys to and fro, Polly seemed to have found a smile somewhere
up aloft, for she looked toward Fan, saying pleasantly, as she paused
a little in her airy exercise, "I 'm not mad now, shall I come and toss
with you?"

"No, I 'll come and swing with you," answered Fanny, quick to feel the
generous spirit of her friend.

"You are an angel, and I 'll never be so rude again," she added, as
Polly's arm came round her, and half the seat was gladly offered.

"No, I ain't; but if I ever get at all like one, it will be 'mother's
preaching' that did it," said Polly, with a happy laugh.

"Good for you, Polly Peacemaker," cried Tom, quoting his father, and
giving them a grand push as the most appropriate way of expressing his
approbation of the sentiment.

Nothing more was said; but from that day there slowly crept into the
family more respect for grandma, more forbearance with her infirmities,
more interest in her little stories, and many a pleasant gossip did the
dear old lady enjoy with the children as they gathered round her fire,
solitary so long.


CHAPTER VII. GOOD-BY


"OH, dear! Must you really go home Saturday?" said Fan, some days after
what Tom called the "grand scrimmage."

"I really must; for I only came to stay a month and here I 've been
nearly six weeks," answered Polly, feeling as if she had been absent a
year.

"Make it two months and stay over Christmas. Come, do, now," urged Tom,
heartily.

"You are very kind; but I would n't miss Christmas at home for anything.
Besides, mother says they can't possibly do without me."

"Neither can we. Can't you tease your mother, and make up your mind to
stay?" began Fan.

"Polly never teases. She says it 's selfish; and I don't do it now
much," put in Maud, with a virtuous air.

"Don't you bother Polly. She 'd rather go, and I don't wonder. Let 's be
just as jolly as we can while she stays, and finish up with your party,
Fan," said Tom, in a tone that settled the matter.

Polly had expected to be very happy in getting ready for the party; but
when the time came, she was disappointed; for somehow that naughty thing
called envy took possession of her, and spoiled her pleasure. Before she
left home, she thought her new white muslin dress, with its fresh blue
ribbons, the most elegant and proper costume she could have; but
now, when she saw Fanny's pink silk, with a white tarlatan tunic, and
innumerable puffings, bows, and streamers, her own simple little
toilet lost all its charms in her eyes, and looked very babyish and
old-fashioned.

Even Maud was much better dressed than herself, and looked very splendid
in her cherry-colored and white suit, with a sash so big she could
hardly carry it, and little white boots with red buttons. They both
had necklaces and bracelets, ear-rings and brooches; but Polly had no
ornament, except the plain locket on a bit of blue velvet. Her sash was
only a wide ribbon, tied in a simple bow, and nothing but a blue snood
in the pretty curls. Her only comfort was the knowledge that the modest
tucker drawn up round the plump shoulders was real lace, and that her
bronze boots cost nine dollars.

Poor Polly, with all her efforts to be contented, and not to mind
looking unlike other people, found it hard work to keep her face bright
and her voice happy that night. No one dreamed what was going an under
the muslin frock, till grandma's wise old eyes spied out the little
shadow on Polly's spirits, and guessed the cause of it. When dressed,
the three girls went up to show themselves to the elders, who were in
grandma's room, where Tom was being helped into an agonizingly stiff
collar.

Maud pranced like a small peacock, and Fan made a splendid courtesy as
every one turned to survey them; but Polly stood still, and her eyes
went from face to face, with an anxious, wistful air, which seemed to
say, "I know I 'm not right; but I hope I don't look very bad."

Grandma read the look in a minute; and when Fanny said, with a satisfied
smile, "How do we look?" she answered, drawing Polly toward her so
kindly.

"Very like the fashion-plates you got the patterns of your dresses from.
But this little costume suits me best."

"Do you really think I look nice?" and Polly's face brightened, for she
valued the old lady's opinion very much.

"Yes, my dear; you look just as I like to see a child of your age look.
What particularly pleases me is that you have kept your promise to your
mother, and have n't let anyone persuade you to wear borrowed finery.
Young things like you don't need any ornaments but those you wear
to-night, youth, health, intelligence, and modesty."

As she spoke, grandma gave a tender kiss that made Polly glow like a
rose, and for a minute she forgot that there were such things as pink
silk and coral ear-rings in the world. She only said, "Thank you,
ma'am," and heartily returned the kiss; but the words did her good, and
her plain dress looked charming all of a sudden.

"Polly 's so pretty, it don't matter what she wears," observed Tom,
surveying her over his collar with an air of calm approval.

"She has n't got any bwetelles to her dwess, and I have," said Maud,
settling her ruffled bands over her shoulders, which looked like
cherry-colored wings on a stout little cherub.

"I did wish she 'd just wear my blue set, ribbon is so very plain; but,
as Tom says, it don't much matter;" and Fanny gave an effective touch to
the blue bow above Polly's left temple.

"She might wear flowers; they always suit young girls," said Mrs. Shaw,
privately thinking that her own daughters looked much the best, yet
conscious that blooming Polly had the most attractive face. "Bless me!
I forgot my posies in admiring the belles. Hand them out, Tom;" and Mr.
Shaw nodded toward an interesting looking box that stood on the table.

Seizing them wrong side-up, Tom produced three little bouquets, all
different in color, size, and construction.

"Why, papa! how very kind of you," cried Fanny, who had not dared to
receive even a geranium leaf since the late scrape.

"Your father used to be a very gallant young gentleman, once upon a
time," said Mrs. Shaw, with a simper.

"Ah, Tom, it 's a good sign when you find time to think of giving
pleasure to your little girls!" And grandma patted her son's bald head
as if he was n't more than eighteen.

Thomas Jr. had given a somewhat scornful sniff at first; but when
grandma praised his father, the young man thought better of the matter,
and regarded the flowers with more respect, as he asked, "Which is for
which?"

"Guess," said Mr. Shaw, pleased that his unusual demonstration had
produced such an effect.

The largest was a regular hothouse bouquet, of tea-rosebuds, scentless
heath, and smilax; the second was just a handful of sweet-peas and
mignonette, with a few cheerful pansies, and one fragrant little rose in
the middle; the third, a small posy of scarlet verbenas, white feverfew,
and green leaves.

"Not hard to guess. The smart one for Fan, the sweet one for Polly, and
the gay one for Pug. Now, then, catch hold, girls." And Tom proceeded
to deliver the nosegays, with as much grace as could be expected from a
youth in a new suit of clothes and very tight boots.

"That finishes you off just right, and is a very pretty attention of
papa's. Now run down, for the bell has rung; and remember, not to dance
too often, Fan; be as quiet as you can, Tom; and Maud, don't eat too
much supper. Grandma will attend to things, for my poor nerves won't
allow me to come down."

With that, Mrs. Shaw dismissed them, and the four descended to receive
the first batch of visitors, several little girls who had been asked
for the express purpose of keeping Maud out of her sister's way. Tom
had likewise been propitiated, by being allowed to bring his three bosom
friends, who went by the school-boy names of Rumple, Sherry, and Spider.

"They will do to make up sets, as gentlemen are scarce; and the party is
for Polly, so I must have some young folks on her account," said Fanny,
when sending out her invitations.

Of course, the boys came early, and stood about in corners, looking as
if they had more arms and legs than they knew what to do with. Tom did
his best to be a good host; but ceremony oppressed his spirits, and he
was forced to struggle manfully with the wild desire to propose a game
of leap-frog, for the long drawing-rooms, cleared for dancing, tempted
him sorely.

Polly sat where she was told, and suffered bashful agonies as Fan
introduced very fine young ladies and very stiff young gentlemen, who
all said about the same civil things, and then appeared to forget all
about her. When the first dance was called, Fanny cornered Tom, who had
been dodging her, for he knew what she wanted, and said, in an earnest
whisper: "Now, Tom, you must dance this with Polly. You are the young
gentleman of the house, and it 's only proper that you should ask your
company first."

"Polly don't care for manners. I hate dancing; don't know how. Let go
my jacket, and don't bother, or I 'll cut away altogether," growled Tom,
daunted by the awful prospect of opening the ball with Polly.

"I 'll never forgive you if you do. Come, be clever, and help me, there
's a dear. You know we both were dreadfully rude to Polly, and agreed
that we 'd be as kind and civil to her as ever we could. I shall keep
my word, and see that she is n't slighted at my party, for I want her to
love me, and go home feeling all right."

This artful speech made an impression on the rebellious Thomas, who
glanced at Polly's happy face, remembered his promise, and, with a
groan, resolved to do his duty.

"Well, I 'll take her; but I shall come to grief, for I don't know
anything about your old dances."

"Yes, you do. I 've taught you the steps a dozen times. I 'm going to
begin with a redowa, because the girls like it, and it 's better fun
than square dances. Now, put on your gloves, and go and ask Polly like a
gentleman."

"Oh, thunder!" Wide West stock soared skywards. It was said that
repeated offers had been made for it at a thousand dollars a foot, and
promptly refused. We have all had the "blues"--the mere sky-blues--but
mine were indigo, now--because I did not own in the Wide West.

The world seemed hollow to me, and existence a grief. I lost my appetite,
and ceased to take an interest in anything. Still I had to stay, and
listen to other people's rejoicings, because I had no money to
get out of the camp with.

The Wide West company put a stop to the carrying away of "specimens,"
and well they might, for every handful of the ore was worth a sun
of some consequence.

To show the exceeding value of the ore, I will remark that a
sixteen-hundred-pounds parcel of it was sold, just as it lay, at
the mouth of the shaft, at one dollar a pound; and the man who
bought it "packed" it on mules a hundred and fifty or two hundred
miles, over the mountains, to San Francisco, satisfied that it would
yield at a rate that would richly compensate him for his trouble.

The Wide West people also commanded their foreman to refuse any but
their own operatives permission to enter the mine at any time or
for any purpose.

I kept up my "blue" meditations and Higbie kept up a deal of thinking,
too, but of a different sort.

He puzzled over the "rock," examined it with a glass, inspected it
in different lights and from different points of view, and after
each experiment delivered himself, in soliloquy, of one and the
same unvarying opinion in the same unvarying formula:
"It is not Wide West rock!"

He said once or twice that he meant to have a look into the Wide West
shaft if he got shot for it. I was wretched, and did not care whether
he got a look into it or not.

He failed that day, and tried again at night; failed again; got up at
dawn and tried, and failed again. Then he lay in ambush in the sage brush
hour after hour, waiting for the two or three hands to adjourn to the
shade of a boulder for dinner; made a start once, but was premature--one
of the men came back for something; tried it again, but when almost
at the mouth of the shaft, another of the men rose up from behind
the boulder as if to reconnoitre, and he dropped on the ground and lay
quiet; presently he crawled on his hands and knees to the mouth
of the shaft, gave a quick glance around, then seized the rope and
slid down the shaft.

He disappeared in the gloom of a "side drift" just as a head appeared in
the mouth of the shaft and somebody shouted "Hello!

"
Looking much gratified, Tom produced the stump of a lead-pencil, and
wrote his name with a flourish, saying, as he gave it back, "Now I 'm
going to get Sherry, or some of the fellows that do the redowa well, so
you can have a real good go before the music stops."

Off went Tom; but before he could catch any eligible partner, Polly was
provided with the best dancer in the room. Mr. Sydney had seen and heard
the whole thing; and though he had laughed quietly, he liked honest Tom
and good-natured Polly all the better for their simplicity. Polly's foot
was keeping time to the lively music, and her eyes were fixed wistfully
on the smoothly-gliding couples before her, when Mr. Sydney came to
her, saying, in the pleasant yet respectful way she liked so much, "Miss
Polly, can you give me a turn?"

"Oh, yes; I 'm dying for another." And Polly jumped up, with both hands
out, and such a grateful face, that Mr. Sydney resolved she should have
as many turns as she liked.

This time all went well; and Tom, returning from an unsuccessful search,
was amazed to behold Polly circling gracefully about the room, guided by
a most accomplished partner.

"Ah, that 's something like," he thought, as he watched the bronze boots
retreating and advancing in perfect time to the music. "Don't see how
Sydney does the steering so well; but it must be fun; and, by Jupiter! I
'll learn it!" added Shaw, Jr., with an emphatic gesture which burst the
last button off his gloves.

Polly enjoyed herself till the music stopped; and before she had time to
thank Mr. Sydney as warmly as she wished, Tom came up to say, with his
most lordly air, "You dance splendidly, Polly. Now, you just show me any
one you like the looks of, and I 'll get him for you, no matter who he
is."

"I don't want any of the gentlemen; they are so stiff, and don't care
to dance with me; but I like those boys over there, and I 'll dance with
any of them if they are willing," said Polly, after a survey.

"I 'll trot out the whole lot." And Tom gladly brought up his friends,
who all admired Polly immensely, and were proud to be chosen instead of
the "big fellows."

There was no sitting still for Polly after that, for the lads kept her
going at a great pace; and she was so happy, she never saw or suspected
how many little manoeuvres, heart-burnings, displays of vanity,
affectation, and nonsense were going on all round her. She loved
dancing, and entered into the gayety of the scene with a heartiness that
was pleasant to see. Her eyes shone, her face glowed, her lips smiled,
and the brown curls waved in the air, as she danced, with a heart as
light as her feet.

"Are you enjoying yourself, Polly?" asked Mr. Shaw, who looked in, now
and then, to report to grandma that all was going well.

"Oh, such a splendid time!" cried Polly, with an enthusiastic little
gesture, as she chassed into the corner where he stood.

"She is a regular belle among the boys," said Fanny, as she promenaded
by.

"They are so kind in asking me and I 'm not afraid of them," explained
Polly, prancing, simply because she could n't keep still.

"So you are afraid of the young gentlemen, hey?" and Mr. Shaw held her
by one curl.

"All but Mr. Sydney. He don't put on airs and talk nonsense; and, oh! he
does 'dance like an angel,' as Trix says."

"Papa, I wish you 'd come and waltz with me. Fan told me not to go near
her, 'cause my wed dwess makes her pink one look ugly; and Tom won't;
and I want to dwedfully."

"I 've forgotten how, Maudie. Ask Polly; she 'll spin you round like a
teetotum." "Mr. Sydney's name is down for that," answered Polly, looking
at her fan with a pretty little air of importance. "But I guess he would
n't mind my taking poor Maud instead. She has n't danced hardly any,
and I 've had more than my share. Would it be very improper to change
my mind?" And Polly looked up at her tall partner with eye which plainly
showed that the change was a sacrifice.

"Not a bit. "Is Crofter in?"
"No--Pridgin is, but of course he won't come up to scratch, and
Wales only enters for the show of the thing."

"Crofter couldn't look in at Tempest over the Mile," said Langrish, "but
he ought to enter, for all that."

"Can he look in at Tempest over anything?" said I.

"Don't ask questions, and you won't be told no whoppers," astutely replied
Trimble.

"I wonder if he expects us to back him up?"
"I sha'n't," said one. "Nor shall I," said one or two others.

"I vote we let him alone," said Coxhead. "What's he got to do with
us?
When does he come across us?

Only when there's a row on. He's got nothing at all to say to us at
other times."
"You mean, if we want to let him alone we shall have to shut up
rows?"

inquired Langrish. "Rather rough, isn't it?"
"Not if he knows the reason," suggested I. "Let's send him a round- robin
and let him know."
"Not half a bad idea."
Whereupon the following candid epistle was concocted and signed by
all present:-- 
"To T.

Crofter, Esquire, Captain Sharpe's _pro tem_., etcetera, etcetera,
etcetera.

"Dear Crofter,--We the undersigned Philosophers wish to say we're going
steady this term on our own hooks, and hope you will not think
it's because of you.

We don't want to be interfered with by any chap except old Tempest,
who ought to be cock of Sharpe's, so we've decided to go steady, so as
not to be interfered with, because we would rather not you interfered
with us, because we're all serene and are backing up Tempest, and hope
he'll pull off the Mile that you've not entered for. We aren't down on
you, because you pulled Tempest through last term, but it's rough
you're cock of the house instead of him, and therefore on that
account we are going steady, so as not to give you the fag of
interfering with us, which we don't mind Tempest doing because we
consider he has more right to interfere with us than you.

Hoping you are well and in good health, as this leaves us, Believe us,
with kind regards to all at home, Yours very kindly and in alphabetical
order, so that you needn't know who started this letter. Samuel
Wilberforce Coxhead, Thomas Jones, Everard Langrish, Jonathan T. Purkis,
Alfred James Remington Trimble, Percy Algernon Warminster, and
others."
This important document, the writing of which, I grieve to say, necessitated
frequent reference to the English Dictionary, Langrish, as Crofter's fag,
undertook to deliver, and faithfully discharged his mission by
leaving it on the captain's table when he was out of his study.

It was decided to resist the temptation of sending Mr Jarman a similar
explanatory letter, for fear it might lead to a row which would call for
interference. Nor was it deemed prudent under the circumstances to
commit ourselves in writing to Tempest, whom we hoped to convince
of our loyalty by cheering him on every possible occasion and
otherwise making things pleasant for him.

How Crofter enjoyed his letter we none of us knew. He was inconsiderate
enough to give no sign of having received it; and still more inconsiderate
to allow himself on more than one occasion to be publicly complimented
by the doctor and Mr Sharpe on the order of the house.

Meanwhile the Philosophers stuck to their new programme. I had the
satisfaction of pulling down Langrish from his place on the top desk
at the end of the first week, and he had the triumph of recovering his
seat at the end of the week after. In the seclusion of the faggery we
indulged in a few mild recriminations, which were the natural
outcome of our rivalry; but they only served to blow off steam, and
we were too keen to win our self-imposed battles in class to allow
personal feeling to interfere much with our work.

Mr Sharpe was fairly astonished, and took off his glasses, and rubbed
his mild eyes as he read over our really meritorious exercises and
listened to our sometimes positively coherent feats of
construing.

Secretly, too, but with great precaution, and in spots far removed from
the detection of the day boys, we practised grimly at jumping and sprinting
and record-breaking generally, and finally, as the critical time for
making our entries approached, agreed upon the particular exploit
which each of us was to undertake for the honour and glory of
Sharpe's house in general and Philosophy in particular.

Before that time arrived, however, one awkward incident occurred,
to remind me I had even yet not quite purged myself of the follies
of last term.

I stumbled against Crofter just outside his door.

"Come in," said he.

I obeyed, guessing that at last we were to hear something of our
famous letter.

I was disappointed, however. Crofter made no reference to it,
but said--
"Those bills you paid for me last term, Jones iv.

--did none of the people allow you any discount?"
"Discount," said I, "what's that?

We haven't got to it yet in Syntax."
"Don't be a young ass. Did none of them give you any change?"
"Rather, all of them. I brought it back, or used it to pay the rest."

"Yes, it is, too. It 's all lined with gween silk, and that 's nicer
than old wed cloth," cried Maud, ruffling up like an insulted chicken.

"Well, my brother don't wear a horrid old cap, and he 's got nice hair.
I would n't have a brother like Tom. He 's horrid rude, my sister says,"
retorted Alice.

"He is n't. Your brother is a pig."

"You 're a fib!"

"So are you!"

Here, I regret to say, Miss Shaw slapped Miss Lovett, who promptly
returned the compliment, and both began to cry.

Polly, who had paused to listen to the edifying chat, parted the
belligerents, and finding the poor things tired, cross, and sleepy,
yet unable to go home till sent for, proposed to play games. The
young ladies consented, and "Puss in the corner" proved a peacemaker.
Presently, in came the boys; and being exiles from the German,
gladly joined in the games, which soon were lively enough to wake the
sleepiest. "Blind-man's-buff" was in full swing when Mr. Shaw peeped in,
and seeing Polly flying about with band-aged eyes, joined in the fun to
puzzle her. He got caught directly; and great merriment was caused by
Polly's bewilderment, for she could n't guess who he was, till she felt
the bald spot on his head.

This frolic put every one in such spirits, that Polly forgot her
trouble, and the little girls kissed each other good-night as
affectionately as if such things as imported frocks, coups, and rival
brothers did n't exist "Well, Polly, do you like parties?" asked Fan
when the last guest was gone.

"Very much; but I don't think it would be good for me to go to many,"
answered Polly, slowly.

"Why not?"

"I should n't enjoy them if I did n't have a fine dress, and dance all
the time, and be admired, and all the rest of it."

"I did n't know you cared for such things," cried Fanny, surprised.

"Neither did I till to-night; but I do; and as I can't have 'em, it 's
lucky I 'm going home tomorrow."

"Oh, dear! So you are! What shall I do without my 'sweet P.,' as Sydney
calls you?" sighed Fanny, bearing Polly away to be cuddled.

Every one echoed the exclamation next day; and many loving eyes followed
the little figure in the drab frock as it went quietly about, doing for
the last time the small services which would help to make its absence
keenly felt. Polly was to go directly after an early dinner, and having
packed her trunk, all but one tray, she was told to go and take a run
while grandma finished. Polly suspected that some pleasant surprise
was going to be put in; for Fan did n't offer to go with her, Maud kept
dodging about with something under her apron, and Tom had just whisked
into his mother's room in a mysterious manner. So Polly took the hint
and went away, rejoicing in the thought of the unknown treasures she was
to carry home.

Mr. Shaw had not said he should come home so early, but Polly thought he
might, and went to meet him. Mr. Shaw did n't expect to see Polly, for
he had left her very busy, and now a light snow was falling; but, as he
turned into the mall there was the round hat, and under it the bright
face, looking all the rosier for being powdered with snow-flakes, as
Polly came running to meet him.

"There won't be any one to help the old gentleman safely home
to-morrow," he said, as Polly took his hand in both hers with an
affectionate squeeze.

"Yes, there will; see if there is n't," cried Polly, nodding and
smiling, for Fan had confided to her that she meant to try it after her
friend had gone.

"I 'm glad of it. But, my dear, I want you to promise that you will
come and make us a visit every winter, a good long one," said Mr. Shaw,
patting the blue mittens folded round his hand.

"If they can spare me from home, I 'd love to come dearly."

"They must lend you for a little while, because you do us all good, and
we need you."

"Do I? I don't see how; but I 'm glad to hear you say so," cried Polly,
much touched.

"I can't tell you how, exactly; but you brought something into my house
that makes it warmer and pleasanter, and won't quite vanish, I hope,
when you go away, my child."

Polly had never heard Mr. Shaw speak like that before, and did n't know
what to say, she felt so proud and happy at this proof of the truth of
her mother's words, when she said that "even a little girl could exert
an influence, and do some good in this big, busy world." She only gave
her friend a grateful look sweeter than any words, and they went on
together, hand in hand, through the "soft-falling snow."

If Polly could have seen what went into that top tray, she would have
been entirely overcome; for Fanny had told grandma about the poor little
presents she had once laughed at, and they had all laid their heads
together to provide something really fine and appropriate for every
member of the Milton family. Such a mine of riches! and so much
good-will, affection, and kindly forethought was packed away in the
tempting bundles, that no one could feel offended, but would find an
unusual charm about the pretty gifts that made them doubly welcome. I
only know that if Polly had suspected that a little watch was ticking
away in a little case, with her name on it, inside that trunk, she never
could have left it locked as grandma advised, or have eaten her dinner
so quietly. As it was, her heart was very full, and the tears rose to
her eyes more than once, everyone was so kind, and so sorry to have her
go.

Tom did n't need any urging to play escort now; and both Fan and Maud
insisted on going too. Mrs. Shaw forgot her nerves, and put up some
ginger-bread with her own hands; Mr. Shaw kissed Polly as if she had
been his dearest daughter; and grandma held her close, whispering in a
tremulous tone, "My little comfort, come again soon"; while Katy waved
her apron from the nursery window, crying, as they drove, away, "The
saints bless ye, Miss Polly, dear, and sind ye the best of lucks!"

But the crowning joke of all was Tom's good-by, for, when Polly was
fairly settled in the car, the last "All aboard!" uttered, and the train
in motion, Tom suddenly produced a knobby little bundle, and thrusting
it in at the window, while he hung on in some breakneck fashion, said,
with a droll mixture of fun and feeling in his face, "It 's horrid;
but you wanted it, so I put it in to make you laugh. Good-by, Polly;
good-by, good-by!"

The last adieu was a trifle husky, and Tom vanished as it was uttered,
leaving Polly to laugh over his parting souvenir till the tears ran down
her cheeks. It was a paper bag of peanuts, and poked down at the very
bottom a photograph of Tom. It was "horrid," for he looked as if taken
by a flash of lightning, so black, wild, and staring was it; but Polly
liked it, and whenever she felt a little pensive at parting with her
friends, she took a peanut, or a peep at Tom's funny picture, which made
her merry again.

So the short journey came blithely to an end, and in the twilight she
saw a group of loving faces at the door of a humble little house, which
was more beautiful than any palace in her eyes, for it was home.


CHAPTER VIII. SIX YEARS AFTERWARD


"WHAT do you think Polly is going to do this winter?" exclaimed Fanny,
looking up from the letter she had been eagerly reading.

"Going to deliver lectures on Woman's Rights," said the young gentleman
who was carefully examining his luxuriant crop of decidedly auburn hair,
as he lounged with both elbows on the chimney-piece.

"Going to set her cap for some young minister and marry him in the
spring," added Mrs. Shaw, whose mind ran a good deal upon match-making
just now.

"I think she is going to stay at home, and do all the work, 'cause
servants cost so much; it would be just like her," observed Maud, who
could pronounce the letter R now.

"It 's my opinion she is going to open a school, or something of that
sort, to help those brothers of hers along," said Mr. Shaw, who had put
down his paper at the sound of Polly's name.

"Every one of you wrong, though papa comes nearest the truth," cried
Fanny; "she is going to give music lessons, and support herself, so that
Will may go to college. He is the studious one, and Polly is very proud
of him. Ned, the other brother, has a business talent, and don't care
for books, so he has gone out West, and will make his own way anywhere.
Polly says she is n't needed at home now, the family is so small, and
Kitty can take her place nicely; so she is actually going to earn her
own living, and hand over her share of the family income to Will. What a
martyr that girl does make of herself," and Fanny looked as solemn as if
Polly had proposed some awful self-sacrifice.

"She is a sensible, brave-hearted girl, and I respect her for doing it,"
said Mr. Shaw, emphatically. "One never knows what may happen, and it
does no harm for young people to learn to be independent."

"If she is as pretty as she was last time I saw her, she 'll get pupils
fast enough. I would n't mind taking lessons myself," was the gracious
observation of Shaw, Jr., as he turned from the mirror, with the
soothing certainty that his objectionable hair actually was growing
darker.

"She would n't take you at any price," said Fanny, remembering Polly's
look of disappointment and disapproval when she came on her last visit
and found him an unmistakable dandy.

"You just wait and see," was the placid reply.

"If Polly does carry out her plan, I wish Maud to take lessons of her;
Fanny can do as she likes, but it would please me very much to have one
of my girls sing as Polly sings. It suits old people better than your
opera things, and mother used to enjoy it so much."

As he spoke, Mr. Shaw's eye turned toward the corner of the fire where
grandma used to sit. The easy-chair was empty now, the kind old face was
gone, and nothing but a very tender memory remained.

"I 'd like to learn, papa, and Polly is a splendid teacher, I know; she
's always so patient, and makes everything so pleasant. I do hope she
will get scholars enough to begin right away," said Maud.

"When is she coming?" asked Mrs. Shaw, quite willing to help Polly,
but privately resolving that Maud should be finished off by the most
fashionable master in the city.

"She does n't say. She thanks me for asking her here, as usual, but says
she shall go right to work and had better begin with her own little room
at once. Won't it seem strange to have Polly in town, and yet not with
us?"

"We 'll get her somehow. The little room will cost something, and she
can stay with us just as well as not, even if she does teach. Tell her I
say so," said Mr. Shaw.

"She won't come, I know; for if she undertakes to be independent, she
'll do it in the most thorough manner," answered Fanny, and Mrs. Shaw
sincerely hoped she would. It was all very well to patronize the little
music-teacher, but it was not so pleasant to have her settled in the
family.

"I shall do what I can for her among my friends, and I dare say she will
get on very well with young pupils to begin with. If she starts right,
puts her terms high enough, and gets a few good names to give her the
entre into our first families, I don't doubt she will do nicely, for I
must say Polly has the manners of a lady," observed Mrs. Shaw.

"She 's a mighty taking little body, and I 'm glad she 's to be in town,
though I 'd like it better if she did n't bother about teaching, but
just stayed here and enjoyed herself," said Tom, lazily.

"I 've no doubt she would feel highly honored to be allowed to devote
her time to your amusement; but she can't afford expensive luxuries, and
she don't approve of flirting, so you will have to let her go her own
way, and refresh herself with such glimpses of you as her engagements
permit," answered Fanny, in the sarcastic tone which was becoming
habitual to her.

"You are getting to be a regular old maid, Fan; as sharp as a lemon, and
twice as sour," returned Tom, looking down at her with an air of calm
superiority.

"Do be quiet, children; you know I can't bear anything like contention.
Maud, give me my Shetland shawl, and put a cushion at my back."

As Maud obeyed her mother, with a reproving look at her erring brother
and sister, a pause followed, for which every one seemed grateful. They
were sitting about the fire after dinner, and all looked as if a little
sunshine would do them good. It had been a dull November day, but all of
a sudden the clouds lifted, and a bright ray shot into the room. Every
one turned involuntarily to welcome it, and every one cried out, "Why,
Polly!" for there on the threshold stood a bright-faced girl, smiling as
if there was no such thing as November weather in the world.

"You dear thing, when did you come?" cried Fanny, kissing both the
blooming checks with real affection, while the rest hovered near,
waiting for a chance.

"I came yesterday, and have been getting my nest in order; but I could
n't keep away any longer, so I ran up to say 'How do you do?'" answered
Polly, in the cheery voice that did one's heart good to hear.

"My Polly always brings the sunshine with her," and Mr. Shaw held out
his hands to his little friend, for she was his favorite still.

It was good to see her put both arms about his neck, and give him a
tender kiss, that said a great deal, for grandma had died since Polly
met him last and she longed to comfort him, seeing how gray and old he
had grown.

If Tom had had any thoughts of following his father's example, something
in Polly's manner made him change his mind, and shake hands with a
hearty "I 'm very glad to see you, Polly," adding to himself, as he
looked at the face in the modest little bonnet: "Prettier than ever, by
Jove!"

There was something more than mere prettiness in Polly's face, though
Tom had not learned to see it yet. The blue eyes were clear and steady,
the fresh mouth frank and sweet, the white chin was a very firm one in
spite of the dimple, and the smooth forehead under the little curls
had a broad, benevolent arch; while all about the face were those
unmistakable lines and curves which can make even a plain countenance
comely, by breathing into it the beauty of a lovely character. .

[971] It is satisfactory to find that the best commentators consider
the words between brackets as an interpolation in the work of
Suetonius.
Some, including Bentley, reject the preceding sentence also.

[972] The works of Horace abound with references to his Sabine farm
which must be familiar to many readers. Some remains are still shewn,
consisting of a ruined wall and a tesselated pavement in a vineyard,
about eight miles from Tivoli, which are supposed, with reason,
to mark its site.

At least, the features of the neighbouring country, as often sketched
by the poet--and they are very beautiful--cannot be mistaken.

[973] Aurelius Cotta and L.

Manlius Torquatus were consuls A.U.C. 688.
The genial Horace, in speaking of his old wine, agrees with Suetonius
in fixing the date of his own birth:
O nata mecum consule Manlio Testa.

--Ode iii. 21.
And again,
Tu vina, Torquato, move Consule pressa meo.

--Epod. xiii. 8.

[974] A.U.C. 745. So that Horace was in his fifty-seventh, not his fifty-ninth
year, at the time of his death.

[975] It may be concluded that Horace died at Rome, under the hospitable
roof of his patron Mecaenas, whose villa and gardens stood on the
Esquiline hill; which had formerly been the burial ground of the lower
classes; but, as he tells us,

Nunc licet Esquiliis habitare salubribus, atque Aggere in aprico
spatiare.--Sat. i. 8.

[976] Cordova.

Lucan was the son of Annaeus Mella, Seneca's brother.

[977] This sentence is very obscure, and Ernesti considers the text
to be imperfect.

[978] They had good reason to know that, ridiculous as the tyrant
made himself, it was not safe to incur even the suspicion of being
parties to a jest upon him

.

[979] See NERO, c. xxxvi.

[980] St. Jerom (Chron. Euseb.) places Lucan's death in the tenth year of
Nero's reign, corresponding with A.U.C. 817. This opportunity is taken
of correcting an error in the press, p. 342, respecting the date
of Nero's accession.

It should be A.U.C. 807, A.D. 55.

[981] These circumstances are not mentioned by some other writers.

See Dr. Thomson's account of Lucan, before, p. 347, where it is said
that he died with philosophical firmness.

[982] We find it stated ib. p. 396, that Lucan expired while
pronouncing some verses from his own Pharsalia: for which we have
the authority of Tacitus, Annal. xv. 20. 1.

Lucan, it appears, employed his last hours in revising his poems; on the
contrary, Virgil, we are told, when his death was imminent, renewed his
directions that the Aeneid should be committed to the flames

.

[983] The text of the concluding sentence of Lucan's life is corrupt, and
neither of the modes proposed for correcting it make the sense
intended very clear

.

[984] Although this brief memoir of Pliny is inserted in all the
editions of Suetonius, it was unquestionably not written by him.

The author, whoever he was, has confounded the two Plinys, the uncle and
nephew, into which error Suetonius could not have fallen, as he lived
on intimate terms with the younger Pliny; nor can it be supposed that
he would have composed the memoir of his illustrious friend in so
cursory a manner.

Scaliger and other learned men consider that the life of Pliny,
attributed to Suetonius, was composed more than four centuries after
that historian's death.
[985] See JULIUS, c. xxviii. Caius Plinius Caecilius Secundus (the
younger Pliny) was born at Como, A.U.C. 814; A.D. 62. His father's
name was Lucius Caecilius, also of Como, who married Plinia, the
sister of Caius Plinius Secundus, supposed to have been a native
of Verona, the author of the Natural History, and by this marriage
the uncle of Pliny the Younger. It was the nephew who enjoyed the
confidence of the emperors Nerva and Trajan, and was the author of
the celebrated Letters.
[986] The first eruption of Mount Vesuvius occurred A.U.C. 831,
A.D. 79.
See TITUS, c. viii. The younger Pliny was with his uncle at Misenum
at the time, and has left an account of his disastrous enterprise
in one of his letters, Epist. vi. xvi.
[987] For further accounts of the elder Pliny, see the Epistles of
his nephew, B. iii. 5; vi. 16. 20; and Dr. Thomson's remarks before,
pp. 475-478.You know she lets her rooms
without board, but she is going to give me my dinners, and I 'm to get
my own breakfast and tea, quite independently. I like that way, and it
's very little trouble, my habits are so simple; a bowl of bread and
milk night and morning, with baked apples or something of that sort, is
all I want, and I can have it when I like."

"Is your room comfortably furnished? Can't we lend you anything, my
dear? An easy-chair now, or a little couch, so necessary when one comes
in tired," said Mrs. Shaw, taking unusual interest in the affair.

"Thank you, but I don't need anything, for I brought all sorts of home
comforts with me. Oh, Fan, you ought to have seen my triumphal entry
into the city, sitting among my goods and chattels, in a farmer's cart."
Polly's laugh was so infectious that every one smiled and forgot to be
shocked at her performance. "Yes," she added, "I kept wishing I could
meet you, just to see your horrified face when you saw me sitting on
my little sofa, with boxes and bundles all round me, a bird-cage on one
side, a fishing basket, with a kitten's head popping in and out of the
hole, on the other side, and jolly old Mr. Brown, in his blue frock,
perched on a keg of apples in front. It was a lovely bright day, and I
enjoyed the ride immensely, for we had all sorts of adventures."

"Oh, tell about it," begged Maud, when the general laugh at Polly's
picture had subsided.

"Well, in the first place, we forgot my ivy, and Kitty came running
after me, with it. Then we started again, but were soon stopped by a
great shouting, and there was Will racing down the hill, waving a pillow
in one hand and a squash pie in the other. How we did laugh when he
came up and explained that our neighbor, old Mrs. Dodd, had sent in a
hop-pillow for me, in case of headache, and a pie to begin housekeeping
with. She seemed so disappointed at being too late that Will promised
to get them to me, if he ran all the way to town. The pillow was easily
disposed of, but that pie! I do believe it was stowed in every part of
the wagon, and never staid anywhere. I found it in my lap, then on the
floor, next, upside down among the books, then just on the point
of coasting off a trunk into the road, and at last it landed in my
rocking-chair. Such a remarkable pie as it was, too, for in spite of all
its wanderings, it never got spilt or broken, and we finally ate it for
lunch, in order to be left in peace. Though born at Volterra, in
Etruria, he was a Roman knight, allied both by blood and marriage
to persons of the highest rank [954]. He ended his days at an estate
he had at the eighth milestone on the Appian Way. His father, Flaccus,
who died when he was barely six years old, left him under the care of
guardians, and his mother, Fulvia Silenna, who afterwards married Fusius,
a Roman knight, buried him also in a very few years. Persius Flaccus
pursued his studies at Volterra till he was twelve years old, and
then continued them at Rome, under Remmius Palaemon, the grammarian,
and Verginius Flaccus, the rhetorician.

Arriving at the age of twenty-one, he formed a friendship with
Annaeus Cornutus [955], which lasted through life; and from him he
learned the rudiments of philosophy. Among his earliest friends were
Caesius Bassus [956], and Calpurnius Statura; the latter of whom
died while Persius himself was yet in his youth.
Servilius (539) Numanus [957], he reverenced as a father.

Through Cornutus he was introduced to Annaeus, as well as to Lucan, who
was of his own age, and also a disciple of Cornutus.

At that time Cornutus was a tragic writer; he belonged to the sect of the
Stoics, and left behind him some philosophical works.

Lucan was so delighted with the writings of Persius Flaccus, that he could
scarcely refrain from giving loud tokens of applause while the author
was reciting them, and declared that they had the true spirit of
poetry.

It was late before Persius made the acquaintance of Seneca, and then
he was not much struck with his natural endowments. At the house of
Cornutus he enjoyed the society of two very learned and excellent men,
who were then zealously devoting themselves to philosophical
enquiries, namely, Claudius Agaternus, a physician from Lacedaemon,
and Petronius Aristocrates, of Magnesia, men whom he held in the
highest esteem, and with whom he vied in their studies, as they
were of his own age, being younger than Cornutus.

During nearly the last ten years of his life he was much beloved by
Thraseas, so that he sometimes travelled abroad in his company; and
his cousin Arria was married to him.

Persius was remarkable for gentle manners, for a modesty amounting
to bashfulness, a handsome form, and an attachment to his mother,
sister, and aunt, which was most exemplary.

He was frugal and chaste. He left his mother and sister twenty thousand
sesterces, requesting his mother, in a written codicil, to present
to Cornutus, as some say, one hundred sesterces, or as others,
twenty pounds of wrought silver [958], besides about seven hundred
books, which, indeed, included his whole library.

Cornutus, however, would only take the books, and gave up the legacy to
the sisters, whom his brother had constituted his heirs.

He wrote [959] seldom, and not very fast; even the work we possess
he left incomplete.

Some verses are wanting at the end of the book [960], but Cornutus
thoughtlessly recited it, as if (540) it was finished; and on Caesius
Bassus requesting to be allowed to publish it, he delivered it to
him for that purpose., In his younger days, Persius had written a
play, as well as an Itinerary, with several copies of verses on
Thraseas' father-in-law, and Arria's [961] mother, who had made
away with herself before her husband.

Shaw began to take great pride in her son,
and he, missing grandma, tried to fill her place with his feeble mother.

"Yes, dear, you are all I could ask," and Mrs. Shaw looked up at him
with such affection and confidence in her eyes, that Polly gave Tom the
first approving look she had vouchsafed him since she came.

Why Tom should look troubled and turn grave all at once, she could
n't understand, but she liked to see him stroke his mother's cheek so
softly, as he stood with his head resting on the high back of her chair,
for Polly fancied that he felt a man's pity for her weakness, and was
learning a son's patient love for a mother who had had much to bear with
him.

"I 'm so glad you are going to be here all winter, for we are to be
very gay, and I shall enjoy taking you round with me," began Fanny,
forgetting Polly's plan for a moment.

Polly shook her head decidedly. "It sounds very nice, but it can't be
done, Fan, for I 've come to work, not play; to save, not spend; and
parties will be quite out of the question for me."

"You don't intend to work all the time, without a bit of fun, I hope,"
cried Fanny, dismayed at the idea.

"I mean to do what I 've undertaken, and not to be tempted away from
my purpose by anything. I should n't be fit to give lessons if I was
up late, should I? And how far would my earnings go towards dress,
carriages, and all the little expenses which would come if I set up for
a young lady in society? I can't do both, and I 'm not going to try,
but I can pick up bits of fun as I go along, and be contented with free
concerts and lectures, seeing you pretty often, and every Sunday Will is
to spend with me, so I shall have quite as much dissipation as is good
for me."

"If you don't come to my parties, I 'll never forgive you," said Fanny,
as Polly paused, while Tom chuckled inwardly at the idea of calling
visits from a brother "dissipation."

"Any small party, where it will do to wear a plain black silk, I can
come to; but the big ones must n't be thought of, thank you."

It was charming to see the resolution of Polly's face when she said
that; for she knew her weakness, and beyond that black silk she had
determined not to go. Fanny said no more, for she felt quite sure that
Polly would relent when the time came, and she planned to give her
a pretty dress for a Christmas present, so that one excuse should be
removed.

"I say, Polly, won't you give some of us fellows music lessons?
Somebody wants me to play, and I 'd rather learn of you than any Senor
Twankydillo," said Tom, who did n't find the conversation interesting.

"Oh, yes; if any of you boys honestly want to learn, and will behave
yourselves, I 'll take you; but I shall charge extra," answered Polly,
with a wicked sparkle of the eye, though her face was quite sober, and
her tone delightfully business-like.

"Why, Polly, Tom is n't a boy; he 's twenty, and he says I must treat
him with respect. Besides, he 's engaged, and does put on such airs,"
broke in Maud who regarded her brother as a venerable being.

"Who is the little girl?" asked Polly taking the news as a joke.

"Trix; why, did n't you know it?" answered Maud, as if it had been an
event of national importance.

"No! is it true, Fan?" and Polly turned to her friend with a face full
of surprise, while Tom struck an imposing attitude, and affected absence
of mind.

"I forgot to tell you in my last letter; it 's just out, and we don't
like it very well," observed Fanny, who would have preferred to be
engaged first herself.

"It 's a very nice thing, and I am perfectly satisfied," announced Mrs.
Shaw, rousing from a slight doze.

"Polly looks as if she did n't believe it. Have n't I the appearance
of 'the happiest man alive'?" asked Tom, wondering if it could be pity
which he saw in the steady eyes fixed on him.

"No, I don't think you have," she said, slowly.

"How the deuce should a man look, then?" cried Tom, rather nettled at
her sober reception of the grand news.

"As if he had learned to care for some one a great deal more than for
himself," answered Polly, with sudden color in her cheeks, and a sudden
softening of the voice, as her eyes turned away from Tom, who was the
picture of a complacent dandy, from the topmost curl of his auburn head
to the tips of his aristocratic boots.

"Tommy 's quenched; I agree with you, Polly; I never liked Trix, and
I hope it 's only a boy-and-girl fancy, that will soon die a natural
death," said Mr. Shaw, who seemed to find it difficult to help falling
into a brown study, in spite of the lively chatter going on about him.

Shaw, Jr., being highly incensed at the disrespectful manner in
which his engagement was treated, tried to assume a superb air of
indifference, and finding that a decided failure, was about to stroll
out of the room with a comprehensive nod, when his mother called after
him: "Where are you going, dear?"

"To see Trix, of course. Good-by, Polly," and Mr. Thomas departed,
hoping that by the skillful change of tone, from ardent impatience to
condescending coolness, he had impressed one hearer at least with the
fact that he regarded Trix as the star of his existence, and Polly as a
presuming little chit.

If he could have heard her laugh, and Fanny's remarks, his wrath would
have boiled over; fortunately he was spared the trial, and went away
hoping that the coquetries of his Trix would make him forget Polly's
look when she answered his question.

"My dear, that boy is the most deluded creature you ever saw," began
Fanny, as soon as the front door banged. "Belle and Trix both tried to
catch him, and the slyest got him; for, in spite of his airs, he is
as soft-hearted as a baby. You see Trix has broken off two engagements
already, and the third time she got jilted herself. Such a fuss as she
made! I declare, it really was absurd. But I do think she felt it very
much, for she would n't go out at all, and got thin, and pale, and blue,
and was really quite touching. I pitied her, and had her here a good
deal, and Tom took her part; he always does stand up for the crushed
ones, and that 's good of him, I allow. Well, she did the forsaken very
prettily; let Tom amuse her, and led him on till the poor fellow lost
his wits, and finding her crying one day (about her hat, which was n't
becoming), he thought she was mourning for Mr. Banks, and so, to comfort
her, the goose proposed. That was all she wanted; she snapped him up at
once, and there he is in a nice scrape; for since her engagement she is
as gay as ever, flirts awfully with any one who comes along, and keeps
Tom in a fume all the time. I really don't think he cares for her half
as much as he makes believe, but he 'll stand by her through thick and
thin, rather than do as Banks did."

"Poor Tom!" was all Polly said, when Fan had poured the story into her
ear, as they sat whispering in the sofa corner.

"My only consolation is that Trix will break off the affair before
spring; she always does, so that she may be free for the summer
campaign. It won't hurt Tom, but I hate to have him make a fool of
himself out of pity, for he is more of a man than he seems, and I don't
want any one to plague him."

"No one but yourself," said Polly, smiling.

"Well, that 's all fair; he is a torment sometimes, but I 'm rather fond
of him in spite of it. I get so tired of the other fellows, they are
such absurd things and when Tom is in his good mood he is very nice and
quite refreshing."

"I 'm glad to hear it," said Polly, making a mental note of the fact.

"Yes, and when grandma was ill he was perfectly devoted. I did n't know
the boy had so much gentleness in him. He took her death sadly to heart,
for, though he did n't say much, he was very grave and steady for a long
time. I tried to comfort him, and we had two or three real sweet little
talks together, and seemed to get acquainted for the first time. It was
very nice, but it did n't last; good times never do with us. We soon got
back into the old way, and now we hector one another just as before."

Fanny sighed, then yawned, and fell into her usual listless attitude, as
if the brief excitement of Polly's coming had begun to subside.

"Walk home with me and see my funny little room. It 's bright now, and
the air will do you good. Come, both of you, and have a frolic as we
used to," said Polly, for the red sunset now burning in the west seemed
to invite them out.

They agreed, and soon the three were walking briskly away to Polly's new
home, in a quiet street, where a few old trees rustled in the summer,
and the morning sun shone pleasantly in winter time.

     "The way into my parlor
     Is up a winding stair,"

sang Polly, running up two flights of broad, old-fashioned steps, and
opening the door of a back room, out of which streamed the welcome glow
of firelight.

"These are my pets, Maud," she added, pausing on the threshold, and
beckoning the girls to look in quietly.

On the rug, luxuriously basking in the warmth, lay a gray kitten, and
close by, meditatively roosting on one leg, stood a plump canary, who
cocked his bright eye at the new-comers, gave a loud chirp as if to wake
his comrade, and then flew straight to Polly's shoulder, where he broke
into a joyful song to welcome his mistress home.

"Allow me to introduce my family," said Polly; "this noisy little chap
the boys named Nicodemus; and this dozy cat is called Ashputtel, because
the joy of her life is to get among the cinders. Now, take off your
things, and let me do the honors, for you are to stop to tea, and the
carriage is to come for you at eight. I arranged it with your mother
while you were upstairs."

"I want to see everything," said Maud, when the hats were off, and the
hands warmed.

"So you shall; for I think my housekeeping arrangements will amuse you."

Then Polly showed her kingdom, and the three had a merry time over it.
The big piano took up so much room there was no place for a bed; but
Polly proudly displayed the resources of her chintz-covered couch, for
the back let down, the seat lifted up, and inside were all the pillows
and blankets. "So convenient, you see, and yet out of the way in the
daytime, for two or three of my pupils come to me," explained Polly.

Then there was a bright drugget over the faded carpet, the little
rocking-chair and sewing-table stood at one window, the ivy ran all over
the other, and hid the banqueting performances which went on in that
corner. Book-shelves hung over the sofa, a picture or two on the
walls, and a great vase of autumn leaves and grasses beautified the low
chimney-piece. It was a very humble little room, but Polly had done her
best to make it pleasant, and it already had a home-like look, with the
cheery fire, and the household pets chirping and purring confidingly on
the rug.

"How nice it is!" exclaimed Maud, as she emerged from the big closet
where Polly kept her stores. "Such a cunning teakettle and saucepan,
and a tete-a-tete set, and lots of good things to eat. Do have toast for
tea, Polly, and let me make it with the new toasting fork; it 's such
fun to play cook."

Fanny was not so enthusiastic as her sister, for her eyes saw many
traces of what seemed like poverty to her; but Polly was so gay, so
satisfied with her small establishment, so full of happy hopes and
plans, that her friend had not the heart to find a fault or suggest an
improvement, and sat where she was told, laughing and talking while the
others got tea.

"This will be a country supper, girls," said Polly, bustling about.
"Here is real cream, brown bread, home-made cake, and honey from my own
beehives. Mother fitted me out with such a supply, I 'm glad to have a
party, for I can't eat it all quick enough. Butter the toast, Maudie,
and put that little cover over it. Tell me when the kettle boils, and
don't step on Nicodemus, whatever you do."

"What a capital house-keeper you will make some day," said Fanny, as she
watched Polly spread her table with a neatness and despatch which was
pleasant to behold.

"Yes, it 's good practice," laughed Polly, filling her tiny teapot, and
taking her place behind the tray, with a matronly air, which was the
best joke of the whole.

"This is the most delicious party I ever went to," observed Maud, with
her mouth full of honey, when the feast was well under way. "I do wish
I could have a nice room like this, and a cat and a bird that would n't
eat each other up, and a dear little teakettle, and make just as much
toast as I like."

Such a peal of laughter greeted Maud's pensive aspiration, that Miss
Mills smiled over her solitary cup of tea, and little Nick burst into a
perfect ecstasy of song, as he sat on the sugar-bowl helping himself.

"I don't care for the toast and the kettle, but I do envy you your good
spirits, Polly," said Fanny, as the merriment subsided. "I 'm so tired
of everybody and everything, it seems sometimes as if I should die of
ennui. Don't you ever feel so?"

"Things worry me sometimes, but I just catch up a broom and sweep, or
wash hard, or walk, or go at something with all my might, and I usually
find that by the time I get through the worry is gone, or I 've got
courage enough to bear it without grumbling," answered Polly, cutting
the brown loaf energetically.

"I can't do those things, you know; there 's no need of it, and I
don't think they 'd cure my worrying," said Fanny, languidly feeding
Ashputtel, who sat decorously beside her, at the table, winking at the
cream pot.

"A little poverty would do you good, Fan; just enough necessity to keep
you busy till you find how good work is; and when you once learn that,
you won't complain of ennui any more," returned Polly, who had taken
kindly the hard lesson which twenty years of cheerful poverty had taught
her.

"Mercy, no, I should hate that; but I wish some one would invent a new
amusement for rich people. I 'm dead sick of parties, and flirtations,
trying to out-dress my neighbors, and going the same round year after
year, like a squirrel in a cage."

Fanny's tone was bitter as well as discontented, her face sad as well as
listless, and Polly had an instinctive feeling that some trouble, more
real than any she had ever known before, was lying heavy at her friend's
heart. That was not the time to speak of it, but Polly resolved to stand
ready to offer sympathy, if nothing more, whenever the confidential
minute came; and her manner was so kind, so comfortable, that Fanny felt
its silent magic, grew more cheerful in the quiet atmosphere of that
little room, and when they said good-night, after an old-time gossip by
the fire, she kissed her hostess warmly, saying, with a grateful look,
"Polly, dear, I shall come often, you do me so much good."


CHAPTER IX. LESSONS


THE first few weeks were hard ones, for Polly had not yet outgrown her
natural shyness and going among so many strangers caused her frequent
panics. But her purpose gave her courage, and when the ice was once
broken, her little pupils quickly learned to love her. The novelty soon
wore off, and though she thought she was prepared for drudgery, she
found it very tedious to go on doing the same thing day after day. Then
she was lonely, for Will could only come once a week, her leisure hours
were Fanny's busiest, and the "bits of pleasure" were so few and far
between that they only tantalized her. Even her small housekeeping lost
its charms, for Polly was a social creature, and the solitary meals were
often sad ones. Ashputtel and Nick did their best to cheer her, but
they too, seemed to pine for country freedom and home atmosphere. Poor
Puttel, after gazing wistfully out of the window at the gaunt city cats
skulking about the yard, would retire to the rug, and curl herself up as
if all hope of finding congenial society had failed; while little Nick
would sing till he vibrated on his perch, without receiving any response
except an inquisitive chirp from the pert sparrows, who seemed to twit
him with his captivity. Yes, by the time the little teakettle had lost
its brightness, Polly had decided that getting one's living was no
joke, and many of her brilliant hopes had shared the fate of the little
kettle.

If one could only make the sacrifice all at once, and done with it, then
it would seem easier; but to keep up a daily sacrifice of one's wishes,
tastes, and pleasures, is rather a hard task, especially when one is
pretty, young, and gay. Lessons all day, a highly instructive lecture,
books over a solitary fire, or music with no audience but a sleepy
cat and a bird with his head tucked under his wing, for evening
entertainment, was not exactly what might be called festive; so,
in spite of her brave resolutions, Polly did long for a little fun
sometimes, and after saying virtuously to herself at nine: "Yes, it is
much wiser and better for me to go to bed early, and be ready for work
tomorrow," she would lie awake hearing the carriages roll to and fro,
and imagining the gay girls inside, going to party, opera, or play, till
Mrs. Dodd's hop pillow might as well have been stuffed with nettles, for
any sleep it brought, or any use it was, except to catch and hide the
tears that dropped on it when Polly's heart was very full.

Another thorn that wounded our Polly in her first attempt to make her
way through the thicket that always bars a woman's progress, was the
discovery that working for a living shuts a good many doors in one's
face even in democratic America. As Fanny's guest she had been, in spite
of poverty, kindly received wherever her friend took her, both as child
and woman. Now, things were changed; the kindly people patronized, the
careless forgot all about her, and even Fanny, with all her affection,
felt that Polly the music teacher would not be welcome in many places
where Polly the young lady had been accepted as "Miss Shaw's friend."

"I told him to keep it dark, and got him to give it to me. I--I knew
Tempest hadn't enough money to pay it--and--and--"
An exclamation of anger from Tempest cut me short, and I was sent
ignominiously back to my place.

"Tempest," said the head master very sternly, "send me in a list of
all you owe before you go to bed to-night, and understand that, unless
all is paid by Friday when we break up, you will not be allowed
to return to Low Heath after the holidays.

You must cease in any case to retain the headship of the house, even
for the few days of the term that remain.
You, I understand. Crofter, come next in form order; you will act as
head boy in the meantime."
In the midst of my anguish I could see the look of meek resignation on
Crofter's face, and that of quiet satisfaction on Mr Jarman's. At Tempest
I dared not look, or at my fellow-Philosophers.

What had I done? What was to become of me? How could I get out of it?
These were the three questions which set my poor brain spinning as
I wandered off alone to the remotest corner of the quadrangle, and
as, later on, I lay miserably awake in my bed.

I had done my friend about as much harm as I possibly could. I may
not have meant it. But who cares what a fellow means, so long as he
acts like a cad? As to what was to become of me, I had had a taste of
that already. The faggery door had been locked against me, and a
missive shoved under the bottom had apprised me of my fate in that
quarter.

"To Beast Sarah.

"Take notice that you are kicked out of the Philosophers, and if you
dare show your abominable face within a mile of them you'll get it all
over with rulers. It has been resolved by Mr Langrish and seconded by
Mr Trimble, and passed by all the lot, that you be and are hereby
kicked whenever any one sees you. Any one not kicking you will be
lammed. It is also resolved that the faggery be fumigated and
disinfected during the holidays, and that any chap seen talking to you
be refused to be let in till he has been vaccinated.

You are about the lowest, meanest, vilest, abominablest, unmitigatedest
sneak going.
Three cheers for poor old Tempest, and down with girls' schools and
washerwomen!"
This fiery document was formally signed by every Philosopher in the house,
together with a particular word of opprobrium addressed to me by each
of my former colleagues.

I was not long in realising that I was an outcast in Sharpe's. No one
would look at me, still less speak to me. Pridgin ordered me off like
a dog. Wales slammed his door in my face. When I appeared in the
preparation hall, a long hiss saluted me, even though Mr Sharpe was
present. Even outside fellows seemed to have heard of my crime, and
looked askance or gave me a wide berth. I can truly say that I found
myself the most miserable boy in Low Heath, and only longed for the
end of the term to come, that I might shake the dust of the hateful
place from my feet, and drop out of the sight of a school full of
enemies.

Indeed, as I lay awake that night I had serious thoughts of making off
there and then.

If I had only had my boots, I think I might have done so; but they
were in the blacking-room; and my desperation drew the line at walking
off in my bare feet.

I was sitting up in bed, half whimpering with headache and misery, when
a light appeared at the end of the dormitory. It was Crofter, in his
new capacity of head of the house, taking his rounds before turning in.

The sight of him brought home to me the injury I had done, not only to
Tempest, but the whole house. For it was my fault, and mine only, that
Crofter was at this moment captain of Sharpe's.

To my surprise and alarm, when he came up to my bed he stopped short,
and drawing a letter from his pocket, put it into my hand, saying--

"Put that under your pillow till the morning."
It was more than nature could do to sleep with a mystery like this on the
top of my misery. I listened to the clock as it struck the hours through
the night, and thought the day would never come. Indeed, the getting-up
bell had sounded before the winter sun struggled in through the
dormitory window.

Then by the light of a candle I seized the missive from under my pillow
and tore it open.

A five-pound note fell out, and with it the following letter.

"You have made a nice mess of it, and ought to be happy. The least
you can do is to try to make things right for Tempest. Call round on
the following six tradesmen (giving the six names, one of which was
Marple) early to-morrow, and pay Tempest's bill at each, and bring
home the receipts. You needn't mention who sent you. Send the receipts
to me, and if Tempest asks any questions, tell him you paid the money
by request of a friend.

"W. Crofter."

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

I AM ADVISED TO LIE LOW.

My first impulse on reading Crofter's letter was to jump for joy.

It meant that Tempest would stay at Low Heath, and that I was to be allowed
to assist in keeping him there.

But my second thoughts were more of a surprise than pleasure. Crofter was
a mystery to me. His fellow-seniors disliked him, and warned me against
him. But, as far as I could see, he was not as bad as they made him
out, and certainly never said anything as bad about them as they said
about him.

What could be his object now if it was not a disinterested one? He
would be permanent captain of the house if Tempest left, and yet he
was doing the very thing that would keep Tempest at school.

Tempest had openly insulted him during the term, and yet here he was
helping his enemy out of a very tight place. I knew he was well off,
so probably he could afford the £5; but at the end of the term
pocket-money was not a plentiful commodity. He said nothing about being
paid back, too; surely he did not mean to make Tempest a free gift
of this magnificent amount!
The more I thought it over the more I felt Crofter was a brick, and
had been scandalously misunderstood.

He seemed to me a true type of the virtuous man, who, when struck on one
cheek, turns the other, and when robbed of his coat offers his cloak
too. I only hoped Tempest might know what he owed him. In short, in the
brief time it took me to dress, I had worked myself up into a state
of enthusiasm on the subject of Crofter.

As to the mystery of Mr Marple's letter having got into the doctor's
hands, no doubt I had been careless and dropped the compromising
envelope, which some foolish but honest person (it did not occur to me
at the time it might have been Crofter himself) had picked up and dropped
in the head master's letter-box, supposing he was doing a very clever
thing.

Tempest would not be likely to allow me to explain, which was hard on
me, and made it all the more virtuous on my part to assist now in
putting things right for him.

Luckily for him, he had friends at Low Heath in spite of himself.

When I encountered Crofter in the morning, I requested him, with a
knowing look of intelligence, to give me an _exeat_ into the town to do
some shopping. It was probably the first recognition he had received
of his temporary authority as head of the house, and he made no
difficulty in granting my request.

I made my way first of all to Marple's.

"Oh, about that bill you gave me. How much was it?"
"Two pounds and sixpence, young gentleman."
"I said I'd see it paid for you, didn't I?"

"You did. I don't want to show up--"
"All right, you needn't. Here's the money; give me the change, please,
and a receipt."

Mr Marple opened his eyes very wide at the sight of a five-pound note
within three days of the end of term. "I--I hope it's all right,"
said he, hesitatingly. "You needn't have it if you don't want," said
I, mounting my high horse.

"I'm sure I'm much obliged to you, young gentleman," said the
tradesman, giving the note a professional twitch, and proceeding
to count out the change from his till.

"I shall always be pleased to attend to any little orders from Mr Tempest
or you."
"You can make out the receipt to Tempest," said I; "I expect he won't get
much more here."

"Don't say that. I'm sure no offence was meant."
It was a delicious sensation to feel myself master of the situation
like this. I could have bullied Marple if I had liked, but I resolved
not to be too hard on him.

"I'm sure I'm much obliged," said he, "for all your trouble. Have you
seen these pretty little pencil-sharpers? They are quite new. I shall
be pleased if you will accept one, young gentleman."

A pencil-sharpener was the very thing I wanted. All the term I had been
wrestling with a blunt penknife, which no sooner uncovered the lead at
the end of a pencil than it broke it off. So in a weak moment I accepted
the gift, and forfeited my advantage.

From Marple's I proceeded to the confectioner's, where a score of
nearly a pound stood against Tempest. Here, again, I experienced the
sweets of being treated with distinguished consideration, and being
asked to partake of a strawberry ice (how Rammage, by the way,
continued to have strawberry ices in the middle of December I have
never yet clearly understood) while the receipt was being made out.

Mr Winget, the hatter, rather disappointed me by offering me nothing
more than his sincere thanks for the settlement of his little bill.

He might at least, I thought, have offered me a mourning hatband or a
new school ribbon. His bill, however, was only five shillings, so
probably the profit did not permit of any gratuitous allowance in
recognition of my distinguished services.

I was consoled, however, by Mr Ringstead, the games man, who presented
me with a net-bag for holding tennis balls, and urged me, whenever
I wanted any little thing in the way of repairs to bats, or fresh
spikes to my running shoes, to let him know.

It was all very pleasant, and I grieve to say that the shady side of
all this petty bribery and corruption never once occurred to my simple
mind.

I returned to school covered with self-satisfaction, and virtuously clutching
in my hand half-a-crown, the final change out of the "fiver." This in due
course I put in an envelope, together with the batch of receipts, and
laid on Crofter's table after morning school, with the laconic
message under the flap, "All right, T.J. iv."

I was far too knowing to let out my secret to the Philosophers,
whose agitation and indignation at Tempest's probable expulsion
knew no bounds and somewhat amused me.

"Look here, Sarah," said Langrish, as I entered for the first time
after my disgrace of the previous day--I knew my comrades well
enough to be sure they would like to see me--"we all know you're
about the beastliest, howlingest cad in Low Heath; so that's all
right."

"I'm glad you think so."
"Yes, and you've been told to clear out, as it's your fault Tempest's
expelled."

"Is it? That's all you know," said I.

"Yes, and you're kicked out of the Philosophers, and we're going to
invite Dicky Brown to join us. _He's_ a decent chap."
This was rather a blow.

"I thought no town-boys were eligible."
"No cads are; that's why you're out of it."
"Look here--" said I.

"We're not going to look here. You can cut and go, and sit on the
stairs. We don't want you in here, do we, you chaps?"
"Rather not, unless we've got our kicking boots on."
"All right," said I, feeling I must play one or two of my trumps. "I
sha'n't tell you what I was going to."
"Pooh, we know all about it," said Coxhead. But it was plain by the way
they had all pricked their ears they did not.

"Oh, if you know, it's all right. But you don't know the latest."
"We don't want to, unless it's that old Tempest has got off."
"That's just what it is," said I triumphantly.

"Good old Sarah! how do you know?"
"Never mind, it's a secret; but it's a fact, honour bright."
"What, has he paid all his bills?"

"They're all paid, I know that."
"I suppose," said Langrish, "as that motion about Sarah being kicked out
wasn't properly seconded, it's off, isn't it?"
"Does any gentleman second the motion?"

said Coxhead, glancing round the assembled Philosophers.

No one seconded it.

"Jolly lucky shave for you, young Sarah," said Coxhead.

"Thanks awfully," said I.

"We may as well divide up the pool now?"

suggested Warminster.

With a generosity which was really touching, the Philosophers had
clubbed together the shattered fragments of their term's pocket-money
to assist Tempest in his financial troubles.

They had done it ungrudgingly, nay enthusiastically, and it was not
against them that the enthusiasm remained now as each one unexpectedly
received back his Philosopher's mite from the depths of the kindly
"pool."

It is all very well keeping a secret like mine for twenty-four hours.
It was an effort, but I did it, and prevailed on my comrades to keep it
too. It was even harder work to prevail upon them as a matter of policy
to accept the temporary supremacy of Crofter in the house. Nothing
would induce them to refrain from cheering Tempest (much to his
displeasure) on every possible occasion. It made it awkward for me
sometimes when this happened in Crofter's presence; for as things
now were in Sharpe's, a cheer for the old captain meant a hoot at the
new; and I felt that Crofter, did the fellows only know all, did not
deserve their resentment.

After forty-eight hours I could not restrain myself any longer.

It was not fair to myself, or Crofter, or Low Heath, that every one
should suppose Tempest was to be expelled when he really was not. So,
with some misgivings, I decided to put myself in his way and break the
agreeable news to him, and so have everything cleared up before the end
of term.

It was not difficult to find an excuse. I had not been to Tempest's rooms
since our unlucky quarrel, and had been suffering inconvenience ever
since by the fact that my Latin Gradus was there. On the last day but one
of the term, therefore, I developed a burning desire to consult my missing
handbook, and must needs go in search of it.

Tempest was sitting, miserably enough, before the fire, with his
feet on the fender and his hands up to the back of his head as I
entered.

It was not till I was well in the room and had closed the door that he
turned round and saw me.

I thought at first he meant to fly at me, his face clouded so
angrily.

But it changed to a look of contempt as he said,--

"Well?"
"Tempest, I'm awfully sorry, really I am, but--"
"Don't let us have any of that. If I thought you'd meant it, I should
precious soon know what to do. You've done me about the worst turn a
fellow could, and if you weren't a conceited young ass it would be some
use thrashing you. As it is, somebody else may do that when I'm
gone."
The wretchedness of his tone quite touched me. I forgot my anger and
sense of resentment, and all the old affection and loyalty came
back with a rush.

How could I ever have imagined a fellow like Crofter was worthy to
hold a candle to my old Dux?

"Really, Tempest," began I, losing my head and blundering I scarcely
knew whither, "when you saw me talking to Crofter--" He uttered
an angry exclamation.

"There, now, shut up about your friend Crofter. I don't want to hear
about him."
"He's not my friend, Tempest; he's--he's yours."
He wheeled round in his chair and laughed bitterly.

"It's a queer time to joke," said he, with a laugh that cut me through.

"It's no joke, Tempest. You don't know what he's done for you."
"Don't I? I fancy I do."
"About the bills," said I, faltering, "you know."
"Ah I don't come here to tell me about that."
"It was all of his own accord he paid them."
"He what?" shouted Tempest, springing from his chair and facing round.

"Paid them, you know; at least, I paid them for him."
"You? Paid?" and he caught me by the collar and shook me like a
puppy.

"You said you knew," gasped I.

"Paid my bills! You say that blackguard had the cheek to--"
"He got me to do it; it was his money, though."
He groaned as if some one had wounded him. A crimson flush of shame and
mortification overspread his face, and for a moment he stared at me
speechless.

Then he pulled himself together and strode out of the room. Utterly
bewildered and half terrified, I followed him.

What had I done to offend him? Had all the trouble of the term turned
his head?

To my alarm he made straight for Crofter's study. No one was there.
He turned and saw me.

"Tell Crofter I want him at once."

I departed with my heart in my mouth. At the foot of the staircase I met
Crofter.

"Tempest wants to see you," said I; "he sent me to--to ask you to come."

"He doesn't know?" inquired Crofter.

"Yes--I told him--I--I thought I ought to let him know." Crofter laughed
his sweet laugh.

"If I had wanted it known all over Low Heath," said he, "I could hardly
have done better than tell you to keep it a secret. I'd much sooner he
had not known. However--where is he?"
"In your study, I think."
I felt constrained to follow.

Crofter evidently was expecting to be the recipient of an outburst of
effusive gratitude. I had not the courage to disabuse him.

He walked pleasantly and graciously into his study, where Tempest stood,
flushing and biting his lips, awaiting him. "Is this true what that
youngster says, that you've had the--that you've paid bills of mine?"
"I'm sorry he told you, Tempest. I thought it might get you out of a
difficulty, and I--"
"And you expect me to thank you! Take that, for daring to meddle in my
affairs!"
And he struck Crofter on the cheek--not a hard blow, but one which
sent the recipient reeling across the room with astonishment.

For a moment I expected a fight. Crofter, however, pale, but smiling
still, declined the challenge.

"You'll be sorry, I'm sure," said he, as coolly as he could.

"I only wanted to do you a good turn, and--"
"I'm sorry already," said Tempest, who had already gathered himself
together.

"I hoped you'd fight like a man. As you're afraid to, I'm sorry I touched
you."
"I see nothing to fight about," said Crofter. "I don't see what there
is to be angry about."
Tempest waited motionless for a few uncomfortable moments, in the
hope that Crofter would pluck up spirit to accept the challenge.

But, as Crofter only smiled, he turned on his heel and strode out of the
room.

As he passed me, he beckoned me imperiously to follow him. I did so in
terror.

He put a piece of paper and a pen before me.

"Write down there an account of every bill you paid, and the amount."

I obeyed--my memory fortunately served me for the task.

"Now go. You've had the satisfaction of seeing me make an ass of myself
in striking that cad--he's not worth it. You may go and tell him I'm
sorry if you like.

As for you, I don't want to see any more of you. Go to your captain,
and leave me alone."
And he flung himself miserably into his chair, leaning forward with his
head on his hands, and apparently indifferent whether I stayed or
went.

I went, leaving him thus. And the memory of him sitting there haunted
me all that night and for weeks to come.

When, next day, the news went round that Tempest had escaped expulsion,
the general delight was tempered with amazement at the rumour which
accompanied it, that he owed his escape to Crofter. No one but Crofter
himself could have put the latter story into circulation, and to any
one knowing the two seniors as well as I did, it was obvious that
what had completed the humiliation of one had been the crowning
triumph of the other.

Crofter could not have avenged himself for the insults of the term
more effectively; and Tempest's proud nature could not have suffered a
bitterer wound than to know that he had been put under an obligation
in spite of himself, and without the possibility of preventing it, by
his worst enemy.

The ordinary "Sharper" could hardly be expected to trouble himself
about questions of motive.

It was sufficient for him that his hero was saved, and that the credit of
the popular act which saved him belonged to Crofter.

Consequently both were cheered equally when they appeared in public, and
of the two Crofter accepted his popularity with a far better grace than
his mortified adversary.
But it was all very miserable to me as I slunk home that afternoon
in the train. All the hopes of the wonderful term had been
disappointed.
I was a recognised dunce and idler at Low Heath. I had lost my best
friend and sold myself to his enemy. My self-respect was at a low
ebb.
I knew that in a post or two would come a report which would bring
tears to my mother's eyes, and cause my guardian to grunt and say,
"I expected as much." The worst of it was, I could not get it out
of my head yet that I was rather a fine young fellow if only people
knew it, and that my misfortunes were more to blame for the failure
of the term than my faults.
To my relief a letter came early in the holidays from Dicky Brown's
people, asking me to spend the last two weeks with them, I jumped
at it, for in my present miserable frame of mind even home was
dismal.
But when I found myself back at Low Heath, installed in Dicky's
quiet little family circle, I was almost sorry I had come. For Dicky
was all high spirits and jubilation. He had won a form prize;
everything had gone swimmingly for him. The Urbans looked up to
him; the head master had patted him on the back; the Redwoods had
taken a fancy to him. No one thought of calling him by a feminine
nickname.
"I think Low Heath's a ripping place," said he, as we strolled past
the gate of the empty quadrangle in one of our holiday rambles.
"I'm jolly glad we got kicked out of Dangerfield, ain't you?"

"Middling," said I; "the fact is, Dicky, you may as well know it,
but I'm rather sick of this place."
"Hullo!" said he, looking at me, "why, I thought you were having
such a high old time."
"I--I've come a bit of a howler, Dicky;" here I gulped ominously,
much to Dicky's concern. "I've fooled things rather, you know." I
was in for my confession now, and gave the penitent horse his head.
"I'm jolly miserable, Dicky, that's all about it, and wish I was
dead, don't you know, and that sort of thing."
"What's up, old chappie?" said Dicky, taking my arm, and evidently
in a fright lest I should compromise myself by breaking down on the
spot.
"Come down by the willows; it's rather muddy, but it's quieter."

So we ploughed through the mud under the willows, and I let out on
Dicky all that was in my heart. I'm sure he thought it a lot of
bosh, but he was too kind to say so, and hung on to my arm, and
never once contradicted me when I called myself a fool.
"You have rotted it a bit," remarked he, when the story was
complete.
"Never mind, old chap, it can't be helped. You'll worry through all
right."
This was true comfort. If Dicky had been a prig like me, he would
have tried to talk to me like a father, and driven me crazy. It
made all the difference that he understood me, and yet believed in
me a little.
"It strikes me," said he, with refreshing candour, "you fancy
yourself a bit too much, Tommy. I'd advise you to lie low a bit,
and it will all come round."
"That's just exactly what Tempest said to me the first day of term,"
said I, with a groan.
"There you are," said he; "bless you, you're not going to get done
over one wretched term, are you? I wouldn't if I were you."
"But all the chaps are down on me."
"What do you care?" said he, with a snort. "Who cares twopence about
the lot of them--chaps like them too? You're a cut better than that
lot, I fancy--ought to be, anyhow."
What balm it all was to my wounds! What miles of mud we ploughed
through that afternoon I and how, as the water gradually leaked
into my boots, my heart rose out of them, and got back somehow to
its proper place, and enabled me to look at things in their proper
light. I think Dicky, little as he knew it, was sent by God to help
me pull myself together, and I shall always think better of him for
his blunt, genuine encouragement that day.
On our way back he pulled up at Redwood's door.
"Let's see if he's in," said he; "he won't mind."
"All right," said I, beginning to quail again a little, and yet
determined to go through with the whole business.
Redwood was in, mending a pair of skates, in anticipation of a day
or two's frost before the holidays were over.
"Look here, Redwood," said Dicky, determined to make things easy
for me.
"Old Jones minimus is in the blues. He's been fooling it rather
this term, you know, but he's a bit sick of it, and we thought you'd
like to know, didn't we, young Jones minimus?"She
had heard of poverty and suffering, in the vague, far-off way, which is
all that many girls, safe in happy homes, ever know of it; but now she
had seen it, in a shape which she could feel and understand, and life
grew more earnest to her from that minute. So much to do in the great,
busy world, and she had done so little. Where should she begin?
Then, like an answer came little Jenny's words, now taking a 'new
significance' to Polly's mind, "To be strong, and beautiful, and go
round making music all the time." Yes, she could do that; and with a
very earnest prayer, Polly asked for the strength of an upright soul,
the beauty of a tender heart, the power to make her life a sweet and
stirring song, helpful while it lasted, remembered when it died.

Little Jane's last thought had been to wish with all her might, that
"God would bless the dear, kind girl up there, and give her all she
asked." I think both prayers, although too humble to be put in words,
went up together, for in the fulness of time they were beautifully
answered.


CHAPTER X. BROTHERS AND SISTERS


POLLY'S happiest day was Sunday, for Will never failed to spend it with
her. Instead of sleeping later than usual that morning, she was always
up bright and early, flying round to get ready for her guest, for Will
came to breakfast, and they made a long day of it. Will considered his
sister the best and prettiest girl going, and Polly, knowing well that a
time would come when he would find a better and a prettier, was grateful
for his good opinion, and tried to deserve it. So she made her room and
herself as neat and inviting as possible, and always ran to meet him
with a bright face and a motherly greeting, when he came tramping in,
ruddy, brisk, and beaming, with the brown loaf and the little pot of
beans from the bake-house near by.

They liked a good country breakfast, and nothing gave Polly more
satisfaction than to see her big boy clear the dishes, empty the little
coffee-pot, and then sit and laugh at her across the ravaged table.
Another pleasure was to let him help clear away, as they used to do
at home, while the peals of laughter that always accompanied this
performance did Miss Mills' heart good to hear, for the room was so
small and Will so big that he seemed to be everywhere at once, and Polly
and Puttel were continually dodging his long arms and legs. Then they
used to inspect the flower pots, pay Nick a visit, and have a little
music as a good beginning for the day, after which they went to church
and dined with Miss Mills, who considered Will "an excellent young
man." If the afternoon was fair, they took a long walk together over
the bridges into the country, or about the city streets full of Sabbath
quietude. Most people meeting them would have seen only an awkward young
man, with a boy's face atop of his tall body, and a quietly dressed,
fresh faced little woman hanging on his arm; but a few people, with eyes
to read romances and pleasant histories everywhere, found something very
attractive in this couple, and smiled as they passed, wondering if they
were young, lovers, or country cousins "looking round."

If the day was stormy, they stayed at home, reading, writing letters,
talking over their affairs, and giving each other good advice; for,
though Will was nearly three years younger than Polly, he could n't for
the life of him help assuming amusingly venerable airs, when he became
a Freshman. In the twilight he had a good lounge on the sofa, and Polly
sung to him, which arrangement he particularly enjoyed, it was so "cosy
and homey." At nine o'clock, Polly packed his bag with clean clothes,
nicely mended, such remnants of the festive tea as were transportable,
and kissed him "good-night," with many injunctions to muffle up his
throat going over the bridge, and be sure that his feet were dry
and warm when he went to bed. All of which Will laughed at, accepted
graciously, and did n't obey; but he liked it, and trudged away for
another week's work, rested, cheered, and strengthened by that quiet,
happy day with Polly, for he had been brought up to believe in home
influences, and this brother and sister loved one another dearly, and
were not ashamed to own it.

One other person enjoyed the humble pleasures of these Sundays quite as
much as Polly and Will. Maud used to beg to come to tea, and Polly, glad
to do anything for those who had done a good deal for her, made a point
of calling for the little girl as they came home from their walk, or
sending Will to escort her in the carriage, which Maud always managed
to secure if bad weather threatened to quench her hopes. Tom and Fanny
laughed at her fancy, but she did not tire of it, for the child was
lonely, and found something in that little room which the great house
could not give her.

Maud was twelve now; a pale, plain child, with sharp, intelligent eyes,
and a busy little mind, that did a good deal more thinking than anybody
imagined. She was just at the unattractive, fidgety age when no one
knew what to do with her, and so let her fumble her way up as she could,
finding pleasure in odd things, and living much alone, for she did not
go to school, because her shoulders were growing round, and Mrs.
Shaw would not "allow her figure to be spoiled." That suited Maud
excellently; and whenever her father spoke of sending her again, or
getting a governess, she was seized with bad headaches, a pain in her
back, or weakness of the eyes, at which Mr. Shaw laughed, but let her
holiday go on. Nobody seemed to care much for plain, pug-nosed little
Maudie; her father was busy, her mother nervous and sick, Fanny absorbed
in her own affairs, and Tom regarded her as most young men do their
younger sisters, as a person born for his amusement and convenience,
nothing more. Maud admired Tom with all her heart, and made a little
slave of herself to him, feeling well repaid if he merely said, "Thank
you, chicken," or did n't pinch her nose, or nip her ear, as he had a
way of doing, "just as if I was a doll, or a dog, and had n't got any
feelings," she sometimes said to Fanny, when some service or sacrifice
had been accepted without gratitude or respect. It never occurred to
Tom, when Maud sat watching him with her face full of wistfulness, that
she wanted to be petted as much as ever he did in his neglected boyhood,
or that when he called her "Pug" before people, her little feelings were
as deeply wounded as his used to be, when the boys called him "Carrots."
He was fond of her in his fashion, but he did n't take the trouble to
show it, so Maud worshipped him afar off, afraid to betray the affection
that no rebuff could kill or cool.

One snowy Sunday afternoon Tom lay on the sofa in his favorite attitude,
reading "Pendennis" for the fourth time, and smoking like a chimney as
he did so. Maud stood at the window watching the falling flakes with an
anxious countenance, and presently a great sigh broke from her.

"Don't do that again, chicken, or you 'll blow me away. What's the
matter?" asked Tom, throwing down his book with a yawn that threatened
dislocation.

"I 'm afraid I can't go to Polly's," answered Maud, disconsolately.

"Of course you can't; it 's snowing hard, and father won't be home
with the carriage till this evening. What are you always cutting off to
Polly's for?"

"I like it; we have such nice times, and Will is there, and we bake
little johnny-cakes in the baker before the fire, and they sing, and it
is so pleasant."

"Warbling johnny-cakes must be interesting. Come and tell me all about
it."

"No, you 'll only laugh at me."

"I give you my word I won't, if I can help it; but I really am dying of
curiosity to know what you do down there. You like to hear secrets, so
tell me yours, and I 'll be as dumb as an oyster."

"It is n't a secret, and you would n't care for it. Do you want another
pillow?" she added, as Tom gave his a thump.

"This will do; but why you women always stick tassels and fringe all
over a sofa-cushion, to tease and tickle a fellow, is what I don't
understand."

"One thing that Polly does Sunday nights, is to take Will's head in her
lap, and smooth his forehead. It rests him after studying so hard, she
says. If you don't like the pillow, I could do that for you, 'cause you
look as if you were more tired of studying than Will," said Maud, with
some hesitation, but an evident desire to be useful and agreeable.

"Well, I don't care if you do try it, for I am confoundedly tired." And
Tom laughed, as he recalled the frolic he had been on the night before.

Maud established herself with great satisfaction, and Tom owned that a
silk apron was nicer than a fuzzy cushion.

"Do you like it?" she asked, after a few strokes over the hot forehead,
which she thought was fevered by intense application to Greek and Latin.

"Not bad; play away," was the gracious reply, as Tom shut his eyes,
and lay so still that Maud was charmed at the success of her attempt.
Presently, she said, softly, "Tom, are you asleep?"

"Just turning the corner."

"Before you get quite round would you please tell me what a Public
Admonition is?"

"What do you want to know for?" demanded Tom, opening his eyes very
wide.

"I heard Will talking about Publics and Privates, and I meant to ask
him, but I forgot."

"What did he say?"

"I don't remember; it was about somebody who cut prayers, and got
a Private, and had done all sorts of bad things, and had one or two
Publics. I did n't hear the name and did n't care; I only wanted to know
what the words meant."

"So Will tells tales, does he?" and Tom's forehead wrinkled with a
frown.

"No, he did n't; Polly knew about it and asked him."

"Will's a 'dig,'" growled Tom, shutting his eyes again, as if nothing
more could be said of the delinquent William.

"I don't care if he is; I like him very much, and so does Polly."

"Happy Fresh!" said Tom, with a comical groan.

"You need n't sniff at him, for he is nice, and treats me with respect,"
cried Maud, with an energy that made Tom laugh in her face.

"He 's good to Polly always, and puts on her cloak for her, and says 'my
dear,' and kisses her 'good-night,' and don't think it 's silly, and I
wish I had a brother just like him, yes, I do!" And Maud showed signs of
woe, for her disappointment about going was very great.

"Bless my boots! what's the chicken ruffling up her little feathers and
pecking at me for? Is that the way Polly soothes the best of brothers?"
said Tom, still laughing.

"Oh, I forgot! there, I won't cry; but I do want to go," and Maud
swallowed her tears, and began to stroke again.

Now Tom's horse and sleigh were in the stable, for he meant to drive out
to College that evening, but he did n't take Maud's hint. It was less
trouble to lie still, and say in a conciliatory tone, "Tell me some more
about this good boy, it 's very interesting."

"No, I shan't, but I 'll tell about Puttel's playing on the piano," said
Maud, anxious to efface the memory of her momentary weakness. "Polly
points to the right key with a little stick, and Puttel sits on the
stool and pats each key as it 's touched, and it makes a tune. It 's
so funny to see her, and Nick perches on the rack and sings as if he 'd
kill himself."

"Very thrilling," said Tom, in a sleepy tone.

Maud felt that her conversation was not as interesting as she hoped, and
tried again.

"Polly thinks you are handsomer than Mr. Sydney."

"Much obliged."

"I asked which she thought had the nicest face, and she said yours was
the handsomest, and his the best."

"Does he ever go there?" asked a sharp voice behind them; and looking
round Maud saw Fanny in the big chair, cooking her feet over the
register.

"I never saw him there; he sent up some books one day, and Will teased
her about it."

"What did she do?" demanded Fanny. "Oh, she shook him."

"What a spectacle!" and Tom looked as if he would have enjoyed seeing
it, but Fanny's face grew so forbidding, that Tom's little dog, who was
approaching to welcome her, put his tail between his legs and fled under
the table.

"Then there is n't any 'Sparking Sunday night'?" sung Tom, who appeared
to have waked up again.

"Of course not. Polly is n't going to marry anybody; she 's going to
keep house for Will when he 's a minister, I heard her say so," cried
Maud, with importance.

"What a fate for pretty Polly!" ejaculated Tom.

"She likes it, and I 'm sure I should think she would; it 's beautiful
to hear 'em plan it all out."

"Any more gossip to retail, Pug?" asked Tom a minute after, as Maud
seemed absorbed in visions of the future.

"He told a funny story about blowing up one of the professors. You
never told us, so I suppose you did n't know it. Some bad fellow put a
torpedo, or some sort of powder thing, under the chair, and it went off
in the midst of the lesson, and the poor man flew up, frightened most
to pieces, and the boys ran with pails of water to put the fire out. But
the thing that made Will laugh most was, that the very fellow who did it
got his trousers burnt trying to put out the fire, and he asked the is
it Faculty or President?"

"Either will do," murmured Tom, who was shaking with suppressed
laughter.

"Well, he asked 'em to give him some new ones, and they did give him
money enough, for a nice pair; but he got some cheap ones, with horrid
great stripes on 'em, and always wore 'em to that particular class,
'which was one too many for the fellows,' Will said, and with the rest
of the money he had a punch party. Was n't it dreadful?"

"Awful!" And Tom exploded into a great laugh, that made Fanny cover her
ears, and the little dog bark wildly.

"Did you know that bad boy?" asked innocent Maud.

"Slightly," gasped Tom, in whose wardrobe at college those identical
trousers were hanging at that moment.

"Don't make such a noise, my head aches dreadfully," said Fanny,
fretfully.

"Girls' heads always do ache," answered Tom, subsiding from a roar into
a chuckle.

"What pleasure you boys can find in such ungentlemanly things, I don't
see," said Fanny, who was evidently out of sorts.

"As much a mystery to you as it is to us, how you girls can like to
gabble and prink from one week's end to the other," retorted Tom.

There was a pause after this little passage-at-arms, but Fan wanted to
be amused, for time hung heavily on her hands, so she asked, in a more
amiable tone, "How 's Trix?"

"As sweet as ever," answered Tom, gruffly.

"Did she scold you, as usual?"

"She just did."

"What was the matter?"

"Well, I 'll leave it to you if this is n't unreasonable: she won't
dance with me herself, yet don't like me to go it with anybody else. I
said, I thought, if a fellow took a girl to a party, she ought to dance
with him once, at least, especially if they were engaged. She said that
was the very reason why she should n't do it; so, at the last hop, I let
her alone, and had a gay time with Belle, and to-day Trix gave it to me
hot and heavy, coming home from church."

"If you go and engage yourself to a girl like that, I don't know what
you can expect. Did she wear her Paris hat to-day?" added Fan, with
sudden interest in her voice.

"She wore some sort of a blue thing, with a confounded bird of Paradise
in it, that kept whisking into my face every time she turned her head."

"Men never know a pretty thing when they see it. That hat is perfectly
lovely."

"They know a lady when they see her, and Trix don't look like one; I
can't say where the trouble is, but there 's too much fuss and feathers
for my taste. You are twice as stylish, yet you never look loud or
fast."

Touched by this unusual compliment, Fanny drew her chair nearer as she
replied with complacency, "Yes, I flatter myself I do know how to dress
well. Trix never did; she 's fond of gay colors, and generally looks
like a walking rainbow."

"Can't you give her a hint? Tell her not to wear blue gloves anyway, she
knows I hate 'em."

"I 've done my best for your sake, Tom, but she is a perverse creature,
and don't mind a word I say, even about things much more objectionable
than blue gloves."

"Maudie, run and bring me my other cigar case, it 's lying round
somewhere."

Maud went; and as soon as the door was shut, Tom rose on his elbow,
saying in a cautiously lowered voice, "Fan, does Trix paint?"

"Yes, and draws too," answered Fanny, with a sly laugh.

"Come, you know what I mean; I 've a right to ask and you ought to
tell," said Tom, soberly, for he was beginning to find that being
engaged was not unmitigated bliss.

"What makes you think she does?"

"Well, between ourselves," said Tom, looking a little sheepish, but
anxious to set his mind at rest, "she never will let me kiss her on her
cheek, nothing but an unsatisfactory peck at her lips. Then the
other day, as I took a bit of heliotrope out of a vase to put in my
button-hole, I whisked a drop of water into her face; I was going to
wipe it off, but she pushed my hand away, and ran to the glass, where
she carefully dabbed it dry, and came back with one cheek redder than
the other. I did n't say anything, but I had my suspicions. Come now,
does she?"

"Yes, she does; but don't say a word to her, for she 'll never forgive
my telling if she knew it."

"I don't care for that; I don't like it, and I won't have it," said Tom,
decidedly.

"You can't help yourself. Half the girls do it, either paint or powder,
darken their lashes with burnt hair-pins, or take cologne on lumps of
sugar or belladonna to make their eyes bright. Clara tried arsenic for
her complexion, but her mother stopped it," said Fanny, betraying the
secrets of the prison-house in the basest manner.

"I knew you girls were a set of humbugs, and very pretty ones, too,
some of you, but I can't say I like to see you painted up like a lot of
actresses," said Tom, with an air of disgust.

"I don't do anything of the sort, or need it, but Trix does; and having
chosen her, you must abide your choice, for better or worse."

"It has n't come to that yet," muttered Tom, as he lay down again with a
rebellious air.

Maud's return put an end to these confidences, though Tom excited her
curiosity by asking the mysterious question, "I say, Fan, is Polly up to
that sort of thing?"

"No, she thinks it 's awful. When she gets pale and dragged out she will
probably change her mind."

"I doubt it," said Tom.

"Polly says it is n't proper to talk secrets before people who ain't in
'em," observed Maud, with dignity.

"Do, for mercy sake, stop talking about Polly, I 'm sick to death of
it," cried Fanny, snappishly.

"Hullo!" and Tom sat up to take a survey. "I thought you were bosom
friends, and as spoony as ever."

"Well, I am fond of Polly, but I get tired of hearing Maud sing her
praises everlastingly. Now don't go and repeat that, chatterbox."

"My goodness, is n't she cross?" whispered Maud to Tom.

"As two sticks; let her be. There 's the bell; see who it is, Pug,"
answered Tom, as a tingle broke the silence of the house.

Maud went to peep over the banisters, and came flying back in a rapture.

"It 's Will come for me! Can't I go? It don't snow hard, and I 'll
bundle up, and you can send for me when papa comes."

"I don't care what you do," answered Fan, who was in a very bad temper.

Without waiting for any other permission, Maud rushed away to get ready.
Will would n't come up, he was so snowy, and Fanny was glad, because
with her he was bashful, awkward, and silent, so Tom went down and
entertained him with Maud's report. They were very good friends, but led
entirely different lives, Will being a "dig," and Tom a "bird," or,
in plain English, one was a hard student, and the other a jolly young
gentleman. Tom had rather patronized Will, who did n't like it, and
showed that he did n't by refusing to borrow money of him, or accept
any of his invitations to join the clubs and societies to which Tom
belonged. So Shaw let Milton alone, and he got on very well in his own
way, doggedly sticking to his books, and resisting all temptations
but those of certain libraries, athletic games, and such inexpensive
pleasures as were within his means; for this benighted youth had not yet
discovered that college nowadays is a place in which to "sky-lark," not
to study.

When Maud came down and trotted contentedly away, holding Will's
hand, Tom watched them out of sight, and then strolled about the house
whistling and thinking, till he went to sleep in his father's arm-chair,
for want of something better to do. He awoke to the joys of a solitary
tea, for his mother never came down, and Fanny shut herself and her
headache up in her own room.

"Well, this is cheerful," he said, as the clock struck eight, and his
fourth cigar came to an end. "Trix is mad, and Fan in the dumps, so I
'll take myself off. Guess I 'll go round to Polly's, and ask Will to
drive out with me, and save him the walk, poor chap. Might bring Midget
home, it will please her, and there 's no knowing when the governor will
be back."

With these thoughts in his head, Tom leisurely got under way, and left
his horse at a neighboring stable, for he meant to make a little call,
and see what it was Maud enjoyed so much.

"Polly is holding forth," he said to himself, as he went quietly up
stairs, and the steady murmur of a pleasant voice came down to him. Tom
laughed at Polly's earnest way of talking when she was interested
in anything. But he liked it because it was so different from the
coquettish clatter of most of the girls with whom he talked. Young men
often laugh at the sensible girls whom they secretly respect, and
affect to admire the silly ones whom they secretly despise, because
earnestness, intelligence, and womanly dignity are not the fashion.

The door was ajar, and pausing in the dark entry Tom took a survey
before he went in. The prospect was not dazzling, but home-like and
pleasant. The light of a bright fire filled the little room, and down
on a stool before it was Maud tending Puttel, and watching with deep
interest the roasting of an apple intended for her special benefit. On
the couch lounged Will, his thoughtful eyes fixed on Polly, who, while
she talked, smoothed the broad forehead of her "yellow-haired laddie"
in a way that Tom thought an immense improvement on Maud's performance.
They had evidently been building castles in the air, for Polly was
saying in her most impressive manner, "Well, whatever you do, Will,
don't have a great, costly church that takes so much money to build
and support it that you have nothing to give away. I like the plain,
old-fashioned churches, built for use, not show, where people met for
hearty praying and preaching, and where everybody made their own music
instead of listening to opera singers, as we do now. I don't care if
the old churches were bare and cold, and the seats hard, there was real
piety in them, and the sincerity of it was felt in the lives of the
people. I don't want a religion that I put away with my Sunday clothes,
and don't take out till the day comes round again; I want something to
see and feel and live by day-by-day, and I hope you 'll be one of the
true ministers, who can teach by precept and example, how to get and
keep it."

"I hope I shall be, Polly, but you know they say that in families, if
there is a boy who can't do anything else, they make a minister of him.
I sometimes think I ain't good for much, and that seems to me the reason
why I should n't even try to be a minister," said Will, smiling, yet
looking as if with all his humility he did have faith in the aspirations
that came to him in his best moments.

"Some one said that very thing to father once, and I remember he
answered, 'I am glad to give my best and brightest son to the service of
God.'"

"Did he say that?" and Will's color rose, for the big, book-loving
fellow was as sensitive as a girl to the praise of those dearest to him.

"Yes," said Polly, unconsciously giving the strongest stimulus to her
brother's hope and courage. "Yes, and he added, 'I shall let my boys
follow the guide that is in them, and only ask of them to use their
gifts conscientiously, and be honest, useful men.'"

"So we will! Ned is doing well out West, and I 'm hard at it here. If
father does his best to give us the chance we each want, the least we
can do is to work with a will."

"Whatever you do, you can't help working with a Will," cried Tom, who
had been so interested, that he forgot he was playing eavesdropper.

Polly flew up, looking so pleased and surprised, that Tom reproached
himself for not having called oftener.

"I 've come for Maud," he announced, in a paternal tone, which made that
young lady open her eyes.

"I can't go till my apple is done; besides, it is n't nine yet, and Will
is going to take me along, when he goes. I 'd rather have him."

"I 'm going to take you both in the cutter. The storm is over, but it is
heavy walking, so you 'll drive out with me, old man?" said Tom, with a
nod at Will.

"Of course he will; and thank you very much. I 've been trying to keep
him all night; Miss Mills always manages to find a corner for stray
people, but he insists on going, so as to get to work early to-morrow,"
said Polly, delighted to see that Tom was taking off his coat, as if he
meant to wait for Maud's apple, which Polly blessed for being so slow to
cook.

Putting her guest into the best chair, Polly sat down and beamed at him
with such hospitable satisfaction, that Tom went up several pegs in his
own estimation.

"You don't come very often, so we are rather over-powered when you do
honor us," she said, demurely.

"Well, you, know we fellows are so busy, we have n't much time to enjoy
ourselves," answered Tom.

"Ahem!" said Will, loudly.

"Take a troche," said Tom.

Then they both burst out laughing, and Polly, fully understanding
the joke, joined them, saying, "Here are some peanuts, Tom; do enjoy
yourself while you can."

"Now I call that a delicate compliment!" And Tom, who had not lost his
early relish for this sort of refreshment, though he seldom indulged
his passion nowadays, because peanuts are considered vulgar, fell to
cracking and munching with great satisfaction.

"Do you remember the first visit I made at your house, how you gave
me peanuts, coming from the depot, and frightened me out of my wits,
pretending the coachman was tipsy?" asked Polly.

"Of course I do, and how we coasted one day," answered Tom, laughing.

"Yes, and the velocipede; you 've got the scar of that yet, I see."

"I remember how you stood by me while it was sewed up; that was very
plucky, Polly."

"I was dreadfully afraid, but I remember I wanted to seem very brave,
because you 'd called me a coward."

"Did I? Ought to have been ashamed of myself. I used to rough you
shamefully, Polly, and you were so good-natured, you let me do it."

"Could n't help myself," laughed Polly. "I did use to think you were an
awful boy, but seems to me I rather liked it."

"She had so much of it at home, she got used to it," put in Will,
pulling the little curl behind Polly's ear.

"You boys never teased me as Tom did, that 's the reason it amused me, I
suppose; novelty hath charms, you know."

"Grandma used to lecture Tom for plaguing you, Polly, and he used to say
he 'd be a tip-top boy, but he was n't," observed Maud, with a venerable
air.

"Dear old grandma; she did her best, but I 'm a bad lot," said Tom, with
a shake of the head and a sober face.

"It always seems as if she must be up in her rooms, and I can't get used
to finding them empty," added Polly, softly.

"Father would n't have anything moved, and Tom sits up there sometimes;
it makes him feel good, he says," said Maud, who had a talent for
betraying trifles which people preferred should not be mentioned in
public.

"You 'd better hurry up your apple, for if it is n't done pretty soon,
you 'll have to leave it, Pug," said Tom, looking annoyed.

"How is Fan?" asked Polly, with tact.

"Well, Fan is rather under the weather; says she 's dyspeptic, which
means cross."

"She is cross, but she 's sick too, for I found her crying one day, and
she said nobody cared about her, and she might as well be dead," added
Maud, having turned her apple with tender care.

"We must try to cheer her up, among us. If I was n't so busy I 'd like
to devote myself to her, she has done so much for me," said Polly,
gratefully.

"I wish you could. I can't understand her, for she acts like a
weathercock, and I never know how I 'm going to find her. I hate to have
her mope so, but, upon my life, I don't know what to do," said Tom; but
as he uttered the words, something was suggested by the sight before
him. Chairs were few, and Polly had taken half of Will's when they drew
round the fire. Now she was leaning against him, in a cosy, confiding
way, delightful to behold, while Will's strong arm went round her with
a protecting air, which said, as plainly as any words, that this big
brother and small sister knew how to love and help one another. It was a
pleasant little picture, all the pleasanter for its unconsciousness, and
Tom found it both suggestive and agreeable.

"Poor old Fan, she don't get much petting; maybe that 's what she wants.
I 'll try it and see, for she stands by me like a trump. If she was
a rosy, cosy little woman, like Polly, it would come easier, though,"
thought Tom, as he meditatively ate his last nut, feeling that fraternal
affection could not be very difficult of demonstration, to brothers
blessed with pretty, good-tempered sisters.

"I told Tom about the bad fellow who blew up the professor, and he said
he knew him, slightly; and I was so relieved, because I had a kind of a
feeling that it was Tom himself, you and Will laughed so about it."

Maud had a queer way of going on with her own thoughts, and suddenly
coming out with whatever lay uppermost, regardless of time, place, or
company. As this remark fell from her, there was a general smile, and
Polly said, with mock solemnity, "It was a sad thing, and I 've no doubt
that misguided young man is very sorry for it now."

"He looked perfectly bowed down with remorse last time I saw him," said
Will, regarding Tom with eyes full of fun, for Will was a boy as well as
a bookworm, and relished a joke as well as scatter-brained Tom.

"He always is remorseful after a scrape, I 've understood, for he is n't
a very bad fellow, only his spirits are one too many for him, and he is
n't as fond of his book as another fellow I know."

"I 'm afraid he 'll he expelled if he don't mind," said Polly,
warningly.

"Should n't wonder if he was, he 's such an unlucky dog," answered Tom,
rather soberly.

"I hope he 'll remember that his friends will be very much disappointed
if he is. He might make them so proud and happy; that I guess he will,
for he is n't half as thoughtless as he makes himself out," said Polly,
looking across at Tom with such friendly eyes that he was quite touched,
though of course he did n't show it.

"Thank you, Polly; he may pull through, but I have my doubts. Now old
man, let us 'pud' along; it 's getting late for the chicken," he added,
relapsing into the graceful diction with which a classical education
gifts its fortunate possessor.

Taking advantage of the moment while Will was wrestling with his boots
in the closet, and Maud was absorbed in packing her apple into a large
basket, Polly said to Tom in a low tone, "Thank you very much, for being
so kind to Will."

"Bless your heart, I have n't done anything; he 's such a proud fellow
he won't let me," answered Tom.

"But you do in many little ways; to-night, for example. Do you think
I don't know that the suit of clothes he 's just got would have cost a
good deal more, if your tailor had n't made them? He 's only a boy,
and don't understand things yet; but I know your way of helping proud
people; so that they don't find it out, and I do thank you, Tom, so
much."

This is the most perfect and complete machine in the world. It knits
every thing.

FOURTH:
AMERICAN BUTTONHOLE, OVERSEAMING, AND SEWING-MACHINE.
This great combination machine is the last and greatest improvement
on all former machines.I don't care what stories they tell about you, I 'm
sure, you won't lead him into trouble, but keep him straight, for my
sake. You know I 've lost one brother, and Will takes Jimmy's place to
me now."

The tears in Polly's eyes as she said that made Tom vow a tremendous vow
within himself to stand by Will through thick and thin, and "keep him
straight for Polly's sake"; feeling all the time how ill-fitted he was
for such a task.

"I 'll do my best," he said, heartily, as he pressed the hand Polly gave
him, with a look which assured her that he felt the appeal to his honor,
and that henceforth the country lad was safe from all the temptations
Tom could have offered him.

"There! now I shall give that to mamma to take her pills in; it 's
just what she likes, and it pleases her to be thought of," said Maud,
surveying her gift with complacency, as she put on her things.

"You 're a good little soul, to remember poor mum, said Tom, with an
approving nod.

"Well, she was so pleased with the grapes you brought her, I thought I
'd try something, and maybe she 'd say 'Thank you, darling,' to me too.
Do you think she will?" whispered Maud, with the wistful look so often
seen on her little plain face.

"See if she don't;" and to Maud's great surprise Tom did n't laugh at
her project.

"Good night, dear; take care of yourself, and keep your muffler round
your mouth going over the bridge, or you 'll be as hoarse as a crow
to-morrow," said Polly, as she kissed her brother, who returned it
without looking as if he thought it "girl's nonsense" Then the three
piled into the sleigh and drove off, leave Polly nodding on the
doorstep.

Maud found the drive altogether too short, but was consoled by the
promise of a longer one if the sleighing lasted till next Saturday: and
when Tom ran up to bid his mother good-by, and give her a hint about
Maud's gift, she stayed below to say, at the last minute, in unconscious
imitation of Polly.

"Good night; take care of yourself, my dear."

Tom laughed, and was about to pinch the much enduring little nose; but,
as if the words reminded him of something, he gave her a kiss instead, a
piece of forbearance which almost took Maud's breath away with surprise
and gratification.

It was rather a silent drive, for Will obediently kept his muffler up,
and Tom fell into a brown study.

He was not much given to reflection, but occasionally indulged when
something gave him a turn in that direction, and at such times he was as
sober and sincere as could be desired. Any one might have lectured him
for an hour without doing as much good as that little call and the chat
that grew out of it, for, though nothing very wise or witty was
said, many things were suggested, and every one knows that persuasive
influences are better than any amount of moralizing. Neither Polly nor
Will tried to do anything of the sort, and that was the charm of it.
Nobody likes to be talked to, but nobody can resist the eloquence of
unconscious preaching. With all his thoughtlessness, Tom was quick to
see and feel these things, and was not spoilt enough yet to laugh at
them. The sight of Will and Polly's simple affection for one another
reminded him of a neglected duty so pleasantly, that he could not forget
it. Talking of early days made him wish he could go back and start
again, doing better. Grandma's name recalled the tender memory that
always did him good, and the thought that Polly trusted her dearest
brother to his care stirred up a manful desire to deserve the
confidence. Tortures would n't have drawn a word of all this from him,
but it had its effect, for boys don't leave their hearts and consciences
behind them when they enter college, and little things of this sort do
much to keep both from being damaged by the four years' scrimmage which
begins the battle of life for most of them.


CHAPTER XI. NEEDLES AND TONGUES


DEAR POLLY, The Sewing Circle meets at our house this P. M. This is in
your line, so do come and help me through. I shall depend on you.

Yours ever, FAN.

"Bad news, my dear?" asked Miss Mills, who had just handed the note to
Polly as she came in one noon, a few weeks after Jenny's arrival.

Polly told her what it was, adding, "I suppose I ought to go and help
Fanny, but I can't say I want to. The girls talk about things I have
nothing to do with, and I don't find their gossip very amusing. I 'm an
outsider, and they only accept me on Fan's account; so I sit in a corner
and sew, while they chatter and laugh."

"Would n't it be a good chance to say a word for Jenny? She wants work,
and these young ladies probably have quantities done somewhere. Jenny
does fine work exquisitely, and begins to feel anxious to be earning
something. I don't want her to feel dependent and unhappy, and a little
well-paid sewing would be all she needs to do nicely. I can get it for
her by running round to my friends, but I really have n't the time, till
I get the Mullers off. They are paupers here, but out West they can take
care of themselves, so I 've begged the money to send them, and as soon
as I can get them some clothes, off they go. That 's the way to help
people help themselves," and Miss Mills clashed her big scissors
energetically, as she cut out a little red flannel shirt.

"I know it is, and I want to help, but I don't know where to begin,"
said Polly, feeling quite oppressed with the immensity of the work.

"We can't any of us do all we would like, but we can do our best for
every case that comes to us, and that helps amazingly. Begin with Jenny,
my dear; tell those girls about her, and if I 'm not much mistaken, you
will find them ready to help, for half the time it is n't hardness of
heart, but ignorance or thoughtlessness on the part of the rich, that
makes them seem so careless of the poor."

"To tell the truth, I 'm afraid of being laughed at, if I try to talk
seriously about such things to the girls," said Polly, frankly.

"You believe that 'such things' are true? You are sincere in your wish
to help better them, and you respect those who work for that end?"

"Yes, I do."

"Then, my dear, can't you bear a little ridicule for the sake of a good
cause? You said yesterday that you were going to make it a principle of
your life, to help up your sex as far and as fast as you could. It did
my heart good to hear you say it, for I was sure that in time you would
keep your word. But, Polly, a principle that can't bear being laughed
at, frowned on, and cold-shouldered, is n't worthy of the name."

"I want to be strong-minded in the real sense of the word, but I don't
like to be called so by people who don't understand my meaning; and
I shall be if I try to make the girls think soberly about anything
sensible or philanthropic. They call me old-fashioned now, and I 'd
rather be thought that, though it is n't pleasant, than be set down as
a rampant woman's rights reformer," said Polly, in whose memory many
laughs, and snubs, and sarcasms still lingered, forgiven but not
forgotten.

"This love and thought and care for those weaker, poorer, or worse than
ourselves, which we call Christian charity, is a very old fashion, my
dear. It began eighteen hundred years ago, and only those who honestly
follow the beautiful example set us then, learn how to get genuine
happiness out of life. I 'm not a 'rampant woman's rights reformer,'"
added Miss Mills, with a smile at Polly's sober face; "but I think that
women can do a great deal for each other, if they will only stop fearing
what 'people will think,' and take a hearty interest in whatever is
going to fit their sisters and themselves to deserve and enjoy the
rights God gave them. There are so many ways in which this can be done,
that I wonder they don't see and improve them. I don't ask you to go and
make speeches, only a few have the gift for that, but I do want every
girl and woman to feel this duty, and make any little sacrifice of time
or feeling that may be asked of them, because there is so much to do,
and no one can do it as well as ourselves, if we only think so."

"I 'll try!" said Polly, influenced more by her desire to keep Miss
Mills' good opinion than any love of self-sacrifice for her sex. It was
rather a hard thing to ask of a shy, sensitive girl, and the kind old
lady knew it, for in spite of the gray hair and withered face, her heart
was very young, and her own girlish trials not forgotten. But she
knew also that Polly had more influence over others than she herself
suspected, simply because of her candid, upright nature; and that while
she tried to help others, she was serving herself in a way that would
improve heart and soul more than any mere social success she might gain
by following the rules of fashionable life, which drill the character
out of girls till they are as much alike as pins in a paper, and have
about as much true sense and sentiment in their little heads. There was
good stuff in Polly, unspoiled as yet, and Miss Mills was only acting
out her principle of women helping each other. The wise old lady saw
that Polly had reached that point where the girl suddenly blooms into
a woman, asking something more substantial than pleasure to satisfy the
new aspirations that are born; a time as precious and important to the
after-life, as the hour when the apple blossoms fall, and the young
fruit waits for the elements to ripen or destroy the harvest.

Polly did not know this, and was fortunate in possessing a friend who
knew what influences would serve her best, and who could give her what
all women should desire to give each other, the example of a sweet, good
life, more eloquent and powerful than any words; for this is a right no
one can deny us.

Polly turned the matter over in her mind as she dressed, while Jenny
played waiting maid, little dreaming what this new friend was meaning to
do for her, if she dared.

"Is it going to be a tea-party, Miss?" asked Jenny, as the black silk
went rustling on, to her great admiration, for she considered Polly a
beauty.

"Well, no, I think it will probably be a lecture," answered Polly,
laughing, for Jenny's grateful service and affectionate eyes confirmed
the purpose which Miss Mills' little homily had suggested.

As she entered the Shaws' parlor an hour or two later, an appalling
array of well-dressed girls appeared, each provided with a dainty
reticule, basket, or bag, and each tongue going a good deal faster than
the needle, while the white fingers stitched sleeves in upside down, put
flannel jackets together hind part before, or gobbled button-holes with
the best intentions in life.

"You are a dear to come so early. Here 's a nice place for you between
Belle and Miss Perkins, and here 's a sweet little dress to make, unless
you like something else better," said Fanny, receiving her friend with
warmth and placing her where she thought she would enjoy herself.

"Thank you, I 'll take an unbleached cotton shirt if you have such a
thing, for it is likely to be needed before a cambric frock," replied
Polly, subsiding into her corner as quickly as possible, for at least six
eye-glasses were up, and she did n't enjoy being stared at.

Miss Perkins, a grave, cold-looking young lady, with an aristocratic
nose, bowed politely, and then went on with her work, which displayed
two diamond rings to great advantage. Belle, being of the demonstrative
sort, smiled and nodded, drew up her chair, and began a whispered
account of Trix's last quarrel with Tom. Polly listened with interest
while she sewed diligently, occasionally permitting her eyes to study
the elegant intricacies of Miss Perkins' dress, for that young lady sat
like a statue, quirking her delicate fingers, and accomplishing about
two stitches a minute.

In the midst of Belle's story, a more exciting bit of gossip caught her
ear, and she plunged into the conversation going on across the table,
leaving Polly free to listen and admire the wit, wisdom, and charitable
spirit of the accomplished young ladies about her. There was a perfect
Babel of tongues, but out of the confusion Polly gathered scraps of
fashionable intelligence which somewhat lessened her respect for the
dwellers in high places. One fair creature asserted that Joe Somebody
took so much champagne at the last German, that he had to be got away,
and sent home with two servants. Another divulged the awful fact that
Carrie P.'s wedding presents were half of them hired for the occasion.
A third circulated a whisper to the effect that though Mrs. Buckminster
wore a thousand-dollar cloak, her boys were not allowed but one sheet to
their beds. And a fourth young gossip assured the company that a certain
person never had offered himself to a certain other person, though
the report was industriously spread by interested parties. This latter
remark caused such a clamor that Fanny called the meeting to order in a
most unparliamentary fashion.

"Girls! girls! you really must talk less and sew more, or our society
will be disgraced. Do you know our branch sent in less work than any of
the others last month, and Mrs. Fitz George said, she did n't see how
fifteen young ladies could manage to do so little?"

"We don't talk a bit more than the old ladies do. I just wish you could
have heard them go on, last time. The way they get so much done, is,
they take work home, and make their seamstresses do it, and then they
take credit for vast industry," said Belle, who always spoke her mind
with charming candor.

"That reminds me that mamma says they want as many things as we can
make, for it 's a hard winter, and the poor are suffering very much. Do
any of you wish to take articles home, to do at odd times?" said Fan,
who was president of this energetic Dorcas Society.

"Mercy, no! It takes all my leisure time to mend my gloves and refresh
my dresses," answered Belle.

"I think if we meet once a week, it is all that should be expected of
us, with our other engagements. Poor people always complain that the
winter is a hard one, and never are satisfied," remarked Miss Perkins,
making her diamonds sparkle as she sewed buttons on the wrong side of a
pink calico apron, which would hardly survive one washing.

"Nobody can ask me to do any more, if they remember all I 've got to
attend to before summer," said Trix, with an important air. "I 've got
three women hard at work, and want another, but everyone is so busy, and
ask such abominable prices, that I 'm in despair, and shall have to take
hold myself, I 'm afraid."

"There 's a chance for Jane," thought Polly, but had n't courage "to
speak out loud in meeting," just then, and resolved to ask Trix for
work, in private.

"Prices are high, but you forget how much more it costs to live now than
it used to do. Mamma never allows us to beat down workwomen, but wishes
us to pay them well, and economize in some other way, if we must," said
Emma Davenport, a quiet, bright-eyed girl, who was called "odd" among
the young ladies, because she dressed simply, when her father was a
millionaire.

"Just hear that girl talk about economy! I beg your pardon, she 's some
relation of yours, I believe!" said Belle, in a low tone.

"Very distant; but I 'm proud of it; for with her, economy does n't mean
scrimping in one place to make a show in another. If every one would
follow the Davenports' example, workwomen would n't starve, or servants
be such a trouble. Emma is the plainest dressed girl in the room, next
to me, yet any one can see she is a true gentlewoman," said Polly,
warmly.

"And you are another," answered Belle, who had always loved Polly, in
her scatter-brained way.

"Hush! Trix has the floor."

"If they spent their wages properly, I should n't mind so much, but they
think they must be as fine as anybody, and dress so well that it is hard
to tell mistress from maid. Why our cook got a bonnet just like mine
(the materials were cheaper, but the effect was the same), and had the
impertinence to wear it before my face. I forbid it, and she left, of
course, which made papa so cross he would n't give me the camel's hair
shawl he promised this year."

"It 's perfectly shameful!" said Miss Perkins, as Trix paused out of
breath. "Servants ought to be made to dress like servants, as they do
abroad; then we should have no more trouble," observed Miss Perkins, who
had just made the grand tour, and had brought home a French maid.

"Perky don't practise as she preaches," whispered Belle to Polly, as
Miss P. became absorbed in the chat of her other neighbors. "She pays
her chamber girl with old finery; and the other day, when Betsey was out
parading in her missis's cast-off purple plush suit, Mr. Curtis thought
she was mademoiselle, and bowed to her. He is as blind as a bat, but
recognized the dress, and pulled off his hat to it in the most elegant
style. Perky adores him, and was mad enough to beat Betsey when she told
the story and giggled over it. Betsey is quite as stylish and ever so
much prettier than Perky, and she knows it, which is an aggravation."

Polly could n't help laughing, but grew sober a minute after, as Trix
said, pettishly, "Well, I 'm sick of hearing about beggars; I believe
half of them are humbugs, and if we let them alone they 'd go to work
and take care of themselves. There 's altogether too much fuss made
about charity. I do wish we could be left in peace."

"There can't be too much charity!" burst out Polly, forgetting her
shyness all at once.

"Oh, indeed! Well, I take the liberty to differ from you," returned
Trix, putting up her glass, and bestowing upon Polly her most
"toploftical stare," as the girls called it.

I regret to say that Polly never could talk with or be near Trix without
feeling irritated and combative. She tried to conquer this feeling, but
she could n't, and when Trix put on airs, Polly felt an intense desire
to box her ears. That eye-glass was her especial aversion, for Trix was
no more near-sighted than herself, but pretended to be because it was
the fashion, and at times used the innocent glass as a weapon with which
to put down any one who presumed to set themselves up. The supercilious
glance which accompanied her ironically polite speech roused Polly,
who answered with sudden color and the kindling of the eyes that always
betrayed a perturbed spirit, "I don't think many of us would enjoy that
selfish sort of peace, while little children starve, and girls no older
than us kill themselves because their dreadful poverty leaves them no
choice but sin or death."

A sudden lull took place, for, though Polly, did not raise her voice, it
was full of indignant emotion, and the most frivolous girl there felt
a little thrill of sympathy; for the most utterly fashionable life does
not kill the heart out of women, till years of selfish pleasure have
passed over their heads. Trix was ashamed of herself; but she felt the
same antagonism toward Polly, that Polly did toward her; and, being less
generous, took satisfaction in plaguing her. Polly did not know that the
secret of this was the fact that Tom often held her up as a model for
his fiance to follow, which caused that young lady to dislike her more
than ever.

"Half the awful stories in the papers are made up for a sensation, and
it 's absurd to believe them, unless one likes to be harrowed up. I
don't; and as for peace, I 'm not likely to get much, while I have Tom
to look after," said Trix, with an aggravating laugh.

Polly's needle snapped in two, but she did not mind it, as she said,
with a look that silenced even sharp-tongued Trix, "I can't help
believing what my own eyes and ears have seen and heard. You lead such
safe and happy lives, you can't imagine the misery that is all round
you; but if you could get a glimpse of it, it would make your hearts
ache, as it has mine."

"Do you suffer from heartache? Some one hinted as much to me, but you
looked so well, I could n't believe it."

Now that was cruel in Trix, more cruel than any one guessed; but girls'
tongues can deal wounds as sharp and sudden as the slender stiletto
Spanish women wear in their hair, and Polly turned pale, as those words
stabbed her. Belle saw it, and rushed to the rescue with more good-will
than wisdom.

"Nobody ever accused you of having any heart to ache with. Polly and
I are not old enough yet to get tough and cool, and we are still silly
enough to pity unhappy people, Tom Shaw especially," added Belle, under
her breath.

That was a two-edged thrust, for Trix was decidedly an old girl, and Tom
was generally regarded as a hapless victim. Trix turned red; but before
she could load and fire again, Emma Davenport, who labored under the
delusion that this sort of skirmishing was ill-natured, and therefore
ill-bred, spoke up in her pleasant way, "Speaking of pitying the poor,
I always wonder why it is that we all like to read and cry over their
troubles in books, but when we have the real thing before us, we think
it is uninteresting and disagreeable."

"It 's the genius that gets into the books, which makes us like the
poverty, I fancy. But I don't quite agree that the real thing is n't
interesting. I think it would be, if we knew how to look at and feel
it," said Polly, very quietly, as she pushed her chair out of the arctic
circle of Miss Perkins, into the temperate one of friendly Emma.

"But how shall we learn that? I don't see what we girls can do, more
than we do now. We have n't much money for such things, should n't know
how to use it if we had; and it is n't proper for us to go poking into
dirty places, to hunt up the needy. 'Going about doing good, in pony
phaetons,' as somebody says, may succeed in England, but it won't work
here," said Fanny, who had begun, lately, to think a good deal of some
one beside herself, and so found her interest in her fellow-beings
increasing daily.

"We can't do much, perhaps, just yet; but still there are things left
undone that naturally fall to us. I know a house," said Polly, sewing
busily as she talked, "where every servant who enters it becomes an
object of interest to the mistress and her daughters. These women are
taught good habits, books are put where they can get them, sensible
amusements are planned for them sometimes, and they soon feel that they
are not considered mere scrubs, to do as much work as possible, for as
little money as possible, but helpers in the family, who are loved and
respected in proportion to their faithfulness. This lady feels her duty
to them, owns it, and does it, as conscientiously as she wants them to
do theirs by her; and that is the way it ought to be, I think."

As Polly paused, several keen eyes discovered that Emma's cheeks were
very red, and saw a smile lurking in the corners of the mouth that tried
to look demure, which told them who Polly meant.

"Do the Biddies all turn out saints in that well regulated family?"
asked the irrepressible Trix.

"No; few of us do that, even in the parlor; but every one of the Biddies
is better for being there, whether they are grateful or not. I ought not
to have mentioned this, perhaps, but I wanted to show you one thing that
we girls can do. We all complain about bad servants, most as much as if
we were house-keepers ourselves; but it never occurs to us to try and
mend the matter, by getting up a better spirit between mistress and
maid. Then there 's another thing we can do," added Polly, warming up.
"Most of us find money enough for our little vanities and pleasures, but
feel dreadfully poor when we come to pay for work, sewing especially.
Could n't we give up a few of the vanities, and pay the seamstresses
better?"

"I declare I will!" cried Belle, whose conscience suddenly woke, and
smote her for beating down the woman who did her plain sewing, in order
that she might have an extra flounce on a new dress. "Belle has got a
virtuous fit; pity it won't last a week," said Trix.

"Wait and see," retorted Belle, resolving that it should last, just
to disappoint "that spiteful minx;" as she sweetly called her old
school-mate.

"Now we shall behold Belle galloping away at a great pace, on her new
hobby. I should n't be surprised to hear of her preaching in the jail,
adopting a nice dirty little orphan, or passing round tracts at a
Woman's Rights meeting," said Trix, who never could forgive Belle for
having a lovely complexion, and so much hair of her own that she never
patronized either rats, mice, waterfalls, switches, or puff-combs.

"Well, I might do worse; and I think, of the two, I 'd rather amuse
myself so, than as some young ladies do, who get into the papers for
their pranks," returned Belle, with a moral air.

"Suppose we have a little recess, and rest while Polly plays to us. Will
you, Polly? It will do us good; they all want to hear you, and begged I
'd ask."

"Then I will, with pleasure"; and Polly went to the piano with such
obliging readiness, that several reproachful glances fell upon Trix, who
did n't need her glass to see them.

Polly was never too sad, perturbed, or lazy to sing, for it was almost
as easy to her as breathing, and seemed the most natural outlet for her
emotions. For a minute her hands wandered over the keys, as if uncertain
what to play; then, falling into a sad, sweet strain, she sang "The
Bridge of Sighs." Polly did n't know why she chose it, but the instinct
seemed to have been a true one, for, old as the song was, it went
straight to the hearts of the hearers, and Polly sung it better than
she ever had before, for now the memory of little Jane lent it a tender
pathos which no art could give. It did them all good, for music is a
beautiful magician, and few can resist its power. The girls were touched
by the appeal; Polly was lifted out of herself, and when she turned
round, the softened look on all the faces told her that for the moment
foolish differences and frivolous beliefs were forgotten in the
one womanly sentiment of pity for the wrongs and woes of which the
listeners' happy lives were ignorant.

"That song always makes me cry, and feel as if I had no right to be so
comfortable," said Belle, openly wiping her eyes on a crash towel.

"Fortunately such cases are very rare," said another young lady, who
seldom read the newspapers.

"I wish they were, but I 'm afraid they are not; for only three weeks
ago, I saw a girl younger than any of us, and no worse, who tried to
destroy herself simply because she was so discouraged, sick, and poor,"
said Polly.

"Do tell about her," cried Belle, eagerly.

Feeling that the song had paved the way for the story, and given her
courage to tell it, Polly did tell it, and must have done it well, for
the girls stopped work to listen, and when she ended, other eyes beside
warm-hearted Belle's were wet. Trix looked quite subdued; Miss Perkins
thawed to such a degree, that something glittered on her hand as she
bent over the pink pinafore again, better and brighter than her biggest
diamond; Emma got up and went to Polly with a face full of affectionate
respect, while Fanny, moved by a sudden impulse, caught up a costly
Sevres plate that stood on the etagere, and laying a five-dollar bill in
it, passed it round, quoting Polly's words, "Girls, I know you 'll like
to help poor little Jenny 'begin again, and do better this time.'"

It was good to see how quickly the pretty purses were out, how
generously each gave of its abundance, and what hearty applause broke
from the girls, as Belle laid down her gold thimble, saying with an
April face, "There, take that; I never have any money, somehow it won't
stay with me, but I can't let the plate pass me this time."

When Fanny brought the contributions to Polly, she just gathered it up
in her two hands with such a glad, grateful face, the girls wished they
had had more to give.

Of course this was his old school dame. Good old Sarah!"
At this terrific exposure the spirit leaked out of me. My tell-tale blushes
confirmed what was true in the story, and my silence lent countenance
to what was untrue. The delight of my tormentors was beyond words. They
danced the "mulberry bush" round me, overwhelmed me with endearing
expressions, offered me fans and smelling salts and cushions and hairpins,
simulated hysterics and spasms, trod on my skirts, and conversed
to me in shrill treble till I was sick of the business.

Only one course was open to me. It was an unpleasant one, but on it
depended, I felt, my future welfare at Low Heath.

I seized the nearest, who happened to be Master Trimble, and pulling him
gently but firmly by the nose, demanded if girls generally treated him
that way?

He kicked vigorously, and ordered me to release the imprisoned
member.

I declined to do so until I had kicked back, and finally deposited
him on the floor, amidst the laughter of his perfidious comrades,
who told him it served him right, and that "Sarah" was evidently
one too many for him.

This little protest stood me in good stead. It put an end to all direct
aspersions on my sex, although it was a long while before I was
destined to hear the last of delicate insinuations on the topic.

And it advanced me very considerably in favour with the four whose noses
I had not been fortunate enough to engage.

"Look here; stop fooling, you chaps," said one of them, when in due
time Master Trimble was permitted to regain his feet. "This new kid
had better make up our sixth man here. No other faggery would be likely
to take him, so we may as well."
I concluded from this remark that the juniors of Mr Sharpe's house
were permitted to herd together in half dozens; and on the whole I was
disposed rather to bear the ills I had than fly to others I knew not
of.

"I don't mind," said I, "if you let me be."
"Who wants to touch you with a pair of tongs? You may as well pull in
with us, and help us kick the others. It'll be a change after the
girls' school."
"I _wasn't_ at a girls' school," said I, "I told you.

All I did was to coach with one of the teachers."
"About the same thing, I fancy," said Trimble, blowing his outraged nose
somewhat defiantly, "Sarah!"
"If you call me Sarah again," said I hotly, "I'll pull your nose again."

"All right: Miss Jones, then."
"No, not Miss; just Jones."
"All serene, just Jones, then shut up; stick on your lavender gloves, and
keep your hair on."
There was a general laugh at this which vastly solaced the aggrieved
Trimble, and encouraged him to refer jocularly to my late hat and boots,
topics which I had not the spirit to resent.

As soon as these personal matters were disposed of, I was tacitly admitted
as a member of the honourable faggery, and invited to express my opinion
on a matter which had been engaging the attention of the fraternity
before I arrived.

"We were thinking," said my late travelling companion, whom his friends
addressed as Langrish, "that it would be a score to get up a Philosophical
Society in the school. What do you say?"

"What to do?" I ventured to ask.

"Oh, discussions, and picnics, and larks.

What do you suppose we _should_ do? There's a senior club of the kind
already. They go in for dry rot--science and history, and that sort
of thing. Awful slow, and nobody knows what he's talking about. I flatter
myself _we_ should."
"We ought to draw up some rules, oughtn't we?" said Trimble.

"Rather--forge ahead."
Whereupon we crowded solemnly round the small table and put our heads
together.

One of the party, by the way, answering to the name of Purkis,
appeared to be the leading spirit, and made the most valuable suggestions.

"Rule 1," dictated he, "That this club be called the Low Heathen
Conversation Club."
"Hold on," said Trimble; "you've got club coming twice in the same sentence.
Bad grammar."
"Besides, I thought there was to be something about philosophy," suggested
Langrish.

"And keeping out the day cads," said Warminster, another of the party.

"Of course, if you make the rule long enough," said Purkis, with lofty
contempt, "you can get something in it about the man in the moon."
"But," said I, thinking to make a little joke, just to show I had no
ill-feeling, "we don't want him in the club, do we?"

"No," said Langrish, who had evidently been on the look-out for his
chance; "no more do we want pretty Sarah's washerwoman; do we, you
chaps?"

I subsided gracefully. The time was not yet ripe, evidently, for me
to assert myself.

"I tell you what," said Warminster; "what's the use of every one making
each rule? Let old Purkis make the first, and I'll make the second, and
Langrish the third, and so on. It will be ever so much quicker, and
give each chap a fair innings."
It seemed a good idea, and as it allowed Purkis's rule to stand
unchallenged, he acquiesced.

So in due time the following wonderful code of rules was drawn up and
adopted--
1. That this club be called the Low Heath Conversation Club. (Purkis.)

2. That the object of the club be and are periodical picnics and
meetings for the discussion of philosophy, etcetera.

(Warminster.)
There was some debate as to whether the ninth word should be "is" or "are."
But "are," as agreeing with the plural, was carried by a large
majority.

3. That each member bring his own grub, _alias_ provisions. (Trimble.)

4. That no day boy be eligible on to the club. (Langrish.)
5. That any member breaking the rules is hereby expelled. (Coxhead.)

6. That the subscription be two shillings a term, payable in advance.

(Jones.)
Warminster was anxious for consistency's sake to add the words "and are"
after "be," but was overruled.

After which we honourably drew lots for the various posts of emolument
and honour in connection with the club.

To my surprise I was drawn for president.

At first I was disposed to disclaim the honour on account of my youth
and inexperience.

But my fellow-Philosophers assured me that was no excuse, and that
my name would undoubtedly "draw."

I did not exactly see how, but they were probably better judges
than I; and perhaps as an exhib-- 
No, I was bound to keep that dark.

At any rate, it would be a nice thing to be able to write home to
my mother, that on the day of my arrival I had been appointed
president of the Philosophical Conversation Club, with a right to
add the initials P.L.H.C.C. after my name.

It sounded well, and would give me a better footing in Low Heath than
my tan boots.

Langrish was drawn for treasurer, and Purkis for secretary; while, to
obviate any cause for jealousy, Trimble was selected as auditor,
Warminster as librarian, and Coxhead as registrar.

A levy of subscriptions was made forthwith by the treasurer,
and the secretary was ordered to expend part of the amount in a
handbill setting forth the object and _personnel_ of the society,
for distribution through the school.

The auditor undertook to check the printer's bill, the librarian to keep
a copy of the document among the archives of the club, and the
registrar to prepare a book for entering the names of the new
members.

Altogether it was a most businesslike proceeding, and one which reflected,
as it seemed to me, great credit on the young life of Low Heath.

After this, a peremptory summons from the bell dismissed us precipitately
to bed. I had the indignity of being conducted to my cubicle by Mrs
Smiley, who had the bad taste to adjure me in the hearing of my
comrades to behave myself like a good boy and go to sleep directly
the lights were out. This was not altogether easy, for my cubicle happened
to be between those of Trimble and Langrish, and the partitions were
not particularly high. I was, indeed, allowed to undress and say my
prayers without interference, which was more than I had hoped for. But
no sooner was I in bed, and lights out, than I was favoured with
all sorts of missiles pitched over the partitions on either side with
extraordinary accuracy.

A book from Langrish hit me on the ear, and a wet sponge from Trimble
moistened my cheek. And when I sought shelter under the sheets, the
butt-end of a fishing-rod in the ribs drew me from my hiding-place,
and a clever cast with a hooked pin by Langrish relieved me of my outer
covering altogether. The footsteps of the monitor on duty deprived me of
the privilege of making an audible protest. All I could do was to send
Trimble's sponge quietly over to Langrish, and Langrish's book across to
Trimble, and, as well as I was able, recover my abstracted sheet
with the aid of the rod.

It took a long time, and laid me open to dire penalties for disturbing
the public peace. But it had to be done, and fortunately for me a row
at the other end of the room called the monitor away in the nick of
time.

When he returned, all was still, and I was dreaming that Mr Evans was
selling a pair of second-hand six-buttoned lavender gloves to my
mother in the hall of Mr Sharpe's house.

CHAPTER TEN.

SPECIAL SERVICE.

My introduction to Low Heath at large next day turned out to be a far
less formidable affair than I had anticipated. I had long since given
up the notion that the whole school would rise at my appearance
and salute me.

I had even ceased to expect that they would all stare and make remarks.
But I was hardly prepared for the absolute indifference with which
I was permitted to answer to my name at "Great register."

Not a soul took any notice of me, even when Dr England explained
to me publicly that as there were already three other Joneses in
the School, I would please answer in future to the title of Jones
iv., which I humbly promised to do.

Brown, I was not sorry to hear, was to be designated as Brown iii.
for similar reasons.

The ceremony being over, the new boys were trooped up to the head
master's library, and there told off to their respective forms with
a few words of warning and encouragement.

It surprised me that, in spite of my scholastic honours, I was
entered in the same form as Brown.

But on the whole I was more pleased than disappointed, for I loved my
old comrade dearly, and after all, if he _was_ placed above his merits,
it wasn't his fault.

"It's a pity you aren't a day boy," said he, as he walked across
afterwards; "we could have larks together."

"It's a pity you aren't in the school," said I.

"Oh, our chaps say it's rather stale to be in the school. I don't see why
your fellows should be looked down on, but they are."
"Pooh! you should hear our chaps talk about the day boys. Do you know,
Dicky, I'm president of a club, a Philosophical Club; and day
boys aren't eligible. I'm awfully sorry; I should have liked to have you
in."
"That's just what I thought about the Urbans.

They don't let in any fellow who's in the school--only day boys--they're
obliged to draw the line somewhere, you know. Do you know Redwood, the
captain, is a senior Urban?"
"I know.

Our chaps say it's a soak for the school having a day boy for captain."

"Oh! _We_ don't think so!

I say, do you see that chap there?"

The youth at whom he pointed was the friendly senior of whom I had
inquired the way to bed last night.

"Rather; he's a Sharper. Why, and what about him?"
"He's a hot man, they say, and the most popular chap at Low Heath.
He's captain of the Rifles."

"What's his name? Do you know?"

"Crofts, or Crofter, or something like that. What's up?"
He might well ask!

"Crofter!" exclaimed I. "My word, Dicky, I've been and done it!"
"Done what?"

"Why, I called him a beast yesterday."

"You did? You're getting on, Jones iv."
"No, without humbug, I did.

I didn't know it was Crofter, and I told him Tempest thought he was a
beast."
"If Tempest says so, he probably is," remarked the unemotional
Dicky.

"But what's to become of me? How was I to know?"
"I don't know. Perhaps you'd better go and tell him you were mistaken."

"I don't like to.

I say, what a downer he'll have on me! I half wish I was a day boy, after
all."
"It's a pity you aren't. We've a jolly lot in the Urban Minors; quite
a literary lot."

"Bother the Urban Minors!" said I, looking dismally after the retreating
form of Crofter.

"It'll take you all your time to bother some of them. There's Flitwick,
he's--"
"Hang Flitwick! Whatever am I to do, Dicky?"
"I wouldn't advise you to hang Flitwick. Oh, about that fellow
Crofter!
Oh, it'll be all right.

He's plenty else to think about."
It was poor comfort, but the best I could get, and our arrival at our class
room cut short further discussion on this most unfortunate incident.

But it weighed on my mind all day. When class was over, I was summoned
by my fellow "Philosophers" to come out into the playing fields; I
went in fear and trembling, lest I should encounter Crofter. But he
was nowhere to be seen.

My companions were evidently hand and glove with most of the juniors
in the school, and I was favoured with a bewildering number of
introductions, not always of the most gratifying kind.

"What have you got there, Trim? A tame monkey?" asked one gorgeous
youth, whose cap bore the badge of Mr Selkirk's house.

"Not exactly," said Trimble; "haven't had time to tame him yet."
"What's his name?"
"Sarah. Allow me. Muskett--Sarah Jones; Jones--Silly Muskett. Now
you know one another."
"He's only fooling about my name," said I; "it's Thomas."
"Oh, is it? Delighted to see you, Sarah Thomas."

And before I could put him right he was off, and I was led away by my
rejoicing comrades.

"Look here, Trimble," said I, "it's time you knew my name by now."

Trimble laughed, as did the others. They all thought it was high time.

But everybody we met I was introduced to as Sarah.

"Awfully sorry," said Langrish, after the fourth or fifth offence.
"I've such a bad memory for names.--Well kicked, sir."
This exclamation was addressed, not to me, but to a senior who had
just appeared on the scene, and was kicking about the practice
football with a friend prior to a match which was evidently due.

It was a splendid kick, and the author of it was a splendid fellow--
brawny of limb and light of foot, with fair hair and clear blue eyes--as
one might picture one of the Norsemen of the story-books.

You could see by the way he moved, and the spirit he put even into
this practice kicking, that he was a sportsman every inch of him;
and his good-natured laugh, as he exchanged greetings with this and
that arriving friend, proclaimed him, even before you heard him
speak, as good a gentleman as he was an athlete.

"Redwood's in form to-day," said some one. "We'd better stop and see
the play."
"Is that Redwood, the captain?"

inquired I, in an awestruck way, of Warminster.

"Rather," was the reply, in a tone of pride which convinced me that
Low Heath was proud of its chief, even though he had the misfortune
to be a day boy.

Just then Redwood turned and waved his hand to somebody near us.

"Look out; he wants you," said Langrish.

"Me?"

said I, flabbergasted.

"Don't you see him beckoning?

Look alive, or you'll catch it."
I could hardly believe it; and yet everybody near looked round at me in
apparent wonder at my delay.

Perhaps Redwood had heard something about me from Tempest and wanted to--

"Go on," said Trimble, giving me a shove. "If he wants to stick you in
the Fifteen, tell him it's not good enough."
"Look sharp," called the others, encouragingly, as I started to
obey the summons.

By this time Redwood was strolling our way. Mahomet, thought I, is coming
to the mountain. So, to save him trouble, I trotted up to meet him.

At first he didn't notice me.

Then when I said, "Did you want me?" he stared me over from head to foot
as a Newfoundland dog would inspect a pug.

It was on the whole a benevolent stare, not unmingled with humour;
especially when the cheers of my late comrades called his attention
to my ingenuous blushes.

"I didn't," said he; "but you'll do, if you don't mind.

Cut home to my house.

Number 3, Bridge Street, and ask them to send my leather belt.
Look alive, there's a good chap."
This speech, the first really polite speech I had heard since I entered
Low Heath, took me by storm, and captivated me at once to the service
of the captain of the school. I galloped off, as proud as a non-
commissioned officer who has been sent to fetch his regimental flag on
to the field of battle. The chaps behind might cheer and jeer and cry,
"Gee-up, Sarah!" and "Mad dog!" as much as they liked. They would
have been only too proud to be sent on my errand.

It was a good ten minutes' run to Bridge Street, and I was fairly out of
breath when I rang at the bell of Number 3. It seemed a long time before
any one came, and I was beginning to be afraid I should forfeit the
reputation I hoped to acquire, when hurried footsteps announced that
my ring had been heard.

Mrs Redwood was out, said the servant, and she had been down the
garden with the children.
When I delivered my message, she asked me to wait; and with her
little charges evidently on her mind, ran upstairs to fetch the
belt.
It was a nice house, although a small one. The garden door was open,
and gave a beautiful peep over the little sloping lawn to the river
and the woods beyond. I was not sure that, after all, a town-boy
might not have a good time of it, living in a place like this,
instead of in school.
Suddenly my reflections were disturbed by a shrill scream from the
garden, followed by a little girl of five or six crying--
"Annie, Annie! Mamie's tumbled in; Mamie's tumbled in!"
For a wonder I had my wits about me, and divined the truth at
once.
With a bound I was down the steps and across the lawn, half knocking
down the panic-stricken little messenger on the way, and at the
river's edge, floundering piteously in about two feet of water,
found the unfortunate little Mamie--evidently a twin-sister--more
frightened than hurt, but perilously near to getting into deep
water.
Her yells redoubled when she found herself grabbed by the sash by
a stranger, and lugged most unceremoniously on to _terra firma_.
Scarcely had I achieved this gallant rescue, without even wetting
my own shoes, when Annie, as white as a sheet, came flying on to
the scene.

"It's all right," said I; "she's not hurt."
Whereupon Annie most inconsiderately leaned up against a post,
clapped her hands to her heart, and went or threatened to go off
into hysterics.
And there was I, a poor unprotected male, left to face the squalling
of two infant female children and a full-grown female nurserymaid!
"Look here," said I, appealingly, "Mamie's soaking wet. You'd better
take her and dry her, before she gets her death of cold."
This appeal had the desired effect. It stopped the nurse's spasms
and let loose her tongue.
"Oh dear, oh my! And I told her not to go through the gate. Oh, you
naughty girl you; and you. Miss Gwen, for letting her do it. Come
in directly, you little hussies!"
It struck me as grossly unfair of Annie; but I did not venture in
her present state of mind to protest, for fear she should call me
hussy too.
I followed indoors, somewhat guiltily, at the tail of the procession,
feeling myself in a very unpleasant situation, in which I would not
on any account be caught by Redwood's mother or by Redwood himself.
To my delight, on the floor of the hall, where Annie had dropped
it, lay the belt, at which I sprang greedily, and not waiting to
say thank you, or put in a word for the doomed infants, which would
have been quite inaudible in the volume of Annie's philippics, I
saved myself (as the Frenchman says), and ran at racing speed with
my prize back to the school field.
To my mortification I found the match had just begun, and it would
be impossible to deliver my missive till half-time. What would the
captain think of me? Would he suspect me of having dawdled to buy
sweets, or look over the bridge, or gossip with a chum? I would not
for anything it had happened, and felt not at all amiably disposed
to Miss Mamie, as the inconsiderate cause of my delay.
However, there was nothing for it but to wait. I resolved not to
put myself into the clutches of the Philosophers till my mission
was discharged, for fear of accident; so I seated myself on one of
the pavilion steps and watched the play.
It was evidently a hot match for a scratch one.Polly was not very wise, but
she felt that every one about her found something more attractive than
usual in her and modestly attributed Tom's devotion, Sydney's interest,
and Frank's undisguised admiration, to the new bonnet or, more likely,
to that delightful combination of cashmere, silk, and swan's-down,
which, like Charity's mantle, seemed to cover a multitude of sins in
other people's eyes and exalt the little music teacher to the rank of a
young lady.

Polly scoffed at this sort of thing sometimes, but to-night she accepted
it without a murmur rather enjoyed it in fact, let her bracelets shine
before the eyes of all men, and felt that it was good to seem comely in
their sight. She forgot one thing, however: that her own happy spirits
gave the crowning charm to a picture which every one liked to see a
blithe young girl enjoying herself with all her heart. The music and the
light, costume and company, excited Polly and made many things possible
which at most times she would never have thought of saying or doing. She
did not mean to flirt, but somehow "it flirted itself" and she could n't
help it, for, once started, it was hard to stop, with Tom goading
her on, and Sydney looking at her with that new interest in his eyes.
Polly's flirting was such a very mild imitation of the fashionable thing
that Trix & Co. would not have recognized it, but it did very well for a
beginner, and Polly understood that night wherein the fascination of it
lay, for she felt as if she had found a new gift all of a sudden, and
was learning how to use it, knowing that it was dangerous, yet finding
its chief charm in that very fact.

Tom did n't know what to make of her at first, though he thought the
change uncommonly becoming and finally decided that Polly had taken his
advice and was "setting her cap for Syd," as he gracefully expressed
it. Sydney, being a modest man, thought nothing of the kind, but simply
fancied that little Polly was growing up to be a very charming woman. He
had known her since her first visit and had always liked the child; this
winter he had been interested in the success of her plans and had done
what he could to help them, but he never thought of failing in love
with Polly till that night. Then he began to feel that he had not fully
appreciated his young friend; that she was such a bright and lovable
girl, it was a pity she should not always be gay and pretty, and enjoy
herself; that she would make a capital wife for somebody, and perhaps it
was about time to think of "settling," as his sister often said. These
thoughts came and went as he watched the white figure in front, felt
the enchantment of the music, and found everybody unusually blithe and
beautiful. He had heard the opera many times, but it had never seemed
so fine before, perhaps because he had never happened to have had an
ingenuous young face so near him in which the varying emotions born of
the music, and the romance it portrayed, came and went so eloquently
that it was impossible to help reading them. Polly did not know that
this was why he leaned down so often to speak to her, with an expression
which she did not understand but liked very much nevertheless.

"Don't shut your eyes, Polly. They are so full of mischief to-night, I
like to see them," said Tom, after idly wondering for a minute if she
knew how long and curly her lashes were.

"I don't wish to look affected, but the music tells the story so much
better than the acting that I don't care to look on half the time,"
answered Polly, hoping Tom would n't see the tears she had so cleverly
suppressed.

"Now I like the acting best. The music is all very fine, I know, but it
does seem so absurd for people to go round telling tremendous secrets at
the top of their voices. I can't get used to it."

"That 's because you 've more common-sense than romance. I don't mind
the absurdity, and quite long to go and comfort that poor girl with
the broken heart," said Polly with a sigh as the curtain fell on a most
affecting tableau.

"What's-his-name is a great jack not to see that she adores him. In
real life we fellows ain't such bats as all that," observed Tom, who had
decided opinions on many subjects that he knew very little about, and
expressed them with great candor.

A curious smile passed over Polly's face and she put up her glass to
hide her eyes, as she said: "I think you are bats sometimes, but women
are taught to wear masks, and that accounts for it, I suppose."

"I don't agree. There 's precious little masking nowadays; wish there
was a little more sometimes," added Tom, thinking of several blooming
damsels whose beseeching eyes had begged him not to leave them to wither
on the parent stem.

"I hope not, but I guess there 's a good deal more than any one would
suspect."

"What can you know about broken hearts and blighted beings?" asked
Sydney, smiling at the girl's pensive tone.

Polly glanced up at him and her face dimpled and shone again, as she
answered, laughing: "Not much; my time is to come."

"I can't imagine you walking about the world with your back hair down,
bewailing a hard-hearted lover," said Tom.

"Neither can I. That would n't be my way."

"No; Miss Polly would let concealment prey on her damask cheeks and
still smile on in the novel fashion, or turn sister of charity and nurse
the heartless lover through small-pox, or some other contagious disease,
and die seraphically, leaving him to the agonies of remorse and tardy
love."

Polly gave Sydney an indignant look as he said that in a slow satirical
way that nettled her very much, for she hated to be thought sentimental.

"That 's not my way either," she said decidedly. "I 'd try to outlive
it, and if I could n't, I 'd try to be the better for it. Disappointment
need n't make a woman a fool."

"Nor an old maid, if she 's pretty and good. Remember that, and don't
visit the sins of one blockhead on all the rest of mankind," said Tom,
laughing at her earnestness.

"I don't think there is the slightest possibility of Miss Polly's being
either," added Sydney with a look which made it evident that concealment
had not seriously damaged Polly's damask cheek as yet.

"There 's Clara Bird. I have n't seen her but once since she was
married. How pretty she looks!" and Polly retired behind the big glass
again, thinking the chat was becoming rather personal.

"Now, there 's a girl who tried a different cure for unrequited
affection from any you mention. People say she was fond of Belle's
brother. He did n't reciprocate but went off to India to spoil his
constitution, so Clara married a man twenty years older than she is and
consoles herself by being the best-dressed woman in the city."

"That accounts for it," said Polly, when Tom's long whisper ended.

"For what?"

"The tired look in her eyes."

"I don't see it," said Tom, after a survey through the glass.

"Did n't expect you would."

"I see what you mean. A good many women have it nowadays," said Sydney
over Polly's shoulder.

"What's she tired of? The old gentleman?" asked Tom.

"And herself," added Polly.

"You 've been reading French novels, I know you have. That 's just the
way the heroines go on," cried Tom.

"I have n't read one, but it 's evident you have, young man, and you 'd
better stop."

"I don't care for 'em; only do it to keep up my French. But how came you
to be so wise, ma'am?"

"Observation, sir. I like to watch faces, and I seldom see a grown-up
one that looks perfectly happy."

"True for you, Polly; no more you do, now I think of it. I don't know
but one that always looks so, and there it is."

"Where?" asked Polly, with interest.

"Look straight before you and you 'll see it."

Polly did look, but all she saw was her own face in the little mirror of
the fan which Tom held up and peeped over with a laugh in his eyes.

"Do I look happy? I 'm glad of that," And Polly surveyed herself with
care.

Both young men thought it was girlish vanity and smiled at its naive
display, but Polly was looking for something deeper than beauty and was
glad not to find it.

"Rather a pleasant little prospect, hey, Polly?"

"My bonnet is straight, and that 's all I care about. Did you ever see a
picture of Beau Brummel?" asked Polly quickly.

"No."

"Well, there he is, modernized." And turning the fan, she showed him
himself.

"Any more portraits in your gallery?" asked Sydney, as if he liked to
share all the nonsense going.

"One more."

"What do you call it?"

"The portrait of a gentleman." And the little glass reflected a
gratified face for the space of two seconds.

"Thank you. I 'm glad I don't disgrace my name," said Sydney, looking
down into the merry blue eyes that thanked him silently for many of the
small kindnesses that women never can forget.

"Very good, Polly, you are getting on fast," whispered Tom, patting his
yellow kids approvingly.

"Be quiet! Dear me, how warm it is!" And Polly gave him a frown that
delighted his soul.

"Come out and have an ice, we shall have time."

"Fan is so absorbed, I could n't think of disturbing her," said Polly,
fancying that her friend was enjoying the evening as much as she was a
great mistake, by the way, for Fan was acting for effect, and though she
longed to turn and join them, would n't do it, unless a certain person
showed signs of missing her. He did n't, and Fanny chatted on, raging
inwardly over her disappointment, and wondering how Polly could be so
gay and selfish.

It was delicious to see the little airs Polly put on, for she felt as if
she were somebody else, and acting a part. She leaned back, as if quite
oppressed by the heat, permitted Sydney to fan her, and paid him for
the service by giving him a flower from her bouquet, proceedings which
amused Tom immensely, even while it piqued him a little to be treated
like an old friend who did n't count.

"Go in and win, Polly; I 'll give you my blessing," he whispered, as the
curtain rose again.

"It 's only part of the fun, so don't you laugh, you disrespectful boy,"
she whispered back in a tone never used toward Sydney.

Tom did n't quite like the different way in which she treated them, and
the word "boy" disturbed his dignity, for he was almost twenty-one and
Polly ought to treat him with more respect. Sydney at the same moment
was wishing he was in Tom's place young, comely, and such a familiar
friend that Polly would scold and lecture him in the delightful way she
did Tom; while Polly forgot them both when the music began and left them
ample time to look at her and think about themselves.

While they waited to get out when all was over Polly heard Fan whisper
to Tom: "What do you think Trix will say to this?"

"What do you mean?"

"Why, the way you 've been going on to-night."

"Don't know, and don't care; it 's only Polly."

"That 's the very thing. She can't bear P."

"Well, I can; and I don't see why I should n't enjoy myself as well as
Trix."

"You 'll get to enjoying yourself too much if you are n't careful. Polly
's waked up."

"I 'm glad of it, and so 's Syd."

"I only spoke for your good."

"Don't trouble yourself about me; I get lecturing enough in another
quarter and can't stand any more. Come, Polly."

She took the arm he offered her, but her heart was sore and angry,
for that phrase, "It 's only Polly," hurt her sadly. "As if I was n't
anybody, had n't any feelings, and was only made to amuse or work for
people! Fan and Tom are both mistaken and I 'll show them that Polly is
awake," she thought, indignantly. "Why should n't I enjoy myself as well
as the rest? Besides, it 's only Tom," she added with a bitter smile as
she thought of Trix.

"Are you tired, Polly?" asked Tom, bending down to look into her face.

"Yes, of being nobody."

"Ah, but you ain't nobody, you 're Polly, and you could n't better that
if you tried ever so hard," said Tom, warmly, for he really was fond of
Polly, and felt uncommonly so just then.

"I 'm glad you think so, anyway. It 's so pleasant to be liked." And she
looked up with her face quite bright again.

"I always did like you, don't you know, ever since that first visit."

"But you teased me shamefully, for all that."

"So I did, but I don't now."

Polly did not answer, and Tom asked, with more anxiety than the occasion
required: "Do I, Polly?"

"Not in the same way, Tom," she answered in a tone that did n't sound
quite natural.

"Well, I never will again."

"Yes, you will, you can't help it." And Polly's eye glanced at Sydney,
who was in front with Fan.

Tom laughed, and drew Polly closer as the crowd pressed, saying, with
mock tenderness: "Did n't she like to be chaffed about her sweethearts?
Well, she shan't be if I can help it. Poor dear, did she get her little
bonnet knocked into a cocked hat and her little temper riled at the same
time?"

Polly could n't help laughing, and, in spite of the crush, enjoyed the
slow journey from seat to carriage, for Tom took such excellent care of
her, she was rather sorry when it was over.

They had a merry little supper after they got home, and Polly gave them
a burlesque opera that convulsed her hearers, for her spirits rose again
and she was determined to get the last drop of fun before she went back
to her humdrum life again.

"I 've had a regularly splendid time, and thank you ever so much," she
said when the "good-nights" were being exchanged.

"So have I. Let 's go and do it again to-morrow," said Tom, holding the
hand from which he had helped to pull a refractory glove.

"Not for a long while, please. Too much pleasure would soon spoil me,"
answered Polly, shaking her head.

"I don't believe it. Good-night, 'sweet Mistress Milton,' as Syd called
you. Sleep like an angel, and don't dream of I forgot, no teasing
allowed." And Tom took himself off with a theatrical farewell.

"Now it 's all over and done with," thought Polly as she fell asleep
after a long vigil. But it was not, and Polly's fun cost more than the
price of gloves and bonnet, for, having nibbled at forbidden fruit, she
had to pay the penalty. She only meant to have a good time, and there
was no harm in that, but unfortunately she yielded to the various small
temptations that beset pretty young girls and did more mischief to
others than to herself. Fanny's friendship grew cooler after that night.
Tom kept wishing Trix was half as satisfactory as Polly, and Mr. Sydney
began to build castles that had no foundation.


CHAPTER XIII. THE SUNNY SIDE


"I 'VE won the wager, Tom."

"Did n't know there was one."

"Don't you remember you said Polly would be tired of her teaching and
give it up in three months, and I said she would n't?"

"Well, is n't she?"

"Not a bit of it. I thought she was at one time, and expected every day
to have her come in with a long face, and say she could n't stand it.
But somehow, lately, she is always bright and happy, seems to like her
work, and don't have the tired, worried look she used to at first. The
three months are out, so pay up, Tommy."

"All right, what will you have?"

"You may make it gloves. I always need them, and papa looks sober when I
want money."

There was a minute's pause as Fan returned to her practising, and Tom
relapsed into the reverie he was enjoying seated astride of a chair,
with his chin on his folded arms.

"Seems to me Polly don't come here as often as she used to," he said,
presently.

"No, she seems to be very busy; got some new friends, I believe, old
ladies, sewing-girls, and things of that sort. I miss her, but know she
'll get tired of being goody, and will come back to me before long."

"Don't be too sure of that, ma'am." Something in Tom's tone made Fan
turn round, and ask, "What do you mean?"

"Well, it strikes me that Sydney is one of Polly's new friends. Have n't
you observed that she is uncommonly jolly, and don't that sort of thing
account for it?"

"Nonsense!" said Fanny, sharply.

"Hope it is," coolly returned Tom.

"What put it into your head?" demanded Fanny, twirling round again so
that her face was hidden.

"Oh, well, I keep meeting Syd and Polly circulating in the same
directions; she looks as if she had found something uncommonly nice, and
he looks as if all creation was getting Pollyfied pretty rapidly. Wonder
you have n't observed it."

"I have."

It was Tom's turn to look surprised now, for Fanny's voice sounded
strange to him. He looked at her steadily for a minute, but saw only a
rosy ear and a bent head. A cloud passed over his face, and he leaned
his chin on his arm again with a despondent whistle, as he said to
himself, "Poor Fan! Both of us in a scrape at once."

"Don't you think it would be a good thing?" asked Fanny, after playing a
bar or two, very badly.

"Yes, for Syd."

"Not for Polly? Why, he 's rich, and clever, and better than most of you
good-for-nothing fellows. What can the girl expect?"

"Can't say, but I don't fancy the match myself."

"Don't be a dog in the manger, Tom. Bless your little heart, I only take
a brotherly sort of interest in Polly. She 's a capital girl, and she
ought to marry a missionary, or one of your reformer fellows, and be
a shining light of some sort. I don't think setting up for a fine lady
would suit her."

"I think it would, and I hope she 'll have the chance," said Fanny,
evidently making an effort to speak kindly.

"Good for you, Fan!" and Tom gave an emphatic nod, as if her words meant
more than she suspected "Mind you," he added, "I don't know anything,
and only fancied there might be some little flirtation going on. But I
dare say it 's nothing."

"Time will show." Then Fan began to sing, and Tom's horse came, so he
departed with the very unusual demonstration of a gentle pat on the
head, as he said kindly, "That 's right, my dear, keep jolly." It was
n't an elegant way of expressing sympathy, but it was hearty, and
Fan thanked him for it, though she only said, "Don't break your neck,
Tommy."

When he was gone, Fan's song ended as suddenly as it began, and she sat
thinking, with varying expressions of doubt and trouble passing rapidly
across her face.

"Well, I can't do anything but wait!" she said, at last, slamming the
music-book together with a desperate look. "Yes, I can," she added, a
minute after, "it 's Polly's holiday. I can go and see her, and if there
is anything in it I shall find it out."

Fanny dropped her face into her hands, with a little shiver, as she said
that; then got up, looking as pale and resolute as if going to meet some
dreadful doom, and putting on her things, went away to Polly's as fast
as her dignity would allow.

Saturday morning was Polly's clearing-up day, and Fan found her with a
handkerchief tied over her head, and a big apron on, just putting the
last touches to the tidy little room, which was as fresh and bright as
water, air, and a pair of hands could make it.

"All ready for company. I 'll just whisk off my regimentals, and Polly,
the maid, becomes Polly, the missis. It was lovely of you to come early;
take off your things. Another new bonnet? you extravagant wretch! How is
your mother and Maudie? It 's a nice day, and we 'll have a walk, won't
we?"

By the time Polly's welcome was uttered, she had got Fan on the little
sofa beside her, and was smiling at her in such an infectious manner,
that Fan could n't help smiling back.

"I came to see what you have been doing with yourself lately. You don't
come and report, and I got anxious about you," said Fanny, looking into
the clear eyes before her.

"I 've been so busy; and I knew you would n't care to hear about my
doings, for they are n't the sort you like," answered Polly.

"Your lessons did n't use to take up all your time. It 's my private
opinion that you are taking as well as giving lessons, miss," said Fan,
putting on a playfully stern air, to hide her real anxiety.

"Yes, I am," answered Polly, soberly.

"In what? Love?"

A quick color came to Polly's cheeks, as she laughed, and said, looking
away, "No; friendship and good works."

"Oh, indeed! May I ask who is your teacher?"

"I 've more than one; but Miss Mills is head teacher."

"She instructs in good works; who gives the friendship lessons?"

"Such pleasant girls! I wish you knew them, Fan. So clever, and
energetic, and kind, and happy, it always does me good to see them,"
cried Polly, with a face full of enthusiasm.

"Is that all?" And Fan gave her a curious look of mingled disappointment
and relief.

"There, I told you my doings would not interest you, and they don't;
they sound flat and prosy after your brilliant adventures. Let 's change
the subject," said Polly, looking relieved herself.

"Dear me, which of our sweethearts sends us dainty bouquets of violets
so early in the morning?" asked Fanny, suddenly spying the purple
cluster in a graceful little vase on the piano.

"He sends me one every week; he knows I love them so," and Polly's eyes
turned that way full of pride and pleasure.

"I 'd no idea he was so devoted," said Fanny, stooping to smell the
flowers, and at the same time read a card that lay near them.

"You need n't plague me about it, now you know it. I never speak of
our fondness for one another, because such things seem silly to other
people. "Heigho! it's never too late to mend."
"I hear she keeps sugar-plums for good little girls," said another.

"And the bad little ones get whipped and put in the corner."
"He mustn't go like that, anyhow," said Mr Evans, who, for a responsible
head clerk of a big business, was the most flippant person I had
ever met; "look at his hair--all out of curl!

Come here, little girl, and be made tidy."
Once at Hummer's I had come in second for the half-mile under
fourteen, and been captain of my side in the junior tug of war!

Now I was to have my hair curled publicly!

It was no use resisting. I was held fast while Evans with a long
penholder made ringlets of my back hair, and Scroop, with his five
fingers, made a fringe of my front.

My hat, moreover, was decorated with quills by way of feathers, and a
fan made of blotting-paper was thrust into my hands. Then I was
pronounced to be nice and tidy, and fit to go and join the other little
girls.

I fear that the energy with which, as soon as I was released, I
deranged my locks and flung the feathers from my hat, amused my
persecutors as much as it solaced me.

I was conscious of their hilarious greetings as I strolled up the street,
trying to walk in a straight masculine way, but hideously conscious
of blushing cheeks and nervous gait.

I so far forgot myself that, in my eagerness to display my male
superiority, I jostled against a lady, and disgraced myself by
swaggering on without even apologising for my rudeness--when, to
my consternation, the lady uttered my name, "Tommy."

It was my mother! I was still within sight of the office. How Evans and
his lot would make merry over this _contretemps_!

They wouldn't know who it was who was putting her hand on my shoulder.
And yet I am glad to say that I was spared that day the disgrace
of being ashamed of my own dear mother.

Let the fellows think what they liked. If they had mothers like mine
they wouldn't be the cads they were!

So, with almost unnecessary pomp, I raised my hat to my parent, and
put my hand in her arm.

"You're going up to Miss Bousfield's," said she; "I thought I should
meet you. What a hurry you were in!"
"Yes; I'm sorry I knocked against you, mother."
"I'm glad you did. I'm longing to hear how you got on to-day."
"Oh, pretty well."

"Was it very hard work?"
"Not particularly."
"You'll soon be quite a man of business."
It occurred to me that if my business career was to be based on no
better experience than that I had hitherto had in my guardian's
office, I should not rank as a merchant prince in a hurry.

"Would you like me to go with you to Miss Bousfield's?"
"If you like, mother. But I can go alone all right." She was a brick.
She guessed what I hoped she would say, and she said it.

"Well, I'll be looking out for you at tea-time, dear boy," said she.
And she patted my arm lovingly as I started on.

I wished those fellows could have heard her voice and seen her kind
face.

_She_ treated me like a man--which was more than could be said for
them.

I went on my way soothed in my ruffled spirits.

But my perturbation revived when I stood on the doorstep of the
Girls' High School, and rang the head mistress's bell.

It was a bitter pill, I can tell you, for a fellow who had once been
caned by Plummer for practising on the horizontal bar without the
mattress underneath to fall on.

Miss Bousfield was a shrewd, not disagreeable-looking little body,
who saved me all the trouble of self-introduction by knowing who I
was and why I came.

"Well, Jones," said she--I liked that, I had dreaded she would call
me Tommy--"here you are.

How is your mother? Why, what a state your hair is in! I really think
you'd like to go into the cloak room; you'll find a brush and comb
there. It looks as if your hair were standing on end with horror at me,
you know."
Little she knew what my hair was on end about. I was almost grateful to
her for the way she put it, and meekly retired to the cloak room, where--I
confess it--with a long-tailed girl's comb, and a soft brush, and
a big looking-glass, I contrived to restore my truant locks to their
former masculine order.

When I returned to the room. Miss Bousfield was sitting at a table,
at which was also seated a young lady of about twenty, with an
exercise book and dictionary in front of her.

Was it a trap? Was I to be taught along with the girls after all? Miss
Bousfield evidently divined my perturbation and hastened to
explain.

"Miss Steele, this is Master Jones, who is going to read Latin with
us.

Miss Steele is one of my teachers, Jones, and we three are going
to brush up our classics together, you see."

Oh, all right. That wasn't so bad. I had no objection to assist Miss
Steele, or Miss Bousfield, for the matter of that, in brushing-up their
classics, as long as the girls at large were kept out of the way.

I acknowledged Miss Steele's greeting in a patronising way, and
then looked about for a chair. I wished Mr Evans and his lot could see
how far removed I was from the common schoolgirl; here were two females
actually going to pick my brains for their own good.

If women must learn Latin at all, they could hardly do better than
secure a public schoolboy to brush them up.

"Now, let us see," said Miss Bousfield, "how far we have all got.

Miss Steele, you have read some Cicero, I know, already."
Cicero! That girl read Cicero, when I had barely begun Caesar! This was a
crusher for me.

How about the brushing-up now?

"And you, Jones, have you begun Cicero yet?"
"Well, no," I said, "not yet."

"Caesar, then; I think we shall both be ready to take that up again.
How far were you--or shall we begin at the beginning?"

"Better begin at the beginning," said I, anxious not to have to confess
that I had not yet got through the first chapter.

But before we had gone many lines, Miss Bousfield, I could see,
began to have her doubts about my syntax; and after a little
conference about syntax, the question of verbs came up, unpleasantly
for me; and after deciding we had a little brushing-up to do there,
the conversation turned on declensions, a subject on which I had
very little definite information to afford to these two females in
distress.

I verily believe we should have come to exchanging views on the indefinite
article itself, had not Miss Bousfield taken the bull by the horns, and
said--
"I think the best thing, Jones, will be for us to assume we know
nothing, to begin with, and start at the beginning. We shall easily get
over the ground then, and it will be all the better to be sure
of our footing. Let us take Exercise 1. in the grammar."
Miss Steele pouted a little, as if to indicate it was hardly worth
her while, as a reader of Cicero, to waste her time over "a high tree,"
"a bad boy," "a beautiful table," and so on. But I felt sure the
exercise would do her good, and was glad Miss Bousfield set her to
it.

She irritated me by having it all written down in a twinkling, and going
on with Cicero on her own account, while I plodded on up the "high
tree" and around the "beautiful table."

I hoped Miss Bousfield would rebuke her for insubordination, but she did
not, and I began to think much less of both ladies as the afternoon
went on.

It did not add to my satisfaction to get my exercise back with
fifteen corrections scored across it in bold red pencil--whereas
Miss Steele's was not even looked at.

I thought of suggesting that it would be only fair that she and I should
be treated alike, when Miss Bousfield capped all by saying to her governess--

"Perhaps, Miss Steele, you will go through the exercise with Jones and
show him where he has gone wrong. Then he can write it out again for you,
and try not to have any mistake this time."
This was really too much!

To be passed on to a girl who was learning Latin herself, and for her
to score about my exercises! It was a conspiracy to degrade me in
the eyes of myself and my fellow-mortals.

But protest was rendered impossible by Miss Bousfield quitting the
room and leaving me to the mercies of her deputy.

"Why," said Miss Steele, not at all unkindly, but with a touch of
raillery in her voice--"why were you such a goose, Jones, as to pretend
you knew what you didn't?"
"I didn't; I forgot, that's all," said I.

"Well, look here, Jones," said she, in a friendly way--and, by the way,
she was not at all bad-looking--"if you really want to get up
Latin, and mean to work, I'll do my best to coach you; but if you're
only playing at learning, I've something better to do."

"I'm not playing," said I. "I don't know why I've got to come and
learn Latin at all."
"I suppose you are going to a school some day, aren't you?"
"I've been to one, and I've left," said I.

"Left?" said she, with a little laugh.

"Well, then, I was expelled," said I.

"Tell me all about it."
And I did, and found her not only interested and sympathetic, but decidedly
indignant on my account.

"It was a great shame," said she, "especially as your friend never shot
the dog at all."
"He's all right, lucky chap," said I; "he's got an exhibition to Low
Heath, and is going there after the holidays."
"Why don't you get an exhibition too, Jones?"

The question astounded me. I get an exhibition! I who had been licked
once a week for bad copies, and had been told by every teacher I
had had anything to do with that I was a hopeless dunce.

"Why not?" said the siren at my side. "You're not a dunce. I can tell
that by the way you picked up some of the Caesar just now. You're
lazy, that's all.

That's easily cured."
"But I'd have no chance at Low Heath. Tempest was a dab at lessons."
"He's older than you. Besides, the junior exhibitions are not as hard
to get. When will you be fourteen?"
"July next year."
"Just twelve months. Why not try, Jones? I'll back you up. I've coached
my young brother, and he got into Rugby. You needn't tell any one--so if
you miss nobody will be any the wiser. It will make all the difference
to have an exam, to aim at."

I stared in wonder at Miss Steele. That young woman could have twisted
me round her finger.

"I'll try," said I.

"Not unless you mean to work like a horse," said she.

"All serene," said I; "honour bright."
"Then it's a bargain. Mark my word, we'll pull through."
Whereat we fell hammer and tongs on Exercise Number 1. of the grammar.

CHAPTER FIVE.

A "COACH" DRIVE!

If any one had told me two days ago that it would be reserved to
an assistant teacher in a girls' school to inspire me with an
ardent interest in Latin and arithmetic I should have laughed him
to scorn.

Miss Steele, however, succeeded in achieving the impossible. I am bound
to confess that my new-born ardour was not mainly due to affection
for the dead language in question, or even to esteem for my
preceptress.

But the idea of taking Low Heath, so to speak, by storm, had fairly roused
my ambition. The glory of rising superior to my fate, of shaking off the
ill-tutored Mr Evans and his works, and rejoining my old school-comrade
with all the prestige of a fellow-exhibitioner, captivated my
imagination and steeled me to the endurance of hardships of which
I had hitherto conceived myself utterly incapable.

Miss Steele had no notion of letting me off my bargain. She procured
particulars of the examinations, and very formidable appeared the list
of subjects as we conned them. Still she was firm in her belief that I
could do it if I only worked, and since her eagerness fully equalled
my own, there was not much chance of my work dropping slack.

If any other incentive was wanted it was the supreme discomfort of my
position at my guardian's office.

My comrades there persistently misunderstood me.

They put me down as an opiniated young prig, with whom all sorts
of liberties might be taken, and out of whom it was lawful, for
their own amusement, to take unlimited "rise."

I was, of course, unmercifully chaffed about the girls' school.

"He's getting on," said one of them, on the very morning after my
_debut_.

"They walk out together."

"That was not Miss Bousfield you saw me with at all," I explained.
"That was my mother."
"Quite time she came to look after you, too.

How did she like your curls? You should put them in papers overnight,
then we shouldn't have to do them every day."

Where upon I was seized, and had my locks tied up in wads of blotting-
paper, and ordered to sit down and lick envelopes, and not dare
to put my hand to my head till leave was accorded me from
headquarters.

In this plight my guardian came in and discovered me.

"Please, Mr Girdler--" said I, not waiting for him to remark on my
curious appearance.

But Mr Girdler, who was not ordinarily given to mirth, abruptly
left the room with a smile on his face before I could proceed.

When he re-entered he was stern and severe.

"Make yourself decent at once, sir," said he.

"No, I don't want any of your explanations. No doubt they are highly
satisfactory. I begin to understand now why you were sent away
from school.

It strikes me an idiot asylum is the proper place for you."
I dismally tore my curl-papers out of my hair and went on with my
work till the blessed hour of release came.

Then I hied straight to the nearest barber.

"I want my hair as short as you can cut it," said I.

"Very good, sir; we can give you the county crop, if you like."
"Is that the shortest you do?" inquired I, not knowing what the
"county crop" was.

"Well, sir, we ain't asked to take more off as a rule, unless it
is a clean shave you want."
"No, the county crop will do," said I.

And, to do the barber justice, I got it. I barely knew myself in the
glass when the operation was over. I had some misgivings as to the
remarks of Evans & Company in the morning--at any rate, they wouldn't
curl my hair any more.

Miss Bousfield and Miss Steele regarded me with something like
dismay when they saw me, but were polite enough to make no remark
beyond giving me permission to wear my hat if I felt a draught.

"Miss Steele has been telling me of your plan of work," said Miss
Bousfield; "and I fully approve, on the understanding you are serious
about it. I am not so sanguine as Miss Steele is; still, I do not
wish to discourage you, Jones. But understand, it means a year's
hard work."

I assured her I was prepared for any amount of work, and Miss Steele,
whose ambition was as keenly aroused as mine, gave a general promise
on my behalf that I would work like a horse.

"Now," said she, when Miss Bousfield had left us, "you're in for
it, Jones. If you don't work, mind, it will be a disgrace to me as
well as you."
I fear, during the months that followed, this ardent young "coach" was
frequently on the point of disgrace. For a week or two I surprised
myself with my industry.

Then I caught myself wondering at odd times whether I was really as
sure of passing as I fancied, and whether, if I failed, it would not
be a horrible sell to have worked so hard for nothing.

Then for a day or so I came in a little late, and took to grumbling over
my tasks.

"Now, look here, Jones," said she, one day, "you were five minutes
late on Monday, ten minutes late on Tuesday and Wednesday, and a
quarter of an hour late to-day.

How much is that in the week?"
"Forty minutes," said I; mental arithmetic was a strong point with
me.

"Very good; there's forty minutes lost.

The examination may turn on the very lesson you might have learned in
that time. Now, I'm not going to threaten you, but what should you say
if I were to call at the office and fetch you every day?"

I nearly jumped out of my chair.

"Oh, don't, please don't, Miss Steele!" said I.

"I'll be here to the second, in future, I promise."
"All right," said she, with a smile, and the subject dropped.

This dreadful threat kept me up to the mark for the next few weeks,
but even it lost its terrors in time, and my preceptress had to
apply the spur in other ways as the time went on.

Once, after I had been particularly slack, and had, moreover, been so
rude to her that she ended the lesson abruptly, I thought it was all
up.
For, when I presented myself next day, I was informed by the servant
that Miss Steele was busy, and had no time to see me.

I was locked out! My dismay knew no bounds. Suppose she had "chucked"
me altogether, what would become of my chance of getting into Low
Heath?

I retired home in great perturbation, and confided the state of the
case to my mother, who advised me there and then to sit down and write
an apology.

I had never done such a thing in my life. Once I had verbally
begged Tempest's pardon for some error; but to commit myself in
writing to a girl!

"My dear Miss Steele," I wrote,--"I'm sorry. Yours truly, T. Jones."
"That will do very well," said my mother. "It's not too long, at
the same time it says what you want to say."
I wasn't altogether pleased with it myself, but allowed the maid
to take it up to the school, with instructions to wait for an
answer.

In due time she returned with a missive from Miss Steele.
"My dear Jones,--To-morrow as usual. Yours truly, M. Steele."
I am sure no model letter-writer ever said as much in as few
words.
This little correspondence cleared the air for the time. No reference
was made to it when I turned up as usual the next day; but from the
way I worked, and the way she taught, it was evident we had both
had a shake.
My next relapse was even more serious. It came early in the spring,
after our work had proceeded for about nine months.
I really had made good progress all round. Not in Latin only, but
in Greek grammar, arithmetic, and English, and was naturally inclined
to feel a little cocky of the result.
"Don't crow, Jones," she said; "you've a lot to do yet."
But I did not altogether agree with her, and was inclined to indulge
myself a little of an evening when I was supposed to be preparing
my work. In an evil day I fell across an old book-shop, and found
two books, which helped to undo me. One was a rollicking story of
a pirate who swept the Western Main, and captured treasure, and
seized youths and maidens, and ran blockades, and was finally brought
to book in a sportsmanlike manner by a jolly young English middy,
amid scenes of terrific slaughter amidships.It
is this sort of thing that is improving Polly, that makes her society
interesting to Sydney, and herself so dear to every one. Money can't buy
these things for me, and I want them very much."

As these thoughts were passing through her mind, Fanny was hearing all
sorts of topics discussed with feminine enthusiasm and frankness. Art,
morals, politics, society, books, religion, housekeeping, dress, and
economy, for the minds and tongues roved from subject to subject with
youthful rapidity, and seemed to get something from the dryest and the
dullest.

"How does the new book come on?" asked Polly, sucking her orange in
public with a composure which would have scandalized the good ladies of
"Cranford."

"Better than it deserves. My children, beware of popularity; it is a
delusion and a snare; it puffeth up the heart of man, and especially
of woman; it blindeth the eyes to faults; it exalteth unduly the humble
powers of the victim; it is apt to be capricious, and just as one gets
to liking the taste of this intoxicating draught, it suddenly faileth,
and one is left gasping, like a fish out of water," and Kate emphasized
her speech by spearing a sardine with a penknife, and eating it with a
groan.

"It won't hurt you much, I guess; you have worked and waited so long,
a large dose will do you good," said Rebecca, giving her a generous
spoonful of jam, as if eager to add as much sweetness as possible to a
life that had not been an easy one.

"When are you and Becky going to dissolve partnership?" asked Polly,
eager for news of all.

"Never! George knows he can't have one without the other, and has not
suggested such a thing as parting us. There is always room in my house
for Becky, and she lets me do as she would if she was in my place,"
answered Bess, with a look which her friend answered by a smile.

"The lover won't separate this pair of friends, you see," whispered
Polly to Fan. "Bess is to be married in the spring, and Becky is to live
with her."

"By the way, Polly, I 've got some tickets for you. People are always
sending me such things, and as I don't care for them, I 'm glad to
make them over to you young and giddy infants. There are passes for
the statuary exhibition, Becky shall have those, here are the concert
tickets for you, my musical girl; and that is for a course of lectures
on literature, which I 'll keep for myself."

As Kate dealt out the colored cards to the grateful girls, Fanny took a
good look at her, wondering if the time would ever come when women could
earn a little money and success, without paying such a heavy price for
them; for Kate looked sick, tired, and too early old. Then her eye went
to the unfinished statue, and she said, impulsively, "I hope you 'll put
that in marble, and show us what we ought to be."

"I wish I could!" And an intense desire shone in Rebecca's face, as she
saw her faulty work, and felt how fair her model was.

For a minute, the five young women sat silent looking up at the
beautiful, strong figure before them, each longing to see it done, and
each unconscious that she was helping, by her individual effort and
experience, to bring the day when their noblest ideal of womanhood
should be embodied in flesh and blood, not clay.

The city bells rung one, and Polly started up.

"I must go, for I promised a neighbor of mine a lesson at two."

"I thought this was a holiday," said Fanny.

"So it is, but this is a little labor of love, and does n't spoil the
day at all. The child has talent, loves music, and needs help. I can't
give her money, but I can teach her; so I do, and she is the most
promising pupil I have. Help one another, is part of the religion of our
sisterhood, Fan."

"I must put you in a story, Polly. I want a heroine, and you will do,"
said Kate.

"Me! why, there never was such a humdrum, unromantic thing as I am,"
cried Polly, amazed.

"I 've booked you, nevertheless, so in you go; but you may add as much
romance as you like, it 's time you did."

"I 'm ready for it when it comes, but it can't be forced, you know,"
and Polly blushed and smiled as if some little spice of that delightful
thing had stolen into her life, for all its prosaic seeming.

Fanny was amused to see that the girls did not kiss at parting, but
shook hands in a quiet, friendly fashion, looking at one another with
eyes that said more than the most "gushing" words.

"I like your friends very much, Polly. I was afraid I should find them
mannish and rough, or sentimental and conceited. But they are simple,
sensible creatures, full of talent, and all sorts of fine things. I
admire and respect them, and want to go again, if I may."

"Oh, Fan, I am so glad! I hoped you 'd like them, I knew they 'd do you
good, and I 'll take you any time, for you stood the test better than
I expected. Becky asked me to bring you again, and she seldom does that
for fashionable young ladies, let me tell you."

"I want to be ever so much better, and I think you and they might show
me how," said Fanny, with a traitorous tremble in her voice.

"We 'll show you the sunny side of poverty and work, and that is a
useful lesson for any one, Miss Mills says," answered Polly, hoping that
Fan would learn how much the poor can teach the rich, and what helpful
friends girls may be to one another.


CHAPTER XIV. NIPPED IN THE BUD


ON the evening of Fan's visit, Polly sat down before her fire with a
resolute and thoughtful aspect. She pulled her hair down, turned her
skirt back, put her feet on the fender, and took Puttel into her lap,
all of which arrangements signified that something very important had
got to be thought over and settled. Polly did not soliloquize aloud,
as heroines on the stage and in books have a way of doing, but the
conversation she held with herself was very much like this: "I 'm afraid
there is something in it. I 've tried to think it 's nothing but vanity
or imagination, yet I can't help seeing a difference, and feeling as if
I ought not to pretend that I don't. I know it 's considered proper for
girls to shut their eyes and let things come to a crisis no matter how
much mischief is done. But I don't think it 's doing as we 'd be done
by, and it seems a great deal more honest to show a man that you don't
love him before he has entirely lost his heart. The girls laughed at me
when I said so, and they declared that it would be a very improper thing
to do, but I 've observed that they don't hesitate to snub 'ineligible
parties,' as they call poor, very young, or unpopular men. It 's all
right then, but when a nice person comes it 's part of the fun to let
him go on to the very end, whether the girls care for him or not. The
more proposals, the more credit. Fan says Trix always asks when she
comes home after the summer excursions, 'How many birds have you
bagged?' as if men were partridges. What wicked creatures we are! some
of us at least. I wonder why such a love of conquest was put into us?
Mother says a great deal of it is owing to bad education nowadays, but
some girls seem born for the express purpose of making trouble and would
manage to do it if they lived in a howling wilderness. I 'm afraid I 've
got a spice of it, and if I had the chance, should be as bad as any of
them. I 've tried it and liked it, and maybe this is the consequence of
that night's fun."

Here Polly leaned back and looked up at the little mirror over the
chimney-piece, which was hung so that it reflected the faces of those
about the fire. In it Polly saw a pair of telltale eyes looking out from
a tangle of bright brown hair, cheeks that flushed and dimpled suddenly
as the fresh mouth smiled with an expression of conscious power, half
proud, half ashamed, and as pretty to see as the coquettish gesture with
which she smoothed back her curls and flourished a white hand. For
a minute she regarded the pleasant picture while visions of girlish
romances and triumphs danced through her head, then she shook her hair
all over her face and pushed her chair out of range of the mirror,
saying, with a droll mixture of self-reproach and self-approval in her
tone; "Oh, Puttel, Puttel, what a fool I am!"

Puss appeared to endorse the sentiment by a loud purr and a graceful
wave of her tail, and Polly returned to the subject from which these
little vanities had beguiled her.

"Just suppose it is true, that he does ask me, and I say yes! What a
stir it would make, and what fun it would be to see the faces of the
girls when it came out! They all think a great deal of him because he is
so hard to please, and almost any of them would feel immensely flattered
if he liked them, whether they chose to marry him or not. Trix has tried
for years to fascinate him, and he can't bear her, and I 'm so glad!
What a spiteful thing I am. Well, I can't help it, she does aggravate me
so!" And Polly gave the cat such a tweak of the ear that Puttel bounced
out of her lap in high dudgeon.

"It don't do to think of her, and I won't!" said Polly to herself,
setting her lips with a grim look that was not at all becoming. "What
an easy life I should have plenty of money, quantities of friends,
all sorts of pleasures, and no work, no poverty, no cold shoulders or
patched boots. I could do so much for all at home how I should enjoy
that!" And Polly let her thoughts revel in the luxurious future her
fancy painted. It was a very bright picture, but something seemed
amiss with it, for presently she sighed and shook her head, thinking
sorrowfully, "Ah, but I don't love him, and I 'm afraid I never can as
I ought! He 's very good, and generous, and wise, and would be kind,
I know, but somehow I can't imagine spending my life with him; I 'm
so afraid I should get tired of him, and then what should I do? Polly
Sydney don't sound well, and Mrs. Arthur Sydney don't seem to fit me a
bit. Wonder how it would seem to call him 'Arthur'?" And Polly said it
under her breath, with a look over her shoulder to be sure no one heard
it. "It 's a pretty name, but rather too fine, and I should n't dare
to say 'Syd,' as his sister does. I like short, plain, home-like names,
such as Will, Ned, or Tom. No, no, I can never care for him, and it 's
no use to try!" The exclamation broke from Polly as if a sudden
trouble had seized her, and laying her head down on her knees, she sat
motionless for many minutes.

When she looked up, her face wore an expression which no one had ever
seen on it before; a look of mingled pain and patience, as if some loss
had come to her, and left the bitterness of regret behind.

"I won't think of myself, or try to mend one mistake by making another,"
she said with a heavy sigh. "I 'll do what I can for Fan, and not stand
between her and a chance of happiness. Let me see, how can I begin? I
won't walk with him any more; I 'll dodge and go roundabout ways, so
that we can't meet. I never had much faith in the remarkable coincidence
of his always happening home to dinner just as I go to give the Roths
their lesson. The fact is, I like to meet him, I am glad to be seen with
him, and put on airs, I dare say, like a vain goose as I am. Well, I
won't do it any more, and that will spare Fan one affliction. Poor dear,
how I must have worried her all this time, and never guessed it. She has
n't been quite as kind as ever; but when she got sharp, I fancied it was
dyspepsia. Oh, me! I wish the other trouble could be cured as easily as
this."

Here puss showed an amiable desire to forgive and forget, and Polly
took her up, saying aloud: "Puttel, when missis abuses you, play it 's
dyspepsia, and don't bear malice, because it 's a very trying disease,
my dear."

Then, going back to her thoughts, she rambled on again; "If he does
n't take that hint, I will give him a stronger one, for I will not have
matters come to a crisis, though I can't deny that my wicked vanity
strongly tempts me to try and 'bag a bird' just for the excitement and
credit of the thing. Polly, I 'm ashamed of you! What would your blessed
mother say to hear such expressions from you? I 'd write and tell her
all the worry, only it would n't do any good, and would only trouble
her. I 've no right to tell Fan's secrets, and I 'm ashamed to tell
mine. No, I 'll leave mother in peace, and fight it out alone. I do
think Fan would suit him excellently by and by. He has known her all her
life, and has a good influence over her. Love would do so much toward
making her what she might be; it 's a shame to have the chance lost just
because he happens to see me. I should think she 'd hate me; but I 'll
show her that she need n't, and do all I can to help her; for she has
been so good to me nothing shall ever make me forget that. It is a
delicate and dangerous task, but I guess I can manage it; at any rate
I 'll try, and have nothing to reproach myself with if things do go
'contrary.'"

What Polly thought of, as she lay back in her chair, with her eyes shut,
and a hopeless look on her face, is none of our business, though we
might feel a wish to know what caused a tear to gather slowly from time
to time under her lashes, and roll down on Puttel's Quaker-colored coat.
Was it regret for the conquest she relinquished, was it sympathy for her
friend, or was it an uncontrollable overflow of feeling as she read some
sad or tender passage of the little romance which she kept hidden away
in her own heart?

On Monday, Polly began the "delicate and dangerous task." Instead
of going to her pupils by way of the park and the pleasant streets
adjoining, she took a roundabout route through back streets, and thus
escaped Mr. Sydney, who, as usual, came home to dinner very early that
day and looked disappointed because he nowhere saw the bright face
in the modest bonnet. Polly kept this up for a week, and by carefully
avoiding the Shaws' house during calling hours, she saw nothing of
Mr. Sydney, who, of course, did n't visit her at Miss Mills'. Minnie
happened to be poorly that week and took no lesson, so Uncle Syd was
deprived of his last hope, and looked as if his allowance of sunshine
had been suddenly cut off.

Now, as Polly was by no means a perfect creature, I am free to confess
that the old temptation assailed her more than once that week, for, when
the first excitement of the dodging reform had subsided, she missed the
pleasant little interviews that used to put a certain flavor of romance
into her dull, hard-working days. She liked Mr. Sydney very much, for
he had always been kind and friendly since the early times when he had
treated the little girl with a courtesy which the young woman gratefully
remembered. I don't think it was his wealth, accomplishments, or
position that most attracted Polly, though these doubtless possessed
a greater influence than she suspected. It was that indescribable
something which women are quick to see and feel in men who have been
blessed with wise and good mothers. This had an especial charm to Polly,
for she soon found that this side of his character was not shown to
every one. With most girls, he was very like the other young men of his
set, except perhaps in a certain grace of manner which was as natural to
him as his respect for all womankind. But with Fanny and Polly he showed
the domestic traits and virtues which are more engaging to womanly women
than any amount of cool intellect or worldly wisdom.

Polly had seen a good deal of him during her visits at the Shaws', where
he was intimate, owing to the friendship between Madam and his mother;
but she had never thought of him as a possible lover for either Fanny
or herself because he was six or eight years older than they, and still
sometimes assumed the part of a venerable mentor, as in the early days.
Lately this had changed, especially towards Polly, and it flattered her
more than she would confess even to herself. She knew he admired her one
talent, respected her independence, and enjoyed her society; but when
something warmer and more flattering than admiration, respect, or
pleasure crept into his manner, she could not help seeing that one of
the good gifts of this life was daily coming more and more within her
reach, and began to ask herself if she could honestly receive the gift,
and reward the giver.

At first she tried to think she could, but unfortunately hearts are
so "contrary" that they won't be obedient to reason, will, or even
gratitude. Polly felt a very cordial friendship for Mr. Sydney, but not
one particle of the love which is the only coin in which love can be
truly paid. Then she took a fancy into her head that she ought to
accept this piece of good fortune for the sake of the family, and forget
herself. But this false idea of self-sacrifice did not satisfy, for she
was not a fashionable girl trained to believe that her first duty was
to make "a good match" and never mind the consequences, though they
rendered her miserable for life. Polly's creed was very simple: "If
I don't love him, I ought not to marry him, especially when I do love
somebody else, though everything is against me." If she had read as
many French novels as some young ladies, she might have considered it
interesting to marry under the circumstances and suffer a secret anguish
to make her a romantic victim. But Polly's education had been neglected,
and after a good deal of natural indecision she did what most women do
in such cases, thought she would "wait and see."

The discovery of Fanny's secret seemed to show her something to do, for
if the "wait and see" decision was making her friend unhappy, it must be
changed as soon as possible. This finished Polly's indecision, and
after that night she never allowed herself to dwell upon the pleasant
temptation which came in a guise particularly attractive to a young girl
with a spice of the old Eve in her composition. So day after day she
trudged through the dull back streets, longing for the sunny park, the
face that always brightened when it saw her coming, and most of all the
chance of meeting well, it was n't Trix.

When Saturday came, Polly started as usual for a visit to Becky and
Bess, but could n't resist stopping at the Shaws' to leave a little
parcel for Fan, though it was calling time. As she stepped in, meaning
to run up for a word if Fanny should chance to be alone, two hats on the
hall table arrested her.

"Who is here, Katy?"

"Only Mr. Sydney and Master Tom. Won't you stop a bit, Miss Polly?"

"Not this morning, I 'm rather in a hurry." And away went Polly as if a
dozen eager pupils were clamoring for her presence. But as the door shut
behind her she felt so left out in the cold, that her eyes filled,
and when Nep, Tom's great Newfoundland, came blundering after her, she
stopped and hugged his shaggy head, saying softly, as she looked into
the brown, benevolent eyes, full of almost human sympathy: "Now, go
back, old dear, you must n't follow me. Oh, Nep, it 's so hard to put
love away when you want it very much and it is n't right to take it."
A foolish little speech to make to a dog, but you see Polly was only a
tender-hearted girl, trying to do her duty.

"Since he is safe with Fanny, I may venture to walk where I like. It
's such a lovely day, all the babies will be out, and it always does me
good to see them," thought Polly, turning into the wide, sunny street,
where West End-dom promenaded at that hour.

The babies were out in full force, looking as gay and delicate and sweet
as the snow-drops, hyacinths, and daffodils on the banks whence the
snow had melted. But somehow the babies did n't do Polly the good she
expected, though they smiled at her from their carriages, and kissed
their chubby hands as she passed them, for Polly had the sort of face
that babies love. One tiny creature in blue plush was casting despairing
glances after a very small lord of creation who was walking away with
a toddling belle in white, while a second young gentleman in gorgeous
purple gaiters was endeavoring to console the deserted damsel.

"Take hold of Master Charley's hand, Miss Mamie, and walk pretty, like
Willy and Flossy," said the maid.

"No, no, I want to do wid Willy, and he won't let me. Do 'way, Tarley, I
don't lite you," cried little Blue-bonnet, casting down her ermine muff
and sobbing in a microscopic handkerchief, the thread-lace edging on
which could n't mitigate her woe, as it might have done that of an older
sufferer.

"Willy likes Flossy best, so stop crying and come right along, you
naughty child."

As poor little Dido was jerked away by the unsympathetic maid, and
Purple-gaiters essayed in vain to plead his cause, Polly said to
herself, with a smile and a sigh; "How early the old story begins!"

It seemed as if the spring weather had brought out all manner of tender
things beside fresh grass and the first dandelions, for as she went down
the street Polly kept seeing different phases of the sweet old story
which she was trying to forget.

At a street corner, a black-eyed school-boy was parting from
a rosy-faced school-girl, whose music roll he was reluctantly
surrendering.

"Don't you forget, now," said the boy, looking bashfully into the bright
eyes that danced with pleasure as the girl blushed and smiled, and
answered reproachfully; "Why, of course I shan't!"

"That little romance runs smoothly so far; I hope it may to the end,"
said Polly heartily as she watched the lad tramp away, whistling as
blithely as if his pleasurable emotions must find a vent, or endanger
the buttons on the round jacket; while the girl pranced on her own
doorstep, as if practising for the joyful dance which she had promised
not to forget.

A little farther on Polly passed a newly engaged couple whom she knew,
walking arm in arm for the first time, both wearing that proud yet
conscious look which is so delightful to behold upon the countenances of
these temporarily glorified beings.

"How happy they seem; oh, dear!" said Polly, and trudged on, wondering
if her turn would ever come and fearing that it was impossible.

A glimpse of a motherly-looking lady entering a door, received by a
flock of pretty children, who cast themselves upon mamma and her parcels
with cries of rapture, did Polly good; and when, a minute after she
passed a gray old couple walking placidly together in the sunshine,
she felt better still, and was glad to see such a happy ending to the
romance she had read all down the street.

As if the mischievous little god wished to take Polly at a disadvantage,
or perhaps to give her another chance, just at that instant Mr. Sydney
appeared at her side. How he got there was never very clear to Polly,
but there he was, flushed, and a little out of breath, but looking so
glad to see her that she had n't the heart to be stiff and cool, as she
had fully intended to be when they met.

"Very warm, is n't it?" he said when he had shaken hands and fallen into
step, just in the old way.

"You seem to find it so." And Polly laughed, with a sudden sparkle in
her eyes. She really could n't help it, it was so pleasant to see him
again, just when she was feeling so lonely.

"Have you given up teaching the Roths?" asked Sydney, changing the
subject.

"No."

"Do you go as usual?"

"Yes."

"Well, it 's a mystery to me how you get there."

"As much as it is to me how you got here so suddenly."

"I saw you from the Shaws' window and took the liberty of running after
you by the back street," he said, laughing.

"That is the way I get to the Roths," answered Polly. She did not mean
to tell, but his frankness was so agreeable she forgot herself.

"It 's not nearly so pleasant or so short for you as the park."

"I know it, but people sometimes get tired of old ways and like to try
new ones."

Polly did n't say that quite naturally, and Sydney gave her a quick
look, as he asked; "Do you get tired of old friends, too, Miss Polly?"

"Not often; but" And there she stuck, for the fear of being ungrateful
or unkind made her almost hope that he would n't take the hint which she
had been carefully preparing for him.

There was a dreadful little pause, which Polly broke by saying abruptly;
"How is Fan?"

"Dashing, as ever. Do you know I 'm rather disappointed in Fanny,
for she don't seem to improve with her years," said Sydney, as if he
accepted the diversion and was glad of it.

"Ah, you never see her at her best. She puts on that dashing air before
people to hide her real self. But I know her better; and I assure you
that she does improve; she tries to mend her faults, though she won't
own it, and will surprise you some day, by the amount of heart and sense
and goodness she has got."

Polly spoke heartily now, and Sydney looked at her as if Fanny's
defender pleased him more than Fanny's defence.

"I 'm very glad to hear it, and willingly take your word for it.
Everybody shows you their good side, I think, and that is why you find
the world such a pleasant place."

"Oh, but I don't! It often seems like a very hard and dismal place, and
I croak over my trials like an ungrateful raven."

"Can't we make the trials lighter for you?"

The voice that put the question was so very kind, that Polly dared not
look up, because she knew what the eyes were silently saying.

"Thank you, no. I don't get more tribulation than is good for me, I
fancy, and we are apt to make mistakes when we try to dodge troubles."

"Or people," added Sydney in a tone that made Polly color up to her
forehead.

"How lovely the park looks," she said, in great confusion.

"Yes, it 's the pleasantest walk we have; don't you think so?" asked the
artful young man, laying a trap, into which Polly immediately fell.

"Yes, indeed! It 's always so refreshing to me to see a little bit of
the country, as it were, especially at this season."

Oh, Polly, Polly, what a stupid speech to make, when you had just given
him to understand that you were tired of the park! Not being a fool or a
cox-comb, Sydney put this and that together, and taking various trifles
into the account, he had by this time come to the conclusion that Polly
had heard the same bits of gossip that he had, which linked their names
together, that she did n't like it, and tried to show she did n't in
this way. He was quicker to take a hint than she had expected, and being
both proud and generous, resolved to settle the matter at once, for
Polly's sake as well as his own. So, when she made her last brilliant
remark, he said quietly, watching her face keenly all the while; "I
thought so; well, I 'm going out of town on business for several weeks,
so you can enjoy your 'little bit of country' without being annoyed by
me."

"Annoyed? Oh, no!" cried Polly earnestly; then stopped short, not
knowing what to say for herself. She thought she had a good deal of
the coquette in her, and I 've no doubt that with time and training she
would have become a very dangerous little person, but now she was far
too transparent and straightforward by nature even to tell a white lie
cleverly. Sydney knew this, and liked her for it, but he took advantage
of it, nevertheless by asking suddenly; "Honestly, now, would n't you go
the old way and enjoy it as much as ever, if I was n't anywhere about to
set the busybodies gossiping?"

"Yes," said Polly, before she could stop herself, and then could have
bitten her tongue out for being so rude. Another awful pause seemed
impending, but just at that moment a horseman clattered by with a smile
and a salute, which caused Polly to exclaim, "Oh, there 's Tom!" with a
tone and a look that silenced the words hovering on Sydney's lips, and
caused him to hold out his hand with a look which made Polly's heart
flutter then and ache with pity for a good while afterward, though he
only said, "Good by, Polly."

He was gone before she could do anything but look up at him with a
remorseful face, and she walked on, feeling that the first and perhaps
the only lover she would ever have, had read his answer and accepted
it in silence. She did not know what else he had read, and comforted
herself with the thought that he did not care for her very much, since
he took the first rebuff so quickly.

Polly did not return to her favorite walk till she learned from Minnie
that "Uncle" had really left town, and then she found that his friendly
company and conversation was what had made the way so pleasant after
all. She sighed over the perversity of things in general, and croaked a
little over her trials in particular, but on the whole got over her loss
better than she expected, for soon she had other sorrows beside her own
to comfort, and such work does a body more good than floods of regretful
tears, or hours of sentimental lamentation.

She shunned Fanny for a day or two, but gained nothing by it, for that
young lady, hearing of Sydney's sudden departure, could not rest till
she discovered the cause of it, and walked in upon Polly one afternoon
just when the dusk made it a propitious hour for tender confidences.

"What have you been doing with yourself lately?" asked Fanny, composing
herself, with her back toward the rapidly waning light.

"Wagging to and fro as usual. What's the news with you?" answered Polly,
feeling that something was coming and rather glad to have it over and
done with.

"Nothing particular. Trix treats Tom shamefully, and he bears it like a
lamb. I tell him to break his engagement, and not be worried so; but he
won't, because she has been jilted once and he thinks it 's such a mean
thing to do."

"Perhaps she 'll jilt him."

"I 've no doubt she will, if anything better comes along. But Trix is
getting passe, and I should n't wonder if she kept him to his word, just
out of perversity, if nothing else."

"Poor Tom, what a fate!" said Polly with what was meant to be a comical
groan; but it sounded so tragical that she saw it would n't pass, and
hastened to hide the failure by saying, with a laugh, "If you call Trix
passe at twenty-three, what shall we all be at twenty-five?" "Utterly
done with, and laid upon the shelf. I feel so already, for I don't get
half the attention I used to have, and the other night I heard Maud and
Grace wondering why those old girls 'did n't stay at home, and give them
a chance.'"

"How is Maudie?"

"Pretty well, but she worries me by her queer tastes and notions. She
loves to go into the kitchen and mess, she hates to study, and said
right before the Vincents that she should think it would be great fun to
be a beggar-girl, to go round with a basket, it must be so interesting
to see what you 'd get."

"Minnie said the other day she wished she was a pigeon so she could
paddle in the puddles and not fuss about rubbers."

"By the way, when is her uncle coming back?" asked Fanny, who could n't
wait any longer and joyfully seized the opening Polly made for her.

"I 'm sure I don't know."

"Nor care, I suppose, you hard-hearted thing."

"Why, Fan, what do you mean?"

"I 'm not blind, my dear, neither is Tom, and when a young gentleman
cuts a call abruptly short, and races after a young lady, and is seen
holding her hand at the quietest corner of the park, and then goes
travelling all of a sudden, we know what it means if you don't."

"Who got up that nice idea, I should like to know?" demanded Polly, as
Fanny stopped for breath.

"Now don't be affected, Polly, but just tell me, like a dear, has n't he
proposed?"

"No, he has n't."

"Don't you think he means to?"

"I don't think he 'll ever say a word to me."

"Well, I am surprised!" And Fanny drew a long breath, as if a load was
off her mind. Then she added in a changed tone: "But don't you love him,
Polly?"

"No."

"Truly?"

"Truly, Fan."

Neither spoke for a minute, but the heart of one of them beat joyfully
and the dusk hid a very happy face.

"Don't you think he cared for you, dear?" asked Fanny, presently. "I
don't mean to be prying, but I really thought he did."

"That 's not for me to say, but if it is so, it 's only a passing fancy
and he 'll soon get over it."

"Do tell me all about it; I 'm so interested, and I know something has
happened, I hear it in your voice, for I can't see your face."

"Do you remember the talk we once had after reading one of Miss
Edgeworth's stories about not letting one's lovers come to a declaration
if one did n't love them?"

"Yes."

"And you girls said it was n't proper, and I said it was honest, anyway.
Well, I always meant to try it if I got a chance, and I have. Mind you,
I don't say Mr. Sydney loved me, for he never said so, and never will,
now, but I did fancy he rather liked me and might do more if I did n't
show him that it was of no use."

"And you did?" cried Fanny, much excited.

"I just gave him a hint and he took it. He meant to go away before that,
so don't think his heart is broken, or mind what silly tattlers say.
I did n't like his meeting me so much and told him so by going another
way. He understood, and being a gentleman, made no fuss. I dare say
he thought I was a vain goose, and laughed at me for my pains, like
Churchill in 'Helen.'"

"No, he would n't; He 'd like it and respect you for doing it. But,
Polly, it would have been a grand thing for you."

"I can't sell myself for an establishment."

"Mercy! What an idea!"

"Well, that 's the plain English of half your fashionable matches. I
'm 'odd,' you know, and prefer to be an independent spinster and teach
music all my days."

"Ah, but you won't. You were made for a nice, happy home of your own,
and I hope you 'll get it, Polly, dear," said Fanny warmly, feeling so
grateful to Polly, that she found it hard not to pour out all her secret
at once.

"I hope I may; but I doubt it," answered Polly in a tone that made Fanny
wonder if she, too, knew what heartache meant.

"Something troubles you, Polly, what is it? Confide in me, as I do in
you," said Fanny tenderly, for all the coldness she had tried to hide
from Polly, had melted in the sudden sunshine that had come to her.

"Do you always?" asked her friend, leaning forward with an irresistible
desire to win back the old-time love and confidence, too precious to be
exchanged for a little brief excitement or the barren honor of "bagging
a bird," to use Trix's elegant expression. Fanny understood it then,
and threw herself into Polly's arms, crying, with a shower of grateful
tears; "Oh, my dear! my dear! did you do it for my sake?"

And Polly held her close, saying in that tender voice of hers, "I did
n't mean to let a lover part this pair of friends if I could help it."


CHAPTER XV. BREAKERS AHEAD


GOING into the Shaws' one evening, Polly found Maud sitting on the
stairs, with a troubled face.

"Oh, Polly, I 'm so glad you 've come!" cried the little girl, running
to hug her.

"What's the matter, deary?"

"I don't know; something dreadful must have happened, for mamma and Fan
are crying together upstairs, papa is shut up in the library, and Tom is
raging round like a bear, in the dining-room."

"I guess it is n't anything very bad. Perhaps mamma is sicker than
usual, or papa worried about business, or Tom in some new scrape. Don't
look so frightened, Maudie, but come into the parlor and see what I 've
got for you," said Polly, feeling that there was trouble of some sort in
the air, but trying to cheer the child, for her little face was full of
a sorrowful anxiety, that went to Polly's heart.

"I don't think I can like anything till I know what the matter is,"
answered Maud. "It 's something horrid, I 'm sure, for when papa came
home, he went up to mamma's room, and talked ever so long, and mamma
cried very loud, and when I tried to go in, Fan would n't let me, and
she looked scared and strange. I wanted to go to papa when he came down,
but the door was locked, and he said, 'Not now, my little girl,' and
then I sat here waiting to see what would happen, and Tom came home. But
when I ran to tell him, he said, 'Go away, and don't bother,' and just
took me by the shoulders and put me out. Oh, dear! everything is so
queer and horrid, I don't know what to do."

Maud began to cry, and Polly sat down on the stairs beside her, trying
to comfort her, while her own thoughts were full of a vague fear. All
at once the dining-room door opened, and Tom's head appeared. A single
glance showed Polly that something was the matter, for the care and
elegance which usually marked his appearance were entirely wanting. His
tie was under one ear, his hair in a toss, the cherished moustache had
a neglected air, and his face an expression both excited, ashamed, and
distressed; even his voice betrayed disturbance, for instead of the
affable greeting he usually bestowed upon the young lady, he seemed to
have fallen back into the bluff tone of his boyish days, and all he said
was, "Hullo, Polly."

cried another.

"Whip behind!" suggested a third.

"Anybody got a copper for the poor beggar?" asked a fourth.

By a desperate effort, at last I succeeded in coming up with the
runaway omnibus, when to my disgust I discovered that it was one
of those forbidding vehicles of which the step disappears when the
door is closed.

So that I had nothing to hold on to, still less to climb on to; and
to continue to run with my nose at the door, like a well-trained
carriage dog, suited neither my wind nor my dignity.

So I gave up the chase and dropped behind, covered with dust and
perspiration, amid frantic cheers from the knifeboard and broad
grins from the passengers on the pavement.

In such manner, I, an exhibitioner and a living exponent of the
latest "form," entered Low Heath! I was almost more grieved for the
school than for myself. Those fellows on the omnibus evidently didn't
know who I was. To-morrow, when they found out, and saw me arm-in-arm
with Tempest, they would be sorry for what they had done.

I confess that, as I walked up the steep street, and caught sight
at last of the chimneys of the school peeping up over the trees, I
half wished myself back at home with my mother.

I hadn't expected to feel so lonely.

I had indeed looked forward to a little pardonable triumph in being
recognised at once as the fellow who had taken the entrance exhibition,
and who evidently knew what was what.

Of course it was foolish, I told myself, to expect such a thing.

Fellows could hardly be expected to know who I was until they were
told.

Still it was a little--just a little--disappointing, and I could
not help feeling hurt.

I tramped on, till presently I came to the bridge, and loitered for
a moment to rest and watch the boats flitting about below.

There went a four, smartly manned by youngsters no older than myself.

There lolled a big fellow in a canoe.

There swished by a senior in a skiff, calling on the four-oar to
get out of the way as he passed.

There, too, stood a master in flannels, with the Oxford Blue on his
straw, talking to a group of boys.

I wish I could have overheard what they were saying.

Perhaps they were discussing the merits of some of the new boys.

I strolled on, passing on the way inquisitive stragglers who stared hard
at me, till I came to where the road skirts the cricket field.

Here, at a broken paling, I stood a moment and glanced in. Fellows
were bowling and batting at the nets, others were strolling
arm-in-arm up and down, hailing new arrivals; others were enjoying
a little horseplay; others were critically examining the last
season's pitch; others, impatient of the seasons, were punting about
a brand-new football.

How out of it I was! and yet how sure I felt that if some of those
fellows only guessed who was on the other side of the palings they
would feel interested!

I strolled on farther, and began now to pass the outbuildings.

There was a lecture room, empty at present. Should I be there to-morrow?
I wondered, answering to my name and seeing fellows open their
eyes as they heard it.

There was the gymnasium, I supposed--the place presided over by the drill
master whom Tempest so much detested. I meant to back Tempest up in
that feud.

Ah, there was the Lion Gate, standing open to receive me. Little I had
expected, when once before I entered it on my way to examination,
that I should so soon be coming back, so to speak, in triumph like
this.

It took some little self-persuasion, I must confess, to feel that
it really was a triumph.

I did think Tempest might have been on the look- out for me. I did not
know where to go, or of whom to inquire my way.
The boys I met either took no notice of me at all, or else stared so
rudely at my hat and boots that I could not bring myself to accost them.

At length I was beginning to think I had better march boldly to the
first master's house I came to, when, as luck would have it, I
stumbled up against my old travelling companion, who, having safely
arrived a quarter of an hour before, was now prowling about on the
look-out for old acquaintances.

"Please," said I, "would you mind telling me the way to Mr Sharpe's
house?"

"Are you a Sharper then?"

he inquired. "My word! what are we coming to?
Why didn't you come up by the 'bus?"
"I tried to," said I; "you wouldn't stop."

"Jim's horses were a bit shy," said he, with a grin. "They can't be held
in when they see a moke. You should have got in quietly, without their
spotting you."

I didn't like this fellow. He appeared to me to think he was funny when
he was not.

"Do you know if Tempest has come?" said I, hoping to impress him a
little.

"Who?"
"Tempest--Harry Tempest. He's at Sharpe's too."
"What sort of looking chap is he?"

demanded the youth, who, I suspected, could have told me without
any detailed description.

"He's one of the seniors," said I; "he was in the reserve for the
Eleven last term."

"Oh, that lout?

I hope you aren't a pal of his. That would about finish you up. If you
want him, you'd better go and look for him.

I don't know whether every snob in the place has come up or not."
And he departed in chase of a friend whom he had just sighted.

This was depressing. Not that I believed what he said about Tempest.

But I had hoped that my acquaintance with my old schoolmate would
redound to my own dignity, whereas it seemed to do nothing of the
kind.

Presently I encountered a very small boy, of chirpy aspect, whom I
thought I might safely accost.

"I say," said I, "which is Mr Sharpe's house?"

"Over there," said he, pointing to an ivy-covered house at some
little distance higher up the street. Then, regarding me attentively,
he added, "I say, you'll get in a jolly row if he sees you in that
get-up."

"Oh," said I, feeling that the youngster was entitled to an explanation,
"I'm an exhibitioner."
"A who? All I know is he's down on chaps playing the fool.

You'd better cut in on the quiet before they bowl you out in that thing,"
said he, pointing to my hat.

That thing! True, I had not observed many hats like it, so far, at Low
Heath; but that was probably because I had not encountered any
other fellow-exhibitioner.

Tempest knew more about the form than this kid.

"Thanks," said I. "Mr Sharpe will know who I am."
"Oh, all right," said he; "don't say I didn't tell you, that's all."

"I say," said I, feeling that enough had been said on a matter on which
we evidently misunderstood each other, "do you know Tempest?"
"Rather. He's in our house. You'll get it pretty hot from him if you cheek
him."
"Oh, I know him well; he's an old chum."
The boy laughed incredulously.

"He'd thank you if he heard you say so.

Oh my! fancy Tempest-- Hullo, I say, there he is. Cut away, kid, before
he sees you." And the youth set me a prompt example.

I was sorry he had not remained to witness the fact that I was not
quite the outsider he took me for.

Tempest was strolling across the road, arm-in-arm with a friend. He
certainly was not got up in the "form" which he had prescribed for
me.

He wore a straw hat on the back of his head, and boots of unmistakable
blackness.

But then, though an exhibitioner himself once, he had now attained to
the dignity of a senior, and was probably exempt from the laws binding
on new boys.

As he approached I crossed the road to meet him, full of joy at the
prospect of encountering at least one friend, and marching under his
protection into my new quarters.

But I was doomed to a slight disappointment. For though for a moment,
when he looked up, I fancied he recognised me, he did not discontinue
his conversation with his friend, but drew him out into the middle of the
road. They seemed to be enjoying a joke between them. His companion
looked round once or twice at me, but Tempest, who was looking quite
flushed, apparently did not take me in, and walked on, looking the
other way.

It was a little shock to me, or would have been had I not remembered
his friendly warning about the etiquette of a junior not accosting a
senior till the senior accosted him. I wished he had spoken to me, for
just then his help would have been particularly patronising. As it was,
I was tantalised by seeing him pass by close to me, and yet being unable,
without "shirking form" in a reprehensible way, to bring myself to his
notice.

In due time I reached Mr Sharpe's house. To my dismay the door stood wide
open, and the hall was crowded with fellows claiming their luggage
as it was being deposited by the railway van. As I arrived there was an
ominous silence, in the midst of which I stood on the step, and carefully
rung the bell marked, not "servants," but "visitors." No one came, so
after a due interval, and amid the smiles of the onlookers, I mustered
up resolution to ring again, rather louder. This time I had not to wait
long. A person dressed as a sort of butler, very red in the face,
emerged from a green baize door at the end of the passage and
advanced wrathfully.

"Which of you young gents keeps ringing the bell?" demanded he. "He's
to be made an example of this time. Oh, it was you, was it?" said he,
catching sight of me.

"Yes," said I. "Is Mr Sharpe at home?"
"At home?"

demanded the official, redder in the face than ever. "You seem to be
pretty much at home."

Then, apparently struck by my appearance, he pulled himself up and
honoured me with a long stare in which all the assembled boys joined.

"Who is it?"
"One of the porters from the station, I should say, from the looks
of him," suggested a boy.

"Whoever it is, don't you ring that visitors' bell--do you hear?" said
the man-servant.

"If you want anything, go round to the side door and don't interfere
with the young gentlemen."
"But I'm a new boy," said I.

"I'm--I'm an exhibitioner;" at which there was a great roar of
laughter, which even my self-satisfaction could hardly construe
into jubilation.

I began to have a horrible suspicion that I had committed some great _faux
pas_ by ringing the visitors' bell, and blushed consciously, to the
increased amusement of my fellow "Sharpers."
"Can I see Mr Sharpe?"

I inquired, thinking it best to take the bull by the horns.

"Can't you wait?"

said the servant. "Do you suppose the master has nothing to do but run
out and see--wild Indians?" Here followed another laugh at my expense.
"He'll see you quite soon enough."
Here a shove from behind precipitated me into the bosom of the
speaker, who returned me with thanks, and before I could apologise,
into the hands of the sender.

Thence I found myself passed on by a side impetus to a knot of juveniles,
who, not requiring my presence, passed me on to a senior standing
by, who shot me back to a friend, who sent me forward among the
boxes into the arms of the matron, who indignantly hustled me up
the passage, where finally I pulled up short in the grasp of a
gentleman who at that moment emerged from the green baize door.

In the confusion I had lost both my hat and my presence of mind. I was
far too confused to observe who the new-comer was, and far too indignant
to care.

All that I called to my mind as I reeled into his clutches was Tempest's
directions about kicking back, which accordingly I proceeded to
do, with all the vigour of which my new tan boots were capable.

Mr Sharpe suffered this assault meekly for a second or two, then he
held me out stiffly at arm's length, like a puppy in a fit, and
demanded,-- 
"What do you mean, sir, by behaving like this?"

I was bound to admit that it was a natural inquiry from a person whose
shins had been considerably barked by my new boots. I felt as if I
owed Mr Sharpe an apology.

"Please," said I, "I didn't mean to do it. The boys shoved me, and I
didn't know where I was going, really, sir."
Mr Sharpe seemed inclined to believe me. He was a florid-looking,
spectacled young man, with sandy whiskers, and a grip--oh that grip!

-- that could have lifted me easily over the Lion Gate.

"Boys," said he, "let us have none of this nonsense, or I must set a house
theme. Is Mrs Smiley here?"
Mrs Smiley, looking anything but the "moral" of her name, appeared in due
course.

"Mrs Smiley, will you please take charge of this new boy and keep him
out of trouble? Run away with Mrs Smiley, my little man; and you,
boys, as soon as you have claimed your boxes, clear out till register
bell."
What I did my ears deceive me? Was I, an exhibitioner, a scholar who had
come up to Low Heath in all the _eclat_ of the latest "form," the friend
of Tempest, the fellow who had made things too hot for himself at
Dangerfield--was I, I say, to be handed over to a sort of washer-womanly
person to be kept out of mischief, and called "my little man" in the
presence of the whole house? Was this my triumphant entry then?

No sooner had Mr Sharpe retired, than greetings of "My little man,"
"Spiteful Sarah," "Run along with his Smiley, then," beset me on all
sides. I would fain have explained and corrected any wrong impression,
but they only laughed when I tried; finally, when Mrs Smiley grabbed
at my hand and walked me off the scene like a baby, my humiliation
was complete.

Mrs Smiley, who was far too busy with the young gentlemen's luggage
to relish the extra duty put upon her by Mr Sharpe, had a very summary
way of dealing with cases of my kind.

"Sit down there, and don't move till you're told," said she, pointing
to a little three-legged stool in a corner in the box-room.

"But--" began I.

"Hold your tongue; how dare you speak to me?" she retorted.

"I only--"

"Stand in the corner, with your hands behind you, for disobedience,"
said she.

This was getting serious. The little three-legged stool would not
have been exactly luxurious; but to be stood in the corner with my
hands behind me by a person of the feminine gender called Smiley,
was really too bad.

The worst of it was that if I made any further protest I might be smacked
in addition, and that possibility I hardly dared risk.

So, rather to my own surprise, I found myself standing in the corner,
with my hands at my back, scrutinising a blue and pink rose on the wall-
paper, and wondering whether it would not be worth my while to
write to the _Times_ about the whole business.

I could not help thinking that Mrs Smiley did not hurry herself on my
account. I was conscious of box after box being dragged to the front,
emptied of its contents and put back, to be removed presently by
a porter, who probably looked at me every time he came in, but, I
am bound to say, received very little encouragement from my studiously
averted head.

After nearly an hour I began to get tired, and the blood of the Joneses
began to rise within me. I was seriously meditating mutiny, or at least
a definite explanation with Mrs Smiley, when at last she broke silence.

"Now, young gentleman, this way, please."

And she led me to a small comfortable-looking apartment, which I surmised
to be her particular sanctum.

"What's your name?"
"Jones," said I.
"It won't be so with us, for papa means to give up everything, and not
have a word said against him. Mamma's little property is settled upon
her, and has n't been risked. That touched her so much! She dreads
poverty even more than I do, but she begged him to take it if it would
help him. That pleased him, but he said nothing would induce him to
do it, for it would n't help much, and was hardly enough to keep her
comfortable."

"Do you know what he means to do?" asked Polly, anxiously.

"He said his plans were not made, but he meant to go into the little
house that belonged to grandma, as soon as he could, for it was n't
honest for a bankrupt to keep up an establishment like this."

"I shan't mind that at all, I like the little house 'cause it 's got a
garden, and there 's a cunning room with a three-cornered closet in it
that I always wanted. If that 's all, I don't think bankrupting is so
very bad," said Maud, taking a cheerful view of things.

"Ah, just wait till the carriage goes and the nice clothes and the
servants, and we have to scratch along as we can. You 'll change
your mind then, poor child," said Fanny, whose ideas of failure were
decidedly tragical.

"Will they take all my things away?" cried Maud, in dismay.

"I dare say; I don't know what we are allowed to keep; but not much,
I fancy," and Fan looked as if strung up to sacrifice everything she
possessed.

"They shan't have my new ear-rings, I 'll hide 'em, and my best dress,
and my gold smelling bottle. Oh, oh, oh! I think it 's mean to take a
little girl's things away!" And Maud dived among the pillows to smother
a wail of anguish at the prospect of being bereft of her treasures.

Polly soon lured her out again, by assurances that she would n't be
utterly despoiled, and promises to try and soften the hard hearts of
her father's creditors, if the ear-rings and the smelling-bottle were
attached.

"I wonder if we shall be able to keep one servant, just till we learn
how to do the work," said Fanny, looking at her white hands, with a
sigh.

But Maud clapped hers, and gave a joyful bounce, as she cried, "Now I
can learn to cook! I love so to beat eggs! I 'll have an apron, with
a bib to it, like Polly's, and a feather duster, and sweep the stairs,
maybe, with my head tied up, like Katy. Oh, what fun!"

"Don't laugh at her, or discourage her; let her find comfort in bibs and
dust-pans, if she can," whispered Polly to Fan, while Maud took a joyful
"header" among the pillows, and came up smiling and blowzy, for she
loved house-work, and often got lectured for stolen visits to the
kitchen, and surreptitious sweepings and dustings when the coast was
clear.

"Mamma is so feeble, I shall have to keep house, I suppose, and you must
show me how, Polly," said Fan.

"Good practice, ma'am, as you 'll find out some day," answered Polly,
laughing significantly.

Fanny smiled, then grew both grave and sad. "This changes everything;
the old set will drop me, as we did the Mertons when their father
failed, and my 'prospects,' as we say, are quite ruined."

"I don't believe it; your real friends won't drop you, and you 'll find
out which the true ones are now. I know one friend who will be kinder
than ever."

"Oh, Polly, do you think so?" and Fanny's eyes softened with sudden
tears.

"I know who she means," cried Maud, always eager to find out things. "It
's herself; Polly won't mind if we are poor, 'cause she likes beggars."

"Is that who you meant?" asked Fan, wistfully.

"No, it 's a much better and dearer friend than I am," said Polly,
pinching Fanny's cheek, as it reddened prettily under her eyes. "You 'll
never guess, Maud, so I would n't try, but be planning what you will put
in your cunning, three-cornered closet, when you get it."

Having got rid of "Miss Paulina Pry," as Tom called Maud, who was
immediately absorbed by her cupboard, the older girls soberly discussed
the sudden change which had come, and Polly was surprised to see what
unexpected strength and sense Fanny showed. Polly was too unconscious
of the change which love had made in herself to understand at first the
cause of her friend's new patience and fortitude; but she rejoiced over
it, and felt that her prophecy would yet be fulfilled. Presently Maud
emerged from her new closet, bringing a somewhat startling idea with
her.

"Do bankrupting men" (Maud liked that new word) "always have fits?"

"Mercy, no! What put that into your head, child?" cried Polly.

"Why, Mr. Merton did; and I was thinking perhaps papa had got one down
there, and it kind of frightened me."

"Mr. Merton's was a bad, disgraceful failure, and I don't wonder he had
a fit. Ours is n't, and papa won't do anything of that sort, you may be
sure," said Fanny, with as proud an air as if "our failure" was rather
an honor than otherwise.

"Don't you think you and Maud had better go down and see him?" asked
Polly.

"Perhaps he would n't like it; and I don't know what to say, either,"
began Fan; but Polly said, eagerly, "I know he would like it. Never mind
what you say; just go, and show him that you don't doubt or blame him
for this, but love him all the more, and are ready and glad to help him
bear the trouble."

"I 'm going, I ain't afraid; I 'll just hug him, and say I 'm ever so
glad we are going to the little house," cried Maud, scrambling off the
bed, and running down stairs.

"Come with me, Polly, and tell me what to do," said Fanny, drawing her
friend after her.

"You 'll know what to do when you see him, better than I can tell you,"
answered Polly, readily yielding, for she knew they considered her
"quite one of the family," as Tom said.

At the study door they found Maud, whose courage had given out, for Mr.
Merton's fit rather haunted her. Polly opened the door; and the minute
Fanny saw her father, she did know what to do. The fire was low, the gas
dim, and Mr. Shaw was sitting in his easy-chair, his gray head in both
his hands, looking lonely, old, and bowed down with care. Fanny gave
Polly one look, then went and took the gray head in both her arms,
saying, with a tender quiver in her voice, "Father dear, we 've come to
help you bear it."

Mr. Shaw looked up, and seeing in his daughter's face something that
never had been there before, put his arm about her, and leaned his
tired head against her, as if, when least expected, he had found the
consolation he most needed. In that minute, Fanny felt, with mingled joy
and self-reproach, what a daughter might be to her father; and Polly,
thinking of feeble, selfish Mrs. Shaw, asleep up stairs, saw with
sudden clearness what a wife should be to her husband, a helpmeet, not
a burden. Touched by these unusual demonstrations, Maud crept quietly
to her father's knee, and whispered, with a great tear shining on her
little pug nose, "Papa, we don't mind it much, and I 'm going to help
Fan keep house for you; I 'd like to do it, truly."

Mr. Shaw's other arm went round the child, and for a minute no one said
anything, for Polly had slipped behind his chair, that nothing should
disturb the three, who were learning from misfortune how much they loved
one another. Presently Mr. Shaw steadied himself and asked, "Where is my
other daughter, where 's my Polly?"

She was there at once; gave him one of the quiet kisses that had more
than usual tenderness in it, for she loved to hear him say "my other
daughter," and then she whispered, "Don't you want Tom, too?"

"Of course I do; where is the poor fellow?"

"I 'll bring him;" and Polly departed with most obliging alacrity.

But in the hall she paused a minute to peep into the glass and see if
she was all right, for somehow she was more anxious to look neat and
pretty to Tom in his hour of trouble than she had ever been in his
prosperous days. In lifting her arms to perk up the bow at her throat
she knocked a hat off the bracket. Now, a shiny black beaver is not an
object exactly calculated to inspire tender or romantic sentiments, one
would fancy, but that particular "stove pipe" seemed to touch Polly to
the heart, for she caught it up, as if its fall suggested a greater one,
smoothed out a slight dint, as if it was symbolical of the hard knocks
its owner's head was now in danger of receiving, and stood looking at
it with as much pity and respect, as if it had been the crown of a
disinherited prince. Girls will do such foolish little things, and
though we laugh at them, I think we like them the better for it, after
all.

Richard was himself again when Polly entered, for the handkerchief had
disappeared, his head was erect, his face was steady, and his whole
air had a dogged composure which seemed to say to fate, "Hit away, I 'm
ready." He did not hear Polly come in, for he was looking fixedly at
the fire with eyes that evidently saw a very different future there
from that which it used to show him; but when she said, "Tom, dear, your
father wants you," he got up at once, held out his hand to her, saying,
"Come too, we can't get on without you," and took her back into the
study with him.

Then they had a long talk, for the family troubles seemed to warm and
strengthen the family affection and confidence, and as the young people
listened while Mr. Shaw told them as much of his business perplexities
as they could understand, every one of them blamed him or herself for
going on so gayly and blindly, while the storm was gathering, and the
poor man was left to meet it all alone. Now, however, the thunder-clap
had come, and after the first alarm, finding they were not killed, they
began to discover a certain half-anxious, half-pleasant excitement
in talking it over, encouraging one another, and feeling unusually
friendly, as people do when a sudden shower drives two or three to the
shelter of one umbrella.

It was a sober talk, but not all sad, for Mr. Shaw felt inexpressibly
comforted by his children's unexpected sympathy, and they, trying to
take the downfall cheerfully for his sake, found it easier to bear
themselves. They even laughed occasionally, for the girls, in their
ignorance, asked queer questions; Tom made ludicrously unbusiness-like
propositions; and Maud gave them one hearty peal, that did a world of
good, by pensively remarking, when the plans for the future had been
explained to her, "I 'm so relieved; for when papa said we must give up
everything, and mamma called us all beggars, I did think I 'd got to go
round asking for cold vittles, with a big basket, and an old shawl over
my head. I said once I 'd like that, but I 'm afraid I should n't, for I
can't bear Indian cake and cold potatoes, that 's what the poor children
always seem to get, and I should hate to have Grace and the rest see me
scuffing round the back gates."

"My little girl shall never come to that, if I can help it," said Mr.
Shaw, holding her close, with a look that made Maud add, as she laid her
cheek against his own, "But I 'd do it, father, if you asked me to, for
I truly want to help."

"So do I!" cried Fanny, wondering at the same minute how it would seem
to wear turned silks, and clean her gloves.

Tom said nothing, but drew toward him a paper of figures which his
father had drawn up, and speedily reduced himself to the verge of
distraction by trying to understand them, in his ardent desire to prove
his willingness to put his shoulder to the wheel.

"We shall pull through, children, so don't borrow trouble, only be ready
for discomforts and annoyances. Put your pride in your pockets, and
remember poverty is n't disgraceful, but dishonesty is."

Polly had always loved kind Mr. Shaw, but now she respected him
heartily, and felt that she had not done him justice when she sometimes
thought that he only cared for making money.

"I should n't wonder if this was a good thing for the whole family,
though it don't look so. Mrs. Shaw will take it the hardest, but it may
stir her up, so she will forget her nerves, and be as busy and happy as
mother is," said Polly to herself, in a hopeful mood, for poverty was an
old friend, and she had learned long ago not to fear it, but to take its
bitter and its sweet, and make the best of both.

When they parted for the night, Polly slipped away first, to leave them
free, yet could n't help lingering outside to see how tenderly the girls
parted from their father. Tom had n't a word to say for himself, for men
don't kiss, caress, or cry when they feel most, and all he could do to
express his sympathy and penitence, was to wring his father's hand with
a face full of respect, regret, and affection, and then bolt up stairs
as if the furies were after him, as they were, in a mild and modern
form.


CHAPTER XVI. A DRESS PARADE


THE weeks that followed taught the Shaws, as many other families have
been taught, how rapidly riches take to themselves wings and fly away,
when they once begin to go. Mr. Shaw carried out his plans with an
energy and patience that worked wonders, and touched the hearts of his
hardest creditors. The big house was given up as soon as possible and
the little house taken; being made comfortable with the furniture Madam
left there when she went to live with her son. The old-fashioned things
had been let with the house, and now seemed almost like a gift from
Grandma, doubly precious in these troublous times. At the auction,
several persons tried to show the family that, though they had lost
their fortune, friends still remained, for one bid in Fanny's piano,
and sent it to her; another secured certain luxurious articles for Mrs.
Shaw's comfort; and a third saved such of Mr. Shaw's books as he valued
most, for he had kept his word and given up everything, with the most
punctilious integrity. So the little house was not bare, but made
pleasant to their eyes by these waifs from the wreck, brought them by
the tide of sympathy and good-will which soon set in. Everybody who
knew them hastened to call, many from a real regard, but more from mere
curiosity to "see how they took it." This was one of the hardest things
they had to bear, and Tom used strong language more than once, when some
fine lady came to condole, and went away to gossip. Polly's hopes of
Mrs. Shaw were disappointed, for misfortune did not have a bracing
effect. She took to her bed at once, received her friends in tears and a
point-lace cap, and cheered her family by plaintively inquiring when she
was to be taken to the almshouse. This was hard for Fanny; but after
an interval of despair, she came to the conclusion that under the
circumstances it was the best thing her mother could have done, and
with something of her father's energy, Fanny shouldered the new burden,
feeling that at last necessity had given her what she had long needed,
something to do.

The poor girl knew as much of household affairs as Snip; but pride and
the resolution "to stand by Father," kept up her courage, and she worked
away with feverish activity at whatever task came first till, just as
strength and heart were about to fail, order began to emerge from chaos
and the vision of a home made happy and comfortable by her skill and
care came to repay and sustain her.

Maud, being relieved from the fear of back-door beggary, soon became
reconciled to bankruptcy; thought it rather a good joke, on the whole,
for children like novelty, and don't care much for Mrs. Grundy. She
regarded the new abode as a baby house on a large scale, where she
was allowed to play her part in the most satisfactory manner. From the
moment when, on taking possession of the coveted room, she opened the
doors of the three-cornered closet, and found a little kettle just like
Polly's, standing there, she felt that a good time was coming for her
and fell to dusting furniture, washing cups, and making toast, the
happiest, fussiest little housewife in the city. For Maud inherited the
notable gifts of her grandmother, and would have made a capital farmer's
daughter, in spite of her city breeding.

Polly came and went through all these changes, faithful, helpful, and
as cheery as she could be when her friends were in trouble. The parts
seemed reversed now, and it was Polly who gave, Fanny who received; for
where everything seemed strange and new to Fan, Polly was quite at home,
and every one of the unfashionable domestic accomplishments now came
into play, to the comfort of the Shaws, and the great satisfaction of
Polly. She could not do enough to prove her gratitude for former favors,
and went toiling and moiling about, feeling that the hardest, most
disagreeable tasks were her especial duty. In the moving nothing suited
her better than to trot up and down, lugging heavy things, to pound her
fingers black and blue nailing carpets and curtains, and the day she
nearly broke her neck tumbling down the cellar stairs, in her eagerness
to see that Mrs. Shaw's wine was rightly stored, she felt that she was
only paying her debts, and told Tom she liked it, when he picked her up
looking as grimy as a chimney-sweep.

"You can turn your hand to anything, you clever girl, so do come and
give me some advice, for I am in the depths of despair," said Fanny when
the "maid-of-all-work" as Polly called herself, found a leisure hour.

"What is it? Moths in the furs, a smoky chimney, or small-pox next
door?" asked Polly, as they entered Fan's room, where Maud was trying on
old bonnets before the looking-glass.

"Actually I have nothing to wear," began Fan impressively; "I 've been
too busy to think or care till now, but here it is nearly May and I have
hardly a decent rag to my back. Usually, you know, I just go to Mrs.
O'Grady and tell her what I want; she makes my spring wardrobe, Papa
pays the bill, and there I am. Now I 've looked into the matter, and I
declare to you, Polly, I 'm frightened to see how much it costs to dress
me."

"Not so much as some girls I know," said Polly encouragingly.

"Perhaps not, for I have a conscience, and taste is economy sometimes;
but really, Polly, I have n't the heart to ask Papa for a cent just
now, and yet I must have clothes. You are such a genius for planning and
working wonders, that I throw myself upon you and ask, 'How shall I make
a spring wardrobe out of nothing?'"

"Let me see the 'nothing' before I advise. Bring out every rag you 've
got, and we 'll see what can be done," said Polly, looking as if she
enjoyed the prospect, for she had a great deal of that feminine faculty
which we call "knack," and much practice had increased it.

Fanny brought out her "rags" and was astonished to see how many she had,
for chair, sofa, bed, and bureau were covered, and still Maud, who was
burrowing in the closets, kept crying, "Here 's another."

"There 's a discouraging heap of rubbish for you!" said Fan, as she
added a faded muslin to the last pile.

"Now, to me your 'rubbish' looks very encouraging, because there is good
material there, and not much worn-out finery, that 's my detestation,
for you can't do anything with it. Let me see, five bonnets. Put the
winter ones away till autumn, rip up the summer ones, and out of three
old ones we 'll get a pretty new one, if my eyes don't deceive me."

"I 'll rip, and then do let me see you make a bonnet, it must be so
interesting," said Maud, whipping out her scissors and eagerly beginning
to reduce a shabby little bonnet to its original elements. "Now the
dresses," continued Polly, who had rapidly sorted out the piles.

"Will you have the goodness to look at this?" said Fan, holding up a
gray street suit faded past cure.

Polly whisked it wrong side out, and showing the clean, bright fabric,
said, with a triumphant wave, "Behold your new suit; fresh trimming and
less of it will finish you off as smart as ever."

"I never wore a turned dress in my life; do you suppose people will know
it?" said Fan doubtfully.

"What if they do? It won't hurt you. Not one in a hundred will ever
think anything about your dress, except that it is pretty. I 've worn
turned and dyed gowns all my days, and it don't seem to have alienated
my friends, or injured my constitution."

"That it has n't; I 'm a goose, Polly, and I 'll get over the feeling
that it 's sort of disgraceful to be poor and have to economize. We 'll
turn the gray, and I 'll wear it bravely."

"Then it will be more becoming than ever. Oh, here 's the pretty violet
silk. That will make a lovely suit," cried Polly, going on with the
review.

"Don't see how two draggled skirts and a stained waist can be
transformed into a whole rig," said Fan, sitting on the bed, with her
garments strewn about her in various attitudes of limp despondency.

"Well, ma'am, my plan is this," began Polly, imitating Mrs. O'Grady's
important tone, and bad grammar: "Gores is out, and plaits is in;
therefore, as the top of this skirt is quite fresh, we will take off the
ruffles, turn it upside down, and leave it plain. The upper skirt
will be made scanter, and finished with a frill; then the waist can be
refreshed with the best parts of these wide flounces, and out of those
new bits we will concoct a hat. The black lace Maud has just taken
off the green one will do to edge the violet, and with your nice silk
mantilla you are complete, don't you see?"

"I don't quite see it yet, but I have firm faith that I shall in time,
and consider my calling costume finished," said Fanny, getting more and
more interested as she saw her condemned wardrobe coming out fresh again
under Polly's magic knack.

"There are two; then that piqu, is all right, if you cut the tail off
the jacket and change the trimming a bit. The muslins only need mending
and doing up to look as well as ever; you ought not to put them away
torn and soiled, my child. The two black silks will be good stand-bys
for years. If I were you, I 'd have a couple of neat, pretty prints for
home-wear, and then I don't see why you are n't fixed well enough for
our short season."

"Can't I do anything with this barege? It 's one of my favorite dresses,
and I hate to give it up."

"You wore that thoroughly out, and it 's only fit for the rag-bag. Yes,
it was very pretty and becoming, I remember, but its day is over."

Fanny let the dress lie in her lap a minute as she absently picked at
the fringe, smiling to herself over the happy time when she wore it last
and Sydney said she only needed cowslips in her lap to look like spring.
Presently she folded it up and put it away with a sigh, but it never
went into the rag-bag, and my sentimental readers can understand what
saved it.

"The ball dresses had better be put nicely away till next year," began
Polly, coming to a rainbow colored heap.

"My day is over, I shall never use them again. Do what you like with
them," said Fan calmly.

"Did you ever sell your cast-off finery, as many ladies do?" asked
Polly.

"Never; I don't like the fashion. I give it away, or let Maud have it
for tableaux."

"I wonder if you would mind my telling you something Belle proposed?"

"If it 's an offer to buy my clothes, I should mind," answered Fanny,
sharply.

"Then I won't," and Polly retired behind a cloud of arsenic-green gauze,
which made her look as if she had the cholera.

"If she wanted to buy that horrid new 'gooseberry-colored gown,' as
Tom calls it, I 'd let her have it cheap," put in Maud, who was of a
practical turn.

"Does she want it, Polly?" asked Fan, whose curiosity got the better of
her pride.

"Well, she merely asked me if I thought you 'd be mortally offended,
if she offered to take it off your hands, as you 'd never worn it. You
don't like it, and in another season it will be all out of fashion,"
said Polly from her verdant retreat.

"What did you say?"

"I saw she meant it kindly, so I said I 'd ask. Now between ourselves,
Fan, the price of that dress would give you all you 'll want for your
spring fixings, that 's one consideration; then here 's another, which
may have some weight with you," added Polly slyly. "Trix told Belle she
was going to ask you for the dress, as you would n't care to wear it
now. That made Belle fire up, and say it was a mean thing to do without
offering some return for a costly thing like that; and then Belle said,
in her blunt way, 'I 'll give Fan all she paid for it, and more, too, if
it will be any help to her. I don't care for the dress, but I 'd like to
slip a little money into her pocket, for I know she needs it and is too
good to ask dear Mr. Shaw for anything she can get on without.'"

"Did she say that? I 'll give her the dress, and not take a penny for
it," cried Fan, flushing up with mingled anger toward Trix and gratitude
to Belle.

"That won't suit her; you let me manage it, and don't feel any shame or
anxiety about it. You did many a kind and generous thing for Belle when
you had the power, and you liked to do it; now let her pay her debts,
and have the same pleasure."

"If she looks at it in that way, it makes a difference. Perhaps I 'd
better the money would be an immense help only I don't quite like to
take it."

"Kings and queens sell their jewels when times are hard or they get
turned off their thrones, and no one thinks it anything amiss, so
why need you? It 's just a little transaction between two friends who
exchange things they don't want for things which they do, and I 'd do it
if I were you."

"We 'll see about it," said Fan, privately resolving to take Polly's
advice.

"If I had lots of things like Fan, I 'd have an auction and get all
I could for them. Why don't you?" asked Maud, beginning on her third
bonnet.

"We will," said Polly, and mounting a chair, she put up, bid in, and
knocked down Fan's entire wardrobe to an imaginary group of friends,
with such droll imitations of each one that the room rang with laughter.

"That 's enough nonsense; now we 'll return to business," said Polly,
descending breathless but satisfied with the effect of her fun.

"These white muslins and pretty silks will keep for years, so I should
lay them by till they are needed. It will save buying, and you can go to
your stock any time and make over what you want. That 's the way Mother
does; we 've always had things sent us from richer friends, and whatever
was n't proper for us to wear at the time, Mother put away to be used
when we needed it. Such funny bundles as we used to have sometimes, odd
shoes, bonnets without crowns, stockings without heels or toes, and old
finery of all sorts. We used to rush when a bundle came, and sit round
while Mother opened it. The boys always made fun of the things, though
they were as grateful, really, as any of us. Will made a verse one day
which we thought pretty well for a little chap: 'To poor country folks
Who have n't any clothes, Rich folks, to relieve them, Send old lace
gowns and satin bows.'"

"I think that Will is going to be as nice a poet as Mr. Shakespeare,"
remarked Maud in a tone of serious conviction.

"He is already a Milton; but I don't believe he will ever be anything
but a poet in name," said Polly, working away while she talked.

"Did n't your mother ever let you wear the nice things that came?" asked
Maud.

"No, she thought it was n't the thing for a poor minister's girls to go
flourishing about in second-hand finery, so she did what I 'm doing now,
put away what would be useful and proper for us by and by, and let us
play with the shabby, silk bonnets and dirty, flounced gowns. Such fun
as we used to have up in our big garret! I remember one day we 'd been
playing have a ball, and were all rigged up, even the boys. Some new
neighbors came to call, and expressed a wish to see us, having been told
that we were pattern children. The cheers died on our lips, for it was
surely something more than exhaustion or broken wind. Redwood was
beside him in a moment, and drew his head on his knee. It was a dead
faint--not from fatigue, but from pain.

His burned and blistered hand, which he had so carefully concealed from
everybody, and of which he had made so little, betrayed the secret plainly
enough.

For once his pride and determination had overrated his physical
strength.

He had calculated on just being able to win the race. All he had done
was just to save it, at a price which, as it turned out, was to cost him
weeks of illness, and even threaten the loss of a hand.

The news of his calamity spread like wildfire, and put an end, as far
as I at least was concerned, to the sports for the day.

We heard later in the day that he was in the Sanatorium in a high
fever.
Next day he was delirious, and the notice on the board told us that
the doctor considered his condition dangerous.

The next day, his old grandfather, the only relative he had, came
down, and the next, summoned by my urgent message, my dear mother.

Then for a day or two we were kept in suspense, till one happy afternoon
the bulletin reported a change for the better, and presently the welcome
news came that all danger was past.

For me at least that was the happiest day of my life, except perhaps
that a week later when my mother as a special privilege allowed
me to see him for a moment.

He was sitting up in bed, smiling but pale.

"Tell me," he said, "I've never heard yet, did I win the Mile?"
"Dead heat," said I.

"What time?"

"Four four and a half."
"A record, isn't it? It was worth the grind."

I had my doubts, but knew better than to say so.

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX.

A GOOD SHOW-UP ALL ROUND.

It was the last day but one of the Summer term, and the Philosophers were
in a ferment.

The lists were to be out in the afternoon, and a score of events were
to be decided by them.

Was I to get on to the top form of my division, and if so, was it Langrish
or Purkis who was to be displaced? Or was I, after all my grind, to yield
a place to the truculent Coxhead?

More than that, was Warminster to be beaten after all by a day boy
called Dicky Brown, who, amid all the changes and distractions of
the term, had stuck doggedly to his work, and was reported a hot
man for the head place in the junior division?

All this was exciting enough, but it was as nothing to the tussle at the
head of the school.

Pridgin's alarming burst of work in the Easter term had, contrary to all
expectation, not died out.

Every one prophesied he would sicken of it.
Wales laughed at him.

Crofter smiled sweetly. Tempest inquired frequently after his health,
and even Redwood knocked off some of his extra cricket to keep pace
with it.

"What are you trying to do?" asked Tempest one day, as his friend
looked in.

"Nothing, my dear fellow, only amusing myself, I assure you."

"You have a queer idea of fun. Do you know, I've hardly been out
on the river all the term, owing to you."
"Don't let me prevent you, old chap.

The exercise will do you good."

Tempest laughed.

"I hope yours will do you good.

But two can play at your game."
"Two! Half a dozen.--I've not got my knife into _you_, though."

"Who? Crofter?"
"Rather. I see no other way of taking it out of him. He shirks sports,
and takes his pound of flesh out of the captaincy, although he knows
he's no right to it, and no one, not even the rowdies in the faggery,
respects him."
"That's why we're going steady," said I, "just to rile him."
"The only way to take it out of him is to make him sit up, and harry him,"
said the amiable Pridgin.

"I only hope, though, it won't land me head of the house.

I'm depending on you to beat me. But I'm not going to play second
fiddle to Crofter."
"It will serve you right if it does land you head," responded Tempest.
"If it does, we'll have to keep you up to the mark and see you don't
shirk."
"Don't say that, old chap, or I shall jack it up," said Pridgin,
putting his feet upon the window-ledge.

"Besides, does it occur to you that Redwood's leaving, and that the
second man up, if he's one of us, is left not only captain of Sharpe's
but captain of Low Heath?"

"I know," said Tempest quietly, "but they say Leslie of Selkirk's is in
the running for that."
"Stuff and nonsense!" retorted Pridgin. "Tempest of Sharpe's is the
man for my money."
Tempest laughed again; but it was a sort of laugh which did not
bode well for Leslie of Selkirk's.

This talk had been a fortnight ago. Since then the examinations had
come and gone. The Philosophers, sobered and perspiring, had been spread
out at two-desk intervals on three fatal days in the large hall,
with day boys to right of them and Selkirkers to left, writing for
their lives, and groaning over questions which only a fiend could
have devised, and only a double-first could have answered.

How I had got on, I could no more tell than the man in the moon.

My comrades, when we compared notes afterwards, cheerfully assured
me that, out of some fifty questions on the three days, I had possibly
got half a question right, but that that was doubtful, and depended
on the particular crib the examiner swore by. Redwood, to whom I confided
some of my answers, thought rather more hopefully of my case, and
told me to keep my spirits up. Tempest said that if he were to cuff
me for every discreditable blunder I had made, I should have ear-ache
for a month. Dicky, on the other hand, confessed that he wished he
could believe he had done as well as I.

As for the other Philosophers, general discouragement was the order of
the day.

It was moved and seconded that Coxhead be kicked for having made
"amnis" feminine, and having translated the French "impasse" as "instep."
And Trimble was temporarily suspended from the service of the Conversation
Club because he had put a decimal dot in the wrong place.
Public feeling ran so high that any departure from the rules of syntax
or algebra was regarded as treason against the house, and dealt with
accordingly.

On the whole, therefore, we were glad when the time of suspense came
to an end.

How matters had gone with the seniors it was even more difficult to surmise
than it had been in our case. The day after the end of their exams.,
Redwood and Tempest, with Pridgin to cox, rowed twelve miles down stream
and back, and returned cheerful and serene, and even jocular. Leslie of
Selkirk's also spent a pleasant afternoon in the school laboratory,
whistling to himself as he mixed up his acids.
Crofter and Wales mooned about under the trees in the field somewhat
limply, but showed no outward signs of distress. Altogether, speculation
was baffled, and it was almost irritating to find the chief actors in
the drama refusing to take the momentous question seriously.

"How did you get on?" I asked Tempest.

"You'll hear to-morrow," said he; "so shall I."
"Do you think you'll beat Leslie?"
"Either that, or he'll beat me, or it'll be a dead heat," said he.

There was no dealing with frivolity of this kind; and Tempest, ever
since his recovery last term, had been rapidly regaining all his old
frivolity and lightheartedness.

It was a trying ordeal on "Result" day, sitting patiently in hall till
the doctor made up his mind to appear. All the school was there. There
was an unusual spirit of orderliness afoot. The few irresponsible
ones, who, with nothing to lose, tried to get up a disturbance,
were promptly squashed by the grim, anxious competitors to whom the
coming results meant so much.

We Philosophers huddled together for comfort, but not a joke travelled
down the line. We sat and drummed our fingers on the desk before us, and
wondered why on earth the doctor, on a day like this, should take
such an unearthly time to put on his cap and gown.

At last he appeared, paper in hand, and glasses on nose. I could see
Dicky just in front of me catch a quick breath, and Tempest up in the
front brush his hair back with his fingers; and there arose before
my mind in horrible review all the palpable blunders of my own
examination papers.

"Lower school," began the doctor in a hard, dry, unemotional voice.
"Aggregate form order--out of a possible 1000 marks, Brown iii.,
day boy, and Jones iv., Mr Sharpe's, bracketed first with 853 marks."

What! me? bracketed top with Dicky? Go along with you! But a huge thump
on the back from Warminster, followed by a huger from Langrish; the
vision of Dicky's consciously blushing cheeks, as Flitwick performed
the same office for him; and, above all, a nod across the room from
Redwood, and a grin from Tempest, convinced me that there was something
in it after all.

Of course it was a mistake, and when the marks came to be counted again
it would be put right. But while it lasted it wasn't bad. What was the
doctor saying?

"A very good performance, both of you; and the result of honest hard
work."

It was true then? There was no humbug about it? Oh, I must write to my
mother this very afternoon.

"Warminster, Mr Sharpe's second, 836, good also; Corderoy, Mr Selkirk's,
third, 815; Langrish, Mr Sharpe's, fourth, 807; Trimble, Mr Sharpe's,
sixth, 796; Purkis, Mr Sharpe's, seventh, 771; Coxhead, Mr Sharpe's,
eighth, 734--(Mr Sharpe's boys have worked excellently this term);--Quin,
day boy, ninth, 699; Rackstraw, Mr Sharpe's, tenth, 678."

And so the list went on. I was too much lost in the wonder of my own success
to appreciate all at once the glorious significance of the whole result.
But as the Philosophers crowded in a little closer on one another, and
the friendly nudge went round, it began to dawn on me.
Every one of our men had given a good account of himself, even Coxhead
and the "pauper" Rackstraw! Not one of the old gang but was eligible for
the club; not one but had done something to "put the day boys and
Selkirk's and everybody else to bed," as Langrish said.

"Just like your side," said the latter to me, "trying to make out you'd
made a mess of it.

You can only make a mess of it, young Sarah, when you try not to; when
you do try you can't do it." And with another thump on the back our
excellent secretary gave me to know he bore me no malice, but on the
contrary was pleased to favour me with his general approbation.

But more was yet to come. Compared with the "aggregates," the details
of how we had passed each examination were more or less tame, and we
were impatient to get on to the senior results.

The middle school had to come first.

As a rule we were not greatly concerned in them, except as belonging
to the division into which some of us would probably be promoted next
term. But such as they were, they kept up the credit of Sharpe's. A
Selkirker did indeed head the list, but after him a string of four of
our fellows followed; after them a day boy, and then two more "Sharpers."

More back patting, crowding up, conscious blushes, and congratulations.

Then the doctor put down one paper and took up another; and every
one knew what was coming.

"Upper school," read the doctor in exactly the same voice, as if this
announcement were of no more importance than any other. "Aggregate
form order--out of a possible 1000 marks, Redwood, captain of the school,
and day boy, 902."

We were obliged to interrupt a little here. There would not be many more
chances of cheering old Redwood, and we couldn't afford to chuck
them away.

So we cheered, and gave the doctor time to polish up his glasses and
take a sip of water.

"Your cheers," said he, when at last we had relieved ourselves, "are
well-deserved. In addition to this capital result, Redwood takes the
Low Heath scholarship to Trinity, where, I almost venture to prophesy,
we shall hear even greater things of him some day."
More cheers. But we were too impatient to hear what came next to interpose
too long a delay.

"Tempest, Mr Sharpe's, second, 888; all the more gratifying when we
remember the causes which interrupted his school work for a
time last term."
We fairly gave ourselves away now!

Sharpe's had reached the top of the tide with a vengeance. There was an
end to all uncertainty as to who would be its captain; and there was
the glorious certainty that the captain of Sharpe's would also be
captain of Low Heath.

Three cheers!
Rather.

But still we could not, till the rest of the list was read, give
ourselves up to cheering for as long as we should have liked.

So we allowed the doctor to proceed.

"Pridgin, Mr Sharpe's, third, 869--very close."

Good old Pridgin! All his discomfort had not been for nothing. He had
"taken it out of" Crofter, after all. By how much?

"Leslie, Mr Selkirk's, fourth, 832. Wales, Mr Sharpe's, fifth, 801.
Crofter, Mr Sharpe's, sixth, 769."
A cool hundred between them! We had the decency not to rub it in too
hard. It was clear by the disconcerted look in the face of our so-
called captain that he was more surprised than any one. He smiled,
of course, and leant across to pat Pridgin on the back. But that
was just his way--we knew well enough that it cloaked a bitter
mortification, and why worry the poor beggar with letting him see
we noticed it?
So we waited till we got outside, and then let ourselves loose on
Tempest and Pridgin, and positively injured our voices with
cheering.
That afternoon in the faggery our jubilant review of the situation
was combined with a wind-up meeting of the Conversation Club for
the term.
"Jolly good show for us," said Langrish. "Crofter's pretty sick,
but it'll do him good. I move and third, and Sarah seconds and
fourths, that we send him a resolution of condolence."
"Better let him alone," suggested I.
"Shut up, or you'll get jolly well kicked out of the club," said
the secretary. "If you don't want to be civil, it's no reason why
we shouldn't." I had imagined I was on the whole more concerned for
Crofter's feelings than they, but, putting it in the way they did,
I could hardly resist. So the following resolution was solemnly
drawn up and ordered to be conveyed to "The late Mr Crofter."
"That this meeting of the Philosophical Conversation Club is hereby
jolly glad to see Tempest cock of the house again, with Pridgin
second man up. It hereby condoles with Crofter in the jolly back
seat he has got to take, and is sorry he shirked the Mile. It begs
to inform him that he is a hundred and eighteen marks behind Tempest,
and trusts he will in future obey the house captain, to whom all
applications for _exeats_ and extra leave are to be addressed.
Crofter need not trouble to reply, as the club only desires to have
communication with the cock of the house."
This done, I was ordered to take the chair as the new president,
and called upon the secretary to read the minutes.
These were short and to the point,--
"'A general meeting of the Conversation Club was held on Monday in
the Examination Hall. With his usual mulishness, Sarah thought he'd
have a cut in, and it was resolved to give him a chance. Thanks to
the drivelling idiotcy of Warminster, who doesn't even know the
feminine genitive of _corpus_, he scraped through; and, as he
couldn't do much worse than Coxhead, he did a shade better.'"
"All very well," growled Coxhead, "he did a jolly sight better than
you."
"'Coxhead, who is hereby expelled for using slang, was, as usual,
down with the paupers at the bottom. A town cad called Brown, who
managed to conceal his cribs, came out first, and it was decided
to tack Sarah on to him. Trimble, as might be expected, came a
cropper in his English grammar--'"
"A cram! They never examined us in it!"
"There you are; you don't even know it when you see it--'came a
cropper in his English grammar.'""Feel as if I could sometimes," continued Tom; then his eye fell upon
the dimples in Polly's elbows, and he added, with a laugh, "That 's more
in your line, ma'am; can't you give us a sermon?"

"A short one. Life, my brethren, is like plum-cake," began Polly,
impressively folding her floury hands. "In some the plums are all on
the top, and we eat them gayly, till we suddenly find they are gone. In
others the plums sink to the bottom, and we look for them in vain as we
go on, and often come to them when it is too late to enjoy them. But
in the well-made cake, the plums are wisely scattered all through, and
every mouthful is a pleasure. We make our own cakes, in a great measure,
therefore let us look to it, my brethren, that they are mixed according
to the best receipt, baked in a well regulated oven, and gratefully
eaten with a temperate appetite."

"Good! good!" cried Tom, applauding with the wooden spoon. "That 's a
model sermon, Polly, short, sweet, sensible, and not a bit sleepy. I 'm
one of your parish, and will see that you get your 'celery punctooal,'
as old Deacon Morse used to say."

"'Thank you, brother, my wants is few, and ravens scurser than they used
to be,' as dear old Parson Miller used to answer. Now, Maud, bring on
the citron;" and Polly began to put the cake together in what seemed
a most careless and chaotic manner, while Tom and Maud watched with
absorbing interest till it was safely in the oven.

"Now make your custards, dear; Tom may like to beat the eggs for you; it
seems to have a good effect upon his constitution."

"First-rate; hand 'em along," and Tom smoothed his apron with a cheerful
air. "By the way, Syd's got back. I met him yesterday, and he treated me
like a man and a brother," he added, as if anxious to contribute to the
pleasures of the hour.

"I 'm so glad!" cried Polly, clapping her hands, regardless of the egg
she held, which dropped and smashed on the floor at her feet. "Careless
thing! Pick it up, Maud, I 'll get some more;" and Polly whisked out of
the room, glad of an excuse to run and tell Fan, who had just come
in, lest, hearing the news in public, she might be startled out of the
well-bred composure with which young ladies are expected to receive
tidings, even of the most vital importance.

"You know all about history, don't you?" asked Maud, suddenly.

"Not quite," modestly answered Tom.

"I just want to know if there really was a man named Sir Philip, in the
time of Queen Elizabeth."

"You mean Sir Philip Sidney? Yes, he lived then and a fine old fellow he
was too."

"There; I knew the girls did n't mean him," cried Maud, with a chop that
sent the citron flying.

"What mischief are you up to now, you little magpie?"

"I shan't tell you what they said, because I don't remember much of it;
but I heard Polly and Fan talking about some one dreadful mysterious,
and when I asked who it was, Fan said,'Sir Philip.' Ho! she need n't
think I believe it! I saw 'em laugh, and blush, and poke one another,
and I knew it was n't about any old Queen Elizabeth man," cried Maud,
turning up her nose as far as that somewhat limited feature would go.

"Look here, you are letting cats out of the bag. Never mind, I thought
so. They don't tell us their secrets, but we are so sharp, we can't help
finding them out, can we?" said Tom, looking so much interested, that
Maud could n't resist airing her knowledge a little.

"Well, I dare say, it is n't proper for you to know, but I am old enough
now to be told anything, and those girls better mind what they say, for
I 'm not a stupid chit, like Blanche. I just wish you could have heard
them go on. I 'm sure there 's something very nice about Mr. Sydney,
they looked so pleased when they whispered and giggled on the bed, and
thought I was ripping bonnets, and did n't hear a word."

"Which looked most pleased?" asked Tom, investigating the kitchen boiler
with deep interest.

"Well, 'pears to me Polly did; she talked most, and looked funny and
very happy all the time. Fan laughed a good deal, but I guess Polly is
the loveress," replied Maud, after a moment's reflection.

"Hold your tongue; she 's coming!" and Tom began to pump as if the house
was on fire.

Down came Polly, with heightened color, bright eyes, and not a single
egg. Tom took a quick look at her over his shoulder, and paused as if
the fire was suddenly extinguished. Something in his face made Polly
feel a little guilty, so she fell to grating nutmeg, with a vigor which
made red cheeks the most natural thing in life. Maud, the traitor, sat
demurely at work, looking very like what Tom had called her, a magpie
with mischief in its head. Polly felt a change in the atmosphere, but
merely thought Tom was tired, so she graciously dismissed him with a
stick of cinnamon, as she had nothing else just then to lay upon the
shrine. "Fan's got the books and maps you wanted. Go and rest now. I 'm
much obliged; here 's your wages, Bridget."

"Good luck to your messes," answered Tom, as he walked away meditatively
crunching his cinnamon, and looking as if he did not find it as spicy as
usual. He got his books, but did not read them; for, shutting himself up
in the little room called "Tom's den," he just sat down and brooded.

When he came down to breakfast the next morning, he was greeted with
a general "Happy birthday, Tom!" and at his place lay gifts from every
member of the family; not as costly as formerly, perhaps, but infinitely
dearer, as tokens of the love that had outlived the change, and only
grown the warmer for the test of misfortune. In his present state of
mind, Tom felt as if he did not deserve a blessed thing; so when every
one exerted themselves to make it a happy day for him, he understood
what it means "to be nearly killed with kindness," and sternly resolved
to be an honor to his family, or perish in the attempt. Evening brought
Polly to what she called a "festive tea," and when they gathered round
the table, another gift appeared, which, though not of a sentimental
nature, touched Tom more than all the rest. It was a most delectable
cake, with a nosegay atop, and round it on the snowy frosting there
ran a pink inscription, just as it had been every year since Tom could
remember.

"Name, age, and date, like a nice white tombstone," observed Maud,
complacently, at which funereal remark, Mrs. Shaw, who was down in honor
of the day, dropped her napkin, and demanded her salts.

"Whose doing is that?" asked Tom, surveying the gift with satisfaction;
for it recalled the happier birthdays, which seemed very far away now.

"I did n't know what to give you, for you 've got everything a man
wants, and I was in despair till I remembered that dear grandma always
made you a little cake like that, and that you once said it would n't be
a happy birthday without it. So I tried to make it just like hers, and I
do hope it will prove a good, sweet, plummy one."

"Thank you," was all Tom said, as he smiled at the giver, but Polly knew
that her present had pleased him more than the most elegant trifle she
could have made.

"It ought to be good, for you beat it up yourself, Tom," cried, Maud.
"It was so funny to see you working away, and never guessing who the
cake was for. I perfectly trembled every time you opened your mouth,
for fear you 'd ask some question about it. That was the reason Polly
preached and I kept talking when she was gone."

"Very stupid of me; but I forgot all about to-day. Suppose we cut it;
I don't seem to care for anything else," said Tom, feeling no appetite,
but bound to do justice to that cake, if he fell a victim to his
gratitude.

"I hope the plums won't all be at the bottom," said Polly, as she rose
to do the honors of the cake, by universal appointment.

"I 've had a good many at the top already, you know," answered Tom,
watching the operation with as much interest as if he had faith in the
omen.

Cutting carefully, slice after slice fell apart; each firm and dark,
spicy and rich, under the frosty rime above; and laying a specially
large piece in one of grandma's quaint little china plates, Polly added
the flowers and handed it to Tom, with a look that said a good deal,
for, seeing that he remembered her sermon, she was glad to find that her
allegory held good, in one sense at least. Tom's face brightened as he
took it, and after an inspection which amused the others very much he
looked up, saying, with an air of relief, "Plums all through; I 'm glad
I had a hand in it, but Polly deserves the credit, and must wear the
posy," and turning to her, he put the rose into her hair with more
gallantry than taste, for a thorn pricked her head, the leaves tickled
her ear, and the flower was upside down.

Fanny laughed at his want of skill, but Polly would n't have it altered,
and everybody fell to eating cake, as if indigestion was one of the lost
arts. They had a lively tea, and were getting on famously afterward,
when two letters were brought for Tom, who glanced at one, and retired
rather precipitately to his den, leaving Maud consumed with curiosity,
and the older girls slightly excited, for Fan thought she recognized the
handwriting on one, and Polly, on the other.

One half an hour and then another elapsed, and Tom did not return. Mr.
Shaw went out, Mrs. Shaw retired to her room escorted by Maud, and the
two girls sat together wondering if anything dreadful had happened. All
of a sudden a voice called, "Polly!" and that young lady started out of
her chair, as if the sound had been a thunder-clap.

"Do run! I 'm perfectly fainting to know what the matter is," said Fan.

"You 'd better go," began Polly, wishing to obey, yet feeling a little
shy.

"He don't want me; besides, I could n't say a word for myself if that
letter was from Sydney," cried Fanny, hustling her friend towards the
door, in a great flutter.

Polly went without another word, but she wore a curiously anxious look,
and stopped on the threshold of the den, as if a little afraid of its
occupant. Tom was sitting in his favorite attitude, astride of a chair,
with his arms folded and his chin on the top rail; not an elegant
posture, but the only one in which, he said, he could think well.

"Did you want me, Tom?"

"Yes. Come in, please, and don't look scared; I only want to show you a
present I 've had, and ask your advice about accepting it."

"Why, Tom, you look as if you had been knocked down!" exclaimed Polly,
forgetting all about herself, as she saw his face when he rose and
turned to meet her.

"I have; regularly floored; but I 'm up again, and steadier than ever.
Just you read that, and tell me what you think of it."

Tom snatched a letter off the table, put it into her hands, and began to
walk up and down the little room, like a veritable bear in its cage. As
Polly read that short note, all the color went out of her face, and her
eyes began to kindle. When she came to the end, she stood a minute, as
if too indignant to speak, then gave the paper a nervous sort of crumple
and dropped it on the floor, saying, all in one breath, "I think she is
a mercenary, heartless, ungrateful girl! That 's what I think."

"Oh, the deuce! I did n't mean to show that one; it 's the other." And
Tom took up a second paper, looking half angry, half ashamed at his
own mistake. "I don't care, though; every one will know to-morrow; and
perhaps you 'll be good enough to keep the girls from bothering me
with questions and gabble," he added, as if, on second thoughts, he was
relieved to have the communication made to Polly first.

"I don't wonder you looked upset. If the other letter is as bad, I 'd
better have a chair before I read it," said Polly, feeling that she
began to tremble with excitement.

"It 's a million times better, but it knocked me worse than the other;
kindness always does." Tom stopped short there, and stood a minute
turning the letter about in his hand as if it contained a sweet which
neutralized the bitter in that smaller note, and touched him very much.
Then he drew up an arm-chair, and beckoning Polly to take it, said in
a sober, steady tone, that surprised her greatly, "Whenever I was in a
quandary, I used to go and consult grandma, and she always had something
sensible or comfortable to say to me. She 's gone now, but somehow,
Polly, you seem to take her place. Would you mind sitting in her chair,
and letting me tell you two or three things, as Will does?"

Mind it? Polly felt that Tom had paid her the highest and most beautiful
compliment he could have devised. She had often longed to do it, for,
being brought up in the most affectionate and frank relations with her
brothers, she had early learned what it takes most women some time to
discover, that sex does not make nearly as much difference in hearts and
souls as we fancy. Joy and sorrow, love and fear, life and death
bring so many of the same needs to all, that the wonder is we do not
understand each other better, but wait till times of tribulation teach
us that human nature is very much the same in men and women. Thanks to
this knowledge, Polly understood Tom in a way that surprised and won
him. She knew that he wanted womanly sympathy, and that she could give
it to him, because she was not afraid to stretch her hand across the
barrier which our artificial education puts between boys and girls, and
to say to him in all good faith, "If I can help you, let me."

Ten minutes sooner Polly could have done this almost as easily to Tom as
to Will, but in that ten minutes something had happened which made this
difficult. Reading that Trix had given Tom back his freedom changed many
things to Polly, and caused her to shrink from his confidence, because
she felt as if it would be harder now to keep self out of sight; for,
spite of maiden modesty, love and hope would wake and sing at the good
news. Slowly she sat down, and hesitatingly she said, with her eyes on
the ground, and a very humble voice, "I 'll do my best, but I can't fill
grandma's place, or give you any wise, good advice. I wish I could!"

"You 'll do it better than any one else. Talk troubles mother, father
has enough to think of without any of my worries. Fan is a good soul,
but she is n't practical, and we always get into a snarl if we try to
work together, so who have I but my other sister, Polly? The pleasure
that letter will give you may make up for my boring you."

As he spoke, Tom laid the other paper in her lap, and went off to the
window, as if to leave her free to enjoy it unseen; but he could not
help a glance now and then, and as Polly's face brightened, his own
fell.

"Oh, Tom, that 's a birthday present worth having, for it 's so
beautifully given I don't see how you can refuse it. Arthur Sydney is a
real nobleman!" cried Polly, looking up at last, with her fact glowing,
and her eyes full of delight.

"So he is! I don't know another man living, except father, who would
have done such a thing, or who I could bring myself to take it from. Do
you see, he 's not only paid the confounded debts, but has done it in my
name, to spare me all he could?"

"I see, it 's like him; and I think he must be very happy to be able to
do such a thing."

"It is an immense weight off my shoulders, for some of those men could
n't afford to wait till I 'd begged, borrowed, or earned the money.
Sydney can wait, but he won't long, if I know myself." "You won't take
it as a gift, then?"

"Would you?"

"No."

"Then don't think I will. I 'm a pretty poor affair, Polly, but I 'm
not mean enough to do that, while I 've got a conscience and a pair of
hands."

A rough speech, but it pleased Polly better than the smoothest Tom had
ever made in her hearing, for something in his face and voice told her
that the friendly act had roused a nobler sentiment than gratitude,
making the cancelled obligations of the boy, debts of honor to the man.

"What will you do, Tom?"

"I 'll tell you; may I sit here?" And Tom took the low footstool that
always stood near grandma's old chair. "I 've had so many plans in my
head lately, that sometimes it seems as if it would split," continued
the poor fellow, rubbing his tired forehead, as if to polish up his
wits. "I 've thought seriously of going to California, Australia, or
some out-of-the-way place, where men get rich in a hurry."

"Oh, no!" cried Polly, putting out her hand as it to keep him, and then
snatching it back again before he could turn round.

"It would be hard on mother and the girls, I suppose; besides, I don't
quite like it myself; looks as if I shirked and ran away."

"So it does," said Polly, decidedly.

"Well, you see I don't seem to find anything to do unless I turn clerk,
and I don't think that would suit. The fact is, I could n't stand
it here, where I 'm known. It would be easier to scratch gravel on a
railroad, with a gang of Paddies, than to sell pins to my friends and
neighbors. False pride, I dare say, but it 's the truth, and there 's no
use in dodging."

.

[940] The story of Terence's having converted into Latin plays this
large number of Menander's Greek comedies, is beyond all probability,
considering the age at which he died, and other circumstances. Indeed,
Menander never wrote so many as are here stated.

[941] They were consuls A.U.C. 594. Terence was, therefore, thirty-four
years old at the time of his death.

[942] Hortulorum, in the plural number. This term, often found in Roman
authors, not inaptly describes the vast number of little inclosures,
consisting of vineyards, orchards of fig-trees, peaches, etc., with
patches of tillage, in which maize, legumes, melons, pumpkins, and
other vegetables are cultivated for sale, still found on small
properties, in the south of Europe, particularly in the neighbourhood
of towns

.

[943] Suetonius has quoted these lines in the earlier part of his Life
of Terence.

See before p. 532, where they are translated.

[944] Juvenal was born at Aquinum, a town of the Volscians, as appears by
an ancient MS., and is intimated by himself. Sat. iii. 319.

[945] He must have been therefore nearly forty years old at this
time, as he lived to be eighty

.

[946] The seventh of Juvenal's Satires.

[947] This Paris does not appear to have been the favourite of Nero,
who was put to death by that prince [see NERO, c. liv.], but another
person of the same name, who was patronised by the emperor Domitian.

The name of the poet joined with him is not known. Salmatius thinks
it was Statius Pompilius, who sold to Paris, the actor, the play of
Agave;
Esurit, intactam Paridi nisi vendat Agaven.--Juv. Sat. vii. 87.

[948] Sulpicius Camerinus had been proconsul in Africa; Bareas Soranus
in Asia. Tacit. Annal. xiii. 52; xvi. 23. Both of them are said to have
been corrupt in their administration; and the satirist introduces
their names as examples of the rich and noble, whose influence was
less than that of favourite actors, or whose avarice prevented them
from becoming the patrons of poets

.

[949] The "Pelopea," was a tragedy founded on the story of the
daughter of Thyestes; the "Philomela," a tragedy on the fate of
Itys, whose remains were served to his father at a banquet by
Philomela and her sister Progne

.

[950] This was in the time of Adrian. Juvenal, who wrote first in the
reigns of Domitian and Trajan, composed his last Satire but one in the
third year of Adrian, A.U.C. 872.

[951] Syene is meant, the frontier station of the imperial troops
in that quarter of the world

.

[952] A.U.C. 786, A.D. 34.

[953] A.U.C. 814, A.D. 62.
[954] Persius was one of the few men of rank and affluence among
the Romans, who acquired distinction as writers; the greater part
of them having been freedmen, as appears not only from these lives
of the poets, but from our author's notices of the grammarians and
rhetoricians. A Caius Persius is mentioned with distinction by Livy
in the second Punic war, Hist. xxvi. 39; and another of the same
name by Cicero, de Orat. ii.
6, and by Pliny; but whether the poet was descended from either of
them, we have no means of ascertaining"Did this surprise you?" he asked, as a little white shower fluttered
from his hands.

"No."

"Well, it did me; for you know as soon as we came to grief I offered to
release Trix from the engagement, and she would n't let me," continued
Tom, as if, having begun the subject, he wished to explain it
thoroughly.

"That surprised me," said Polly.

"So it did me, for Fan always insisted it was the money and not the
man she cared for. Her first answer pleased me very much, for I did not
expect it, and nothing touches a fellow more than to have a woman stand
by him through thick and thin."

"She don't seem to have done it."

"Fan was right. Trix only waited to see how bad things really were, or
rather her mother did. She 's as cool, hard, and worldly minded an old
soul as I ever saw, and Trix is bound to obey. She gets round it very
neatly in her note, 'I won't be a burden,' 'will sacrifice her hopes,'
'and always remain my warm friend,' but the truth is, Tom Shaw rich was
worth making much of, but Tom Shaw poor is in the way, and may go to the
devil as fast as he likes."

"Well, he is n't going!" cried Polly, defiantly, for her wrath burned
hotly against Trix, though she blessed her for setting the bondman free.

"Came within an ace of it," muttered Tom to himself; adding aloud, in
a tone of calm resignation that assured Polly his heart would not
be broken though his engagement was, "It never rains but it pours,
'specially in hard times, but when a man is down, a rap or two more
don't matter much, I suppose. It 's the first blow that hurts most."

"Glad to see you take the last blow so well." There was an ironical
little twang to that speech, and Polly could n't help it. Tom colored up
and looked hurt for a minute, then seemed to right himself with a shrug,
and said, in his outspoken way, "To tell the honest truth, Polly, it was
not a very hard one. I 've had a feeling for some time that Trix and I
were not suited to one another, and it might be wiser to stop short. But
she did not or would not see it; and I was not going to back out, and
leave her to wear any more willows, so here we are. I don't bear malice,
but hope she 'll do better, and not be disappointed again, upon my word
I do."

"That 's very good of you, quite Sydneyesque, and noble," said Polly,
feeling rather ill at ease, and wishing she could hide herself behind a
cap and spectacles, if she was to play Grandma to this confiding youth.

"It will be all plain sailing for Syd, I fancy," observed Tom, getting
up as if the little cricket suddenly ceased to be comfortable.

"I hope so," murmured Polly, wondering what was coming next.

"He deserves the very best of everything, and I pray the Lord he may get
it," added Tom, poking the fire in a destructive manner.

Polly made no answer, fearing to pay too much, for she knew Fan had made
no confidant of Tom, and she guarded her friend's secret as jealously as
her own. "You 'll write to Ned to-morrow, will you? I 'll take anything
he 's got, for I want to be off," said Tom, casting down the poker,
and turning round with a resolute air which was lost on Polly, who sat
twirling the rose that had fallen into her lap.

"I 'll write to-night. Would you like me to tell the girls about Trix
and Sydney?" she asked as she rose, feeling that the council was over.

"I wish you would. I don't know how to thank you for all you 've done
for me; I wish to heaven I did," said Tom, holding out his hand with a
look that Polly thought a great deal too grateful for the little she had
done.

As she gave him her hand, and looked up at him with those confiding eyes
of hers, Tom's gratitude seemed to fly to his head, for, without the
slightest warning, he stooped down and kissed her, a proceeding which
startled Polly so that he recovered himself at once, and retreated into
his den with the incoherent apology, "I beg pardon could n't help it
grandma always let me on my birthday."

While Polly took refuge up stairs, forgetting all about Fan, as she sat
in the dark with her face hidden, wondering why she was n't very angry,
and resolving never again to indulge in the delightful but dangerous
pastime of playing grandmother.


CHAPTER XVIII. THE WOMAN WHO DID NOT DARE


POLLY wrote enthusiastically, Ned answered satisfactorily, and after
much corresponding, talking, and planning, it was decided that Tom
should go West. Never mind what the business was; it suffices to say
that it was a good beginning for a young man like Tom, who, having been
born and bred in the most conservative class of the most conceited city
in New England, needed just the healthy, hearty, social influences of
the West to widen his views and make a man of him.

Of course there was much lamentation among the women, but every one felt
it was the best thing for him; so while they sighed they sewed, packed
visions of a brilliant future away with his new pocket handkerchiefs,
and rejoiced that the way was open before him even in the act of
bedewing his boots with tears. Sydney stood by him to the last, "like
a man and a brother" (which expression of Tom's gave Fanny infinite
satisfaction), and Will felt entirely consoled for Ned's disappointment
at his refusal to go and join him, since Tom was to take the place Ned
had kept for him.

Fortunately every one was so busy with the necessary preparations that
there was no time for romance of any sort, and the four young people
worked together as soberly and sensibly as if all sorts of emotions were
not bottled up in their respective hearts. But in spite of the silence,
the work, and the hurry, I think they came to know one another better
in that busy little space of time than in all the years that had gone
before, for the best and bravest in each was up and stirring, and
the small house was as full of the magnetism of love and friendship,
self-sacrifice and enthusiasm, as the world outside was full of spring
sunshine and enchantment. Pity that the end should come so soon, but the
hour did its work and went its way, leaving a clearer atmosphere behind,
though the young folks did not see it then, for their eyes were dim
because of the partings that must be.

Tom was off to the West; Polly went home for the summer; Maud was
taken to the seaside with Belle; and Fanny left alone to wrestle with
housekeeping, "help," and heartache. If it had not been for two things,
I fear she never would have stood a summer in town, but Sydney often
called, till his vacation came, and a voluminous correspondence with
Polly beguiled the long days. Tom wrote once a week to his mother, but
the letters were short and not very satisfactory, for men never do
tell the interesting little things that women best like to hear. Fanny
forwarded her bits of news to Polly. Polly sent back all the extracts
from Ned's letters concerning Tom, and by putting the two reports
together, they gained the comfortable assurance that Tom was well, in
good spirits, hard at work, and intent on coming out strong in spite of
all obstacles.

Polly had a quiet summer at home, resting and getting ready in mind and
body for another winter's work, for in the autumn she tried her plan
again, to the satisfaction of her pupils and the great joy of her
friends. She never said much of herself in her letters, and Fanny's
first exclamation when they met again, was an anxious "Why, Polly, dear!
Have you been sick and never told me?"

"No, I 'm only tired, had a good deal to do lately, and the dull weather
makes me just a trifle blue. I shall soon brighten up when I get to my
work again," answered Polly, bustling about to put away her things.

"You don't look a bit natural. What have you been doing to your precious
little self?" persisted Fanny, troubled by the change, yet finding it
hard to say wherein it lay.

Polly did not look sick, though her cheeks were thinner and her color
paler than formerly, but she seemed spiritless, and there was a tired
look in her eyes that went to Fanny's heart.

"I 'm all right enough, as you 'll see when I 'm in order. I 'm proper
glad to find you looking so well and happy. Does all go smoothly, Fan?"
asked Polly, beginning to brush her hair industriously.

"Answer me one question first," said Fanny, looking as if a sudden fear
had come over her. "Tell me, truly, have you never repented of your hint
to Sydney?"

"Never!" cried Polly, throwing back the brown veil behind which she had
half hidden her face at first.

"On your honor, as an honest girl?"

"On my honor, as anything you please. Why do you suspect me of it?"
demanded Polly, almost angrily.

"Because something is wrong with you. It 's no use to deny it, for you
've got the look I used to see in that very glass on my own face when I
thought he cared for you. Forgive me, Polly, but I can't help saying it,
for it is there, and I want to be as true to you as you were to me if I
can."

Fanny's face was full of agitation, and she spoke fast and frankly, for
she was trying to be generous and found it very hard. Polly understood
now and put her fear at rest by saying almost passionately, "I tell you
I don't love him! If he was the only man in the world, I would n't marry
him, because I don't want to."

The last three words were added in a different tone, for Polly had
checked herself there with a half-frightened look and turned away to
hide her face behind her hair again.

"Then if it 's not him, it 's some one else. You 've got a secret,
Polly, and I should think you might tell it, as you know mine," said
Fanny, unable to rest till everything was told, for Polly's manner
troubled her.

There was no answer to her question, but she was satisfied and putting
her arm round her friend, she said, in her most persuasive tone, "My
precious Polly, do I know him?"

what a lucky thing I had not forgotten it!

He wore his white collar inside the velvet of his great-coat.

And so should I have continued to do, had not the sight of him
called Tempest's injunction to wear it outside to my memory.

I availed myself of the next tunnel to rectify this serious omission,
and had the satisfaction, when we emerged into daylight, of noticing
that neither of my fellow-travellers appeared to pay much heed to
the change.

They both stared at me now and then; but the boy evidently grew
tired of that, and curled himself up in a corner of the carriage
and read a _Boy's Own Paper_.

I presently followed his example, and what with reading, and
speculating on my coming entry into Low Heath, and an occasional
thought for the little home at Fallowfield, the time went quickly
by.

"Is this Low Heath station?" inquired I, as the train began to
slacken speed.

"Yes," said the boy, regarding me from head to foot with evidently increased
curiosity. "Are you a new kid at the school?"
"Yes," said I.

"Oh my! What a lark!" said he.

I was glad he thought it so.

"Are you at the school?" inquired I.

"Looks like it," said he, getting together his traps hurriedly, and
bounding from the carriage with what I fancied was a broad grin on his
face.

So here I was at last!

CHAPTER SEVEN.

COMING DOWN A PEG OR TWO.

I had half hoped Tempest would be down at the station to meet me. But
he was not: and I had to consider on the spur of the moment how
to make my entry into Low Heath.

Either I might walk, as I noticed a good many of the fellows who got
out of the train did, or I might charter a private fly, as a few of
the swells did, or I might go up in one of the school omnibuses, which
was evidently the popular mood of transportation.

I was so earnestly desirous to do the correct thing, that I was nearly
doing nothing at all, and finally found myself standing almost alone on
the platform with the last omnibus ready to start.

Surely they might make some arrangement, thought I, for meeting
exhibitioners and taking them up. How did I know this omnibus was not
a town-boys' vehicle, or one dedicated to the service of the
inferior boys?

Perhaps it would be better--
"Right away, Jimmy; off you go!" called one of the youths on the
knifeboard, whom I recognised as my late travelling companion.

At this point I decided I would risk it, and go up by omnibus after
all.

"Wait!" I called. "I'm coming too."
"Fire away, Jimmy. Cut along!" shouted the youth. They could not
have heard me, surely. The omnibus was actually moving!
"Hi!" called I, beginning to follow, bag in hand; "wait for me."

"Lamm it on, Jimmy," was the delighted cry from the knifeboard, as
a score of heads craned over to witness the chase. The spectacle
of an ordinary youth giving chase to an omnibus crowded with
roystering schoolboys is probably amusing enough; but when that
youth has his white collar outside the collar of his great-coat,
and wears brilliant tan boots and a flat-topped billycock, it
appears, at least so it seemed to me, to be exceedingly funny for
the people on the omnibus.The silence never lasts long,
however, for the feminine desire to "talk it over" usually gets the
better of the deepest emotion. So presently the girls were hard at
it, Polly very humble and downcast, Fanny excited and overflowing with
curiosity and delight.

"Really my sister! You dear thing, how heavenly that will be," she
cried.

"It never will be," answered Polly in a tone of calm despair.

"What will prevent it?"

"Maria Bailey," was the tragic reply.

"What do you mean? Is she the Western girl? She shan't have Tom; I 'll
kill her first!"

"Too late, let me tell you is that door shut, and Maud safe?"

Fanny reconnoitered, and returning, listened breathlessly, while Polly
poured into her ear the bitter secret which was preying on her soul.

"Has n't he mentioned Maria in his letters?"

"Once or twice, but sort of jokingly, and I thought it was only some
little flirtation. He can't have time for much of that fun, he 's so
busy."

"Ned writes good, gossipy letters I taught him how and he tells me all
that 's going on. When he 'd spoken of this girl several times (they
board with her mother, you know), I asked about her, quite carelessly,
and he told me she was pretty, good, and well educated, and he thought
Tom was rather smitten. That was a blow, for you see, Fan, since Trix
broke the engagement, and it was n't wrong to think of Tom, I let myself
hope, just a little, and was so happy! Now I must give it up, and now I
see how much I hoped, and what a dreadful loss it 's going to be."

Two great tears rolled down Polly's cheeks, and Fanny wiped them away,
feeling an intense desire to go West by the next train, wither Maria
Bailey with a single look, and bring Tom back as a gift to Polly.

"It was so stupid of me not to guess before. But you see Tom always
seems so like a boy, and you are more womanly for your age than any girl
I know, so I never thought of your caring for him in that way. I knew
you were very good to him, you are to every one, my precious; and I knew
that he was fond of you as he is of me, fonder if anything, because he
thinks you are perfect; but still I never dreamed of his loving you as
more than a dear friend."

"He does n't," sighed Polly.

"Well, he ought; and if I could get hold of him, he should!"

Polly clutched Fan at that, and held her tight, saying sternly, "If you
ever breathe a word, drop a hint, look a look that will tell him or any
one else about me, I 'll yes, as sure as my name is Mary Milton I 'll
proclaim from the housetops that you like Ar" Polly got no further,
for Fan's hand was on her mouth, and Fan's alarmed voice vehemently
protested, "I won't! I promise solemnly I 'll never say a word to a
mortal creature. Don't be so fierce, Polly; you quite frighten me."

"It 's bad enough to love some one who don't love you, but to have them
told of it is perfectly awful. It makes me wild just to think of it. Oh,
Fan, I 'm getting so ill-tempered and envious and wicked, I don't know
what will happen to me."

"I 'm not afraid for you, my dear, and I do believe things will go
right, because you are so good to every one. How Tom could help adoring
you I don't see. I know he would if he had stayed at home longer after
he got rid of Trix. It would be the making of him; but though he is my
brother, I don't think he 's good enough for you, Polly, and I don't
quite see how you can care for him so much, when you might have had a
person so infinitely superior."

"I don't want a 'superior' person; he 'd tire me if he was like A. S.
Besides, I do think Tom is superior to him in many things. Well, you
need n't stare; I know he is, or will be. He 's so different, and very
young, and has lots of faults, I know, but I like him all the better for
it, and he 's honest and brave, and has got a big, warm heart, and I 'd
rather have him care for me than the wisest, best, most accomplished man
in the world, simply because I love him!"

If Tom could only have seen Polly's face when she said that! It was so
tender, earnest, and defiant, that Fanny forgot the defence of her own
lover in admiration of Polly's loyalty to hers; for this faithful, all
absorbing love was a new revelation to Fanny, who was used to hearing
her friends boast of two or three lovers a year, and calculate their
respective values, with almost as much coolness as the young men
discussed the fortunes of the girls they wished for, but "could not
afford to marry." He was born on the sixth of the ides of December
[27th December], in the consulship of Lucius Cotta [973] and Lucius
Torquatus; and died on the fifth of the calends of December [27th
November], in the consulship of Caius Marcius Censorinus and Caius Asinius
Gallus [974]; having completed his fifty-ninth year.
He made a nuncupatory will, declaring Augustus his heir, not being
able, from the violence of his disorder, to sign one in due form.

He was interred and lies buried on the skirts of the Esquiline Hill, near
the tomb of Mecaenas. [975]
(544) M. ANNAEUS LUCANUS, a native of Corduba [976], first tried
the powers of his genius in an encomium on Nero, at the Quinquennial
games.
He afterwards recited his poem on the Civil War carried on between Pompey
and Caesar. His vanity was so immense, and he gave such liberty to his
tongue, that in some preface, comparing his age and his first efforts
with those of Virgil, he had the assurance to say: "And what now
remains for me is to deal with a gnat."

In his early youth, after being long informed of the sort of life his
father led in the country, in consequence of an unhappy marriage [977],
he was recalled from Athens by Nero, who admitted him into the
circle of his friends, and even gave him the honour of the quaestorship;
but he did not long remain in favour.

Smarting at this, and having publicly stated that Nero had withdrawn, all
of a sudden, without communicating with the senate, and without any
other motive than his own recreation, after this he did not cease
to assail the emperor both with foul words and with acts which are
still notorious.

So that on one occasion, when easing his bowels in the common privy,
there being a louder explosion than usual, he gave vent to the
nemistych of Nero: "One would suppose it was thundering under
ground," in the hearing of those who were sitting there for the
same purpose, and who took to their heels in much consternation
[978].

In a poem also, which was in every one's hands, he severely lashed
both the emperor and his most powerful adherents.

At length, he became nearly the most active leader in Piso's conspiracy
[979]; and while he dwelt without reserve in many quarters on the
glory of those who dipped their hands in the (545) blood of tyrants, he
launched out into open threats of violence, and carried them so far as
to boast that he would cast the emperor's head at the feet of his
neighbours. When, however, the plot was discovered, he did not
exhibit any firmness of mind.

A confession was wrung from him without much difficulty; and, humbling
himself to the most abject entreaties, he even named his innocent mother
as one of the conspirators [980]; hoping that his want of natural
affection would give him favour in the eyes of a parricidal prince.

Having obtained permission to choose his mode of death [981], he wrote
notes to his father, containing corrections of some of his verses,
and, having made a full meal, allowed a physician to open the veins
in his arm [982].

I have also heard it said that his poems were offered for sale, and
commented upon, not only with care and diligence, but also in a trifling
way. [983]

THE LIFE OF PLINY.

[984]

PLINIUS SECUNDUS, a native of New Como [985], having served in (546)
the wars with strict attention to his duties, in the rank of a knight,
distinguished himself, also, by the great integrity with which he
administered the high functions of procurator for a long period in
the several provinces intrusted to his charge.

But still he devoted so much attention to literary pursuits, that
it would not have been an easy matter for a person who enjoyed entire
leisure to have written more than he did. He comprised, in twenty
volumes, an account of all the various wars carried on in successive
periods with the German tribes. Besides this, he wrote a Natural History,
which extended to seven books.

He fell a victim to the calamitous event which occurred in Campania.
For, having the command of the fleet at Misenum, when Vesuvius was
throwing up a fiery eruption, he put to sea with his gallies for the
purpose of exploring the causes of the phenomenon close on the
spot [986]. But being prevented by contrary winds from sailing back,
he was suffocated in the dense cloud of dust and ashes. Some, however,
think that he was killed by his slave, having implored him to put an
end to his sufferings, when he was reduced to the last extremity by
the fervent heat. [987]

THE END OF LIVES OF THE POETS.

FOOTNOTES:

[925] Lucius Fenestella, an historical writer, is mentioned by Lactantius,
Seneca, and Pliny, who says, that he died towards the close of the reign
of Tiberius.
[926] The second Punic war ended A.U.C. 552, and the third began
A.U.C.
605."Fan don't need me, and Sydney don't care whether I come or not, so I
'll keep out of the way," she would say, as if to excuse her seeming
indolence.

Polly was not at all like herself that winter, and those nearest to her
saw and wondered at it most. Will got very anxious, she was so quiet,
pale and spiritless, and distracted poor Polly by his affectionate
stupidity, till she completed his bewilderment by getting cross and
scolding him. So he consoled himself with Maud, who, now being in her
teens, assumed dignified airs, and ordered him about in a style that
afforded him continued amusement and employment.

Western news continued vague, for Fan's general inquiries produced only
provokingly unsatisfactory replies from Tom, who sang the praises of
"the beautiful Miss Bailey," and professed to be consumed by a hopeless
passion for somebody, in such half-comic, half-tragic terms, that the
girls could not decide whether it was "all that boy's mischief," or only
a cloak to hide the dreadful truth.

"We 'll have it out of him when he comes home in the spring," said Fanny
to Polly, as they compared the letters of their brothers, and agreed
that "men were the most uncommunicative and provoking animals under
the sun." For Ned was so absorbed in business that he ignored the whole
Bailey question and left them in utter darkness.

Hunger of any sort is a hard thing to bear, especially when the sufferer
has a youthful appetite, and Polly was kept on such a short allowance of
happiness for six months, that she got quite thin and interesting; and
often, when she saw how big her eyes were getting, and how plainly the
veins on her temples showed, indulged the pensive thought that perhaps
spring dandelions might blossom o'er her grave. She had no intention of
dying till Tom's visit was over, however, and as the time drew near,
she went through such alternations of hope and fear, and lived in such a
state of feverish excitement, that spirits and color came back, and she
saw that the interesting pallor she had counted on would be an entire
failure.

May came at last, and with it a burst of sunshine which cheered even
poor Polly's much-enduring heart. Fanny came walking in upon her one
day, looking as if she brought tidings of such great joy that she hardly
knew how to tell them.

"Prepare yourself somebody is engaged!" she said, in a solemn tone,
that made Polly put up her hand as if to ward off an expected blow. "No,
don't look like that, my poor dear; it is n't Tom, it 's I!"

Of course there was a rapture, followed by one of the deliciously
confidential talks which bosom friends enjoy, interspersed with tears
and kisses, smiles and sighs.

"Oh, Polly, though I 've waited and hoped so long I could n't believe it
when it came, and don't deserve it; but I will! for the knowledge that
he loves me seems to make everything possible," said Fanny, with an
expression which made her really beautiful, for the first time in her
life.

"You happy girl!" sighed Polly, then smiled and added, "I think you
deserve all that 's come to you, for you have truly tried to be worthy
of it, and whether it ever came or not that would have been a thing to
be proud of."

"He says that is what made him love me," answered Fanny, never calling
her lover by his name, but making the little personal pronoun a very
sweet word by the tone in which she uttered it. "He was disappointed in
me last year, he told me, but you said good things about me and though
he did n't care much then, yet when he lost you, and came back to me, he
found that you were not altogether mistaken, and he has watched me
all this winter, learning to respect and love me better every day. Oh,
Polly, when he said that, I could n't bear it, because in spite of all
my trying, I 'm still so weak and poor and silly."

"We don't think so; and I know you 'll be all he hopes to find you, for
he 's just the husband you ought to have."

"Thank you all the more, then, for not keeping him yourself," said
Fanny, laughing the old blithe laugh again.

"That was only a slight aberration of his; he knew better all the time.
It was your white cloak and my idiotic behavior the night we went to the
opera that put the idea into his head," said Polly, feeling as if the
events of that evening had happened some twenty years ago, when she was
a giddy young thing, fond of gay bonnets and girlish pranks.

"I 'm not going to tell Tom a word about it, but keep it for a surprise
till he comes. He will be here next week, and then we 'll have a
grand clearing up of mysteries," said Fan, evidently feeling that the
millennium was at hand.

"Perhaps," said Polly, as her heart fluttered and then sunk, for this
was a case where she could do nothing but hope, and keep her hands busy
with Will's new set of shirts.

There is a good deal more of this sort of silent suffering than the
world suspects, for the "women who dare" are few, the women who "stand
and wait" are many. But if work-baskets were gifted with powers of
speech, they could tell stories more true and tender than any we read.
For women often sew the tragedy or comedy of life into their work as
they sit apparently safe and serene at home, yet are thinking deeply,
living whole heart-histories, and praying fervent prayers while they
embroider pretty trifles or do the weekly mending.


CHAPTER XIX. TOM'S SUCCESS


     "Come, Philander, let us be a marching,
     Every one his true love a searching,"

WOULD be the most appropriate motto for this chapter, because,
intimidated by the threats, denunciations, and complaints showered upon
me in consequence of taking the liberty to end a certain story as I
liked, I now yield to the amiable desire of giving satisfaction, and,
at the risk of outraging all the unities, intend to pair off everybody I
can lay my hands on.

Occasionally a matrimonial epidemic appears, especially toward spring,
devastating society, thinning the ranks of bachelordom, and leaving
mothers lamenting for their fairest daughters. That spring the disease
broke out with great violence in the Shaw circle, causing paternal heads
much bewilderment, as one case after another appeared with alarming
rapidity. Fanny, as we have seen, was stricken first, and hardly had she
been carried safely through the crisis, when Tom returned to swell the
list of victims. As Fanny was out a good deal with her Arthur, who was
sure that exercise was necessary for the convalescent, Polly went every
day to see Mrs. Shaw, who found herself lonely, though much better than
usual, for the engagement had a finer effect upon her constitution than
any tonic she ever tried. Some three days after Fan's joyful call Polly
was startled on entering the Shaws' door, by Maud, who came tumbling
down stairs, sending an avalanche of words before her, "He 's come
before he said he should to surprise us! He 's up in mamma's room,
and was just saying, 'How 's Polly?' when I heard you come, in your
creep-mouse way, and you must go right up. He looks so funny with
whiskers, but he 's ever so nice, real big and brown, and he swung me
right up when he kissed me. Never mind your bonnet, I can't wait."

And pouncing upon Polly, Maud dragged her away like a captured ship
towed by a noisy little steam-tug.

"The sooner it 's over the better for me," was the only thought Polly
had time for before she plunged into the room above, propelled by Maud,
who cried triumphantly, "There he is! Ain't he splendid?"

For a minute, everything danced before Polly's eyes, as a hand shook
hers warmly, and a gruffish voice said heartily, "How are you, Polly?"
s? Hector of the teeth, and the snarl, and the snap, the incorruptible,
the sleepless, the unforgiving?

What miscreant hero had dared perform this sacrilegious exploit?
"Perish Hector!" had been an immemorial war-cry at Plummer's; but
Hector had never yet perished. No one had been found daring enough to
bell the cat--that is, to shoot the dog. To what scoundrel was Dangerfield
College now indebted for this inestimable blessing?

Dead silence followed the doctor's announcement. Boys' faces were studies
as they stood there rent in twain by delight at the news and horror at
the inevitable doom of the culprit.

"I repeat," said the head master, "Hector was found this morning shot
in his kennel. Does any boy here know anything about it?"
Dead silence. The master's eyes passed rapidly along the forms, but
returned evidently baffled.

"I trust I am to understand by your silence that none of you know
anything about it.

There is no doubt whatever that the guilty person will be found. I do not
say that his name is known yet. If he is in this room,"--here he most
unjustifiably fixed me with his eye--"he knows as well as I do what
will be the consequence to him. Now go to breakfast. I shall have
more to say about this matter presently."
If Dr Plummer had been anxious to save his tea and bread-and-butter
from too fierce an inroad he could hardly have selected a better
method.
Dangerfield College was completely "off its feed" this morning.

Indeed, Ramsbottom, the usher, had almost to bully the victuals down
the boys' throats in order to get the meal over.

The only boy who made any pretence to an appetite was the Dux, who ate
steadily, much to my amazement, in the intervals of the
conversation.

"It's a bit of a go, ain't it?" observed Dicky Brown, who, despite his
educational advantages, could never quite master the politest form
of his native tongue.

"Rather," said I--"awkward for somebody."
Then, as my eyes fell once more on Tempest, complacently cutting another
slice off the loaf, an idea occurred to me.
"You know, Dicky," said I, feeling that I was walking on thin ice,
"I almost fancied I heard a sound of a gun in the night."
Dicky laughed.
"Trust you for knowing all about a thing after it's happened. It
would have been a rum thing if you hadn't."
This was unfeeling of Dicky. I am sure I have never pretended to
know as much about anything as he did.
"Oh, but I really did--a shot, and a yell too," said I.
"Go it, you're getting on," said Dicky. "You can pile it up, Tom.
Why don't you say you saw me do it while you are about it?"
"Because I didn't."
"All I can say," said the Dux, buttering his bread liberally, "I'm
precious glad the beast is off the hooks. I always hated him.But she did not succeed, for as she stood warming her rubbers at the
dining-room fire, wondering pensively as she did so if Maria Bailey
had small feet, and if Tom ever put her rubbers on for her, the
little overshoes were taken out of her hands, and Tom's voice said,
reproachfully, "Did you really mean to run away, and not let me go home
with you?"

"I 'm not afraid; I did n't want to take you away," began Polly,
secretly hoping that she did n't look too pleased.

"But I like to be taken away. Why, it 's a whole year since I went home
with you; do you remember that?" said Tom, flapping the rubbers about
without any signs of haste.

"Does it seem long?"

"Everlasting!"

Polly meant to say that quite easily, and smile incredulously at his
answer; but in spite of the coquettish little rose-colored hood she
wore, and which she knew was very becoming, she did not look or speak
gayly, and Tom saw something in the altered face that made him say
hastily, "I 'm afraid you 've been doing too much this winter; you look
tired out, Polly."

"Oh, no! it suits me to be very busy," and she began to drag on her
gloves as if to prove it.

"But it does n't suit me to have you get thin and pale, you know."

Polly looked up to thank him, but never did, for there was something
deeper than gratitude in the honest blue eyes, that could not hide
the truth entirely. Tom saw it, flushed all over his brown face, and
dropping the rubbers with a crash, took her hands, saying, in his old
impetuous way, "Polly, I want to tell you something!"

"Yes, I know, we 've been expecting it. I hope you 'll be very happy,
Tom;" and Polly shook his hands with a smile that was more pathetic than
a flood of tears.

"What!" cried Tom, looking as if he thought she had lost her mind.

"Ned told us all about her; he thought it would be so, and when you
spoke of another engagement, we knew you meant your own."

"But I did n't! Ned's the man; he told me to tell you. It 's just
settled."

"Is it Maria?" cried Polly, holding on to a chair as if to be prepared
for anything.

"Of course. Who else should it be?"

"He did n't say you talked about her most and so we thought" stammered
Polly, falling into a sudden flutter.

"That I was in love? Well, I am, but not with her."

"Oh!" and Polly caught her breath as if a dash of cold water had fallen
on her, for the more in earnest Tom grew, the blunter he became.

"Do you want to know the name of the girl I 've loved for more than a
year? Well, it 's Polly!" As he spoke, Tom stretched out his arms to
her, with the sort of mute eloquence that cannot be resisted, and Polly
went straight into them, without a word.

Never mind what happened for a little bit. Love scenes, if genuine, are
indescribable; for to those who have enacted them, the most elaborate
description seems tame, and to those who have not, the simplest picture
seems overdone. So romancers had better let imagination paint for them
that which is above all art, and leave their lovers to themselves during
the happiest minutes of their lives.

Before long, Tom and Polly were sitting side by side, enjoying the
blissful state of mind which usually follows the first step out of our
work-a-day world, into the glorified region wherein lovers rapturously
exist for a month or two. Tom just sat and looked at Polly as if he
found it difficult to believe that the winter of his discontent had
ended in this glorious spring. But Polly, being a true woman, asked
questions, even while she laughed and cried for joy.

"Now, Tom, how could I know you loved me when you went away and never
said a word?" she began, in a tenderly reproachful tone, thinking of the
hard year she had spent.

"And how could I have the courage to say a word, when I had nothing on
the face of the earth to offer you but my worthless self?" answered Tom,
warmly.

"That was all I wanted!" whispered Polly, in a tone which caused him to
feel that the race of angels was not entirely extinct.

"I 've always been fond of you, my Polly, but I never realized how fond
till just before I went away. I was n't free, you know, and besides I
had a strong impression that you liked Sydney in spite of the damper
which Fan hinted you gave him last winter. He 's such a capital fellow,
I really don't see how you could help it."

"It is strange; I don't understand it myself; but women are queer
creatures, and there 's no accounting for their tastes," said Polly,
with a sly look, which Tom fully appreciated.

I asked.

"You don't suppose I asked you into my boat for fun, do you?" said he
shortly.

I went on for some time with my work, and then said,--
"Would you like to know what he was saying about you?"
"Not a bit," said he, so decisively that I relapsed again into silence.

"Look here, kid," said he, presently, and with unwonted seriousness.

"I'm not a saint, and don't profess to be. And I may not be able to manage
my own affairs, to judge by what you and half a dozen other of the
fellows seem to think; but I don't want to see you--well, come to
grief--and that's what you're likely to do if you let that fellow
get hold of you."

"He's not got hold of me," said I, feeling a little hurt once more.
"Mayn't I be civil to a fellow, even? Why, he was saying if you--"
"Shut up! didn't I tell you I don't want to hear?" said he.

"Oh, all right."
If he had only vouchsafed to tell me why he disliked Crofter, or
if he had given his counsel in a less authoritative way, it would
have been different.

He would not even let me repeat the friendly remarks Crofter had made
about him; and was determined neither to say a good word for the
fellow himself, nor let me say one.

The consequence was that our interview ended in my wishing once more I
had confined myself to my own quarters and let ill alone.

My companions were not long in discovering that something was on my
mind, and in their gentle way tried to cheer me up.

"What's the row--ear-ache?" demanded Trimble.

"He's blue because he's not had lines to-day," suggested
Langrish.
"Perhaps his washerwoman has sent in her bill," said Coxhead.
"You'll get kicked out of here, if you look so jolly blue," said
Warminster. "It's stale enough this term, without having a chap
with a face like a boiled fish gaping at you."
"Look here," said I, resolved to be candid as far as I dare. "I'm
in a jolly mess--"
"Never knew you out of it. What's up?" said Langrish.
"Really though, no larks," said I.You
never would complain; but I 've had a feeling that you were going
through a good deal more than any of us guessed."

"Pretty tough work at first, I own. It was all so new and strange, I
'm afraid I should n't have stood it if it had not been for Ned. He 'd
laugh and say 'Pooh!' if he heard me say it, but it 's true nevertheless
that he 's a grand fellow and helped me through the first six months
like a well, a brother as he is. There was no reason why he should go
out of his way to back up a shiftless party like me, yet he did, and
made many things easy and safe that would have been confoundedly hard
and dangerous if I 'd been left to myself. The only way I can explain it
is that it 's a family trait, and as natural to the brother as it is to
the sister."

"It 's a Shaw trait to do the same. But tell me about Maria; is Ned
really engaged to her?"

"Very much so; you 'll get a letter full of raptures tomorrow; he had
n't time to send by me, I came off in such a hurry. Maria is a sensible,
pretty girl and Ned will be a happy old fellow."

"Why did you let us think it was you?"

"I only teased Fan a little; I did like Maria, for she reminded me of
you sometimes, and was such a kind, cosy little woman I could n't help
enjoying her society after a hard day's work. But Ned got jealous, and
then I knew that he was in earnest, so I left him a clear field, and
promised not to breathe a word to any one till he had got a Yes or No
from his Maria."

"I wish I 'd known it," sighed Polly. "People in love always do such
stupid things!"

"So they do; for neither you nor Fan gave us poor fellows the least hint
about Syd, and there I 've been having all sorts of scares about you."

"Serves us right; brothers and sisters should n't have secrets from each
other."

SECOND:

BICKFORD'S CROCHET AND FANCY WORK MACHINES.

These beautiful little machines are very fascinating, as well as
useful; and every lady should have one, as they can make every
conceivable kind of crochet or fancy work upon them."See if I did n't;" and with great pride Tom produced a portly
pocket-book stuffed with business-like documents of a most imposing
appearance, opened a private compartment, and took out a worn-looking
paper, unfolded it carefully, and displayed a small brown object which
gave out a faint fragrance.

"That 's the rose you put in the birthday cake, and next week we 'll
have a fresh one in another jolly little cake which you 'll make me; you
left it on the floor of my den the night we talked there, and I 've kept
it ever since. There 's love and romance for you!"

Polly touched the little relic, treasured for a year, and smiled to read
the words "My Polly's rose," scribbled under the crumbling leaves.

"I did n't know you could be so sentimental," she said, looking so
pleased that he did not regret confessing his folly.

"I never was till I loved you, my dear, and I 'm not very bad yet, for I
don't wear my posy next my heart, but where I can see it every day, and
so never forget for whom I am working. Should n't wonder if that bit
of nonsense had kept me economical, honest, and hard at it, for I never
opened my pocket-book that I did n't think of you."

"That 's lovely, Tom," and Polly found it so touching that she felt for
her handkerchief; but Tom took it away, and made her laugh instead of
cry, by saying, in a wheedlesome tone, "I don't believe you did as much,
for all your romance. Did you, now?"

"If you won't laugh, I 'll show you my treasures. GUNPOWDER TREASON.

One result of my boating excursion was that Crofter ceased to frequent
his fellow-seniors' studies. There was no declaration of war, or,
indeed, any formal breaking off of relations. But Crofter had sense enough
of his own dignity to feel that he had been slighted by Tempest:
and Tempest and his friends had no inclination to heal the trouble,
or assume an attitude of friendliness they did not feel.

As for me, I found it very hard to steer an even course between the
competing parties. Crofter nodded and spoke to me just as usual, and
was evidently amused by my panic lest these pacific overtures
should be observed or misconstrued by Tempest.

Tempest, on the other hand, did not refer again to the subject, but took
a little more pains than before to look after me and help me in my work.

Are n't we silly?"

He did not seem to think so, and after a short pause for refreshments,
Polly turned serious, and said anxiously, "When must you go back to your
hard work?"

"In a week or two; but it won't seem drudgery now, for you 'll write
every day, and I shall feel that I 'm working to get a home for you.
That will give me a forty-man-power, and I 'll pay up my debts and get a
good start, and then Ned and I will be married and go into partnership,
and we 'll all be the happiest, busiest people in the West."

"It sounds delightful; but won't it take a long time, Tom?"

In mining parlance the Wide West had "struck it rich!" Everybody went
to see the new developments, and for some days there was such a
crowd of people about the Wide West shaft that a stranger would
have supposed there was a mass meeting in session there.

That 's the way father and mother did, and I think they were very
happy in spite of the poverty and hard work."

"Then we 'll do it by another year, for I must get more salary before I
take you away from a good home here. I wish, oh, Polly, how I wish I had
a half of the money I 've wasted, to make you comfortable, now."

"Never mind, I don't want it; I 'd rather have less, and know you earned
it all yourself," cried Polly, as Tom struck his hand on his knee with
an acute pang of regret at the power he had lost.

"It 's like you to say it, and I won't waste any words bewailing myself,
because I was a fool. We will work up together, my brave Polly, and you
shall yet be proud of your husband, though he is 'poor Tom Shaw.'"

She was as sure of that as if an oracle had foretold it, and was not
deceived; for the loving heart that had always seen, believed, and
tried to strengthen all good impulses in Tom, was well repaid for its
instinctive trust by the happiness of the years to come.

No other topic was discussed but the rich strike, and nobody thought or
dreamed about anything else.
Every man brought away a specimen, ground it up in a hand mortar,
washed it out in his horn spoon, and glared speechless upon the
marvelous result.

It was not hard rock, but black, decomposed stuff which could be crumbled
in the hand like a baked potato, and when spread out on a paper
exhibited a thick sprinkling of gold and particles of "native" silver.

"Even though she is old-fashioned," whispered Polly, with happy eyes,
the brighter for their tears, as she looked up at the young man, who,
through her, had caught a glimpse of the truest success, and was not
ashamed to owe it to love and labor, two beautiful old fashions that
began long ago, with the first pair in Eden.

Lest any of my young readers who have honored Maud with their interest
should suffer the pangs of unsatisfied curiosity as to her future, I
will add for their benefit that she did not marry Will, but remained a
busy, lively spinster all her days, and kept house for her father in the
most delightful manner.

--which he did not answer. He was not disturbed any more. An hour later
he entered the cabin, hot, red, and ready to burst with smothered
excitement, and exclaimed in a stage whisper:
"I knew it! We are rich! IT'S A BLIND LEAD!"Farther into futurity even this rash pen dares not proceed, but pauses
here, concluding in the words of the dear old fairy tales, "And so they
were married, and all lived happily till they died."