Produced by John Hamm and David Widger


THE MAYOR OF CASTERBRIDGE

by Thomas Hardy


1.


One evening of late summer, before the nineteenth century had reached
one-third of its span, a young man and woman, the latter carrying a
child, were approaching the large village of Weydon-Priors, in Upper
Wessex, on foot. They were plainly but not ill clad, though the thick
hoar of dust which had accumulated on their shoes and garments from
an obviously long journey lent a disadvantageous shabbiness to their
appearance just now.

The man was of fine figure, swarthy, and stern in aspect; and he
showed in profile a facial angle so slightly inclined as to be almost
perpendicular. He wore a short jacket of brown corduroy, newer than the
remainder of his suit, which was a fustian waistcoat with white horn
buttons, breeches of the same, tanned leggings, and a straw hat overlaid
with black glazed canvas. At his back he carried by a looped strap a
rush basket, from which protruded at one end the crutch of a hay-knife,
a wimble for hay-bonds being also visible in the aperture. His measured,
springless walk was the walk of the skilled countryman as distinct from
the desultory shamble of the general labourer; while in the turn and
plant of each foot there was, further, a dogged and cynical indifference
personal to himself, showing its presence even in the regularly
interchanging fustian folds, now in the left leg, now in the right, as
he paced along.

What was really peculiar, however, in this couple's progress, and would
have attracted the attention of any casual observer otherwise disposed
to overlook them, was the perfect silence they preserved. They walked
side by side in such a way as to suggest afar off the low, easy,
confidential chat of people full of reciprocity; but on closer view it
could be discerned that the man was reading, or pretending to read, a
ballad sheet which he kept before his eyes with some difficulty by the
hand that was passed through the basket strap. Whether this apparent
cause were the real cause, or whether it were an assumed one to escape
an intercourse that would have been irksome to him, nobody but himself
could have said precisely; but his taciturnity was unbroken, and the
woman enjoyed no society whatever from his presence. Virtually she
walked the highway alone, save for the child she bore. Sometimes the
man's bent elbow almost touched her shoulder, for she kept as close to
his side as was possible without actual contact, but she seemed to
have no idea of taking his arm, nor he of offering it; and far from
exhibiting surprise at his ignoring silence she appeared to receive it
as a natural thing. If any word at all were uttered by the little group,
it was an occasional whisper of the woman to the child--a tiny girl in
short clothes and blue boots of knitted yarn--and the murmured babble of
the child in reply.

The chief--almost the only--attraction of the young woman's face was its
mobility. When she looked down sideways to the girl she became pretty,
and even handsome, particularly that in the action her features
caught slantwise the rays of the strongly coloured sun, which made
transparencies of her eyelids and nostrils and set fire on her lips.
When she plodded on in the shade of the hedge, silently thinking,
she had the hard, half-apathetic expression of one who deems anything
possible at the hands of Time and Chance except, perhaps, fair play. The
first phase was the work of Nature, the second probably of civilization.

That the man and woman were husband and wife, and the parents of
the girl in arms there could be little doubt. No other than such
relationship would have accounted for the atmosphere of stale
familiarity which the trio carried along with them like a nimbus as they
moved down the road.

The wife mostly kept her eyes fixed ahead, though with little
interest--the scene for that matter being one that might have been
matched at almost any spot in any county in England at this time of
the year; a road neither straight nor crooked, neither level nor hilly,
bordered by hedges, trees, and other vegetation, which had entered the
blackened-green stage of colour that the doomed leaves pass through on
their way to dingy, and yellow, and red. The grassy margin of the bank,
and the nearest hedgerow boughs, were powdered by the dust that had been
stirred over them by hasty vehicles, the same dust as it lay on the road
deadening their footfalls like a carpet; and this, with the aforesaid
total absence of conversation, allowed every extraneous sound to be
heard.

For a long time there was none, beyond the voice of a weak bird singing
a trite old evening song that might doubtless have been heard on the
hill at the same hour, and with the self-same trills, quavers, and
breves, at any sunset of that season for centuries untold. What fountain
nymph or goddess ever let Such lovely tresses float of gold refined
Upon the breeze, or in a single mind, Where have so many virtues ever
met, E'en though those charms have slain my bosom's weal?
He knows not love who has not seen her eyes Turn when she sweetly
speaks, or smiles, or sighs, Or how the power of love can hurt or
heal.

Sonnet lxix. is remarkable for the fineness of its closing thought.

Time was her tresses by the breathing air Were wreathed to many a ringlet
golden bright, Time was her eyes diffused unmeasured light, Though
now their lovely beams are waxing rare, Her face methought that
in its blushes show'd Compassion, her angelic shape and walk, Her
voice that seem'd with Heaven's own speech to talk; At these, what
wonder that my bosom glow'd!

A living sun she seem'd--a spirit of heaven.
Those charms decline: but does my passion?

No!
I love not less--the slackening of the bow Assuages not the wound its
shaft has given.

The following sonnet is remarkable for its last four lines
having puzzled all the poet's commentators to explain what he meant by
the words "Al man ond' io scrivo è fatta arnica, a questo volta."

I agree with De Sade in conjecturing that Laura in receiving some of
his verses had touched the hand that presented them, in token of her
gratitude.[O]
In solitudes I've ever loved to abide By woods and streams, and
shunn'd the evil-hearted, Who from the path of heaven are foully
parted; Sweet Tuscany has been to me denied, Whose sunny realms I
would have gladly haunted, Yet still the Sorgue his beauteous hills
among Has lent auxiliar murmurs to my song, And echoed to the plaints
my love has chanted.

Here triumph'd, too, the poet's hand that wrote These lines--the power
of love has witness'd this.
Delicious victory! I know my bliss, She knows it too--the saint on
whom I dote.

Of Petrarch's poetry that is not amatory, Ugo Foscolo says with
justice, that his three political canzoni, exquisite as they are in
versification and style, do not breathe that enthusiasm which
opened to Pindar's grasp all the wealth of imagination, all the
treasures of historic lore and moral truth, to illustrate and dignify
his strain. Yet the vigour, the arrangement, and the perspicuity of the
ideas in these canzoni of Petrarch, the tone of conviction and melancholy
in which the patriot upbraids and mourns over his country, strike the
heart with such force, as to atone for the absence of grand and exuberant
imagery, and of the irresistible impetus which peculiarly belongs
to the ode.

Petrarch's principal Italian poem that is not thrown into the shape
of the sonnet is his Trionfi, or Triumphs, in five parts. Though not
consisting of sonnets, however, it has the same amatory and constant
allusions to Laura as the greater part of his poetry. Here, as
elsewhere, he recurs from time to time to the history of his passion,
its rise, its progress, and its end. For this purpose, he describes human
life in its successive stages, omitting no opportunity of introducing his
mistress and himself.

1. Man in his youthful state is the slave of love. 2. As he advances in
age, he feels the inconveniences of his amatory propensities, and endeavours
to conquer them by chastity. 3.

Amidst the victory which he obtains over himself, Death steps in,
and levels alike the victor and the vanquished. 4.

But Fame arrives after death, and makes man as it were live again after
death, and survive it for ages by his fame. 5. But man even by fame
cannot live for ever, if God has not granted him a happy existence
throughout eternity. Thus Love triumphs over Man; Chastity triumphs
over Love; Death triumphs over both; Fame triumphs over Death; Time
triumphs over Fame; and Eternity triumphs over Time.

The subordinate parts and imagery of the Trionfi have a beauty rather
arabesque than classical, and resembling the florid tracery of the later
oriental Gothic architecture. But the whole effect of the poem is
pleasing, from the general grandeur of its design.

In summing up Petrarch's character, moral, political, and poetical,
I should not stint myself to the equivocal phrase used by Tacitus
respecting Agricola: _Bonum virum facile dixeris, magnum libenter_,
but should at once claim for his memory the title both of great and
good.

A restorer of ancient learning, a rescuer of its treasures from oblivion,
a despiser of many contemporary superstitions, a man, who, though no
reformer himself, certainly contributed to the Reformation, an Italian
patriot who was above provincial partialities, a poet who still lives
in the hearts of his country, and who is shielded from oblivion by
more generations than there were hides in the sevenfold shield of
Ajax--if this was not a great man, many who are so called must bear
the title unworthily.

He was a faithful friend, and a devoted lover, and appears to have
been one of the most fascinating beings that ever existed. Even when
his failings were admitted, it must still be said that _even his
failings leaned to virtue's side_, and, altogether we may pronounce
that
His life was gentle, and the elements So mix'd in him that Nature might
stand up And say to all the world, "This was a man!"
[Footnote A: Before the publication of De Sade's "Mémoires pour la
vie de Petrarque" the report was that Petrarch first saw Laura at
Vaucluse.

The truth of their first meeting in the church of St. Clara
depends on the authenticity of the famous note on the M.S. Virgil
of Petrarch, which is now in the Ambrosian Library at Milan.]
[Footnote B: Petrarch, in his dialogue with St. Augustine, states that
he was older than Laura by a few years.]

[Footnote C: "The Floral games were instituted in France in 1324.
They were founded by Clementina Isaure, Countess of Toulouse, and
annually celebrated in the month of May. The Countess published an
edict, which assembled all the poets of France, in artificial arbours,
dressed with flowers; and he that produced the best poem was rewared
with a violet of gold.

There were, likewise, inferior prizes of flowers made in silver.
In the meantime, the conquerors were crowned with natural chaplets of
their own respective flowers.

During the ceremony degrees were also conferred. He who had won a prize
three times was pronounced a doctor '_en gaye science_,' the name of the
poetry of the Provençal Troubadours. This institution, however fantastic,
soon became common, through the whole of France."

--_Warton's History of English Poetry_, vol i. p 467.]
[Footnote D: I have transferred the following anecdote from Levati's
Viaggi di Petrarea (vol. i. p. 119 et seq.). It behoves me to confess,
however, that I recollect no allusion to it in any of Petrarch's
letters, and I have found many things in Levati's book which make
me distrust his authority.]

[Footnote E: Quest' anima gentil che si disparte.--Sonnet xxiii.]
[Footnote F: Dated 21st December. 1335.]
[Footnote G: Guido Sette of Luni, in the Genoese territory, studied
law together with Petrarch; but took to it with better liking. He
devoted himself to the business of the bar at Avignon with much
reputation.

But the legal and clerical professions were then often united;
for Guido rose in the church to be an archbishop. He died in 1368,
renowned as a church luminary.]
[Footnote H: Canzoni 8, 9, and 10.]
[Footnote I: Valery, in his "Travels in Italy" gives the following
note respecting out poet.

I quote from the edition of the work published at Brussels in 1835:--"Petrarque
rapporte dans ses lettres latines que le laurier du Capitole lui
avait attiré une multitude d'envieux; que le jour de son couronnement,
au lieu d'eau odorante qu'il était d'usage de répandre dans ces
solennités, il reçut sur la tête une eau corrosive, qui le rendit
chauve le reste de sa vie.

Son historien Dolce raconte même qu'une vieille lui jetta son pot de chambre
rempli d'une acre urine, gardée, peut-être, pour cela depuis sept
semaines."]
[Footnote J: Sonnet cxcvi.]
[Footnote K: _Translation.

_--In the twenty-fifth year of his age, after a short though happy
existence, our John departed this life in the year of Christ 1361,
on the 10th of July, or rather on the 9th, at the midhour between
Friday and Saturday. Sent into the world to my mortification and suffering,
he was to me in life the cause of deep and unceasing solicitude, and
in death of poignant grief. The news reached me on the evening of
the 13th of the same month that he had fallen at Milan, in the
general mortality caused by that unwonted scourge which at last
discovered and visited so fearfully this hitherto exempted city.

On the 8th of August, the same year, a servant of mine returning from
Milan brought me a rumour (which on the 18th of the same fatal month
was confirmed by a servant of _Dominus Theatinus_) of the death of my
Socrates, my companion, my best of brothers, at Babylon (Avignon, I mean)
in the month of May. I have lost my comrade and the solace of my
life!

Receive, Christ Jesus, these two, and the five that remain, into thy
eternal habitations!]

[Footnote L: Petrarch's words are: "civi servare suo;" but he takes the
liberty of considering Charles as--adoptively--Italian, though that
Prince was born at Prague.]
[Footnote M: Most historians relate that the English, at Poitiers,
amounted to no more than eight or ten thousand men; but, whether
they consisted of eight thousand or thirty thousand, the result was
sufficiently glorious for them, and for their brave leader, the Black
Prince.]
[Footnote N: This is the story of the patient Grisel, which is familiar
in almost every language.]
[Footnote O: Cercato ho sempre solitaria vita.

--Sonnet 221, De Sade, vol. ii. p. 8.]

[Illustration: LAURA.]

PETRARCH'S SONNETS,
ETC.

TO LAURA IN LIFE.

SONNET I.

_Voi, ch' ascoltate in rime sparse il suono._
HE CONFESSES THE VANITY OF HIS PASSION

Ye who in rhymes dispersed the echoes hear Of those sad sighs with
which my heart I fed When early youth my mazy wanderings led, Fondly
diverse from what I now appear, Fluttering 'twixt frantic hope and frantic
fear, From those by whom my various style is read, I hope, if e'er
their hearts for love have bled, Not only pardon, but perhaps a tear.

But now I clearly see that of mankind Long time I was the tale: whence
bitter thought And self-reproach with frequent blushes teem; While of
my frenzy, shame the fruit I find, And sad repentance, and the proof,
dear-bought, That the world's joy is but a flitting dream.

CHARLEMONT.

O ye, who list in scatter'd verse the sound Of all those sighs with
which my heart I fed, When I, by youthful error first misled, Unlike
my present self in heart was found; Who list the plaints, the
reasonings that abound Throughout my song, by hopes, and vain griefs
bred; If e'er true love its influence o'er ye shed, Oh!

let your pity be with pardon crown'd.
But now full well I see how to the crowd For length of time I proved
a public jest:
E'en by myself my folly is allow'd:
And of my vanity the fruit is shame, Repentance, and a knowledge
strong imprest, That worldly pleasure is a passing dream.

NOTT.

Ye, who may listen to each idle strain Bearing those sighs, on which
my heart was fed In life's first morn, by youthful error led, (Far
other then from what I now remain!)

That thus in varying numbers I complain, Numbers of sorrow vain and vain
hope bred, If any in love's lore be practisèd, His pardon,--e'en his
pity I may obtain:
But now aware that to mankind my name Too long has been a bye-word
and a scorn, I blush before my own severer thought; Of my past
wanderings the sole fruit is shame, And deep repentance, of the
knowledge born That all we value in this world is naught.

DACRE.

SONNET II.

_Per far una leggiadra sua vendetta._
HOW HE BECAME THE VICTIM OF LOVE.

For many a crime at once to make me smart, And a delicious vengeance
to obtain, Love secretly took up his bow again, As one who acts the
cunning coward's part; My courage had retired within my heart, There
to defend the pass bright eyes might gain; When his dread archery
was pour'd amain Where blunted erst had fallen every dart.

Scared at the sudden brisk attack, I found Nor time, nor vigour to
repel the foe With weapons suited to the direful need; No kind
protection of rough rising ground, Where from defeat I might securely
speed, Which fain I would e'en now, but ah, no method know!

NOTT.

One sweet and signal vengeance to obtain To punish in a day my life's
long crime, As one who, bent on harm, waits place and time, Love
craftily took up his bow again.

My virtue had retired to watch my heart, Thence of weak eyes the
danger to repell, When momently a mortal blow there fell Where
blunted hitherto dropt every dart.

And thus, o'erpower'd in that first attack, She had nor vigour left
enough, nor room Even to arm her for my pressing need, Nor to the
steep and painful mountain back To draw me, safe and scathless from
that doom, Whence, though alas!

too weak, she fain had freed.

MACGREGOR.

SONNET III.

_Era 'l giorno ch' al sol si scoloraro._
HE BLAMES LOVE FOR WOUNDING HIM ON A HOLY DAY (GOOD FRIDAY).

'Twas on the morn, when heaven its blessed ray In pity to its
suffering master veil'd, First did I, Lady, to your beauty yield,
Of your victorious eyes th' unguarded prey.

Ah!

little reck'd I that, on such a day, Needed against Love's arrows any
shield; And trod, securely trod, the fatal field:
Whence, with the world's, began my heart's dismay.

On every side Love found his victim bare, And through mine eyes
transfix'd my throbbing heart; Those eyes, which now with constant
sorrows flow:
But poor the triumph of his boasted art, Who thus could pierce a
naked youth, nor dare To you in armour mail'd even to display his
bow!

WRANGHAM.

'Twas on the blessed morning when the sun In pity to our Maker hid
his light, That, unawares, the captive I was won, Lady, of your
bright eyes which chain'd me quite; That seem'd to me no time against
the blows Of love to make defence, to frame relief:
Secure and unsuspecting, thus my woes Date their commencement from
the common grief.

Love found me feeble then and fenceless all, Open the way and easy
to my heart Through eyes, where since my sorrows ebb and flow:
But therein was, methinks, his triumph small, On me, in that weak
state, to strike his dart, Yet hide from you so strong his very bow.

MACGREGOR.

SONNET IV.

_Quel ch' infinita providenza ed arte._
HE CELEBRATES THE BIRTHPLACE OF LAURA.

The spectators had indeed taken the proceedings throughout as a piece of
mirthful irony carried to extremes; and had assumed that, being out
of work, he was, as a consequence, out of temper with the world, and
society, and his nearest kin. But with the demand and response of real
cash the jovial frivolity of the scene departed. A lurid colour
seemed to fill the tent, and change the aspect of all therein. The
mirth-wrinkles left the listeners' faces, and they waited with parting
lips.

"Now," said the woman, breaking the silence, so that her low dry voice
sounded quite loud, "before you go further, Michael, listen to me. If
you touch that money, I and this girl go with the man. Mind, it is a
joke no longer."

"A joke? Of course it is not a joke!" shouted her husband, his
resentment rising at her suggestion. "I take the money; the sailor takes
you. That's plain enough. It has been done elsewhere--and why not here?"

"'Tis quite on the understanding that the young woman is willing," said
the sailor blandly. "I wouldn't hurt her feelings for the world."

"Faith, nor I," said her husband. "But she is willing, provided she can
have the child. She said so only the other day when I talked o't!"

"That you swear?" said the sailor to her.

"I do," said she, after glancing at her husband's face and seeing no
repentance there.

"Very well, she shall have the child, and the bargain's complete," said
the trusser. He took the sailor's notes and deliberately folded them,
and put them with the shillings in a high remote pocket, with an air of
finality.

The sailor looked at the woman and smiled. "Come along!" he said kindly.
"The little one too--the more the merrier!" She paused for an instant,
with a close glance at him. Then dropping her eyes again, and saying
nothing, she took up the child and followed him as he made towards the
door. On reaching it, she turned, and pulling off her wedding-ring,
flung it across the booth in the hay-trusser's face.

"Mike," she said, "I've lived with thee a couple of years, and had
nothing but temper! Now I'm no more to 'ee; I'll try my luck elsewhere.
'Twill be better for me and Elizabeth-Jane, both. So good-bye!"

Seizing the sailor's arm with her right hand, and mounting the little
girl on her left, she went out of the tent sobbing bitterly.

A stolid look of concern filled the husband's face, as if, after all, he
had not quite anticipated this ending; and some of the guests laughed.

"Is she gone?" he said.

"Faith, ay! she's gone clane enough," said some rustics near the door.

He rose and walked to the entrance with the careful tread of one
conscious of his alcoholic load. Some others followed, and they stood
looking into the twilight. The difference between the peacefulness of
inferior nature and the wilful hostilities of mankind was very apparent
at this place. In contrast with the harshness of the act just ended
within the tent was the sight of several horses crossing their necks and
rubbing each other lovingly as they waited in patience to be harnessed
for the homeward journey. Outside the fair, in the valleys and woods,
all was quiet. The sun had recently set, and the west heaven was hung
with rosy cloud, which seemed permanent, yet slowly changed. To watch
it was like looking at some grand feat of stagery from a darkened
auditorium. In presence of this scene after the other there was a
natural instinct to abjure man as the blot on an otherwise kindly
universe; till it was remembered that all terrestrial conditions were
intermittent, and that mankind might some night be innocently sleeping
when these quiet objects were raging loud.

"Where do the sailor live?" asked a spectator, when they had vainly
gazed around.

"God knows that," replied the man who had seen high life. "He's without
doubt a stranger here."

"He came in about five minutes ago," said the furmity woman, joining the
rest with her hands on her hips. "And then 'a stepped back, and then 'a
looked in again. I'm not a penny the better for him."

"Serves the husband well be-right," said the staylace vendor. "A comely
respectable body like her--what can a man want more? I glory in the
woman's sperrit. I'd ha' done it myself--od send if I wouldn't, if a
husband had behaved so to me! I'd go, and 'a might call, and call, till
his keacorn was raw; but I'd never come back--no, not till the great
trumpet, would I!"

"Well, the woman will be better off," said another of a more
deliberative turn. "For seafaring natures be very good shelter for shorn
lambs, and the man do seem to have plenty of money, which is what she's
not been used to lately, by all showings."

"Mark me--I'll not go after her!" said the trusser, returning doggedly
to his seat. "Let her go! If she's up to such vagaries she must suffer
for 'em. She'd no business to take the maid--'tis my maid; and if it
were the doing again she shouldn't have her!"

Perhaps from some little sense of having countenanced an indefensible
proceeding, perhaps because it was late, the customers thinned away
from the tent shortly after this episode. The man stretched his elbows
forward on the table leant his face upon his arms, and soon began to
snore. The furmity seller decided to close for the night, and after
seeing the rum-bottles, milk, corn, raisins, etc., that remained on
hand, loaded into the cart, came to where the man reclined. She shook
him, but could not wake him. As the tent was not to be struck that
night, the fair continuing for two or three days, she decided to let the
sleeper, who was obviously no tramp, stay where he was, and his basket
with him. Extinguishing the last candle, and lowering the flap of the
tent, she left it, and drove away.


2.


The morning sun was streaming through the crevices of the canvas when
the man awoke. A warm glow pervaded the whole atmosphere of the marquee,
and a single big blue fly buzzed musically round and round it. Besides
the buzz of the fly there was not a sound. He looked about--at the
benches--at the table supported by trestles--at his basket of tools--at
the stove where the furmity had been boiled--at the empty basins--at
some shed grains of wheat--at the corks which dotted the grassy floor.
Among the odds and ends he discerned a little shining object, and picked
it up. It was his wife's ring.

A confused picture of the events of the previous evening seemed to come
back to him, and he thrust his hand into his breast-pocket. A rustling
revealed the sailor's bank-notes thrust carelessly in.

This second verification of his dim memories was enough; he knew now
they were not dreams. He remained seated, looking on the ground for some
time. "I must get out of this as soon as I can," he said deliberately
at last, with the air of one who could not catch his thoughts without
pronouncing them. "She's gone--to be sure she is--gone with that sailor
who bought her, and little Elizabeth-Jane. We walked here, and I had the
furmity, and rum in it--and sold her. Yes, that's what's happened and
here am I. Now, what am I to do--am I sober enough to walk, I wonder?"
He stood up, found that he was in fairly good condition for progress,
unencumbered. Next he shouldered his tool basket, and found he could
carry it. Then lifting the tent door he emerged into the open air.

Here the man looked around with gloomy curiosity. The freshness of the
September morning inspired and braced him as he stood. He and his family
had been weary when they arrived the night before, and they had observed
but little of the place; so that he now beheld it as a new thing. It
exhibited itself as the top of an open down, bounded on one extreme by
a plantation, and approached by a winding road. At the bottom stood the
village which lent its name to the upland and the annual fair that was
held thereon. The spot stretched downward into valleys, and onward to
other uplands, dotted with barrows, and trenched with the remains of
prehistoric forts. The whole scene lay under the rays of a newly risen
sun, which had not as yet dried a single blade of the heavily dewed
grass, whereon the shadows of the yellow and red vans were projected far
away, those thrown by the felloe of each wheel being elongated in shape
to the orbit of a comet. All the gipsies and showmen who had remained
on the ground lay snug within their carts and tents or wrapped in
horse-cloths under them, and were silent and still as death, with the
exception of an occasional snore that revealed their presence. But
the Seven Sleepers had a dog; and dogs of the mysterious breeds that
vagrants own, that are as much like cats as dogs and as much like foxes
as cats also lay about here. A little one started up under one of the
carts, barked as a matter of principle, and quickly lay down again.
He was the only positive spectator of the hay-trusser's exit from the
Weydon Fair-field.

This seemed to accord with his desire. He went on in silent thought,
unheeding the yellowhammers which flitted about the hedges with straws
in their bills, the crowns of the mushrooms, and the tinkling of local
sheep-bells, whose wearer had had the good fortune not to be included
in the fair. When he reached a lane, a good mile from the scene of the
previous evening, the man pitched his basket and leant upon a gate. A
difficult problem or two occupied his mind.

"Did I tell my name to anybody last night, or didn't I tell my name?"
he said to himself; and at last concluded that he did not. His general
demeanour was enough to show how he was surprised and nettled that his
wife had taken him so literally--as much could be seen in his face, and
in the way he nibbled a straw which he pulled from the hedge. He knew
that she must have been somewhat excited to do this; moreover, she
must have believed that there was some sort of binding force in the
transaction. On this latter point he felt almost certain, knowing her
freedom from levity of character, and the extreme simplicity of her
intellect. There may, too, have been enough recklessness and resentment
beneath her ordinary placidity to make her stifle any momentary doubts.
On a previous occasion when he had declared during a fuddle that he
would dispose of her as he had done, she had replied that she would not
hear him say that many times more before it happened, in the resigned
tones of a fatalist.... "Yet she knows I am not in my senses when I do
that!" he exclaimed. "Well, I must walk about till I find her....Seize
her, why didn't she know better than bring me into this disgrace!" he
roared out. "She wasn't queer if I was. 'Tis like Susan to show such
idiotic simplicity. Meek--that meekness has done me more harm than the
bitterest temper!"

When he was calmer he turned to his original conviction that he must
somehow find her and his little Elizabeth-Jane, and put up with the
shame as best he could. It was of his own making, and he ought to bear
it. But first he resolved to register an oath, a greater oath than he
had ever sworn before: and to do it properly he required a fit place and
imagery; for there was something fetichistic in this man's beliefs.

He shouldered his basket and moved on, casting his eyes inquisitively
round upon the landscape as he walked, and at the distance of three or
four miles perceived the roofs of a village and the tower of a church.
He instantly made towards the latter object. The village was quite
still, it being that motionless hour of rustic daily life which fills
the interval between the departure of the field-labourers to their work,
and the rising of their wives and daughters to prepare the breakfast for
their return. Hence he reached the church without observation, and the
door being only latched he entered. The hay-trusser deposited his basket
by the font, went up the nave till he reached the altar-rails, and
opening the gate entered the sacrarium, where he seemed to feel a
sense of the strangeness for a moment; then he knelt upon the
footpace. Dropping his head upon the clamped book which lay on the
Communion-table, he said aloud--

"I, Michael Henchard, on this morning of the sixteenth of September, do
take an oath before God here in this solemn place that I will avoid all
strong liquors for the space of twenty-one years to come, being a year
for every year that I have lived. And this I swear upon the book before
me; and may I be strook dumb, blind, and helpless, if I break this my
oath!"

When he had said it and kissed the big book, the hay-trusser arose,
and seemed relieved at having made a start in a new direction. While
standing in the porch a moment he saw a thick jet of wood smoke suddenly
start up from the red chimney of a cottage near, and knew that the
occupant had just lit her fire. He went round to the door, and the
housewife agreed to prepare him some breakfast for a trifling payment,
which was done. Then he started on the search for his wife and child.

The perplexing nature of the undertaking became apparent soon enough.
Though he examined and inquired, and walked hither and thither day after
day, no such characters as those he described had anywhere been seen
since the evening of the fair. To add to the difficulty he could gain
no sound of the sailor's name. As money was short with him he decided,
after some hesitation, to spend the sailor's money in the prosecution
of this search; but it was equally in vain. The truth was that a
certain shyness of revealing his conduct prevented Michael Henchard from
following up the investigation with the loud hue-and-cry such a pursuit
demanded to render it effectual; and it was probably for this reason
that he obtained no clue, though everything was done by him that did not
involve an explanation of the circumstances under which he had lost her.

Weeks counted up to months, and still he searched on, maintaining
himself by small jobs of work in the intervals. By this time he had
arrived at a seaport, and there he derived intelligence that persons
answering somewhat to his description had emigrated a little time
before. Then he said he would search no longer, and that he would go and
settle in the district which he had had for some time in his mind.

Next day he started, journeying south-westward, and did not pause,
except for nights' lodgings, till he reached the town of Casterbridge,
in a far distant part of Wessex.


3.


The highroad into the village of Weydon-Priors was again carpeted with
dust. The trees had put on as of yore their aspect of dingy green, and
where the Henchard family of three had once walked along, two persons
not unconnected with the family walked now.

The scene in its broad aspect had so much of its previous character,
even to the voices and rattle from the neighbouring village down,
that it might for that matter have been the afternoon following the
previously recorded episode. Change was only to be observed in details;
but here it was obvious that a long procession of years had passed by.
One of the two who walked the road was she who had figured as the young
wife of Henchard on the previous occasion; now her face had lost much of
its rotundity; her skin had undergone a textural change; and though her
hair had not lost colour it was considerably thinner than heretofore.
She was dressed in the mourning clothes of a widow. Her companion,
also in black, appeared as a well-formed young woman about eighteen,
completely possessed of that ephemeral precious essence youth, which is
itself beauty, irrespective of complexion or contour.

A glance was sufficient to inform the eye that this was Susan Henchard's
grown-up daughter. While life's middle summer had set its hardening
mark on the mother's face, her former spring-like specialities were
transferred so dexterously by Time to the second figure, her child,
that the absence of certain facts within her mother's knowledge from the
girl's mind would have seemed for the moment, to one reflecting on those
facts, to be a curious imperfection in Nature's powers of continuity.

They walked with joined hands, and it could be perceived that this was
the act of simple affection. The daughter carried in her outer hand
a withy basket of old-fashioned make; the mother a blue bundle, which
contrasted oddly with her black stuff gown.

Reaching the outskirts of the village they pursued the same track as
formerly, and ascended to the fair. Here, too it was evident that the
years had told. Certain mechanical improvements might have been noticed
in the roundabouts and high-fliers, machines for testing rustic strength
and weight, and in the erections devoted to shooting for nuts. But the
real business of the fair had considerably dwindled. The new periodical
great markets of neighbouring towns were beginning to interfere
seriously with the trade carried on here for centuries. The pens for
sheep, the tie-ropes for horses, were about half as long as they had
been. The stalls of tailors, hosiers, coopers, linen-drapers, and other
such trades had almost disappeared, and the vehicles were far less
numerous. The mother and daughter threaded the crowd for some little
distance, and then stood still.

"Why did we hinder our time by coming in here? I thought you wished to
get onward?" said the maiden.

"Yes, my dear Elizabeth-Jane," explained the other. "But I had a fancy
for looking up here."

"Why?"

"It was here I first met with Newson--on such a day as this."

"First met with father here? Yes, you have told me so before. And now
he's drowned and gone from us!" As she spoke the girl drew a card from
her pocket and looked at it with a sigh. It was edged with black, and
inscribed within a design resembling a mural tablet were the words, "In
affectionate memory of Richard Newson, mariner, who was unfortunately
lost at sea, in the month of November 184--, aged forty-one years."

"And it was here," continued her mother, with more hesitation, "that I
last saw the relation we are going to look for--Mr. Michael Henchard."

"What is his exact kin to us, mother? I have never clearly had it told
me."

"He is, or was--for he may be dead--a connection by marriage," said her
mother deliberately.

"That's exactly what you have said a score of times before!" replied the
young woman, looking about her inattentively. "He's not a near relation,
I suppose?"

"Not by any means."

"He was a hay-trusser, wasn't he, when you last heard of him?

"He was."

"I suppose he never knew me?" the girl innocently continued.

Mrs. Henchard paused for a moment, and answered un-easily, "Of course
not, Elizabeth-Jane. But come this way." She moved on to another part of
the field.

"It is not much use inquiring here for anybody, I should think," the
daughter observed, as she gazed round about. "People at fairs change
like the leaves of trees; and I daresay you are the only one here to-day
who was here all those years ago."

"I am not so sure of that," said Mrs. Newson, as she now called herself,
keenly eyeing something under a green bank a little way off. "See
there."

The daughter looked in the direction signified. The object pointed
out was a tripod of sticks stuck into the earth, from which hung a
three-legged crock, kept hot by a smouldering wood fire beneath. Over
the pot stooped an old woman haggard, wrinkled, and almost in rags. She
stirred the contents of the pot with a large spoon, and occasionally
croaked in a broken voice, "Good furmity sold here!"

It was indeed the former mistress of the furmity tent--once thriving,
cleanly, white-aproned, and chinking with money--now tentless, dirty,
owning no tables or benches, and having scarce any customers except
two small whity-brown boys, who came up and asked for "A ha'p'orth,
please--good measure," which she served in a couple of chipped yellow
basins of commonest clay.

"She was here at that time," resumed Mrs. Newson, making a step as if to
draw nearer.

"Don't speak to her--it isn't respectable!" urged the other.

"I will just say a word--you, Elizabeth-Jane, can stay here."

The girl was not loth, and turned to some stalls of coloured prints
while her mother went forward. The old woman begged for the latter's
custom as soon as she saw her, and responded to Mrs. Henchard-Newson's
request for a pennyworth with more alacrity than she had shown in
selling six-pennyworths in her younger days. When the soi-disant widow
had taken the basin of thin poor slop that stood for the rich concoction
of the former time, the hag opened a little basket behind the fire, and
looking up slily, whispered, "Just a thought o' rum in it?--smuggled,
you know--say two penn'orth--'twill make it slip down like cordial!"

Her customer smiled bitterly at this survival of the old trick, and
shook her head with a meaning the old woman was far from translating.
She pretended to eat a little of the furmity with the leaden spoon
offered, and as she did so said blandly to the hag, "You've seen better
days?"

"Ah, ma'am--well ye may say it!" responded the old woman, opening the
sluices of her heart forthwith. "I've stood in this fair-ground, maid,
wife, and widow, these nine-and-thirty years, and in that time have
known what it was to do business with the richest stomachs in the
land! Ma'am you'd hardly believe that I was once the owner of a great
pavilion-tent that was the attraction of the fair. Nobody could come,
nobody could go, without having a dish of Mrs. Goodenough's furmity.
I knew the clergy's taste, the dandy gent's taste; I knew the town's
taste, the country's taste. I even knowed the taste of the coarse
shameless females. But Lord's my life--the world's no memory;
straightforward dealings don't bring profit--'tis the sly and the
underhand that get on in these times!"

Mrs. Newson glanced round--her daughter was still bending over the
distant stalls. "Can you call to mind," she said cautiously to the old
woman, "the sale of a wife by her husband in your tent eighteen years
ago to-day?"

The hag reflected, and half shook her head. "If it had been a big
thing I should have minded it in a moment," she said. "I can mind every
serious fight o' married parties, every murder, every manslaughter, even
every pocket-picking--leastwise large ones--that 't has been my lot to
witness. But a selling? Was it done quiet-like?"

"Well, yes. I think so."

The furmity woman half shook her head again. "And yet," she said, "I do.
At any rate, I can mind a man doing something o' the sort--a man in a
cord jacket, with a basket of tools; but, Lord bless ye, we don't gi'e
it head-room, we don't, such as that. The only reason why I can mind the
man is that he came back here to the next year's fair, and told me quite
private-like that if a woman ever asked for him I was to say he had gone
to--where?--Casterbridge--yes--to Casterbridge, said he. But, Lord's my
life, I shouldn't ha' thought of it again!"

Mrs. Newson would have rewarded the old woman as far as her small
means afforded had she not discreetly borne in mind that it was by that
unscrupulous person's liquor her husband had been degraded. She briefly
thanked her informant, and rejoined Elizabeth, who greeted her with,
"Mother, do let's get on--it was hardly respectable for you to buy
refreshments there. I see none but the lowest do."

"I have learned what I wanted, however," said her mother quietly.
"The last time our relative visited this fair he said he was living at
Casterbridge. It is a long, long way from here, and it was many years
ago that he said it, but there I think we'll go."

Bridget had told him that if he went to Avignon he should die soon
afterwards, and it so happened that her prophecy was fulfilled,
for the Pope not long after his arrival in Provence was seized with
a mortal illness, and died on the 19th of December, 1370.

In the course of his pontificate, he had received two singular
honours.

The Emperor of the West had performed the office of his equerry, and
the Emperor of the East abjured schism, acknowledging him as primate of
the whole Christian Church.

The Cardinals chose as Urban's successor a man who did honour to their
election, namely, Pietro Rogero, nephew of Clement VI., who took the
name of Gregory XI. Petrarch knew him, he had seen him at Padua in 1307,
when the Cardinal was on his way to Rome, and rejoiced at his
accession.
The new Pontiff caused a letter to be written to our poet, expressing his
wish to see him, and to be of service to him.

In a letter written about this time to his friend Francesco Bruni, we
perceive that Petrarch is not quite so indifferent to the good things
of the world as the general tenor of his letters would lead us to
imagine.
He writes:--"Were I to say that I want means to lead the life of
a canon, I should be wrong, but when I say that my single self have more
acquaintances than all the chapter put together, and, consequently,
that I am put to more expenses in the way of hospitality, then I am
right.
This embarrassment increases every day, and my resources diminish. I have
made vain efforts to free myself from my difficulties. My prebend, it
is true, yields me more bread and wine than I need for my own
consumption.

I can even sell some of it. But my expenses are very considerable. I
have never less than two horses, usually five or six amanuenses.Absolutely helpless she had been taken off
to Canada where they had lived several years without any great worldly
success, though she worked as hard as any woman could to keep their
cottage cheerful and well-provided. When Elizabeth-Jane was about twelve
years old the three returned to England, and settled at Falmouth,
where Newson made a living for a few years as boatman and general handy
shoreman.

He then engaged in the Newfoundland trade, and it was during this period
that Susan had an awakening. A friend to whom she confided her history
ridiculed her grave acceptance of her position; and all was over with
her peace of mind. When Newson came home at the end of one winter he saw
that the delusion he had so carefully sustained had vanished for ever.

There was then a time of sadness, in which she told him her doubts
if she could live with him longer. Newson left home again on the
Newfoundland trade when the season came round. The vague news of his
loss at sea a little later on solved a problem which had become torture
to her meek conscience. She saw him no more.

Of Henchard they heard nothing. To the liege subjects of Labour, the
England of those days was a continent, and a mile a geographical degree.

Elizabeth-Jane developed early into womanliness. One day a month or
so after receiving intelligence of Newson's death off the Bank of
Newfoundland, when the girl was about eighteen, she was sitting on a
willow chair in the cottage they still occupied, working twine nets for
the fishermen. Her mother was in a back corner of the same room engaged
in the same labour, and dropping the heavy wood needle she was filling
she surveyed her daughter thoughtfully. The sun shone in at the door
upon the young woman's head and hair, which was worn loose, so that the
rays streamed into its depths as into a hazel copse. Her face, though
somewhat wan and incomplete, possessed the raw materials of beauty in a
promising degree. There was an under-handsomeness in it, struggling
to reveal itself through the provisional curves of immaturity, and the
casual disfigurements that resulted from the straitened circumstances of
their lives. She was handsome in the bone, hardly as yet handsome in the
flesh. She possibly might never be fully handsome, unless the carking
accidents of her daily existence could be evaded before the mobile parts
of her countenance had settled to their final mould.

The sight of the girl made her mother sad--not vaguely but by logical
inference. They both were still in that strait-waistcoat of poverty from
which she had tried so many times to be delivered for the girl's sake.
The woman had long perceived how zealously and constantly the young mind
of her companion was struggling for enlargement; and yet now, in
her eighteenth year, it still remained but little unfolded. The
desire--sober and repressed--of Elizabeth-Jane's heart was indeed to
see, to hear, and to understand. How could she become a woman of wider
knowledge, higher repute--"better," as she termed it--this was her
constant inquiry of her mother. She sought further into things than
other girls in her position ever did, and her mother groaned as she felt
she could not aid in the search.

The sailor, drowned or no, was probably now lost to them; and Susan's
staunch, religious adherence to him as her husband in principle, till
her views had been disturbed by enlightenment, was demanded no more. She
asked herself whether the present moment, now that she was a free woman
again, were not as opportune a one as she would find in a world where
everything had been so inopportune, for making a desperate effort to
advance Elizabeth. To pocket her pride and search for the first husband
seemed, wisely or not, the best initiatory step. He had possibly drunk
himself into his tomb. But he might, on the other hand, have had too
much sense to do so; for in her time with him he had been given to bouts
only, and was not a habitual drunkard.

At any rate, the propriety of returning to him, if he lived, was
unquestionable. The awkwardness of searching for him lay in enlightening
Elizabeth, a proceeding which her mother could not endure to
contemplate. The Trust Investigating Committee has found out from
the Sugar Trust, that the price of sugar has been lowered since the Trust
was formed. But it has also been learned that sugar has not been
allowed to fall in price as much as it ought to have, and that
while sugar is cheaper than it used to be, it could be much cheaper
yet, and still pay well for the making.

With all the Trusts the story is the same. They have slightly cheapened
the price of the goods they handle, and have then controlled the market
and prevented any further reduction.

Each Trust declares that it is a positive benefit to trade, and while
it is true that they do employ a vast number of men, and make the best
quality of goods at _apparently_ the lowest possible price, it must not
be forgotten that the public does not benefit as much as it ought by
the low cost of production, and that all small manufacturers are
driven out of the business by the enormous power of the Trust.

A man who wishes to succeed to-day dare not try to compete with the Trust;
he must join it or be boycotted by it; that is to say, if he attempts
to undersell the Trust, all retail dealers will be forbidden to buy
from him, and he will have no market for his goods.

There has been a great outcry against this investigation, and the Trusts
are very indignant. They declare that such investigations ruin trade,
and make prices higher. To prove this argument, the Sugar Trust has put
the price of sugar up an eighth of a cent a pound, or about forty
cents a barrel.

This is, however, an argument that works both ways. If the Sugar Trust is
so powerful that it can revenge itself for the investigation by putting
the price of sugar up, it is then too powerful for the welfare of the
people, and it shows clearly that it is high time that the government
makes an attempt to restrict the power of the Trusts

.

* * * * *
Admiral Bunce and his fleet of warships have been engaged in some
very interesting naval practice off Charleston.

The especial object of the visit was to see if they could effectually
blockade the port.

In making their trip down the coast, the fleet ran into a heavy gale
off Cape Hatteras, and Admiral Bunce was able to see how the vessels
under his command behave in a storm.

Arrived off Charleston, the Admiral arranged the fleet in a cordon
across the mouth of Charleston harbor, and when night came, ordered
the little cruiser _Vesuvius_ to steam out to sea, and then try to
steal back into port without being discovered by the big warships
that were guarding the harbor.
In other words, the _Vesuvius_ was ordered to "run the blockade.""Why, surely," said Elizabeth, as they receded, "those men mentioned the
name of Henchard in their talk--the name of our relative?"

"I thought so too," said Mrs. Newson.

"That seems a hint to us that he is still here."

"Yes."

"Shall I run after them, and ask them about him----"

"No, no, no! Not for the world just yet. He may be in the workhouse, or
in the stocks, for all we know."

"Dear me--why should you think that, mother?"

"'Twas just something to say--that's all! But we must make private
inquiries."

Having sufficiently rested they proceeded on their way at evenfall. The
dense trees of the avenue rendered the road dark as a tunnel, though the
open land on each side was still under a faint daylight, in other words,
they passed down a midnight between two gloamings. The features of the
town had a keen interest for Elizabeth's mother, now that the human side
came to the fore. As soon as they had wandered about they could see that
the stockade of gnarled trees which framed in Casterbridge was itself
an avenue, standing on a low green bank or escarpment, with a ditch
yet visible without. Within the avenue and bank was a wall more or
less discontinuous, and within the wall were packed the abodes of the
burghers.

Though the two women did not know it these external features were but
the ancient defences of the town, planted as a promenade.

The lamplights now glimmered through the engirdling trees, conveying a
sense of great smugness and comfort inside, and rendering at the same
time the unlighted country without strangely solitary and vacant in
aspect, considering its nearness to life. The difference between burgh
and champaign was increased, too, by sounds which now reached them above
others--the notes of a brass band. The travellers returned into the High
Street, where there were timber houses with overhanging stories,
whose small-paned lattices were screened by dimity curtains on a
drawing-string, and under whose bargeboards old cobwebs waved in the
breeze. There were houses of brick-nogging, which derived their chief
support from those adjoining. There were slate roofs patched with tiles,
and tile roofs patched with slate, with occasionally a roof of thatch.

The agricultural and pastoral character of the people upon whom the town
depended for its existence was shown by the class of objects displayed
in the shop windows. Scythes, reap-hooks, sheep-shears, bill-hooks,
spades, mattocks, and hoes at the iron-monger's; bee-hives,
butter-firkins, churns, milking stools and pails, hay-rakes,
field-flagons, and seed-lips at the cooper's; cart-ropes and
plough-harness at the saddler's; carts, wheel-barrows, and mill-gear at
the wheelwright's and machinist's, horse-embrocations at the chemist's;
at the glover's and leather-cutter's, hedging-gloves, thatchers'
knee-caps, ploughmen's leggings, villagers' pattens and clogs.

They came to a grizzled church, whose massive square tower rose unbroken
into the darkening sky, the lower parts being illuminated by the nearest
lamps sufficiently to show how completely the mortar from the joints
of the stonework had been nibbled out by time and weather, which had
planted in the crevices thus made little tufts of stone-crop and grass
almost as far up as the very battlements. From this tower the clock
struck eight, and thereupon a bell began to toll with a peremptory
clang. The curfew was still rung in Casterbridge, and it was utilized by
the inhabitants as a signal for shutting their shops. No sooner did the
deep notes of the bell throb between the house-fronts than a clatter
of shutters arose through the whole length of the High Street. In a few
minutes business at Casterbridge was ended for the day.

Other clocks struck eight from time to time--one gloomily from the gaol,
another from the gable of an almshouse, with a preparative creak of
machinery, more audible than the note of the bell; a row of tall,
varnished case-clocks from the interior of a clock-maker's shop joined
in one after another just as the shutters were enclosing them, like a
row of actors delivering their final speeches before the fall of the
curtain; then chimes were heard stammering out the Sicilian Mariners'
Hymn; so that chronologists of the advanced school were appreciably on
their way to the next hour before the whole business of the old one was
satisfactorily wound up.

In an open space before the church walked a woman with her gown-sleeves
rolled up so high that the edge of her underlinen was visible, and her
skirt tucked up through her pocket hole. She carried a load under her
arm from which she was pulling pieces of bread, and handing them to some
other women who walked with her, which pieces they nibbled critically.
The sight reminded Mrs. Henchard-Newson and her daughter that they had
an appetite; and they inquired of the woman for the nearest baker's.

"Ye may as well look for manna-food as good bread in Casterbridge just
now," she said, after directing them. "They can blare their trumpets
and thump their drums, and have their roaring dinners"--waving her hand
towards a point further along the street, where the brass band could be
seen standing in front of an illuminated building--"but we must needs be
put-to for want of a wholesome crust. There's less good bread than good
beer in Casterbridge now."

"And less good beer than swipes," said a man with his hands in his
pockets.

"How does it happen there's no good bread?" asked Mrs. Henchard.

"Oh, 'tis the corn-factor--he's the man that our millers and bakers all
deal wi', and he has sold 'em growed wheat, which they didn't know
was growed, so they SAY, till the dough ran all over the ovens like
quicksilver; so that the loaves be as flat as toads, and like suet
pudden inside. I've been a wife, and I've been a mother, and I never see
such unprincipled bread in Casterbridge as this before.--But you must be
a real stranger here not to know what's made all the poor volks' insides
plim like blowed bladders this week?"

"I am," said Elizabeth's mother shyly.

Not wishing to be observed further till she knew more of her future
in this place, she withdrew with her daughter from the speaker's side.
Getting a couple of biscuits at the shop indicated as a temporary
substitute for a meal, they next bent their steps instinctively to where
the music was playing.


5.


A few score yards brought them to the spot where the town band was now
shaking the window-panes with the strains of "The Roast Beef of Old
England."

The building before whose doors they had pitched their music-stands was
the chief hotel in Casterbridge--namely, the King's Arms. A spacious
bow-window projected into the street over the main portico, and from the
open sashes came the babble of voices, the jingle of glasses, and the
drawing of corks. The blinds, moreover, being left unclosed, the whole
interior of this room could be surveyed from the top of a flight of
stone steps to the road-waggon office opposite, for which reason a knot
of idlers had gathered there.

"We might, perhaps, after all, make a few inquiries about--our
relation Mr. Henchard," whispered Mrs. Newson who, since her entry
into Casterbridge, had seemed strangely weak and agitated, "And this, I
think, would be a good place for trying it--just to ask, you know,
how he stands in the town--if he is here, as I think he must be. You,
Elizabeth-Jane, had better be the one to do it. I'm too worn out to do
anything--pull down your fall first."

She sat down upon the lowest step, and Elizabeth-Jane obeyed her
directions and stood among the idlers.

"What's going on to-night?" asked the girl, after singling out an old
man and standing by him long enough to acquire a neighbourly right of
converse.

"Well, ye must be a stranger sure," said the old man, without taking
his eyes from the window. "Why, 'tis a great public dinner of the
gentle-people and such like leading volk--wi' the Mayor in the chair. As
we plainer fellows bain't invited, they leave the winder-shutters open
that we may get jist a sense o't out here. If you mount the steps you
can see em. That's Mr. Henchard, the Mayor, at the end of the table, a
facing ye; and that's the Council men right and left....Ah, lots of them
when they begun life were no more than I be now!"

"Henchard!" said Elizabeth-Jane, surprised, but by no means suspecting
the whole force of the revelation. She ascended to the top of the steps.

Her mother, though her head was bowed, had already caught from the
inn-window tones that strangely riveted her attention, before the old
man's words, "Mr. Henchard, the Mayor," reached her ears. She arose,
and stepped up to her daughter's side as soon as she could do so without
showing exceptional eagerness.

The interior of the hotel dining-room was spread out before her, with
its tables, and glass, and plate, and inmates. Facing the window, in the
chair of dignity, sat a man about forty years of age; of heavy frame,
large features, and commanding voice; his general build being rather
coarse than compact. He had a rich complexion, which verged on
swarthiness, a flashing black eye, and dark, bushy brows and hair. When
he indulged in an occasional loud laugh at some remark among the
guests, his large mouth parted so far back as to show to the rays of the
chandelier a full score or more of the two-and-thirty sound white teeth
that he obviously still could boast of.

That laugh was not encouraging to strangers, and hence it may have been
well that it was rarely heard. Many theories might have been built upon
it. It fell in well with conjectures of a temperament which would have
no pity for weakness, but would be ready to yield ungrudging admiration
to greatness and strength. Its producer's personal goodness, if he had
any, would be of a very fitful cast--an occasional almost oppressive
generosity rather than a mild and constant kindness.

Susan Henchard's husband--in law, at least--sat before them, matured
in shape, stiffened in line, exaggerated in traits; disciplined,
thought-marked--in a word, older. Elizabeth, encumbered with no
recollections as her mother was, regarded him with nothing more than
the keen curiosity and interest which the discovery of such unexpected
social standing in the long-sought relative naturally begot. He was
dressed in an old-fashioned evening suit, an expanse of frilled shirt
showing on his broad breast; jewelled studs, and a heavy gold chain.
Three glasses stood at his right hand; but, to his wife's surprise, the
two for wine were empty, while the third, a tumbler, was half full of
water.

When last she had seen him he was sitting in a corduroy jacket, fustian
waistcoat and breeches, and tanned leather leggings, with a basin of hot
furmity before him. Time, the magician, had wrought much here. Watching
him, and thus thinking of past days, she became so moved that she shrank
back against the jamb of the waggon-office doorway to which the steps
gave access, the shadow from it conveniently hiding her features. She
forgot her daughter till a touch from Elizabeth-Jane aroused her. "Have
you seen him, mother?" whispered the girl.

"Yes, yes," answered her companion hastily. "I have seen him, and it is
enough for me! Now I only want to go--pass away--die."

"Why--O what?" She drew closer, and whispered in her mother's ear, "Does
he seem to you not likely to befriend us? I thought he looked a generous
man. What a gentleman he is, isn't he? and how his diamond studs shine!
How strange that you should have said he might be in the stocks, or in
the workhouse, or dead! Did ever anything go more by contraries! Why do
you feel so afraid of him? I am not at all; I'll call upon him--he can
but say he don't own such remote kin."

"I don't know at all--I can't tell what to set about. I feel so down."

"Don't be that, mother, now we have got here and all! Rest there where
you be a little while--I will look on and find out more about him."

"I don't think I can ever meet Mr. Henchard. He is not how I thought he
would be--he overpowers me! I don't wish to see him any more."

"But wait a little time and consider."

Elizabeth-Jane had never been so much interested in anything in her life
as in their present position, partly from the natural elation she felt
at discovering herself akin to a coach; and she gazed again at the
scene. The younger guests were talking and eating with animation; their
elders were searching for titbits, and sniffing and grunting over their
plates like sows nuzzling for acorns. Three drinks seemed to be sacred
to the company--port, sherry, and rum; outside which old-established
trinity few or no palates ranged.

A row of ancient rummers with ground figures on their sides, and each
primed with a spoon, was now placed down the table, and these were
promptly filled with grog at such high temperatures as to raise
serious considerations for the articles exposed to its vapours. But
Elizabeth-Jane noticed that, though this filling went on with great
promptness up and down the table, nobody filled the Mayor's glass, who
still drank large quantities of water from the tumbler behind the clump
of crystal vessels intended for wine and spirits.

"They don't fill Mr. Henchard's wine-glasses," she ventured to say to
her elbow acquaintance, the old man.

"Ah, no; don't ye know him to be the celebrated abstaining worthy of
that name? He scorns all tempting liquors; never touches nothing. O
yes, he've strong qualities that way. I have heard tell that he sware
a gospel oath in bygone times, and has bode by it ever since. So they
don't press him, knowing it would be unbecoming in the face of that: for
yer gospel oath is a serious thing."

Another elderly man, hearing this discourse, now joined in by inquiring,
"How much longer have he got to suffer from it, Solomon Longways?"

"Another two year, they say. I don't know the why and the wherefore of
his fixing such a time, for 'a never has told anybody. But 'tis exactly
two calendar years longer, they say. A powerful mind to hold out so
long!"

"True....But there's great strength in hope. Knowing that in
four-and-twenty months' time ye'll be out of your bondage, and able to
make up for all you've suffered, by partaking without stint--why, it
keeps a man up, no doubt."

"No doubt, Christopher Coney, no doubt. And 'a must need such
reflections--a lonely widow man," said Longways.

"When did he lose his wife?" asked Elizabeth.

"I never knowed her. 'Twas afore he came to Casterbridge," Solomon
Longways replied with terminative emphasis, as if the fact of his
ignorance of Mrs. Henchard were sufficient to deprive her history of all
interest. "But I know that 'a's a banded teetotaller, and that if any of
his men be ever so little overtook by a drop he's down upon 'em as stern
as the Lord upon the jovial Jews."

"Has he many men, then?" said Elizabeth-Jane.

"Many! Why, my good maid, he's the powerfullest member of the Town
Council, and quite a principal man in the country round besides. Never
a big dealing in wheat, barley, oats, hay, roots, and such-like but
Henchard's got a hand in it. Ay, and he'll go into other things too;
and that's where he makes his mistake. He worked his way up from nothing
when 'a came here; and now he's a pillar of the town. Not but what he's
been shaken a little to-year about this bad corn he has supplied in
his contracts. I've seen the sun rise over Durnover Moor these
nine-and-sixty year, and though Mr. Henchard has never cussed me
unfairly ever since I've worked for'n, seeing I be but a little small
man, I must say that I have never before tasted such rough bread as has
been made from Henchard's wheat lately. 'Tis that growed out that ye
could a'most call it malt, and there's a list at bottom o' the loaf as
thick as the sole of one's shoe."

The band now struck up another melody, and by the time it was ended the
dinner was over, and speeches began to be made. The evening being calm,
and the windows still open, these orations could be distinctly heard.
Henchard's voice arose above the rest; he was telling a story of his
hay-dealing experiences, in which he had outwitted a sharper who had
been bent upon outwitting him.

"Ha-ha-ha!" responded his audience at the upshot of the story; and
hilarity was general till a new voice arose with, "This is all very
well; but how about the bad bread?"

It came from the lower end of the table, where there sat a group of
minor tradesmen who, although part of the company, appeared to be a
little below the social level of the others; and who seemed to nourish
a certain independence of opinion and carry on discussions not quite
in harmony with those at the head; just as the west end of a church
is sometimes persistently found to sing out of time and tune with the
leading spirits in the chancel.

This interruption about the bad bread afforded infinite satisfaction to
the loungers outside, several of whom were in the mood which finds its
pleasure in others' discomfiture; and hence they echoed pretty freely,
"Hey! How about the bad bread, Mr. Mayor?" Moreover, feeling none of the
restraints of those who shared the feast, they could afford to add, "You
rather ought to tell the story o' that, sir!"

The interruption was sufficient to compel the Mayor to notice it.

"Well, I admit that the wheat turned out badly," he said. "But I was
taken in in buying it as much as the bakers who bought it o' me."

"And the poor folk who had to eat it whether or no," said the
inharmonious man outside the window.

Henchard's face darkened. There was temper under the thin bland
surface--the temper which, artificially intensified, had banished a wife
nearly a score of years before.

"You must make allowances for the accidents of a large business," he
said. "You must bear in mind that the weather just at the harvest of
that corn was worse than we have known it for years. However, I have
mended my arrangements on account o't. Since I have found my business
too large to be well looked after by myself alone, I have advertised for
a thorough good man as manager of the corn department. When I've got
him you will find these mistakes will no longer occur--matters will be
better looked into."

"But what are you going to do to repay us for the past?" inquired the
man who had before spoken, and who seemed to be a baker or miller. "Will
you replace the grown flour we've still got by sound grain?"

Henchard's face had become still more stern at these interruptions, and
he drank from his tumbler of water as if to calm himself or gain time.
Instead of vouchsafing a direct reply, he stiffly observed--

"If anybody will tell me how to turn grown wheat into wholesome wheat
I'll take it back with pleasure. But it can't be done."

Henchard was not to be drawn again. Having said this, he sat down.


6.


Now the group outside the window had within the last few minutes been
reinforced by new arrivals, some of them respectable shopkeepers and
their assistants, who had come out for a whiff of air after putting up
the shutters for the night; some of them of a lower class. Distinct from
either there appeared a stranger--a young man of remarkably pleasant
aspect--who carried in his hand a carpet-bag of the smart floral pattern
prevalent in such articles at that time.

He was ruddy and of a fair countenance, bright-eyed, and slight in
build. He might possibly have passed by without stopping at all, or at
most for half a minute to glance in at the scene, had not his advent
coincided with the discussion on corn and bread, in which event this
history had never been enacted. But the subject seemed to arrest him,
and he whispered some inquiries of the other bystanders, and remained
listening.

When he heard Henchard's closing words, "It can't be done," he smiled
impulsively, drew out his pocketbook, and wrote down a few words by
the aid of the light in the window. He tore out the leaf, folded and
directed it, and seemed about to throw it in through the open sash upon
the dining-table; but, on second thoughts, edged himself through the
loiterers, till he reached the door of the hotel, where one of the
waiters who had been serving inside was now idly leaning against the
doorpost.

"Give this to the Mayor at once," he said, handing in his hasty note.

Elizabeth-Jane had seen his movements and heard the words, which
attracted her both by their subject and by their accent--a strange one
for those parts. It was quaint and northerly.

The waiter took the note, while the young stranger continued--

"And can ye tell me of a respectable hotel that's a little more moderate
than this?"

The waiter glanced indifferently up and down the street.

"They say the Three Mariners, just below here, is a very good place," he
languidly answered; "but I have never stayed there myself."

The Scotchman, as he seemed to be, thanked him, and strolled on in the
direction of the Three Mariners aforesaid, apparently more concerned
about the question of an inn than about the fate of his note, now that
the momentary impulse of writing it was over. While he was disappearing
slowly down the street the waiter left the door, and Elizabeth-Jane saw
with some interest the note brought into the dining-room and handed to
the Mayor.

Henchard looked at it carelessly, unfolded it with one hand, and glanced
it through. Thereupon it was curious to note an unexpected effect. The
nettled, clouded aspect which had held possession of his face since the
subject of his corn-dealings had been broached, changed itself into one
of arrested attention. He read the note slowly, and fell into thought,
not moody, but fitfully intense, as that of a man who has been captured
by an idea.

By this time toasts and speeches had given place to songs, the wheat
subject being quite forgotten. Men were putting their heads together in
twos and threes, telling good stories, with pantomimic laughter which
reached convulsive grimace. Some were beginning to look as if they did
not know how they had come there, what they had come for, or how they
were going to get home again; and provisionally sat on with a dazed
smile. Square-built men showed a tendency to become hunchbacks; men with
a dignified presence lost it in a curious obliquity of figure, in which
their features grew disarranged and one-sided, whilst the heads of a few
who had dined with extreme thoroughness were somehow sinking into their
shoulders, the corners of their mouth and eyes being bent upwards by the
subsidence. Only Henchard did not conform to these flexuous changes; he
remained stately and vertical, silently thinking.

The clock struck nine. Elizabeth-Jane turned to her companion. "The
evening is drawing on, mother," she said. "What do you propose to do?"

She was surprised to find how irresolute her mother had become. "We must
get a place to lie down in," she murmured. "I have seen--Mr. Henchard;
and that's all I wanted to do."

"That's enough for to-night, at any rate," Elizabeth-Jane replied
soothingly. "We can think to-morrow what is best to do about him. The
question now is--is it not?--how shall we find a lodging?"

As her mother did not reply Elizabeth-Jane's mind reverted to the words
of the waiter, that the Three Mariners was an inn of moderate charges. A
recommendation good for one person was probably good for another. "Let's
go where the young man has gone to," she said. "He is respectable. What
do you say?"

Her mother assented, and down the street they went.

In the meantime the Mayor's thoughtfulness, engendered by the note as
stated, continued to hold him in abstraction; till, whispering to his
neighbour to take his place, he found opportunity to leave the chair.
This was just after the departure of his wife and Elizabeth.

Outside the door of the assembly-room he saw the waiter, and beckoning
to him asked who had brought the note which had been handed in a quarter
of an hour before.

"A young man, sir--a sort of traveller. He was a Scotchman seemingly."

"Did he say how he had got it?"

"He wrote it himself, sir, as he stood outside the window."

"Oh--wrote it himself....Is the young man in the hotel?"

"No, sir. If we may believe Petrarch, he did himself no injustice in likening
himself to that quadruped; but our poet was somewhat harsh in his
judgment of this Pontiff.

He took the name of Benedict XII.

Shortly after his exaltation, Benedict received ambassadors from Rome,
earnestly imploring him to bring back the sacred seat to their city; and
Petrarch thought he could not serve the embassy better than by publishing
a poem in Latin verse, exhibiting Rome in the character of a
desolate matron imploring her husband to return to her. Benedict applauded
the author of the epistle, but declined complying with its prayer.
Instead of revisiting Italy, his Holiness ordered a magnificent
and costly palace to be constructed for him at Avignon. Hitherto, it would
seem that the Popes had lived in hired houses. In imitation of their
Pontiff, the Cardinals set about building superb mansions, to the
unbounded indignation of Petrarch, who saw in these new habitations
not only a graceless and unchristian spirit of luxury, but a sure
indication that their owners had no thoughts of removing to Rome.

In the January of the following year, Pope Benedict presented our
poet with the canonicate of Lombes, with the expectancy of the first
prebend which should become vacant. This preferment Petrarch is
supposed to have owed to the influence of Cardinal Colonna.

The troubles which at this time agitated Italy drew to Avignon, in
the year 1335, a personage who holds a pre-eminent interest in the
life of Petrarch, namely, Azzo da Correggio, who was sent thither
by the Scaligeri of Parma.

The State of Parma had belonged originally to the popes; but
two powerful families, the Rossis and the Correggios, had profited
by the quarrels between the church and the empire to usurp the government,
and during five-and-twenty years, Gilberto Correggio and Rolando Rossi
alternately lost and won the sovereignty, till, at last, the
confederate princes took the city, and conferred the government of it
on Guido Correggio, the greatest enemy of the Rossis.

Gilbert Correggio left at his death a widow, the sister of Cane de la
Scala, and four sons, Guido, Simone, Azzo, and Giovanni. It is only
with Azzo that we are particularly concerned in the history of
Petrarch.

Azzo was born in the year 1303, being thus a year older than our
poet.
Originally intended for the church, he preferred the sword to the crozier,
and became a distinguished soldier. He married the daughter of Luigi
Gonzagua, lord of Mantua. He was a man of bold original spirit, and
so indefatigable that he acquired the name of Iron-foot. Nor was his
energy merely physical; he read much, and forgot nothing--his memory was
a library. Azzo's character, to be sure, even with allowance for turbulent
times, is not invulnerable at all points to a rigid scrutiny; and,
notwithstanding all the praises of Petrarch, who dedicated to him his
Treatise on a Solitary Life in 1366, his political career contained
some acts of perfidy.

But we must inure ourselves, in the biography of Petrarch, to his
over-estimation of favourites in the article of morals.

It was not long ere Petrarch was called upon to give a substantial proof
of his regard for Azzo. After the seizure of Parma by the confederate
princes, Marsilio di Rossi, brother of Rolando, went to Paris to
demand assistance from the French king. The King of Bohemia had given
over the government of Parma to him and his brothers, and the Rossi
now saw it with grief assigned to his enemies, the Correggios.

Marsilio could obtain no succour from the French, who were now busy
in preparing for war with the English; so he carried to the Pope
at Avignon his complaints against the alleged injustice of the lords of
Verona and the Correggios in breaking an express treaty which they
had made with the house of Rossi.

Azzo had the threefold task of defending, before the Pope's tribunal,
the lords of Verona, whose envoy he was; the rights of his family,
which were attacked; and his own personal character, which was
charged with some grave objections.

Revering the eloquence and influence of Petrarch, he importuned him to
be his public defender. Our poet, as we have seen, had studied the law,
but had never followed the profession. "It is not my vocation," he says,
in his preface to his Familiar Epistles, "to undertake the defence of
others. I detest the bar; I love retirement; I despise money; and, if
I tried to let out my tongue for hire, my nature would revolt at the
attempt."
But what Petrarch would not undertake either from taste or motives
of interest, he undertook at the call of friendship. He pleaded the
cause of Azzo before the Pope and Cardinals; it was a finely-interesting
cause, that afforded a vast field for his eloquence. He brought off
his client triumphantly; and the Rossis were defeated in their
demand.

At the same time, it is a proud trait in Petrarch's character that he
showed himself on this occasion not only an orator and a lawyer,
but a perfect gentleman.

In the midst of all his zealous pleading, he stooped neither to satire
nor personality against the opposing party. He could say, with all
the boldness of truth, in a letter to Ugolino di Rossi, the Bishop of
Parma, "I pleaded against your house for Azzo Correggio, but you
were present at the pleading; do me justice, and confess that I
carefully avoided not only attacks on your family and reputation,
but even those railleries in which advocates so much delight."

On this occasion, Azzo had brought to Avignon, as his colleague in the
lawsuit, Guglielmo da Pastrengo, who exercised the office of judge
and notary at Verona.

He was a man of deep knowledge in the law; versed, besides, in every
branch of elegant learning, he was a poet into the bargain.

In Petrarch's many books of epistles, there are few letters addressed
by him to this personage; but it is certain that they contracted a
friendship at this period which endured for life.

All this time the Bishop of Lombes still continued at Rome; and,
from time to time, solicited his friend Petrarch to join him.
"Petrarch would have gladly joined him," says De Sade; "but he was
detained at Avignon by his attachment to John Colonna and his love
of Laura:" a whimsical junction of detaining causes, in which the
fascination of the Cardinal may easily be supposed to have been
weaker than that of Laura.

In writing to our poet, at Avignon, the Bishop rallied Petrarch on the
imaginary existence of the object of his passion. Some stupid readers
of the Bishop's letter, in subsequent times, took it into their
heads that there was a literal proof in the prelate's jesting epistle
of our poet's passion for Laura being a phantom and a fiction.

But, possible as it may be, that the Bishop in reality suspected him to
exaggerate the flame of his devotion for the two great objects of
his idolatry, Laura and St.

Augustine, he writes in a vein of pleasantry that need not be taken for
grave accusation. "You are befooling us all, my dear Petrarch," says
the prelate; "and it is wonderful that at so tender an age
(Petrarch's tender age was at this time thirty-one) you can deceive
the world with so much art and success. And, not content with
deceiving the world, you would fain deceive Heaven itself. You make
a semblance of loving St.
Augustine and his works; but, in your heart, you love the poets and
the philosophers. Your Laura is a phantom created by your imagination
for the exercise of your poetry. Your verse, your love, your sighs,
are all a fiction; or, if there is anything real in your passion,
it is not for the lady Laura, but for the laurel--_that is_, the
crown of poets.

I have been your dupe for some time, and, whilst you showed a strong
desire to visit Rome, I hoped to welcome you there. But my eyes are now
opened to all your rogueries, which nevertheless, will not prevent
me from loving you."

Petrarch, in his answer to the Bishop,[F] says, "My father, if I love the
poets, I only follow, in this respect, the example of St. Augustine.
I take the sainted father himself to witness the sincerity of my
attachment to him.

He is now in a place where he can neither deceive nor be deceived.
I flatter myself that he pities my errors, especially when he
recalls his own." St. Augustine had been somewhat profligate in his
younger days.

"As to Laura," continues the poet, "would to Heaven that she were
only an imaginary personage, and my passion for her only a pastime! Alas!
it is a madness which it would be difficult and painful to feign for
any length of time; and what an extravagance it would be to affect
such a passion! One may counterfeit illness by action, by voice, and by
manner, but no one in health can give himself the true air and complexion
of disease. How often have you yourself been witness of my paleness
and my sufferings! I know very well that you speak only in irony:
it is your favourite figure of speech, but I hope that time will
cicatrize these wounds of my spirit, and that Augustine, whom I
pretend to love, will furnish me with a defence against a Laura who
does not exist."

Years had now elapsed since Petrarch had conceived his passion for
Laura; and it was obviously doomed to be a source of hopeless torment
to him as long as he should continue near her; for she could breathe no
more encouragement on his love than what was barely sufficient to keep
it alive; and, if she had bestowed more favour on him, the consequences
might have been ultimately most tragic to both of them. His own
reflections, and the advice of his friends, suggested that absence and
change of objects were the only means likely to lessen his misery; he
determined, therefore, to travel once more, and set out for Rome
in 1335.

The wish to assuage his passion, by means of absence, was his principal
motive for going again upon his travels; but, before he could wind
up his resolution to depart, the state of his mind bordered on
distraction.
One day he observed a country girl washing the veil of Laura; a sudden
trembling seized him--and, though the heat of the weather was
intense, he grew cold and shivered.

For some time he was incapable of applying to study or business.
His soul, he said, was like a field of battle, where his passion and
reason held continual conflict. In his calmer moments, many agreeable
motives for travelling suggested themselves to his mind.
He had a strong desire to visit Rome, where he was sure of finding the
kindest welcome from the Bishop of Lombes.

He was to pass through Paris also; and there he had left some valued
friends, to whom he had promised that he would return. At the head
of those friends were Dionisio dal Borgo San Sepolcro and Roberto
Bardi, a Florentine, whom the Pope had lately made chancellor of the
Church of Paris, and given him the canonship of Nôtre Dame. Dionisio dal
Borgo was a native of Tuscany, and one of the Roberti family. His
name in literature was so considerable that Filippo Villani thought
it worth while to write his life.

Petrarch wrote his funeral eulogy, and alludes to Dionisio's power
of reading futurity by the stars.

But Petrarch had not a grain of faith in astrology; on the contrary,
he has himself recorded that he derided it.

After having obtained, with some difficulty, the permission of
Cardinal Colonna, he took leave of his friends at Avignon, and set
out for Marseilles.

Embarking there in a ship that was setting sail for Civita Vecchia, he
concealed his name, and gave himself out for a pilgrim going to
worship at Rome. Great was his joy when, from the deck, he could
discover the coast of his beloved Italy.

It was a joy, nevertheless, chastened by one indomitable
recollection--that of the idol he had left behind. On his landing he
perceived a laurel tree; its name seemed to typify her who dwelt
for ever in his heart: he flew to embrace it; but in his transports
overlooked a brook that was between them, into which he fell--and the
accident caused him to swoon. Always occupied with Laura, he says,
"On those shores washed by the Tyrrhene sea, I beheld that stately
laurel which always warms my imagination, and, through my impatience,
fell breathless into the intervening stream.

I was alone, and in the woods, yet I blushed at my own heedlessness;
for, to the reflecting mind, no witness is necessary to excite the emotion
of shame."

It was not easy for Petrarch to pass from the coast of Tuscany to Rome;
for war between the Ursini and Colonna houses had been renewed
with more fury than ever, and filled all the surrounding country
with armed men.

As he had no escort, he took refuge in the castle of Capranica, where
he was hospitably received by Orso, Count of Anguillara, who had
married Agnes Colonna, sister of the Cardinal and the Bishop.

In his letter to the latter, Petrarch luxuriates in describing the
romantic and rich landscape of Capranica, a country believed by the
ancients to have been the first that was cultivated under the reign
of Saturn.

He draws, however, a frightful contrast to its rural picture in the
horrors of war which here prevailed. "Peace," he says, "is the only charm
which I could not find in this beautiful region. The shepherd, instead
of guarding against wolves, goes armed into the woods to defend himself
against men.

The labourer, in a coat of mail, uses a lance instead of a goad,
to drive his cattle.

The fowler covers himself with a shield as he draws his nets; the fisherman
carries a sword whilst he hooks his fish; and the native draws
water from the well in an old rusty casque, instead of a pail.

In a word, arms are used here as tools and implements for all the labours
of the field, and all the wants of men. In the night are heard dreadful
howlings round the walls of towns, and and in the day terrible voices
crying incessantly to arms. What music is this compared with those soft
and harmonious sounds which. I drew from my lute at Avignon!"
On his arrival at Capranica, Petrarch despatched a courier to the
Bishop of Lombes, informing him where he was, and of his inability
to get to Rome, all roads to it being beset by the enemy.

The Bishop expressed great joy at his friend's arrival in Italy, and went
to meet him at Capranica, with Stefano Colonna, his brother, senator
of Rome.

They had with them only a troop of one hundred horsemen; and, considering
that the enemy kept possession of the country with five hundred men, it
is wonderful that they met with no difficulties on their route;
but the reputation of the Colonnas had struck terror into the hostile
camp.

They entered Rome without having had a single skirmish with the
enemy.

Stefano Colonna, in his quality of senator, occupied the Capitol,
where he assigned apartments to Petrarch; and the poet was lodged on
that famous hill which Scipio, Metellus, and Pompey, had ascended in
triumph.
Petrarch was received and treated by the Colonnas Like a child of their
family. The venerable old Stefano, who had known him at Avignon,
loaded our poet with kindness. But, of all the family, it would seem
that Petrarch delighted most in the conversation of Giovanni da S.

Vito, a younger brother of the aged Stefano, and uncle of the Cardinal
and Bishop. Their tastes were congenial. Giovanni had made a
particular study of the antiquities of Rome; he was, therefore, a most
welcome cicerone to our poet, being, perhaps, the only Roman then alive,
who understood the subject deeply, if we except Cola di Rienzo,
of whom we shall soon have occasion to speak.

In company with Giovanni, Petrarch inspected the relics of the "eternal
city:" the former was more versed than his companion in ancient history,
but the other surpassed him in acquaintance with modern times, as
well as with the objects of antiquity that stood immediately before
them.

What an interesting object is Petrarch contemplating the ruins of Rome!
He wrote to the Cardinal Colonna as follows:--"I gave you so long an
account of Capranica that you may naturally expect a still longer
description of Rome.

My materials for this subject are, indeed, inexhaustible; but they
will serve for some future opportunity.

At present, I am so wonder-struck by so many great objects that I
know not where to begin. One circumstance, however, I cannot omit, which
has turned out contrary to your surmises. You represented to me that
Rome was a city in ruins, and that it would not come up to the imagination
I had formed of it; but this has not happened--on the contrary, my most
sanguine expectations have been surpassed.

Rome is greater, and her remains are more awful, than my imagination had
conceived. It is not matter of wonder that she acquired universal
dominion. I am only surprised that it was so late before she came to
it."
In the midst of his meditations among the relics of Rome, Petrarch
was struck by the ignorance about their forefathers, with which the
natives looked on those monuments.

The veneration which they had for them was vague and uninformed. "It
is lamentable," he says, "that nowhere in the world is Rome less
known than at Rome."

It is not exactly known in what month Petrarch left the Roman capital;
but, between his departure from that city, and his return to the banks
of the Rhone, he took an extensive tour over Europe. He made a voyage
along its southern coasts, passed the straits of Gibraltar, and
sailed as far northward as the British shores.

During his wanderings, he wrote a letter to Tommaso da Messina,
containing a long geographical dissertation on the island of Thule.

Petrarch approached the British shores; why were they not fated to have
the honour of receiving him? Ah! but who was there, then, in England
that was capable of receiving him? Chaucer was but a child. We had the
names of some learned men, but our language had no literature.

Time works wonders in a few centuries; and England, _now_ proud of her
Shakespeare and her Verulam, looks not with envy on the glory of any
earthly nation. During his excitement by these travels, a singular
change took place in our poet's habitual feelings.

He recovered his health and spirits; he could bear to think of Laura
with equanimity, and his countenance resumed the cheerfulness that was
natural to a man in the strength of his age. Nay, he became so sanguine
in his belief that he had overcome his passion as to jest at his past
sufferings; and, in this gay state of mind, he came back to Avignon.

This was the crowning misfortune of his life.

He saw Laura once more; he was enthralled anew; and he might
now laugh in agony at his late self-congratulations on his delivery
from her enchantment. With all the pity that we bestow on unfortunate
love, and with all the respect that we owe to its constancy, still we
cannot look but with a regret amounting to impatience on a man
returning to the spot that was to rekindle his passion as recklessly as
a moth to the candle, and binding himself over for life to an affection
that was worse than hopeless, inasmuch as its success would bring more
misery than its failure. It is said that Petrarch, if it had not been
for this passion, would not have been the poet that he was. Not, perhaps,
so good an amatory poet; but I firmly believe that he would have
been a more various and masculine, and, upon the whole, _a greater
poet_, if he had never been bewitched by Laura. However, _he did_ return
to take possession of his canonicate at Lombes, and to lose possession
of his peace of mind.

In the April of the following year, 1336, he made an excursion, in company
with his brother Gherardo, to the top of Mount Ventoux, in the
neighbourhood of Avignon; a full description of which he sent in
a letter to Dionisio dal Borgo a San Sepolcro; but there is nothing
peculiarly interesting in this occurrence.

A more important event in his life took place during the following year,
1337--namely, that he had a son born to him, whom he christened by the
name of John, and to whom he acknowledged his relationship of paternity.

Among the latter she noticed
some of those personages who had stood outside the windows of the King's
Arms.

Behind their backs was a small window, with a wheel ventilator in one
of the panes, which would suddenly start off spinning with a jingling
sound, as suddenly stop, and as suddenly start again.

While thus furtively making her survey the opening words of a song
greeted her ears from the front of the settle, in a melody and accent
of peculiar charm. There had been some singing before she came down; and
now the Scotchman had made himself so soon at home that, at the request
of some of the master-tradesmen, he, too, was favouring the room with a
ditty.

Elizabeth-Jane was fond of music; she could not help pausing to listen;
and the longer she listened the more she was enraptured. She had never
heard any singing like this and it was evident that the majority of the
audience had not heard such frequently, for they were attentive to a
much greater degree than usual. They neither whispered, nor drank, nor
dipped their pipe-stems in their ale to moisten them, nor pushed the mug
to their neighbours. The singer himself grew emotional, till she could
imagine a tear in his eye as the words went on:--

     "It's hame, and it's hame, hame fain would I be,
     O hame, hame, hame to my ain countree!
     There's an eye that ever weeps, and a fair face will be fain,
     As I pass through Annan Water with my bonnie bands again;
     When the flower is in the bud, and the leaf upon the tree,
     The lark shall sing me hame to my ain countree!"

There was a burst of applause, and a deep silence which was even more
eloquent than the applause. It was of such a kind that the snapping of a
pipe-stem too long for him by old Solomon Longways, who was one of those
gathered at the shady end of the room, seemed a harsh and irreverent
act. Then the ventilator in the window-pane spasmodically started off
for a new spin, and the pathos of Donald's song was temporarily effaced.

"'Twas not amiss--not at all amiss!" muttered Christopher Coney, who was
also present. And removing his pipe a finger's breadth from his lips, he
said aloud, "Draw on with the next verse, young gentleman, please."

"Yes. Let's have it again, stranger," said the glazier, a stout,
bucket-headed man, with a white apron rolled up round his waist. "Folks
don't lift up their hearts like that in this part of the world." And
turning aside, he said in undertones, "Who is the young man?--Scotch,
d'ye say?"

"Yes, straight from the mountains of Scotland, I believe," replied
Coney.

Young Farfrae repeated the last verse. It was plain that nothing so
pathetic had been heard at the Three Mariners for a considerable time.
The difference of accent, the excitability of the singer, the intense
local feeling, and the seriousness with which he worked himself up to a
climax, surprised this set of worthies, who were only too prone to shut
up their emotions with caustic words.

"Danged if our country down here is worth singing about like that!"
continued the glazier, as the Scotchman again melodized with a dying
fall, "My ain countree!" "When you take away from among us the fools
and the rogues, and the lammigers, and the wanton hussies, and the
slatterns, and such like, there's cust few left to ornament a song with
in Casterbridge, or the country round."

"True," said Buzzford, the dealer, looking at the grain of the table.
"Casterbridge is a old, hoary place o' wickedness, by all account. 'Tis
recorded in history that we rebelled against the King one or two hundred
years ago, in the time of the Romans, and that lots of us was hanged
on Gallows Hill, and quartered, and our different jints sent about the
country like butcher's meat; and for my part I can well believe it."

"What did ye come away from yer own country for, young maister, if ye be
so wownded about it?" inquired Christopher Coney, from the background,
with the tone of a man who preferred the original subject. "Faith, it
wasn't worth your while on our account, for as Maister Billy Wills says,
we be bruckle folk here--the best o' us hardly honest sometimes, what
with hard winters, and so many mouths to fill, and Goda'mighty sending
his little taties so terrible small to fill 'em with. We don't
think about flowers and fair faces, not we--except in the shape o'
cauliflowers and pigs' chaps."

"But, no!" said Donald Farfrae, gazing round into their faces with
earnest concern; "the best of ye hardly honest--not that surely? None of
ye has been stealing what didn't belong to him?"

"Lord! no, no!" said Solomon Longways, smiling grimly. "That's only his
random way o' speaking. 'A was always such a man of underthoughts." (And
reprovingly towards Christopher): "Don't ye be so over-familiar with a
gentleman that ye know nothing of--and that's travelled a'most from the
North Pole."

Christopher Coney was silenced, and as he could get no public sympathy,
he mumbled his feelings to himself: "Be dazed, if I loved my country
half as well as the young feller do, I'd live by claning my neighbour's
pigsties afore I'd go away! For my part I've no more love for my country
than I have for Botany Bay!"

"Come," said Longways; "let the young man draw onward with his ballet,
or we shall be here all night."

"That's all of it," said the singer apologetically.

"Soul of my body, then we'll have another!" said the general dealer.

"Can you turn a strain to the ladies, sir?" inquired a fat woman with
a figured purple apron, the waiststring of which was overhung so far by
her sides as to be invisible.

"Let him breathe--let him breathe, Mother Cuxsom. He hain't got his
second wind yet," said the master glazier.

"Oh yes, but I have!" exclaimed the young man; and he at once rendered
"O Nannie" with faultless modulations, and another or two of the like
sentiment, winding up at their earnest request with "Auld Lang Syne."

By this time he had completely taken possession of the hearts of the
Three Mariners' inmates, including even old Coney. Notwithstanding an
occasional odd gravity which awoke their sense of the ludicrous for the
moment, they began to view him through a golden haze which the tone
of his mind seemed to raise around him. Casterbridge had
sentiment--Casterbridge had romance; but this stranger's sentiment was
of differing quality. Or rather, perhaps, the difference was mainly
superficial; he was to them like the poet of a new school who takes
his contemporaries by storm; who is not really new, but is the first
to articulate what all his listeners have felt, though but dumbly till
then.

The silent landlord came and leant over the settle while the young
man sang; and even Mrs. Stannidge managed to unstick herself from the
framework of her chair in the bar and get as far as the door-post,
which movement she accomplished by rolling herself round, as a cask
is trundled on the chine by a drayman without losing much of its
perpendicular.

"And are you going to bide in Casterbridge, sir?" she asked.

"Ah--no!" said the Scotchman, with melancholy fatality in his voice,
"I'm only passing thirrough! I am on my way to Bristol, and on frae
there to foreign parts."

"We be truly sorry to hear it," said Solomon Longways. "We can ill
afford to lose tuneful wynd-pipes like yours when they fall among us.
And verily, to mak' acquaintance with a man a-come from so far, from the
land o' perpetual snow, as we may say, where wolves and wild boars and
other dangerous animalcules be as common as blackbirds here-about--why,
'tis a thing we can't do every day; and there's good sound information
for bide-at-homes like we when such a man opens his mouth."

"Nay, but ye mistake my country," said the young man, looking round upon
them with tragic fixity, till his eye lighted up and his cheek kindled
with a sudden enthusiasm to right their errors. "There are not perpetual
snow and wolves at all in it!--except snow in winter, and--well--a
little in summer just sometimes, and a 'gaberlunzie' or two stalking
about here and there, if ye may call them dangerous. Eh, but you should
take a summer jarreny to Edinboro', and Arthur's Seat, and all round
there, and then go on to the lochs, and all the Highland scenery--in May
and June--and you would never say 'tis the land of wolves and perpetual
snow!"

"Of course not--it stands to reason," said Buzzford. "'Tis barren
ignorance that leads to such words. He's a simple home-spun man, that
never was fit for good company--think nothing of him, sir."

"And do ye carry your flock bed, and your quilt, and your crock, and
your bit of chiney? or do ye go in bare bones, as I may say?" inquired
Christopher Coney.

"I've sent on my luggage--though it isn't much; for the voyage is long."
Donald's eyes dropped into a remote gaze as he added: "But I said to
myself, 'Never a one of the prizes of life will I come by unless I
undertake it!' and I decided to go."

A general sense of regret, in which Elizabeth-Jane shared not least,
made itself apparent in the company. As she looked at Farfrae from the
back of the settle she decided that his statements showed him to be no
less thoughtful than his fascinating melodies revealed him to be cordial
and impassioned. She admired the serious light in which he looked at
serious things. He had seen no jest in ambiguities and roguery, as the
Casterbridge toss-pots had done; and rightly not--there was none. She
disliked those wretched humours of Christopher Coney and his tribe; and
he did not appreciate them. He seemed to feel exactly as she felt about
life and its surroundings--that they were a tragical rather than a
comical thing; that though one could be gay on occasion, moments
of gaiety were interludes, and no part of the actual drama. It was
extraordinary how similar their views were.

Though it was still early the young Scotchman expressed his wish to
retire, whereupon the landlady whispered to Elizabeth to run upstairs
and turn down his bed. She took a candlestick and proceeded on her
mission, which was the act of a few moments only. When, candle in hand,
she reached the top of the stairs on her way down again, Mr. Farfrae
was at the foot coming up. She could not very well retreat; they met and
passed in the turn of the staircase.

She must have appeared interesting in some way--not-withstanding her
plain dress--or rather, possibly, in consequence of it, for she was
a girl characterized by earnestness and soberness of mien, with which
simple drapery accorded well. Her face flushed, too, at the slight
awkwardness of the meeting, and she passed him with her eyes bent on the
candle-flame that she carried just below her nose. Thus it happened
that when confronting her he smiled; and then, with the manner of a
temporarily light-hearted man, who has started himself on a flight of
song whose momentum he cannot readily check, he softly tuned an old
ditty that she seemed to suggest--

         "As I came in by my bower door,
            As day was waxin' wearie,
         Oh wha came tripping down the stair
            But bonnie Peg my dearie."

Elizabeth-Jane, rather disconcerted, hastened on; and the Scotchman's
voice died away, humming more of the same within the closed door of his
room.

Here the scene and sentiment ended for the present. When soon after,
the girl rejoined her mother, the latter was still in thought--on quite
another matter than a young man's song.

"We've made a mistake," she whispered (that the Scotch-man might not
overhear). "On no account ought ye to have helped serve here to-night.
Not because of ourselves, but for the sake of him. If he should befriend
us, and take us up, and then find out what you did when staying here,
'twould grieve and wound his natural pride as Mayor of the town."

Elizabeth, who would perhaps have been more alarmed at this than her
mother had she known the real relationship, was not much disturbed about
it as things stood. Her "he" was another man than her poor mother's.
"For myself," she said, "I didn't at all mind waiting a little upon him.
He's so respectable, and educated--far above the rest of 'em in the inn.
They thought him very simple not to know their grim broad way of talking
about themselves here. But of course he didn't know--he was too refined
in his mind to know such things!" Thus she earnestly pleaded.

Meanwhile, the "he" of her mother was not so far away as even they
thought. After leaving the Three Mariners he had sauntered up and down
the empty High Street, passing and repassing the inn in his promenade.
When the Scotchman sang his voice had reached Henchard's ears through
the heart-shaped holes in the window-shutters, and had led him to pause
outside them a long while.

"To be sure, to be sure, how that fellow does draw me!" he had said to
himself. "I suppose 'tis because I'm so lonely. I'd have given him a
third share in the business to have stayed!"


9.


When Elizabeth-Jane opened the hinged casement next morning the mellow
air brought in the feel of imminent autumn almost as distinctly as if
she had been in the remotest hamlet. Casterbridge was the complement of
the rural life around, not its urban opposite. Bees and butterflies in
the cornfields at the top of the town, who desired to get to the meads
at the bottom, took no circuitous course, but flew straight down High
Street without any apparent consciousness that they were traversing
strange latitudes. And in autumn airy spheres of thistledown floated
into the same street, lodged upon the shop fronts, blew into drains,
and innumerable tawny and yellow leaves skimmed along the pavement, and
stole through people's doorways into their passages with a hesitating
scratch on the floor, like the skirts of timid visitors.

Hearing voices, one of which was close at hand, she withdrew her head
and glanced from behind the window-curtains. Mr. Henchard--now habited
no longer as a great personage, but as a thriving man of business--was
pausing on his way up the middle of the street, and the Scotchman was
looking from the window adjoining her own. Henchard it appeared, had
gone a little way past the inn before he had noticed his acquaintance of
the previous evening. He came back a few steps, Donald Farfrae opening
the window further.

"And you are off soon, I suppose?" said Henchard upwards.

"Yes--almost this moment, sir," said the other. "Maybe I'll walk on till
the coach makes up on me."

"Which way?"

"The way ye are going."

"Then shall we walk together to the top o' town?"

"If ye'll wait a minute," said the Scotchman.

In a few minutes the latter emerged, bag in hand. Henchard looked at the
bag as at an enemy. It showed there was no mistake about the young man's
departure. "Ah, my lad," he said, "you should have been a wise man, and
have stayed with me."

"Yes, yes--it might have been wiser," said Donald, looking
microscopically at the houses that were furthest off. "It is only
telling ye the truth when I say my plans are vague."

They had by this time passed on from the precincts of the inn,
and Elizabeth-Jane heard no more. She saw that they continued
in conversation, Henchard turning to the other occasionally, and
emphasizing some remark with a gesture. Thus they passed the King's Arms
Hotel, the Market House, St. Peter's churchyard wall, ascending to the
upper end of the long street till they were small as two grains of corn;
when they bent suddenly to the right into the Bristol Road, and were out
of view.

"He was a good man--and he's gone," she said to herself. "I was nothing
to him, and there was no reason why he should have wished me good-bye."

The simple thought, with its latent sense of slight, had moulded itself
out of the following little fact: when the Scotchman came out at the
door he had by accident glanced up at her; and then he had looked away
again without nodding, or smiling, or saying a word.

"You are still thinking, mother," she said, when she turned inwards.

"Yes; I am thinking of Mr. Henchard's sudden liking for that young man.
He was always so. Now, surely, if he takes so warmly to people who are
not related to him at all, may he not take as warmly to his own kin?"

While they debated this question a procession of five large waggons went
past, laden with hay up to the bedroom windows. They came in from the
country, and the steaming horses had probably been travelling a great
part of the night. To the shaft of each hung a little board, on which
was painted in white letters, "Henchard, corn-factor and hay-merchant."
The spectacle renewed his wife's conviction that, for her daughter's
sake, she should strain a point to rejoin him.

The discussion was continued during breakfast, and the end of it was
that Mrs. Henchard decided, for good or for ill, to send Elizabeth-Jane
with a message to Henchard, to the effect that his relative Susan, a
sailor's widow, was in the town; leaving it to him to say whether or not
he would recognize her. What had brought her to this determination were
chiefly two things. He had been described as a lonely widower; and
he had expressed shame for a past transaction of his life. There was
promise in both.

"If he says no," she enjoined, as Elizabeth-Jane stood, bonnet on, ready
to depart; "if he thinks it does not become the good position he has
reached to in the town, to own--to let us call on him as--his distant
kinfolk, say, 'Then, sir, we would rather not intrude; we will leave
Casterbridge as quietly as we have come, and go back to our own
country.'...I almost feel that I would rather he did say so, as I have
not seen him for so many years, and we are so--little allied to him!"

"And if he say yes?" inquired the more sanguine one.

"In that case," answered Mrs. Henchard cautiously, "ask him to write me
a note, saying when and how he will see us--or ME."

Elizabeth-Jane went a few steps towards the landing. "And tell him,"
continued her mother, "that I fully know I have no claim upon him--that
I am glad to find he is thriving; that I hope his life may be long and
happy--there, go." Thus with a half-hearted willingness, a smothered
reluctance, did the poor forgiving woman start her unconscious daughter
on this errand.

It was about ten o'clock, and market-day, when Elizabeth paced up the
High Street, in no great hurry; for to herself her position was only
that of a poor relation deputed to hunt up a rich one. The front doors
of the private houses were mostly left open at this warm autumn time,
no thought of umbrella stealers disturbing the minds of the placid
burgesses. Hence, through the long, straight, entrance passages thus
unclosed could be seen, as through tunnels, the mossy gardens at the
back, glowing with nasturtiums, fuchsias, scarlet geraniums, "bloody
warriors," snapdragons, and dahlias, this floral blaze being backed by
crusted grey stone-work remaining from a yet remoter Casterbridge than
the venerable one visible in the street. The old-fashioned fronts of
these houses, which had older than old-fashioned backs, rose sheer
from the pavement, into which the bow windows protruded like bastions,
necessitating a pleasing chassez-dechassez movement to the time-pressed
pedestrian at every few yards. He was bound also to evolve
other Terpsichorean figures in respect of door-steps, scrapers,
cellar-hatches, church buttresses, and the overhanging angles of walls
which, originally unobtrusive, had become bow-legged and knock-kneed.

In addition to these fixed obstacles which spoke so cheerfully of
individual unrestraint as to boundaries, movables occupied the path and
roadway to a perplexing extent. First the vans of the carriers in
and out of Casterbridge, who hailed from Mellstock, Weatherbury, The
Hintocks, Sherton-Abbas, Kingsbere, Overcombe, and many other towns and
villages round. Their owners were numerous enough to be regarded as a
tribe, and had almost distinctiveness enough to be regarded as a race.
Their vans had just arrived, and were drawn up on each side of the
street in close file, so as to form at places a wall between the
pavement and the roadway. Moreover every shop pitched out half its
contents upon trestles and boxes on the kerb, extending the display
each week a little further and further into the roadway, despite the
expostulations of the two feeble old constables, until there remained
but a tortuous defile for carriages down the centre of the street, which
afforded fine opportunities for skill with the reins. Over the pavement
on the sunny side of the way hung shopblinds so constructed as to give
the passenger's hat a smart buffet off his head, as from the unseen
hands of Cranstoun's Goblin Page, celebrated in romantic lore.

Horses for sale were tied in rows, their forelegs on the pavement, their
hind legs in the street, in which position they occasionally nipped
little boys by the shoulder who were passing to school. And any inviting
recess in front of a house that had been modestly kept back from the
general line was utilized by pig-dealers as a pen for their stock.

The yeomen, farmers, dairymen, and townsfolk, who came to transact
business in these ancient streets, spoke in other ways than by
articulation. Not to hear the words of your interlocutor in metropolitan
centres is to know nothing of his meaning. Here the face, the arms, the
hat, the stick, the body throughout spoke equally with the tongue. To
express satisfaction the Casterbridge market-man added to his utterance
a broadening of the cheeks, a crevicing of the eyes, a throwing back of
the shoulders, which was intelligible from the other end of the street.
If he wondered, though all Henchard's carts and waggons were rattling
past him, you knew it from perceiving the inside of his crimson mouth,
and a target-like circling of his eyes. Deliberation caused sundry
attacks on the moss of adjoining walls with the end of his stick,
a change of his hat from the horizontal to the less so; a sense of
tediousness announced itself in a lowering of the person by spreading
the knees to a lozenge-shaped aperture and contorting the arms.
Chicanery, subterfuge, had hardly a place in the streets of this honest
borough to all appearance; and it was said that the lawyers in the Court
House hard by occasionally threw in strong arguments for the other side
out of pure generosity (though apparently by mischance) when advancing
their own.

Thus Casterbridge was in most respects but the pole, focus, or
nerve-knot of the surrounding country life; differing from the many
manufacturing towns which are as foreign bodies set down, like boulders
on a plain, in a green world with which they have nothing in common.
Casterbridge lived by agriculture at one remove further from the
fountainhead than the adjoining villages--no more. The townsfolk
understood every fluctuation in the rustic's condition, for it affected
their receipts as much as the labourer's; they entered into the troubles
and joys which moved the aristocratic families ten miles round--for the
same reason. And even at the dinner-parties of the professional families
the subjects of discussion were corn, cattle-disease, sowing and
reaping, fencing and planting; while politics were viewed by them less
from their own standpoint of burgesses with rights and privileges than
from the standpoint of their country neighbours.

All the venerable contrivances and confusions which delighted the eye
by their quaintness, and in a measure reasonableness, in this rare old
market-town, were metropolitan novelties to the unpractised eyes of
Elizabeth-Jane, fresh from netting fish-seines in a seaside cottage.
Very little inquiry was necessary to guide her footsteps. Henchard's
house was one of the best, faced with dull red-and-grey old brick. The
front door was open, and, as in other houses, she could see through the
passage to the end of the garden--nearly a quarter of a mile off.

Mr. Henchard was not in the house, but in the store-yard. She was
conducted into the mossy garden, and through a door in the wall, which
was studded with rusty nails speaking of generations of fruit-trees that
had been trained there. The door opened upon the yard, and here she was
left to find him as she could. It was a place flanked by hay-barns, into
which tons of fodder, all in trusses, were being packed from the waggons
she had seen pass the inn that morning. On other sides of the yard were
wooden granaries on stone staddles, to which access was given by Flemish
ladders, and a store-house several floors high. Wherever the doors of
these places were open, a closely packed throng of bursting wheat-sacks
could be seen standing inside, with the air of awaiting a famine that
would not come.

She wandered about this place, uncomfortably conscious of the impending
interview, till she was quite weary of searching; she ventured to
inquire of a boy in what quarter Mr. Henchard could be found. He
directed her to an office which she had not seen before, and knocking at
the door she was answered by a cry of "Come in."

Elizabeth turned the handle; and there stood before her, bending over
some sample-bags on a table, not the corn-merchant, but the young
Scotchman Mr. Farfrae--in the act of pouring some grains of wheat from
one hand to the other. His hat hung on a peg behind him, and the roses
of his carpet-bag glowed from the corner of the room.

Having toned her feelings and arranged words on her lips for Mr.
Henchard, and for him alone, she was for the moment confounded.

"Yes, what it is?" said the Scotchman, like a man who permanently ruled
there.

She said she wanted to see Mr. Henchard.

"Ah, yes; will you wait a minute? He's engaged just now," said the young
man, apparently not recognizing her as the girl at the inn. He handed
her a chair, bade her sit down and turned to his sample-bags again.
While Elizabeth-Jane sits waiting in great amaze at the young man's
presence we may briefly explain how he came there.

When the two new acquaintances had passed out of sight that morning
towards the Bath and Bristol road they went on silently, except for a
few commonplaces, till they had gone down an avenue on the town walls
called the Chalk Walk, leading to an angle where the North and West
escarpments met. From this high corner of the square earthworks a vast
extent of country could be seen. A footpath ran steeply down the green
slope, conducting from the shady promenade on the walls to a road at the
bottom of the scarp. It was by this path the Scotchman had to descend.

"Well, here's success to 'ee," said Henchard, holding out his right hand
and leaning with his left upon the wicket which protected the descent.
In the act there was the inelegance of one whose feelings are nipped and
wishes defeated. "I shall often think of this time, and of how you came
at the very moment to throw a light upon my difficulty."

Still holding the young man's hand he paused, and then added
deliberately: "Now I am not the man to let a cause be lost for want of
a word. And before ye are gone for ever I'll speak. Once more, will
ye stay? There it is, flat and plain. You can see that it isn't all
selfishness that makes me press 'ee; for my business is not quite so
scientific as to require an intellect entirely out of the common. Others
would do for the place without doubt. Some selfishness perhaps there
is, but there is more; it isn't for me to repeat what. Come bide with
me--and name your own terms. I'll agree to 'em willingly and 'ithout a
word of gainsaying; for, hang it, Farfrae, I like thee well!"

The young man's hand remained steady in Henchard's for a moment or two.
He looked over the fertile country that stretched beneath them, then
backward along the shaded walk reaching to the top of the town. His face
flushed.

"I never expected this--I did not!" he said. "It's Providence! Should
any one go against it? No; I'll not go to America; I'll stay and be your
man!"

His hand, which had lain lifeless in Henchard's, returned the latter's
grasp.

"Done," said Henchard.

"Done," said Donald Farfrae.

The face of Mr. Henchard beamed forth a satisfaction that was almost
fierce in its strength. "Now you are my friend!" he exclaimed. "Come
back to my house; let's clinch it at once by clear terms, so as to be
comfortable in our minds." Farfrae caught up his bag and retraced the
North-West Avenue in Henchard's company as he had come. Henchard was all
confidence now.

"I am the most distant fellow in the world when I don't care for a man,"
he said. "But when a man takes my fancy he takes it strong. Now I am
sure you can eat another breakfast? You couldn't have eaten much so
early, even if they had anything at that place to gi'e thee, which they
hadn't; so come to my house and we will have a solid, staunch tuck-in,
and settle terms in black-and-white if you like; though my word's my
bond. I can always make a good meal in the morning. I've got a splendid
cold pigeon-pie going just now. You can have some home-brewed if you
want to, you know."

"It is too airly in the morning for that," said Farfrae with a smile.

"Well, of course, I didn't know. I don't drink it because of my oath,
but I am obliged to brew for my work-people."

Thus talking they returned, and entered Henchard's premises by the back
way or traffic entrance. xcix
1355. His embassy to the Emperor--publishes his "Invective against
a Physician." xcix
1360. His embassy to John, King of France. cxii
1361. Leaves Milan and settles at Venice--gives his library to the
Venetians. cxiii
1364.

Writes for Lucchino del Verme his treatise "De Officio et Virtutibus
Imperatoris." cxvii
1366.

Writes to Urban V. imploring him to remove the Papal residence to
Rome--finishes his treatise "De Remediis utriusque Fortunæ." cxviii
1368.

Quits Venice--four young Venetians, either in this year or the
preceding, promulgate a critical judgment against Petrarch--repairs
to Pavia to negotiate peace between the Pope's Legate and the Visconti.
cxix
1370.

Sets out to visit the Pontiff--is taken ill at Ferrara-- retires
to Arquà among the Euganean hills. cxxii 
1371.

Writes his "Invectiva contra Gallum," and his "Epistle to Posterity."
cxxiii 
1372.

Writes for Francesco da Carrara his essay "De Republica optime
administranda." cxxx
1373. Is sent to Venice by Francesco da Carrara. cxxx

1374. Translates the Griseldis of Boccaccio--dies on the 18th of July
in the same year. cxxxi 

THE LIFE OF PETRARCH.

The family of Petrarch was originally of Florence, where his ancestors
held employments of trust and honour.

Garzo, his great-grandfather, was a notary universally respected
for his integrity and judgment.

Though he had never devoted himself exclusively to letters, his
literary opinion was consulted by men of learning.

He lived to be a hundred and four years old, and died, like Plato,
in the same bed in which he had been born.

Garzo left three sons, one of whom was the grandfather of Petrarch.

Diminutives being customary to the Tuscan tongue, Pietro, the poet's father,
was familiarly called Petracco, or little Peter. He, like his ancestors,
was a notary, and not undistinguished for sagacity. He had several
important commissions from government. At last, in the increasing
conflicts between the Guelphs and the Ghibellines--or, as they now
called themselves, the Blacks and the Whites--Petracco, like Dante,
was obliged to fly from his native city, along with the other
Florentines of the White party.

He was unjustly accused of having officially issued a false deed,
and was condemned, on the 20th of October, 1302, to pay a fine of
one thousand lire, and to have his hand cut off, if that sum was
not paid within ten days from the time he should be apprehended.

Petracco fled, taking with him his wife, Eletta Canigiani, a lady
of a distinguished family in Florence, several of whom had held the
office of Gonfalonier.

Petracco and his wife first settled at Arezzo, a very ancient city of
Tuscany. Hostilities did not cease between the Florentine factions till
some years afterwards; and, in an attempt made by the Whites to
take Florence by assault, Petracco was present with his party.

They were repulsed. This action, which was fatal to their cause, took
place in the night between the 19th and 20th days of July, 1304,--the
precise date of the birth of Petrarch.

During our poet's infancy, his family had still to struggle with
an adverse fate; for his proscribed and wandering father was obliged
to separate himself from his wife and child, in order to have the
means of supporting them.

As the pretext for banishing Petracco was purely personal, Eletta,
his wife, was not included in the sentence.

She removed to a small property of her husband's, at Ancisa, fourteen
miles from Florence, and took the little poet along with her, in
the seventh month of his age.

In their passage thither, both mother and child, together with their
guide, had a narrow escape from being drowned in the Arno.

Eletta entrusted her precious charge to a robust peasant, who, for
fear of hurting the child, wrapt it in a swaddling cloth, and
suspended it over his shoulder, in the same manner as Metabus is
described by Virgil, in the eleventh book of the Æneid, to have
carried his daughter Camilla.

In passing the river, the horse of the guide, who carried Petrarch,
stumbled, and sank down; and in their struggles to save him, both
his sturdy bearer and the frantic parent were, like the infant
itself, on the point of being drowned.

After Eletta had settled at Ancisa, Petracco often visited her by
stealth, and the pledges of their affection were two other sons,
one of whom died in childhood.

The other, called Gherardo, was educated along with Petrarch. Petrarch
remained with his mother at Ancisa for seven years.

The arrival of the Emperor, Henry VII., in Italy, revived the hopes of
the banished Florentines; and Petracco, in order to wait the event,
went to Pisa, whither he brought his wife and Francesco, who was
now in his eighth year.

Petracco remained with his family in Pisa for several months; but tired
at last of fallacious hopes, and not daring to trust himself to
the promises of the popular party, who offered to recall him to
Florence, he sought an asylum in Avignon, a place to which many
Italians were allured by the hopes of honours and gain at the papal
residence.

In this voyage, Petracco and his family were nearly shipwrecked off
Marseilles.

But the numbers that crowded to Avignon, and its luxurious court, rendered
that city an uncomfortable place for a family in slender circumstances.
Petracco accordingly removed his household, in 1315, to Carpentras, a
small quiet town, where living was cheaper than at Avignon. There,
under the care of his mother, Petrarch imbibed his first instruction,
and was taught by one Convennole da Prato as much grammar and logic as
could be learned at his age, and more than could be learned by an
ordinary disciple from so common-place a preceptor. This poor
master, however, had sufficient intelligence to appreciate the genius of
Petrarch, whom he esteemed and honoured beyond all his other pupils. On
the other hand, his illustrious scholar aided him, in his old age
and poverty, out of his scanty income.

Petrarch used to compare Convennole to a whetstone, which is blunt
itself, but which sharpens others.

His old master, however was sharp enough to overreach him in the matter
of borrowing and lending. When the poet had collected a considerable
library, Convennole paid him a visit, and, pretending to be engaged in
something that required him to consult Cicero, borrowed a copy of
one of the works of that orator, which was particularly valuable.

He made excuses, from time to time, for not returning it; but
Petrarch, at last, had too good reason to suspect that the old
grammarian had pawned it.

The poet would willingly have paid for redeeming it, but Convennole
was so much ashamed, that he would not tell to whom it was pawned;
and the precious manuscript was lost.

Petracco contracted an intimacy with Settimo, a Genoese, who was
like himself, an exile for his political principles, and who fixed
his abode at Avignon with his wife and his boy, Guido Settimo, who
was about the same age with Petrarch.

The two youths formed a friendship, which subsisted between them for
life.

Petrarch manifested signs of extraordinary sensibility to the charms
of nature in his childhood, both when he was at Carpentras and at
Avignon.

One day, when he was at the latter residence, a party was made up,
to see the fountain of Vaucluse, a few leagues from Avignon. The little
Francesco had no sooner arrived at the lovely landscape than he was
struck with its beauties, and exclaimed, "Here, now, is a retirement
suited to my taste, and preferable, in my eyes, to the greatest and
most splendid cities."

A genius so fine as that of our poet could not servilely confine
itself to the slow method of school learning, adapted to the
intellects of ordinary boys.

Accordingly, while his fellow pupils were still plodding through the first
rudiments of Latin, Petrarch had recourse to the original writers, from
whom the grammarians drew their authority, and particularly employed
himself in perusing the works of Cicero. And, although he was, at
this time, much too young to comprehend the full force of the orator's
reasoning, he was so struck with the charms of his style, that
he considered him the only true model in prose composition.

His father, who was himself something of a scholar, was pleased and
astonished at this early proof of his good taste; he applauded his
classical studies, and encouraged him to persevere in them; but,
very soon, he imagined that he had cause to repent of his
commendations.

Classical learning was, in that age, regarded as a mere solitary
accomplishment, and the law was the only road that led to honours and
preferment. Petracco was, therefore, desirous to turn into that channel
the brilliant qualities of his son; and for this purpose he sent him, at
the age of fifteen, to the university of Montpelier.

Petrarch remained there for four years, and attended lectures on law from
some of the most famous professors of the science. But his prepossession
for Cicero prevented him from much frequenting the dry and dusty
walks of jurisprudence.

In his epistle to posterity, he endeavours to justify this repugnance
by other motives. He represents the abuses, the chicanery, and mercenary
practices of the law, as inconsistent with every principle of candour
and honesty.

When Petracco observed that his son made no great progress in his
legal studies at Montpelier, he removed him, in 1323, to Bologna,
celebrated for the study of the canon and civil law, probably
imagining that the superior fame of the latter place might attract
him to love the law.

To Bologna Petrarch was accompanied by his brother Gherardo, and by
his inseparable friend, young Guido Settimo.

But neither the abilities of the several professors in that celebrated
academy, nor the strongest exhortations of his father, were sufficient
to conquer the deeply-rooted aversion which our poet had conceived
for the law.

Accordingly, Petracco hastened to Bologna, that he might endeavour
to check his son's indulgence in literature, which disconcerted his
favourite designs. Petrarch, guessing at the motive of his arrival, hid
the copies of Cicero, Virgil, and some other authors, which composed
his small library, and to purchase which he had deprived himself
of almost the necessaries of life.

His father, however, soon discovered the place of their concealment,
and threw them into the fire.
Petrarch exhibited as much agony as if he had been himself the martyr
of his father's resentment. Petracco was so much affected by his son's
tears, that he rescued from the flames Cicero and Virgil, and, presenting
them to Petrarch, he said, "Virgil will console you for the loss
of your other MSS., and Cicero will prepare you for the study of
the law."

It is by no means wonderful that a mind like Petrarch's could but ill
relish the glosses of the Code and the commentaries on the Decretals.

At Bologna, however, he met with an accomplished literary man and
no inelegant poet in one of the professors, who, if he failed in
persuading Petrarch to make the law his profession, certainly
quickened his relish and ambition for poetry.

This man was Cino da Pistoia, who is esteemed by Italians as the most
tender and harmonious lyric poet in the native language anterior
to Petrarch.

During his residence at Bologna, Petrarch made an excursion as far as
Venice, a city that struck him with enthusiastic admiration.

In one of his letters he calls it "_orbem alterum_."

Whilst Italy was harassed, he says, on all sides by continual dissensions,
like the sea in a storm, Venice alone appeared like a safe harbour,
which overlooked the tempest without feeling its commotion.

The resolute and independent spirit of that republic made an indelible
impression on Petrarch's heart. The young poet, perhaps, at this time
little imagined that Venice was to be the last scene of his
triumphant eloquence.

Soon after his return from Venice to Bologna, he received the melancholy
intelligence of the death of his mother, in the thirty-eighth year of
her age. Her age is known by a copy of verses which Petrarch wrote
upon her death, the verses being the same in number as the years
of her life.
She had lived humble and retired, and had devoted herself to the good
of her family; virtuous amidst the prevalence of corrupted manners, and,
though a beautiful woman, untainted by the breath of calumny.

Petrarch has repaid her maternal affection by preserving her memory
from oblivion. Petracco did not long survive the death of this
excellent woman. According to the judgment of our poet, his father was
a man of strong character and understanding. Banished from his native
country, and engaged in providing for his family, he was prevented
by the scantiness of his fortune, and the cares of his situation,
from rising to that eminence which he might have otherwise attained.

But his admiration of Cicero, in an age when that author was universally
neglected, was a proof of his superior mind.

Petrarch quitted Bologna upon the death of his father, and returned to
Avignon, with his brother Gherardo, to collect the shattered remains of
their father's property. Upon their arrival, they found their domestic
affairs in a state of great disorder, as the executors of Petracco's will
had betrayed the trust reposed in them, and had seized most of the
effects of which they could dispose. Under these circumstances, Petrarch
was most anxious for a MS. of Cicero, which his father had highly
prized. "The guardians," he writes, "eager to appropriate what they
esteemed the more valuable effects, had fortunately left this MS. as a
thing of no value." Thus he owed to their ignorance this treatise,
which he considered the richest portion of the inheritance left
him by his father.

But, that inheritance being small, and not sufficient for the
maintenance of the two brothers, they were obliged to think of
some profession for their subsistence; they therefore entered the
church; and Avignon was the place, of all others, where preferment was
most easily obtained. John XXII. had fixed his residence entirely in
that city since October, 1316, and had appropriated to himself the
nomination to all the vacant benefices. The pretence for this
appropriation was to prevent simony--in others, not in his Holiness--as
the sale of benefices was carried by him to an enormous height. At every
promotion to a bishopric, he removed other bishops; and, by the meanest
impositions, soon amassed prodigious wealth. Scandalous emoluments,
also, which arose from the sale of indulgences, were enlarged, if not
invented, under his papacy, and every method of acquiring riches was
justified which could contribute to feed his avarice. By these sordid
means, he collected such sums, that, according to Villani, he left behind
him, _in the sacred treasury_, twenty-five millions of florins, a
treasure which Voltaire remarks is hardly credible.

The luxury and corruption which reigned in the Roman court at Avignon
are fully displayed in some letters of Petrarch's, without either
date or address. The partizans of that court, it is true, accuse him
of prejudice and exaggeration. He painted, as they allege, the
popes and cardinals in the gloomiest colouring. His letters contain the
blackest catalogue of crimes that ever disgraced humanity.

Petrarch was twenty-two years of age when he settled at Avignon, a scene
of licentiousness and profligacy. The luxury of the cardinals, and the
pomp and riches of the papal court, were displayed in an extravagant
profusion of feasts and ceremonies, which attracted to Avignon
women of all ranks, among whom intrigue and gallantry were generally
countenanced.

Petrarch was by nature of a warm temperament, with vivid and
susceptible passions, and strongly attached to the fair sex. We must
not therefore be surprised if, with these dispositions, and in such a
dissolute city, he was betrayed into some excesses. But these were the
result of his complexion, and not of deliberate profligacy. He alludes
to this subject in his Epistle to Posterity, with every appearance of
truth and candour.

From his own confession, Petrarch seems to have been somewhat vain
of his personal appearance during his youth, a venial foible, from
which neither the handsome nor the homely, nor the wise nor the
foolish, are exempt.

It is amusing to find our own Milton betraying this weakness, in spite of
all the surrounding strength of his character. In answering one of his
slanderers, who had called him pale and cadaverous, the author of Paradise
Lost appeals to all who knew him whether his complexion was not so fresh
and blooming as to make him appear ten years younger than he really
was.

Petrarch, when young, was so strikingly handsome, that he was frequently
pointed at and admired as he passed along, for his features were manly,
well-formed, and expressive, and his carriage was graceful and distinguished.
He was sprightly in conversation, and his voice was uncommonly
musical. His complexion was between brown and fair, and his eyes were
bright and animated. His countenance was a faithful index of his
heart.

He endeavoured to temper the warmth of his constitution by the regularity
of his living and the plainness of his diet. He indulged little in
either wine or sleep, and fed chiefly on fruits and vegetables.

In his early days he was nice and neat in his dress, even to a degree of
affectation, which, in later life, he ridiculed when writing to
his brother Gherardo.

Look to me for money. Have you enough till I come back?"

"Quite," said she.

"And are you comfortable at the inn?"

"O yes."

"And the girl is quite safe from learning the shame of her case and
ours?--that's what makes me most anxious of all."

"You would be surprised to find how unlikely she is to dream of the
truth. How could she ever suppose such a thing?"

True!

"I like the idea of repeating our marriage," said Mrs. Henchard, after
a pause. "It seems the only right course, after all this. Now I think
I must go back to Elizabeth-Jane, and tell her that our kinsman, Mr.
Henchard, kindly wishes us to stay in the town."

"Very well--arrange that yourself. I'll go some way with you."

"No, no. Don't run any risk!" said his wife anxiously. "I can find my
way back--it is not late. Please let me go alone."

"Right," said Henchard. "But just one word. Do you forgive me, Susan?"

She murmured something; but seemed to find it difficult to frame her
answer.

"Never mind--all in good time," said he. "Judge me by my future
works--good-bye!"

He retreated, and stood at the upper side of the Amphitheatre while his
wife passed out through the lower way, and descended under the trees to
the town. Then Henchard himself went homeward, going so fast that by the
time he reached his door he was almost upon the heels of the unconscious
woman from whom he had just parted. He watched her up the street, and
turned into his house.


12.


On entering his own door after watching his wife out of sight, the Mayor
walked on through the tunnel-shaped passage into the garden, and thence
by the back door towards the stores and granaries. A light shone from
the office-window, and there being no blind to screen the interior
Henchard could see Donald Farfrae still seated where he had left him,
initiating himself into the managerial work of the house by overhauling
the books. Henchard entered, merely observing, "Don't let me interrupt
you, if ye will stay so late."

He stood behind Farfrae's chair, watching his dexterity in clearing up
the numerical fogs which had been allowed to grow so thick in Henchard's
books as almost to baffle even the Scotchman's perspicacity. The
corn-factor's mien was half admiring, and yet it was not without a dash
of pity for the tastes of any one who could care to give his mind to
such finnikin details. Henchard himself was mentally and physically
unfit for grubbing subtleties from soiled paper; he had in a modern
sense received the education of Achilles, and found penmanship a
tantalizing art.

"You shall do no more to-night," he said at length, spreading his great
hand over the paper. "There's time enough to-morrow. Come indoors with
me and have some supper. Now you shall! I am determined on't." He shut
the account-books with friendly force.

Donald had wished to get to his lodgings; but he already saw that his
friend and employer was a man who knew no moderation in his requests and
impulses, and he yielded gracefully. He liked Henchard's warmth, even if
it inconvenienced him; the great difference in their characters adding
to the liking.

They locked up the office, and the young man followed his companion
through the private little door which, admitting directly into
Henchard's garden, permitted a passage from the utilitarian to the
beautiful at one step. The garden was silent, dewy, and full of
perfume. It extended a long way back from the house, first as lawn and
flower-beds, then as fruit-garden, where the long-tied espaliers, as old
as the old house itself, had grown so stout, and cramped, and gnarled
that they had pulled their stakes out of the ground and stood distorted
and writhing in vegetable agony, like leafy Laocoons. The flowers which
smelt so sweetly were not discernible; and they passed through them into
the house.

The hospitalities of the morning were repeated, and when they were over
Henchard said, "Pull your chair round to the fireplace, my dear fellow,
and let's make a blaze--there's nothing I hate like a black grate, even
in September." He applied a light to the laid-in fuel, and a cheerful
radiance spread around.

"It is odd," said Henchard, "that two men should meet as we have done on
a purely business ground, and that at the end of the first day I should
wish to speak to 'ee on a family matter. But, damn it all, I am a lonely
man, Farfrae: I have nobody else to speak to; and why shouldn't I tell
it to 'ee?"

"I'll be glad to hear it, if I can be of any service," said Donald,
allowing his eyes to travel over the intricate wood-carvings of the
chimney-piece, representing garlanded lyres, shields, and quivers, on
either side of a draped ox-skull, and flanked by heads of Apollo and
Diana in low relief.

"I've not been always what I am now," continued Henchard, his firm deep
voice being ever so little shaken. He was plainly under that strange
influence which sometimes prompts men to confide to the new-found
friend what they will not tell to the old. "I began life as a working
hay-trusser, and when I was eighteen I married on the strength o' my
calling. Would you think me a married man?"

"I heard in the town that you were a widower."

"Ah, yes--you would naturally have heard that. Well, I lost my wife
nineteen years ago or so--by my own fault....This is how it came about.
One summer evening I was travelling for employment, and she was walking
at my side, carrying the baby, our only child. We came to a booth in a
country fair. I was a drinking man at that time."

Henchard paused a moment, threw himself back so that his elbow rested
on the table, his forehead being shaded by his hand, which, however, did
not hide the marks of introspective inflexibility on his features as
he narrated in fullest detail the incidents of the transaction with the
sailor. The tinge of indifference which had at first been visible in the
Scotchman now disappeared.

Henchard went on to describe his attempts to find his wife; the oath he
swore; the solitary life he led during the years which followed. "I have
kept my oath for nineteen years," he went on; "I have risen to what you
see me now."

"Ay!"

"Well--no wife could I hear of in all that time; and being by nature
something of a woman-hater, I have found it no hardship to keep mostly
at a distance from the sex. No wife could I hear of, I say, till this
very day. And now--she has come back."

"Come back, has she!"

"This morning--this very morning. And what's to be done?"

"Can ye no' take her and live with her, and make some amends?"

"That's what I've planned and proposed. But, Farfrae," said Henchard
gloomily, "by doing right with Susan I wrong another innocent woman."

"Ye don't say that?"

"In the nature of things, Farfrae, it is almost impossible that a man
of my sort should have the good fortune to tide through twenty years o'
life without making more blunders than one. It has been my custom
for many years to run across to Jersey in the the way of business,
particularly in the potato and root season. I do a large trade wi' them
in that line. Well, one autumn when stopping there I fell quite ill, and
in my illness I sank into one of those gloomy fits I sometimes suffer
from, on account o' the loneliness of my domestic life, when the world
seems to have the blackness of hell, and, like Job, I could curse the
day that gave me birth."

"Ah, now, I never feel like it," said Farfrae.

"Then pray to God that you never may, young man. While in this state I
was taken pity on by a woman--a young lady I should call her, for she
was of good family, well bred, and well educated--the daughter of some
harum-scarum military officer who had got into difficulties, and had his
pay sequestrated. He was dead now, and her mother too, and she was as
lonely as I. This young creature was staying at the boarding-house where
I happened to have my lodging; and when I was pulled down she took upon
herself to nurse me. From that she got to have a foolish liking for me.
Heaven knows why, for I wasn't worth it. But being together in the same
house, and her feeling warm, we got naturally intimate. I won't go into
particulars of what our relations were. It is enough to say that we
honestly meant to marry. There arose a scandal, which did me no harm,
but was of course ruin to her. Though, Farfrae, between you and me, as
man and man, I solemnly declare that philandering with womankind
has neither been my vice nor my virtue. She was terribly careless of
appearances, and I was perhaps more, because o' my dreary state; and it
was through this that the scandal arose. At last I was well, and came
away. When I was gone she suffered much on my account, and didn't forget
to tell me so in letters one after another; till latterly, I felt I
owed her something, and thought that, as I had not heard of Susan for so
long, I would make this other one the only return I could make, and ask
her if she would run the risk of Susan being alive (very slight as I
believed) and marry me, such as I was. She jumped for joy, and we should
no doubt soon have been married--but, behold, Susan appears!"

Donald showed his deep concern at a complication so far beyond the
degree of his simple experiences.

"Now see what injury a man may cause around him! Even after that
wrong-doing at the fair when I was young, if I had never been so selfish
as to let this giddy girl devote herself to me over at Jersey, to the
injury of her name, all might now be well. Yet, as it stands, I must
bitterly disappoint one of these women; and it is the second. My first
duty is to Susan--there's no doubt about that."

"They are both in a very melancholy position, and that's true!" murmured
Donald.

"They are! For myself I don't care--'twill all end one way. But these
two." Henchard paused in reverie. "I feel I should like to treat the
second, no less than the first, as kindly as a man can in such a case."

"Ah, well, it cannet be helped!" said the other, with philosophic
woefulness. "You mun write to the young lady, and in your letter you
must put it plain and honest that it turns out she cannet be your wife,
the first having come back; that ye cannet see her more; and that--ye
wish her weel."

"That won't do. 'Od seize it, I must do a little more than that! I
must--though she did always brag about her rich uncle or rich aunt, and
her expectations from 'em--I must send a useful sum of money to her, I
suppose--just as a little recompense, poor girl....Now, will you help me
in this, and draw up an explanation to her of all I've told ye, breaking
it as gently as you can? I'm so bad at letters."

"And I will."

"Now, I haven't told you quite all yet. My wife Susan has my daughter
with her--the baby that was in her arms at the fair; and this girl knows
nothing of me beyond that I am some sort of relation by marriage. She
has grown up in the belief that the sailor to whom I made over her
mother, and who is now dead, was her father, and her mother's husband.
What her mother has always felt, she and I together feel now--that we
can't proclaim our disgrace to the girl by letting her know the truth.
Now what would you do?--I want your advice."

"I think I'd run the risk, and tell her the truth. She'll forgive ye
both."

"Never!" said Henchard. "I am not going to let her know the truth. Her
mother and I be going to marry again; and it will not only help us to
keep our child's respect, but it will be more proper. Susan looks upon
herself as the sailor's widow, and won't think o' living with me as
formerly without another religious ceremony--and she's right."

Farfrae thereupon said no more. The letter to the young Jersey woman was
carefully framed by him, and the interview ended, Henchard saying, as
the Scotchman left, "I feel it a great relief, Farfrae, to tell some
friend o' this! You see now that the Mayor of Casterbridge is not so
thriving in his mind as it seems he might be from the state of his
pocket."

"I do. And I'm sorry for ye!" said Farfrae.

When he was gone Henchard copied the letter, and, enclosing a cheque,
took it to the post-office, from which he walked back thoughtfully.

"Can it be that it will go off so easily!" he said. "Poor thing--God
knows! Now then, to make amends to Susan!"


13.


The cottage which Michael Henchard hired for his wife Susan under her
name of Newson--in pursuance of their plan--was in the upper or western
part of the town, near the Roman wall, and the avenue which overshadowed
it. The evening sun seemed to shine more yellowly there than anywhere
else this autumn--stretching its rays, as the hours grew later, under
the lowest sycamore boughs, and steeping the ground-floor of the
dwelling, with its green shutters, in a substratum of radiance which the
foliage screened from the upper parts. Beneath these sycamores on the
town walls could be seen from the sitting-room the tumuli and earth
forts of the distant uplands; making it altogether a pleasant spot, with
the usual touch of melancholy that a past-marked prospect lends.

As soon as the mother and daughter were comfortably installed, with a
white-aproned servant and all complete, Henchard paid them a visit,
and remained to tea. During the entertainment Elizabeth was carefully
hoodwinked by the very general tone of the conversation that
prevailed--a proceeding which seemed to afford some humour to Henchard,
though his wife was not particularly happy in it. The visit was repeated
again and again with business-like determination by the Mayor, who
seemed to have schooled himself into a course of strict mechanical
rightness towards this woman of prior claim, at any expense to the later
one and to his own sentiments.

One afternoon the daughter was not indoors when Henchard came, and he
said drily, "This is a very good opportunity for me to ask you to name
the happy day, Susan."

The poor woman smiled faintly; she did not enjoy pleasantries on a
situation into which she had entered solely for the sake of her girl's
reputation. She liked them so little, indeed, that there was room for
wonder why she had countenanced deception at all, and had not bravely
let the girl know her history. But the flesh is weak; and the true
explanation came in due course.

"O Michael!" she said, "I am afraid all this is taking up your time and
giving trouble--when I did not expect any such thing!" And she looked at
him and at his dress as a man of affluence, and at the furniture he had
provided for the room--ornate and lavish to her eyes.

"Not at all," said Henchard, in rough benignity. "This is only a
cottage--it costs me next to nothing. And as to taking up my time"--here
his red and black visage kindled with satisfaction--"I've a splendid
fellow to superintend my business now--a man whose like I've never been
able to lay hands on before. I shall soon be able to leave everything
to him, and have more time to call my own than I've had for these last
twenty years."

Henchard's visits here grew so frequent and so regular that it soon
became whispered, and then openly discussed in Casterbridge that the
masterful, coercive Mayor of the town was raptured and enervated by the
genteel widow Mrs. Newson. His well-known haughty indifference to the
society of womankind, his silent avoidance of converse with the sex,
contributed a piquancy to what would otherwise have been an unromantic
matter enough. That such a poor fragile woman should be his choice was
inexplicable, except on the ground that the engagement was a family
affair in which sentimental passion had no place; for it was known that
they were related in some way. Mrs. Henchard was so pale that the boys
called her "The Ghost." Sometimes Henchard overheard this epithet when
they passed together along the Walks--as the avenues on the walls
were named--at which his face would darken with an expression of
destructiveness towards the speakers ominous to see; but he said
nothing.

He pressed on the preparations for his union, or rather reunion, with
this pale creature in a dogged, unflinching spirit which did credit
to his conscientiousness. Nobody would have conceived from his outward
demeanour that there was no amatory fire or pulse of romance acting as
stimulant to the bustle going on in his gaunt, great house; nothing
but three large resolves--one, to make amends to his neglected Susan,
another, to provide a comfortable home for Elizabeth-Jane under his
paternal eye; and a third, to castigate himself with the thorns which
these restitutory acts brought in their train; among them the lowering
of his dignity in public opinion by marrying so comparatively humble a
woman.

Susan Henchard entered a carriage for the first time in her life when
she stepped into the plain brougham which drew up at the door on the
wedding-day to take her and Elizabeth-Jane to church. It was a windless
morning of warm November rain, which floated down like meal, and lay
in a powdery form on the nap of hats and coats. Few people had
gathered round the church door though they were well packed within.
The Scotchman, who assisted as groomsman, was of course the only one
present, beyond the chief actors, who knew the true situation of the
contracting parties. He, however, was too inexperienced, too thoughtful,
too judicial, too strongly conscious of the serious side of the
business, to enter into the scene in its dramatic aspect. That required
the special genius of Christopher Coney, Solomon Longways, Buzzford, and
their fellows. But they knew nothing of the secret; though, as the
time for coming out of church drew on, they gathered on the pavement
adjoining, and expounded the subject according to their lights.

"'Tis five-and-forty years since I had my settlement in this here town,"
said Coney; "but daze me if I ever see a man wait so long before to take
so little! There's a chance even for thee after this, Nance Mockridge."
The remark was addressed to a woman who stood behind his shoulder--the
same who had exhibited Henchard's bad bread in public when Elizabeth and
her mother entered Casterbridge.

"Be cust if I'd marry any such as he, or thee either," replied that
lady. "As for thee, Christopher, we know what ye be, and the less said
the better. And as for he--well, there--(lowering her voice) 'tis said
'a was a poor parish 'prentice--I wouldn't say it for all the world--but
'a was a poor parish 'prentice, that began life wi' no more belonging to
'en than a carrion crow."

"And now he's worth ever so much a minute," murmured Longways. "When a
man is said to be worth so much a minute, he's a man to be considered!"

Turning, he saw a circular disc reticulated with creases, and recognized
the smiling countenance of the fat woman who had asked for another song
at the Three Mariners. "Well, Mother Cuxsom," he said, "how's this?
Here's Mrs. Newson, a mere skellinton, has got another husband to keep
her, while a woman of your tonnage have not."

"I have not. Nor another to beat me....Ah, yes, Cuxsom's gone, and so
shall leather breeches!"

"Yes; with the blessing of God leather breeches shall go."

"'Tisn't worth my old while to think of another husband," continued Mrs.
Cuxsom. "And yet I'll lay my life I'm as respectable born as she."

"True; your mother was a very good woman--I can mind her. She were
rewarded by the Agricultural Society for having begot the greatest
number of healthy children without parish assistance, and other virtuous
marvels."

"'Twas that that kept us so low upon ground--that great hungry family."

"Ay. Where the pigs be many the wash runs thin."

"And dostn't mind how mother would sing, Christopher?" continued Mrs.
Cuxsom, kindling at the retrospection; "and how we went with her to the
party at Mellstock, do ye mind?--at old Dame Ledlow's, farmer Shinar's
aunt, do ye mind?--she we used to call Toad-skin, because her face were
so yaller and freckled, do ye mind?"

"I do, hee-hee, I do!" said Christopher Coney.

"And well do I--for I was getting up husband-high at that time--one-half
girl, and t'other half woman, as one may say. And canst mind"--she
prodded Solomon's shoulder with her finger-tip, while her eyes twinkled
between the crevices of their lids--"canst mind the sherry-wine, and the
zilver-snuffers, and how Joan Dummett was took bad when we were coming
home, and Jack Griggs was forced to carry her through the mud; and how
'a let her fall in Dairyman Sweet-apple's cow-barton, and we had to
clane her gown wi' grass--never such a mess as a' were in?"

"Ay--that I do--hee-hee, such doggery as there was in them ancient days,
to be sure! Ah, the miles I used to walk then; and now I can hardly step
over a furrow!"

Their reminiscences were cut short by the appearance of the reunited
pair--Henchard looking round upon the idlers with that ambiguous gaze
of his, which at one moment seemed to mean satisfaction, and at another
fiery disdain.

"Well--there's a difference between 'em, though he do call himself a
teetotaller," said Nance Mockridge. "She'll wish her cake dough afore
she's done of him. There's a blue-beardy look about 'en; and 'twill out
in time."

"Stuff--he's well enough! Some folk want their luck buttered. If I had a
choice as wide as the ocean sea I wouldn't wish for a better man. A poor
twanking woman like her--'tis a godsend for her, and hardly a pair of
jumps or night-rail to her name."

The plain little brougham drove off in the mist, and the idlers
dispersed. "Well, we hardly know how to look at things in these times!"
said Solomon. "There was a man dropped down dead yesterday, not so very
many miles from here; and what wi' that, and this moist weather, 'tis
scarce worth one's while to begin any work o' consequence to-day. I'm in
such a low key with drinking nothing but small table ninepenny this
last week or two that I shall call and warm up at the Mar'ners as I pass
along."

"I don't know but that I may as well go with 'ee, Solomon," said
Christopher; "I'm as clammy as a cockle-snail."


14.


A Martinmas summer of Mrs. Henchard's life set in with her entry into
her husband's large house and respectable social orbit; and it was as
bright as such summers well can be. Lest she should pine for deeper
affection than he could give he made a point of showing some semblance
of it in external action. Among other things he had the iron railings,
that had smiled sadly in dull rust for the last eighty years, painted
a bright green, and the heavy-barred, small-paned Georgian sash windows
enlivened with three coats of white. He was as kind to her as a man,
mayor, and churchwarden could possibly be. The house was large, the
rooms lofty, and the landings wide; and the two unassuming women
scarcely made a perceptible addition to its contents.

To Elizabeth-Jane the time was a most triumphant one. The freedom she
experienced, the indulgence with which she was treated, went beyond her
expectations. The reposeful, easy, affluent life to which her mother's
marriage had introduced her was, in truth, the beginning of a great
change in Elizabeth. She found she could have nice personal possessions
and ornaments for the asking, and, as the mediaeval saying puts it,
"Take, have, and keep, are pleasant words." With peace of mind came
development, and with development beauty. Knowledge--the result of great
natural insight--she did not lack; learning, accomplishment--those,
alas, she had not; but as the winter and spring passed by her thin
face and figure filled out in rounder and softer curves; the lines and
contractions upon her young brow went away; the muddiness of skin which
she had looked upon as her lot by nature departed with a change to
abundance of good things, and a bloom came upon her cheek. Perhaps, too,
her grey, thoughtful eyes revealed an arch gaiety sometimes; but this
was infrequent; the sort of wisdom which looked from their pupils did
not readily keep company with these lighter moods. Like all people who
have known rough times, light-heartedness seemed to her too irrational
and inconsequent to be indulged in except as a reckless dram now and
then; for she had been too early habituated to anxious reasoning to drop
the habit suddenly. She felt none of those ups and downs of spirit
which beset so many people without cause; never--to paraphrase a recent
poet--never a gloom in Elizabeth-Jane's soul but she well knew how it
came there; and her present cheerfulness was fairly proportionate to her
solid guarantees for the same.

It might have been supposed that, given a girl rapidly becoming
good-looking, comfortably circumstanced, and for the first time in her
life commanding ready money, she would go and make a fool of herself by
dress. But no. The reasonableness of almost everything that Elizabeth
did was nowhere more conspicuous than in this question of clothes. To
keep in the rear of opportunity in matters of indulgence is as valuable
a habit as to keep abreast of opportunity in matters of enterprise. This
unsophisticated girl did it by an innate perceptiveness that was almost
genius. Thus she refrained from bursting out like a water-flower that
spring, and clothing herself in puffings and knick-knacks, as most of
the Casterbridge girls would have done in her circumstances. Her triumph
was tempered by circumspection, she had still that field-mouse fear of
the coulter of destiny despite fair promise, which is common among the
thoughtful who have suffered early from poverty and oppression.

"I won't be too gay on any account," she would say to herself. "It would
be tempting Providence to hurl mother and me down, and afflict us again
as He used to do."

We now see her in a black silk bonnet, velvet mantle or silk spencer,
dark dress, and carrying a sunshade. In this latter article she drew
the line at fringe, and had it plain edged, with a little ivory ring for
keeping it closed. It was odd about the necessity for that sunshade. She
discovered that with the clarification of her complexion and the birth
of pink cheeks her skin had grown more sensitive to the sun's rays.
She protected those cheeks forthwith, deeming spotlessness part of
womanliness.

Henchard had become very fond of her, and she went out with him more
frequently than with her mother now. Her appearance one day was so
attractive that he looked at her critically.

"I happened to have the ribbon by me, so I made it up," she faltered,
thinking him perhaps dissatisfied with some rather bright trimming she
had donned for the first time.

"Ay--of course--to be sure," he replied in his leonine way. "Do as you
like--or rather as your mother advises ye. 'Od send--I've nothing to say
to't!"

Indoors she appeared with her hair divided by a parting that arched like
a white rainbow from ear to ear. All in front of this line was covered
with a thick encampment of curls; all behind was dressed smoothly, and
drawn to a knob.

The three members of the family were sitting at breakfast one day, and
Henchard was looking silently, as he often did, at this head of
hair, which in colour was brown--rather light than dark. "I thought
Elizabeth-Jane's hair--didn't you tell me that Elizabeth-Jane's hair
promised to be black when she was a baby?" he said to his wife.

She looked startled, jerked his foot warningly, and murmured, "Did I?"

As soon as Elizabeth was gone to her own room Henchard resumed. "Begad,
I nearly forgot myself just now! What I meant was that the girl's hair
certainly looked as if it would be darker, when she was a baby."

"It did; but they alter so," replied Susan.

"Their hair gets darker, I know--but I wasn't aware it lightened ever?"

"O yes." And the same uneasy expression came out on her face, to which
the future held the key. It passed as Henchard went on:

"Well, so much the better. Now Susan, I want to have her called
Miss Henchard--not Miss Newson. Lots o' people do it already in
carelessness--it is her legal name--so it may as well be made her usual
name--I don't like t'other name at all for my own flesh and blood. I'll
advertise it in the Casterbridge paper--that's the way they do it. She
won't object."

"No. O no. But--"

"Well, then, I shall do it," he said, peremptorily. "Surely, if she's
willing, you must wish it as much as I?"

"O yes--if she agrees let us do it by all means," she replied.

Then Mrs. Henchard acted somewhat inconsistently; it might have been
called falsely, but that her manner was emotional and full of the
earnestness of one who wishes to do right at great hazard. She went to
Elizabeth-Jane, whom she found sewing in her own sitting-room upstairs,
and told her what had been proposed about her surname. "Can you
agree--is it not a slight upon Newson--now he's dead and gone?"

Elizabeth reflected. "I'll think of it, mother," she answered.

When, later in the day, she saw Henchard, she adverted to the matter
at once, in a way which showed that the line of feeling started by her
mother had been persevered in. "Do you wish this change so very much,
sir?" she asked.

"Wish it? Why, my blessed fathers, what an ado you women make about
a trifle! I proposed it--that's all. Now, 'Lizabeth-Jane, just please
yourself. Curse me if I care what you do. Now, you understand, don't 'ee
go agreeing to it to please me."

Here the subject dropped, and nothing more was said, and nothing was
done, and Elizabeth still passed as Miss Newson, and not by her legal
name.

Meanwhile the great corn and hay traffic conducted by Henchard throve
under the management of Donald Farfrae as it had never thriven before.
It had formerly moved in jolts; now it went on oiled casters. The old
crude viva voce system of Henchard, in which everything depended upon
his memory, and bargains were made by the tongue alone, was swept
away. Letters and ledgers took the place of "I'll do't," and "you shall
hae't"; and, as in all such cases of advance, the rugged picturesqueness
of the old method disappeared with its inconveniences.

The position of Elizabeth-Jane's room--rather high in the house, so
that it commanded a view of the hay-stores and granaries across the
garden--afforded her opportunity for accurate observation of what went
on there. She saw that Donald and Mr. Henchard were inseparables. When
walking together Henchard would lay his arm familiarly on his manager's
shoulder, as if Farfrae were a younger brother, bearing so heavily that
his slight frame bent under the weight. Occasionally she would hear
a perfect cannonade of laughter from Henchard, arising from something
Donald had said, the latter looking quite innocent and not laughing at
all. In Henchard's somewhat lonely life he evidently found the young
man as desirable for comradeship as he was useful for consultations.
Donald's brightness of intellect maintained in the corn-factor the
admiration it had won at the first hour of their meeting. The poor
opinion, and but ill-concealed, that he entertained of the
slim Farfrae's physical girth, strength, and dash was more than
counterbalanced by the immense respect he had for his brains.

Her quiet eye discerned that Henchard's tigerish affection for the
younger man, his constant liking to have Farfrae near him, now and then
resulted in a tendency to domineer, which, however, was checked in a
moment when Donald exhibited marks of real offence. One day, looking
down on their figures from on high, she heard the latter remark, as they
stood in the doorway between the garden and yard, that their habit of
walking and driving about together rather neutralized Farfrae's value
as a second pair of eyes, which should be used in places where the
principal was not. "'Od damn it," cried Henchard, "what's all the world!
I like a fellow to talk to. Now come along and hae some supper, and
don't take too much thought about things, or ye'll drive me crazy."

When she walked with her mother, on the other hand, she often beheld the
Scotchman looking at them with a curious interest. The fact that he had
met her at the Three Mariners was insufficient to account for it, since
on the occasions on which she had entered his room he had never raised
his eyes. Besides, it was at her mother more particularly than
at herself that he looked, to Elizabeth-Jane's half-conscious,
simple-minded, perhaps pardonable, disappointment. Thus she could not
account for this interest by her own attractiveness, and she decided
that it might be apparent only--a way of turning his eyes that Mr.
Farfrae had.

She did not divine the ample explanation of his manner, without personal
vanity, that was afforded by the fact of Donald being the depositary
of Henchard's confidence in respect of his past treatment of the pale,
chastened mother who walked by her side. Her conjectures on that past
never went further than faint ones based on things casually heard and
seen--mere guesses that Henchard and her mother might have been lovers
in their younger days, who had quarrelled and parted.

Casterbridge, as has been hinted, was a place deposited in the
block upon a corn-field. There was no suburb in the modern sense, or
transitional intermixture of town and down. It stood, with regard to the
wide fertile land adjoining, clean-cut and distinct, like a chess-board
on a green tablecloth. The farmer's boy could sit under his barley-mow
and pitch a stone into the office-window of the town-clerk; reapers
at work among the sheaves nodded to acquaintances standing on the
pavement-corner; the red-robed judge, when he condemned a sheep-stealer,
pronounced sentence to the tune of Baa, that floated in at the window
from the remainder of the flock browsing hard by; and at executions
the waiting crowd stood in a meadow immediately before the drop, out of
which the cows had been temporarily driven to give the spectators room.

The corn grown on the upland side of the borough was garnered by farmers
who lived in an eastern purlieu called Durnover. Here wheat-ricks
overhung the old Roman street, and thrust their eaves against the church
tower; green-thatched barns, with doorways as high as the gates of
Solomon's temple, opened directly upon the main thoroughfare. Barns
indeed were so numerous as to alternate with every half-dozen houses
along the way. Here lived burgesses who daily walked the fallow;
shepherds in an intra-mural squeeze. A street of farmers' homesteads--a
street ruled by a mayor and corporation, yet echoing with the thump of
the flail, the flutter of the winnowing-fan, and the purr of the milk
into the pails--a street which had nothing urban in it whatever--this
was the Durnover end of Casterbridge.

Henchard, as was natural, dealt largely with this nursery or bed of
small farmers close at hand--and his waggons were often down that way.
One day, when arrangements were in progress for getting home corn from
one of the aforesaid farms, Elizabeth-Jane received a note by hand,
asking her to oblige the writer by coming at once to a granary on
Durnover Hill. As this was the granary whose contents Henchard was
removing, she thought the request had something to do with his business,
and proceeded thither as soon as she had put on her bonnet. The granary
was just within the farm-yard, and stood on stone staddles, high enough
for persons to walk under. The gates were open, but nobody was within.
However, she entered and waited. Presently she saw a figure approaching
the gate--that of Donald Farfrae. He looked up at the church clock, and
came in. By some unaccountable shyness, some wish not to meet him there
alone, she quickly ascended the step-ladder leading to the granary
door, and entered it before he had seen her. Farfrae advanced, imagining
himself in solitude, and a few drops of rain beginning to fall he moved
and stood under the shelter where she had just been standing. Here he
leant against one of the staddles, and gave himself up to patience. He,
too, was plainly expecting some one; could it be herself? If so, why?
In a few minutes he looked at his watch, and then pulled out a note, a
duplicate of the one she had herself received.

This situation began to be very awkward, and the longer she waited the
more awkward it became. To emerge from a door just above his head and
descend the ladder, and show she had been in hiding there, would look so
very foolish that she still waited on. A winnowing machine stood close
beside her, and to relieve her suspense she gently moved the handle;
whereupon a cloud of wheat husks flew out into her face, and covered
her clothes and bonnet, and stuck into the fur of her victorine. He must
have heard the slight movement for he looked up, and then ascended the
steps.

"Ah--it's Miss Newson," he said as soon as he could see into the
granary. "I didn't know you were there. I have kept the appointment, and
am at your service."

"O Mr. Farfrae," she faltered, "so have I. But I didn't know it was you
who wished to see me, otherwise I--"

"I wished to see you? O no--at least, that is, I am afraid there may be
a mistake."

"Didn't you ask me to come here? Didn't you write this?" Elizabeth held
out her note.

"No. Indeed, at no hand would I have thought of it! And for you--didn't
you ask me? This is not your writing?" And he held up his.

"By no means."

"And is that really so! Then it's somebody wanting to see us both.
Perhaps we would do well to wait a little longer."

Acting on this consideration they lingered, Elizabeth-Jane's face being
arranged to an expression of preternatural composure, and the young
Scot, at every footstep in the street without, looking from under the
granary to see if the passer were about to enter and declare himself
their summoner. They watched individual drops of rain creeping down the
thatch of the opposite rick--straw after straw--till they reached the
bottom; but nobody came, and the granary roof began to drip.

"The person is not likely to be coming," said Farfrae. Teachers and
students are invited to call and refer to the shelves when in search
of information; every convenience and assistance will be rendered
them.

Reading Charts, miscellaneous Reference Charts, Maps, Globes,
Blackboards, and School Supplies at net prices singly or in
quantity.

All books removed from old store (more or less damaged by removal) will
be closed out at low prices.

* * * * *

_Mail orders promptly attended to_ _All books, etc., subject to
approval_ 
* * * * *
William Beverley Hanson, 3 & 5 West 18th Street FORMERLY 59 FIFTH
AVENUE 
* * * * * 
History and Manuals of Vertical Writing
By JOHN JACKSON 
* * * * *
Theory and Practice of Vertical Writing, $1.25 Teaching of Vertical
Writing, .50 
* * * * *
John Jackson, the originator of this system of vertical writing,
is the only teacher who has had the years of practice in teaching
it that make these the standard manuals for teachers and students.

The adoption of vertical writing abroad and in this country is
largely due to his persistent work and the marvellous results of
his teaching.

His series of copy-books were the first to be used in this country,
and are considered by experienced teachers, who are not to be misled
by mere beauty of engravers work, to contain the only practical
well-graded course of instruction leading from primary work to the
rapid and now justly celebrated =telegraph hand=--for these books
are the only ones containing copies in this rapid writing.

The telegraph hand is the style used by the best telegraph operators
in the country--and these writers are universally acknowledged to be
the most rapid writers, and writers of a hand which of necessity
must be most legible

.

* * * * *
Copy-Books (10 numbers), 96 cents per dozen Copy-Pads (8 numbers), 96
cents per dozen
BOTH SERIES CONTAIN SIMILAR COPIES.

Sample sets to teachers (post-paid), 75 cents

* * * * *
WILLIAM BEVERLEY HARISON 3 and 5 West 18th Street, New York City
* * * * *

[Illustration: THE GREAT ROUND WORLD And WHAT IS GOING ON IN IT.]
VOL. 1 MARCH 11, 1897. NO. 18
* * * * *

There is startling news from Crete.

Greece has openly defied the warning of the Powers, and has declared her
intention of assisting the little island, and freeing her from the Turkish
rule.

All Europe is ringing with the spirited reply sent by Greece to the demand
that she should submit to the wishes of Europe, and give up her warlike
intentions toward Turkey.

This reply was short and to the point. It was simply this:

"Greece accepts full responsibility for all her acts."
Her first act after sending this brave message was to fire on a Turkish
vessel, and thus openly to declare war upon the Turks.

The Turkish vessel was carrying arms to the besieged garrison at
Canea. As she moved from her anchorage in the harbor of Candia, she
was hailed by a Greek warship, and ordered to return to her moorings.

The Turkish vessel, the _Fuad_, paid no attention to the order, and was
continuing on her way, when a shot from the Greek ship brought her to
a stand. Having no guns of her own with which to defend herself, the
_Fuad_ decided that the sensible thing was to obey; so she put about,
and returned to her moorings.

The commander of the British fleet sent a formal protest to the Greeks
against this action, and again ordered them to stop attacking the
Turks.

No attention was paid to this request.

The Powers are, however, so afraid of war, that they are doing all that
is possible to prevent Greece from taking any action that will make
war inevitable.

Russia, Great Britain, France, and Italy have all sent warships to Crete,
with orders to enforce peace between Greece and Turkey.

The combined fleets of these great nations have formed a cordon around
the harbor of Canea, and have blockaded the port, to prevent the Greek
squadron, under Prince George, from entering the harbor.

A cordon is a line of men, ships, or forts, so stationed as to prevent
people from going into, or coming out of the place.

Having done this, the four great Powers proceeded to take possession of
the island, and intend to try and hold it until some settlement is made
between Greece and Turkey.

One hundred men from each of the four fleets have been landed at Canea,
and, with the consent of the Turkish authorities, have raised their flags
over the fortress of the city, as a sign that Crete is under their
protection.

Greece, in the mean while, has sent word to the Powers that she intends
to occupy Crete. She is sending troops there, and raising volunteers and
filling out her reserve force, to be ready for war, if war comes.

This defiance on the part of Greece is worrying the rest of the Powers.
She is too small and insignificant to attempt to brave the wrath of Europe
alone, and there is an uneasy feeling that some one of the great
nations must be secretly backing her.

As usual, when anything goes wrong in Europe, Russia is blamed. Russia has
so long been the naughty girl of Dame Europa's school, that the moment
mischief is in the air Russia is suspected.

If she is in this new trouble, she will have hard work to escape
punishment.

She has been posing as the dear friend and protector of Turkey for
the last few weeks, and has put stumbling-blocks in the way of the
other Powers when they have attempted to force the Sultan of Turkey
to do as they wished.

If she has suddenly veered round, and is now encouraging Greece against
Turkey, her conduct will be hard to explain.

It will be interesting to watch what comes of this, for it seems
that the Bismarck revelations, about which you can read in No. 4
of THE GREAT ROUND WORLD, have brought many strange things to light
in European politics.

You will remember that it was found that Germany had a secret
understanding with Russia, which quite undid her open agreement with
Austria and Italy--the Triple Alliance, as it was called.

Now it appears that nearly all the European nations have been playing
the same sly game.

It would seem that most of them have secret, underhand agreements to
play false to their best friends, whenever it suits their purpose.

Every one is sure that Greece has some strong country at her back to
make her so bold, and while all the diplomats are wondering which it
can be, no one dares to ask any questions.

There is so much treachery and deceit going on, that each ambassador is
afraid that any inquiry on his part may lead to the discovery of things
about his country that would better be kept in the dark.

This daring attitude of Greece may involve the whole of Europe in a vast
war, and it may be passed quietly over, and Greece be allowed to
snatch her prize from under Turkey's nose, and walk away unharmed
with it, because none of the other nations dare to call "police!"

for fear of being arrested themselves.

All sorts of rumors are flying around. One is that the Powers are not
really angry with Greece, and that if the bold little country can take
possession of Crete and hold it, the Powers will not let her be
interfered with.

It is also said that Turkey does not want Crete very badly, and
will let Greece take it and keep it, if she will only promise not
to interfere with Macedonia, which is another ancient Greek province,
inhabited by Christians, and now under the control of Turkey.

Macedonia is on the borders of modern Greece.

Outwardly, the Powers are very fierce over the whole matter, and
have warned Greece that if she does not withdraw her army from Crete
in two days, they will make war upon her.

Greece is, however, taking her own way very quietly and decidedly.

While the four combined fleets of Europe are keeping Prince George
at bay at Canea, fifteen hundred Greek soldiers under Colonel Vassos
have been safely landed in Crete, at Platania about sixty miles
from Canea.

This battalion, which is made up of artillery, engineers, and
infantry, is called the "Corps of Occupation," and Greece went wild with
joy when the report of its safe arrival reached Athens.

The commander of the corps, Colonel Vassos, is reported to have issued
a proclamation to the Cretans, in which he says that the troubles in Crete
have been deeply felt by their brother Greeks. The Cretans are but one
nation with the Greeks, despite the fact that they are under a foreign
rule, and Greece can no longer allow a people of her race and religion
to be under the Turkish rule; she has therefore decided to occupy the
island, and add it to the country ruled by the King of Greece.

The proclamation goes on to say that Colonel Vassos, in the name
of the King of Greece, promises to protect the lives, honor, and
property of the inhabitants, and to bring peace and law to them.

He then demanded of the Turks that they surrender, and give up the
island.

While this was going on, the combined Powers, through their ambassadors
in Greece, demanded that the Greek warships be withdrawn from Crete
under pain of Europe's displeasure.

They promised that the Turkish reforms should be properly enforced in
Crete, and that, in the conference which will follow as soon as the
fear of war is passed, the Powers will consider the question of reuniting
Greece and Crete.

There is a rumor that the Powers will get home rule for Crete, and that
the Emperor William of Germany is trying his best to bring this last
scheme about.

Matters are very far from settlement.

Volunteers are rallying to the Greek flag in great numbers, and all
Greece is echoing to the cries of excited patriotism.

The Greeks have won their first victory in Crete. They attacked a fort
called Fort Aghia, captured it, and took four hundred prisoners. One
hundred of these were Turkish soldiers, the rest were Moslems, who had
taken refuge in the fort.

The details of this affair have not yet arrived, but it is supposed
that the fort surrendered on the demand of Colonel Vassos.

Greece is also reported to have landed four thousand more troops in
Crete.

Turkey is strengthening her forts along the Greek frontier, and has
sent word to the Powers that they must restrain Greece, or she
will be obliged to follow her own course

.

* * * * *

No progress has been made toward the passage of the Treaty with
Great Britain.

Their eyes once opened to the dangers that may underlie the fair
words of the Treaty, the Senators are putting it under the microscope
of discussion, and are anxious that it shall not leave their hands
until it can be considered to be truly beneficial to the country.

It is certain that it will not be brought to any conclusion during this
session of Congress.

Senator Sherman, who as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations
has charge of the bill, says that he will present it at the extra
session of the Senate, which will be called on March 5th by the new
President.

It is said that the Nicaragua Canal Bill has been the real means of
preventing the Senate from arriving at any conclusion about the
Treaty this session.

Senator Morgan has been working very hard to convince the Senate of the
importance of settling the Canal question before the Treaty is ratified,
and has at last succeeded.

He has been very clever about it.

He announced to the Senate, some days ago, that in consequence of
the amount of business that must be got through before the end of
the session, he was willing to let his bill stand over till the
extra session.

He warned the Senate, at the same time, that when the extra session
came, he should fight for his bill with all his strength, and do his best
to have it made into a law.

This looked as though the Senator had made way for the Treaty, and did
not really care so much about his bill being passed before the Treaty
was ratified.

But that was not Mr. Morgan's idea at all.

He withdrew his bill because he did not want to have it hurried through,
and voted on carelessly, and perhaps lost. He withdrew it the more willingly
because he had a nice little scheme in his head, which would easily
prevent the Treaty being passed before the extra session, when he
would again be on hand with his bill.

His plan was this:

He would unearth the Clayton-Bulwer Treaty, confront the Senate with that,
and as it deals very directly with matters that concern both
arbitration and the canal, Senator Morgan was sure that it would
give the Senate enough food for discussion to last it through this
session of Congress, without touching the Treaty again.

The Clayton-Bulwer treaty was made between Great Britain and the
United States in 1850.

One part of the treaty stipulates that neither Great Britain nor
the United States shall ever control the Nicaragua Canal, nor build
forts along it.

When this treaty was made, Nicaragua had given the right to build the
canal to an American company.

This company did not belong to the government; it was a mere business
undertaking by a business firm.

The company did not build the canal; the work required too much money,
and the affair fell through.

At the present time it is the American Government that proposes to build
the canal, and if the Government is to put in the enormous sums of
money that will be needed, it is only right that the Government
shall control it.

Nicaragua is not wealthy enough to build the canal herself, and if we do
not undertake it, some other country will, and it will certainly
expect the control of the canal in return for the money invested.

Senator Morgan asked the Senate to consider the matter of the
Clayton-Bulwer treaty, and decide whether or no we are still bound
by it, before the Arbitration Treaty be signed.

He insists that if the Senate decides that the Clayton-Bulwer treaty
is still binding, England must agree to release us from it before
we can discuss another treaty, as it is too absurd to suppose that
we will put our money into the canal and have no right to control
it.

In the time that must be taken up in the consideration of this very
important point. Senator Morgan will have time to get his bill properly
considered, and with the new light that he has thrown on canal
affairs through the Clayton-Bulwer treaty, he is more likely to get
his bill passed

.

* * * * *
There is news of a great victory for the Cubans, which is called
one of the most brilliant successes of the war.

It was won by General Gomez.

He set out to lay siege to the town of Arroyo Blanco.

When he arrived before the town, he sent word to the mayor that he was
about to open fire with his dynamite-gun, and he requested that all the
women, children, and non-fighting men should be sent out of the
city.

In accordance with the rules of civilized warfare, he sent a permit
for these people to pass out of the town in safety.

He waited several hours for a reply. None being sent, he ordered his
gunners to send one shot over the city.

This having been done, and still no answer coming from the Spanish
commander, General Gomez sent a fresh messenger, asking the mayor,
for the sake of humanity, to send the women and children out of the
town as quickly as possible.

To this the officer in command sent the reply that Gomez could
begin to fire as quickly as he pleased, for not a soul in Arroyo
Blanco should be allowed to leave the town; he intended to keep
the women and children within the walls, to suffer whatever fate was
in store for him.

The women and children pleaded to be allowed to leave, but the
Spanish officer was determined to keep them, and they were obliged
to stay.

On receiving this cruel answer, Gomez opened fire, using his dreadful
dynamite-gun. For several days he laid siege to the town, without
gaining any advantage.

The Spaniards tried to get help from the main army by signalling with
the heliograph. This is an instrument by which rays of light are thrown
from a mirror, and flashed from one point to another. It is much used
in war.

The Cubans, however, prevented the heliograph from being used, and
hoped that they had the Spaniards cut off from their friends.

By some means the news of the siege reached the main army, and three
thousand troops were sent to the relief of Arroyo Blanco.

No sooner did Gomez see the first of the Spanish soldiers appearing over
the hills, than he laid a plan to win a brilliant victory.

Pretending to be alarmed at the arrival of the Spanish troops, he
withdrew his men from the siege of the town, and appeared to be
retreating.

Delighted with their success, the Spanish pursued the Cubans, who led
them into a valley between two hills.
This was the trap into which Gomez had planned to lure his enemy.
When the Spaniards had reached a place that seemed favorable to his
wishes, Gomez gave the signal--Cubans poured down the hillsides,
from behind every rock and bush, surrounded the Spaniards, and
completely defeated them, the Spaniards suffering a severe loss,
many of them being killed, wounded, or taken prisoner.
It is said that this victory has so alarmed Weyler that he has sent
to Havana for more troops, and declares that he cannot stand against
Gomez without more soldiers to help him.
The people of Havana do not like this. Weyler has many more soldiers
than Gomez, and the citizens do not want to be left at the mercy
of the insurgent bands that are in the neighborhood of the cityIt certainly had been very remiss of him, as Mayor, he
thought, to call no meeting ere this, to discuss what should be done on
this holiday. But Farfrae had been so cursed quick in his movements as
to give oldfashioned people in authority no chance of the initiative.
However, it was not too late; and on second thoughts he determined
to take upon his own shoulders the responsibility of organizing some
amusements, if the other Councilmen would leave the matter in his hands.
To this they quite readily agreed, the majority being fine old crusted
characters who had a decided taste for living without worry.

So Henchard set about his preparations for a really brilliant
thing--such as should be worthy of the venerable town. As for Farfrae's
little affair, Henchard nearly forgot it; except once now and then when,
on it coming into his mind, he said to himself, "Charge admission at
so much a head--just like a Scotchman!--who is going to pay anything
a head?" The diversions which the Mayor intended to provide were to be
entirely free.

He had grown so dependent upon Donald that he could scarcely resist
calling him in to consult. But by sheer self-coercion he refrained. No,
he thought, Farfrae would be suggesting such improvements in his damned
luminous way that in spite of himself he, Henchard, would sink to the
position of second fiddle, and only scrape harmonies to his manager's
talents.

Everybody applauded the Mayor's proposed entertainment, especially when
it became known that he meant to pay for it all himself.

Close to the town was an elevated green spot surrounded by an ancient
square earthwork--earthworks square and not square, were as common as
blackberries hereabout--a spot whereon the Casterbridge people usually
held any kind of merry-making, meeting, or sheep-fair that required more
space than the streets would afford. On one side it sloped to the river
Froom, and from any point a view was obtained of the country round
for many miles. This pleasant upland was to be the scene of Henchard's
exploit.

He advertised about the town, in long posters of a pink colour, that
games of all sorts would take place here; and set to work a little
battalion of men under his own eye. They erected greasy-poles for
climbing, with smoked hams and local cheeses at the top. They placed
hurdles in rows for jumping over; across the river they laid a slippery
pole, with a live pig of the neighbourhood tied at the other end, to
become the property of the man who could walk over and get it. There
were also provided wheelbarrows for racing, donkeys for the same, a
stage for boxing, wrestling, and drawing blood generally; sacks for
jumping in. Moreover, not forgetting his principles, Henchard provided a
mammoth tea, of which everybody who lived in the borough was invited to
partake without payment. The tables were laid parallel with the inner
slope of the rampart, and awnings were stretched overhead.

Passing to and fro the Mayor beheld the unattractive exterior of
Farfrae's erection in the West Walk, rick-cloths of different sizes
and colours being hung up to the arching trees without any regard to
appearance. He was easy in his mind now, for his own preparations far
transcended these.

The morning came. The sky, which had been remarkably clear down to
within a day or two, was overcast, and the weather threatening, the wind
having an unmistakable hint of water in it. Henchard wished he had not
been quite so sure about the continuance of a fair season. But it was
too late to modify or postpone, and the proceedings went on. At twelve
o'clock the rain began to fall, small and steady, commencing and
increasing so insensibly that it was difficult to state exactly when dry
weather ended or wet established itself. In an hour the slight moisture
resolved itself into a monotonous smiting of earth by heaven, in
torrents to which no end could be prognosticated.

A number of people had heroically gathered in the field but by three
o'clock Henchard discerned that his project was doomed to end in
failure. The hams at the top of the poles dripped watered smoke in the
form of a brown liquor, the pig shivered in the wind, the grain of the
deal tables showed through the sticking tablecloths, for the awning
allowed the rain to drift under at its will, and to enclose the sides
at this hour seemed a useless undertaking. The landscape over the
river disappeared; the wind played on the tent-cords in aeolian
improvisations, and at length rose to such a pitch that the whole
erection slanted to the ground those who had taken shelter within it
having to crawl out on their hands and knees.

But towards six the storm abated, and a drier breeze shook the moisture
from the grass bents. It seemed possible to carry out the programme
after all. The awning was set up again; the band was called out from its
shelter, and ordered to begin, and where the tables had stood a place
was cleared for dancing.

"But where are the folk?" said Henchard, after the lapse of
half-an-hour, during which time only two men and a woman had stood up to
dance. "The shops are all shut. Why don't they come?"

"They are at Farfrae's affair in the West Walk," answered a Councilman
who stood in the field with the Mayor.

"A few, I suppose. But where are the body o 'em?"

"All out of doors are there."

"Then the more fools they!"

Henchard walked away moodily. One or two young fellows gallantly came to
climb the poles, to save the hams from being wasted; but as there
were no spectators, and the whole scene presented the most melancholy
appearance Henchard gave orders that the proceedings were to be
suspended, and the entertainment closed, the food to be distributed
among the poor people of the town. In a short time nothing was left in
the field but a few hurdles, the tents, and the poles.

Henchard returned to his house, had tea with his wife and daughter, and
then walked out. It was now dusk. He soon saw that the tendency of all
promenaders was towards a particular spot in the Walks, and eventually
proceeded thither himself. The notes of a stringed band came from the
enclosure that Farfrae had erected--the pavilion as he called it--and
when the Mayor reached it he perceived that a gigantic tent had been
ingeniously constructed without poles or ropes. The densest point of the
avenue of sycamores had been selected, where the boughs made a closely
interlaced vault overhead; to these boughs the canvas had been hung, and
a barrel roof was the result. The end towards the wind was enclosed, the
other end was open. Henchard went round and saw the interior.

In form it was like the nave of a cathedral with one gable removed, but
the scene within was anything but devotional. A reel or fling of some
sort was in progress; and the usually sedate Farfrae was in the midst of
the other dancers in the costume of a wild Highlander, flinging himself
about and spinning to the tune. For a moment Henchard could not help
laughing. Then he perceived the immense admiration for the Scotchman
that revealed itself in the women's faces; and when this exhibition was
over, and a new dance proposed, and Donald had disappeared for a time to
return in his natural garments, he had an unlimited choice of partners,
every girl being in a coming-on disposition towards one who so
thoroughly understood the poetry of motion as he.

All the town crowded to the Walk, such a delightful idea of a ballroom
never having occurred to the inhabitants before. Among the rest of the
onlookers were Elizabeth and her mother--the former thoughtful yet
much interested, her eyes beaming with a longing lingering light, as
if Nature had been advised by Correggio in their creation. The dancing
progressed with unabated spirit, and Henchard walked and waited till
his wife should be disposed to go home. He did not care to keep in the
light, and when he went into the dark it was worse, for there he heard
remarks of a kind which were becoming too frequent:

"Mr. Henchard's rejoicings couldn't say good morning to this," said one.
"A man must be a headstrong stunpoll to think folk would go up to that
bleak place to-day."

The other answered that people said it was not only in such things as
those that the Mayor was wanting. "Where would his business be if
it were not for this young fellow? 'Twas verily Fortune sent him to
Henchard. His accounts were like a bramblewood when Mr. Farfrae came.
He used to reckon his sacks by chalk strokes all in a row like
garden-palings, measure his ricks by stretching with his arms, weigh his
trusses by a lift, judge his hay by a chaw, and settle the price with a
curse. But now this accomplished young man does it all by ciphering and
mensuration. Then the wheat--that sometimes used to taste so strong
o' mice when made into bread that people could fairly tell the
breed--Farfrae has a plan for purifying, so that nobody would dream the
smallest four-legged beast had walked over it once. O yes, everybody
is full of him, and the care Mr. Henchard has to keep him, to be sure!"
concluded this gentleman.

"But he won't do it for long, good-now," said the other.

"No!" said Henchard to himself behind the tree. "Or if he do, he'll be
honeycombed clean out of all the character and standing that he's built
up in these eighteen year!"

He went back to the dancing pavilion. Farfrae was footing a quaint
little dance with Elizabeth-Jane--an old country thing, the only one she
knew, and though he considerately toned down his movements to suit her
demurer gait, the pattern of the shining little nails in the soles of
his boots became familiar to the eyes of every bystander. The tune
had enticed her into it; being a tune of a busy, vaulting, leaping
sort--some low notes on the silver string of each fiddle, then a
skipping on the small, like running up and down ladders--"Miss M'Leod of
Ayr" was its name, so Mr. Farfrae had said, and that it was very popular
in his own country.

It was soon over, and the girl looked at Henchard for approval; but
he did not give it. He seemed not to see her. "Look here, Farfrae," he
said, like one whose mind was elsewhere, "I'll go to Port-Bredy Great
Market to-morrow myself. You can stay and put things right in your
clothes-box, and recover strength to your knees after your vagaries." He
planted on Donald an antagonistic glare that had begun as a smile.

Some other townsmen came up, and Donald drew aside. "What's this,
Henchard," said Alderman Tubber, applying his thumb to the corn-factor
like a cheese-taster. "An opposition randy to yours, eh? Jack's as good
as his master, eh? Cut ye out quite, hasn't he?"

"You see, Mr. Henchard," said the lawyer, another goodnatured friend,
"where you made the mistake was in going so far afield. You should have
taken a leaf out of his book, and have had your sports in a sheltered
place like this. But you didn't think of it, you see; and he did, and
that's where he's beat you."

"He'll be top-sawyer soon of you two, and carry all afore him," added
jocular Mr. Tubber.

"No," said Henchard gloomily. "He won't be that, because he's shortly
going to leave me." He looked towards Donald, who had come near. "Mr.
Farfrae's time as my manager is drawing to a close--isn't it, Farfrae?"

The young man, who could now read the lines and folds of Henchard's
strongly-traced face as if they were clear verbal inscriptions, quietly
assented; and when people deplored the fact, and asked why it was, he
simply replied that Mr. Henchard no longer required his help.

Henchard went home, apparently satisfied. But in the morning, when his
jealous temper had passed away, his heart sank within him at what he had
said and done. He was the more disturbed when he found that this time
Farfrae was determined to take him at his word.


17.


Elizabeth-Jane had perceived from Henchard's manner that in assenting to
dance she had made a mistake of some kind. In her simplicity she did
not know what it was till a hint from a nodding acquaintance enlightened
her. As the Mayor's step-daughter, she learnt, she had not been quite in
her place in treading a measure amid such a mixed throng as filled the
dancing pavilion.

Thereupon her ears, cheeks, and chin glowed like live coals at the
dawning of the idea that her tastes were not good enough for her
position, and would bring her into disgrace.

This made her very miserable, and she looked about for her mother;
but Mrs. Henchard, who had less idea of conventionality than Elizabeth
herself, had gone away, leaving her daughter to return at her own
pleasure. The latter moved on into the dark dense old avenues, or rather
vaults of living woodwork, which ran along the town boundary, and stood
reflecting.

A man followed in a few minutes, and her face being to-wards the shine
from the tent he recognized her. It was Farfrae--just come from the
dialogue with Henchard which had signified his dismissal.

"And it's you, Miss Newson?--and I've been looking for ye everywhere!"
he said, overcoming a sadness imparted by the estrangement with the
corn-merchant. "May I walk on with you as far as your street-corner?"

She thought there might be something wrong in this, but did not utter
any objection. So together they went on, first down the West Walk, and
then into the Bowling Walk, till Farfrae said, "It's like that I'm going
to leave you soon."

She faltered, "Why?"

"Oh--as a mere matter of business--nothing more. But we'll not concern
ourselves about it--it is for the best. I hoped to have another dance
with you."

She said she could not dance--in any proper way.

"Nay, but you do! It's the feeling for it rather than the learning of
steps that makes pleasant dancers....I fear I offended your father by
getting up this! And now, perhaps, I'll have to go to another part o'
the warrld altogether!"

This seemed such a melancholy prospect that Elizabeth-Jane breathed
a sigh--letting it off in fragments that he might not hear her.
But darkness makes people truthful, and the Scotchman went on
impulsively--perhaps he had heard her after all:

"I wish I was richer, Miss Newson; and your stepfather had not been
offended, I would ask you something in a short time--yes, I would ask
you to-night. But that's not for me!"

What he would have asked her he did not say, and instead of encouraging
him she remained incompetently silent. Thus afraid one of another they
continued their promenade along the walls till they got near the bottom
of the Bowling Walk; twenty steps further and the trees would end,
and the street-corner and lamps appear. In consciousness of this they
stopped.

"I never found out who it was that sent us to Durnover granary on a
fool's errand that day," said Donald, in his undulating tones. "Did ye
ever know yourself, Miss Newson?"

"Never," said she.

"I wonder why they did it!"

"For fun, perhaps."

"Perhaps it was not for fun. It might have been that they thought they
would like us to stay waiting there, talking to one another? Ay, well! I
hope you Casterbridge folk will not forget me if I go."

"That I'm sure we won't!" she said earnestly. "I--wish you wouldn't go
at all."

They had got into the lamplight. "Now, I'll think over that," said
Donald Farfrae. "And I'll not come up to your door; but part from you
here; lest it make your father more angry still."

They parted, Farfrae returning into the dark Bowling Walk, and
Elizabeth-Jane going up the street. Without any consciousness of what
she was doing she started running with all her might till she reached
her father's door. "O dear me--what am I at?" she thought, as she pulled
up breathless.

Indoors she fell to conjecturing the meaning of Farfrae's enigmatic
words about not daring to ask her what he fain would. Elizabeth, that
silent observing woman, had long noted how he was rising in favour among
the townspeople; and knowing Henchard's nature now she had feared that
Farfrae's days as manager were numbered, so that the announcement gave
her little surprise. Would Mr. Farfrae stay in Casterbridge despite his
words and her father's dismissal? His occult breathings to her might be
solvable by his course in that respect.

The next day was windy--so windy that walking in the garden she picked
up a portion of the draft of a letter on business in Donald Farfrae's
writing, which had flown over the wall from the office. The useless
scrap she took indoors, and began to copy the calligraphy, which she
much admired. The letter began "Dear Sir," and presently writing on a
loose slip "Elizabeth-Jane," she laid the latter over "Sir," making the
phrase "Dear Elizabeth-Jane." When she saw the effect a quick red ran up
her face and warmed her through, though nobody was there to see what she
had done. She quickly tore up the slip, and threw it away. After this
she grew cool and laughed at herself, walked about the room, and laughed
again; not joyfully, but distressfully rather.

It was quickly known in Casterbridge that Farfrae and Henchard had
decided to dispense with each other. Elizabeth-Jane's anxiety to know
if Farfrae were going away from the town reached a pitch that disturbed
her, for she could no longer conceal from herself the cause. At length
the news reached her that he was not going to leave the place. A man
following the same trade as Henchard, but on a very small scale, had
sold his business to Farfrae, who was forthwith about to start as corn
and hay merchant on his own account.

Her heart fluttered when she heard of this step of Donald's, proving
that he meant to remain; and yet, would a man who cared one little bit
for her have endangered his suit by setting up a business in opposition
to Mr. Henchard's? Surely not; and it must have been a passing impulse
only which had led him to address her so softly.

To solve the problem whether her appearance on the evening of the dance
were such as to inspire a fleeting love at first sight, she dressed
herself up exactly as she had dressed then--the muslin, the spencer, the
sandals, the para-sol--and looked in the mirror The picture glassed back
was in her opinion, precisely of such a kind as to inspire that fleeting
regard, and no more--"just enough to make him silly, and not enough
to keep him so," she said luminously; and Elizabeth thought, in a much
lower key, that by this time he had discovered how plain and homely was
the informing spirit of that pretty outside.

Hence, when she felt her heart going out to him, she would say to
herself with a mock pleasantry that carried an ache with it, "No, no,
Elizabeth-Jane--such dreams are not for you!" She tried to prevent
herself from seeing him, and thinking of him; succeeding fairly well in
the former attempt, in the latter not so completely.

Henchard, who had been hurt at finding that Farfrae did not mean to
put up with his temper any longer, was incensed beyond measure when
he learnt what the young man had done as an alternative. It was in
the town-hall, after a council meeting, that he first became aware of
Farfrae's coup for establishing himself independently in the town; and
his voice might have been heard as far as the town-pump expressing his
feelings to his fellow councilmen. These tones showed that, though under
a long reign of self-control he had become Mayor and churchwarden and
what not, there was still the same unruly volcanic stuff beneath the
rind of Michael Henchard as when he had sold his wife at Weydon Fair.

"Well, he's a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of his--or if we are not,
what are we? 'Od send, if I've not been his friend, who has, I should
like to know? Didn't he come here without a sound shoe to his voot?
Didn't I keep him here--help him to a living? Didn't I help him to
money, or whatever he wanted? I stuck out for no terms--I said 'Name
your own price.' I'd have shared my last crust with that young fellow
at one time, I liked him so well. And now he's defied me! But damn him,
I'll have a tussle with him now--at fair buying and selling, mind--at
fair buying and selling! And if I can't overbid such a stripling as he,
then I'm not wo'th a varden! We'll show that we know our business as
well as one here and there!"

His friends of the Corporation did not specially respond. Henchard was
less popular now than he had been when nearly two years before, they
had voted him to the chief magistracy on account of his amazing
energy. While they had collectively profited by this quality of the
corn-factor's they had been made to wince individually on more than one
occasion. So he went out of the hall and down the street alone.

Reaching home he seemed to recollect something with a sour satisfaction.
He called Elizabeth-Jane. Seeing how he looked when she entered she
appeared alarmed.

"Nothing to find fault with," he said, observing her concern. "Only I
want to caution you, my dear. That man, Farfrae--it is about him. I've
seen him talking to you two or three times--he danced with 'ee at the
rejoicings, and came home with 'ee. Now, now, no blame to you. But just
harken: Have you made him any foolish promise? Gone the least bit beyond
sniff and snaff at all?"

"No. I have promised him nothing."

"Good. All's well that ends well. I particularly wish you not to see him
again."

"Very well, sir."

"You promise?"

She hesitated for a moment, and then said--

"Yes, if you much wish it."

"I do. He's an enemy to our house!"

When she had gone he sat down, and wrote in a heavy hand to Farfrae
thus:--


SIR,--I make request that henceforth you and my stepdaughter be as
strangers to each other. She on her part has promised to welcome no
more addresses from you; and I trust, therefore, you will not attempt to
force them upon her.

M. HENCHARD.


One would almost have supposed Henchard to have had policy to see
that no better modus vivendi could be arrived at with Farfrae than by
encouraging him to become his son-in-law. But such a scheme for buying
over a rival had nothing to recommend it to the Mayor's headstrong
faculties. With all domestic finesse of that kind he was hopelessly at
variance. Loving a man or hating him, his diplomacy was as wrongheaded
as a buffalo's; and his wife had not ventured to suggest the course
which she, for many reasons, would have welcomed gladly.

Meanwhile Donald Farfrae had opened the gates of commerce on his own
account at a spot on Durnover Hill--as far as possible from Henchard's
stores, and with every intention of keeping clear of his former friend
and employer's customers. There was, it seemed to the younger man, room
for both of them and to spare. The town was small, but the corn and
hay-trade was proportionately large, and with his native sagacity he saw
opportunity for a share of it.

So determined was he to do nothing which should seem like
trade-antagonism to the Mayor that he refused his first customer--a
large farmer of good repute--because Henchard and this man had dealt
together within the preceding three months.

"He was once my friend," said Farfrae, "and it's not for me to take
business from him. I am sorry to disappoint you, but I cannot hurt the
trade of a man who's been so kind to me."

In spite of this praiseworthy course the Scotchman's trade increased.
Whether it were that his northern energy was an overmastering force
among the easy-going Wessex worthies, or whether it was sheer luck, the
fact remained that whatever he touched he prospered in. Like Jacob
in Padan-Aram, he would no sooner humbly limit himself to
the ringstraked-and-spotted exceptions of trade than the
ringstraked-and-spotted would multiply and prevail.

But most probably luck had little to do with it. Character is Fate, said
Novalis, and Farfrae's character was just the reverse of Henchard's,
who might not inaptly be described as Faust has been described--as a
vehement gloomy being who had quitted the ways of vulgar men without
light to guide him on a better way.

Farfrae duly received the request to discontinue attentions to
Elizabeth-Jane. His acts of that kind had been so slight that the
request was almost superfluous. Yet he had felt a considerable interest
in her, and after some cogitation he decided that it would be as well
to enact no Romeo part just then--for the young girl's sake no less than
his own. Thus the incipient attachment was stifled down.

A time came when, avoid collision with his former friend as he might,
Farfrae was compelled, in sheer self-defence, to close with Henchard in
mortal commercial combat. He could no longer parry the fierce attacks
of the latter by simple avoidance. As soon as their war of prices began
everybody was interested, and some few guessed the end. It was, in some
degree, Northern insight matched against Southern doggedness--the dirk
against the cudgel--and Henchard's weapon was one which, if it did not
deal ruin at the first or second stroke, left him afterwards well-nigh
at his antagonist's mercy.

Almost every Saturday they encountered each other amid the crowd of
farmers which thronged about the market-place in the weekly course of
their business. Donald was always ready, and even anxious, to say a few
friendly words, but the Mayor invariably gazed stormfully past him,
like one who had endured and lost on his account, and could in no sense
forgive the wrong; nor did Farfrae's snubbed manner of perplexity at all
appease him. The large farmers, corn-merchants, millers, auctioneers,
and others had each an official stall in the corn-market room, with
their names painted thereon; and when to the familiar series of
"Henchard," "Everdene," "Shiner," "Darton," and so on, was added one
inscribed "Farfrae," in staring new letters, Henchard was stung into
bitterness; like Bellerophon, he wandered away from the crowd, cankered
in soul.

From that day Donald Farfrae's name was seldom mentioned in Henchard's
house. If at breakfast or dinner Elizabeth-Jane's mother inadvertently
alluded to her favourite's movements, the girl would implore her by a
look to be silent; and her husband would say, "What--are you, too, my
enemy?"


18.


There came a shock which had been foreseen for some time by Elizabeth,
as the box passenger foresees the approaching jerk from some channel
across the highway.

Her mother was ill--too unwell to leave her room. Henchard, who treated
her kindly, except in moments of irritation, sent at once for the
richest, busiest doctor, whom he supposed to be the best. Bedtime came,
and they burnt a light all night. In a day or two she rallied.

Elizabeth, who had been staying up, did not appear at breakfast on the
second morning, and Henchard sat down alone. He was startled to see
a letter for him from Jersey in a writing he knew too well, and had
expected least to behold again. He took it up in his hands and looked
at it as at a picture, a vision, a vista of past enactments; and then he
read it as an unimportant finale to conjecture.

The writer said that she at length perceived how impossible it would
be for any further communications to proceed between them now that
his re-marriage had taken place. That such reunion had been the only
straightforward course open to him she was bound to admit.


"On calm reflection, therefore," she went on, "I quite forgive you for
landing me in such a dilemma, remembering that you concealed nothing
before our ill-advised acquaintance; and that you really did set before
me in your grim way the fact of there being a certain risk in intimacy
with you, slight as it seemed to be after fifteen or sixteen years of
silence on your wife's part. I thus look upon the whole as a misfortune
of mine, and not a fault of yours.

"So that, Michael, I must ask you to overlook those letters with which I
pestered you day after day in the heat of my feelings. They were
written whilst I thought your conduct to me cruel; but now I know more
particulars of the position you were in I see how inconsiderate my
reproaches were.

"Now you will, I am sure, perceive that the one condition which will
make any future happiness possible for me is that the past connection
between our lives be kept secret outside this isle. Speak of it I know
you will not; and I can trust you not to write of it. One safe-guard
more remains to be mentioned--that no writings of mine, or trifling
articles belonging to me, should be left in your possession through
neglect or forgetfulness. To this end may I request you to return to
me any such you may have, particularly the letters written in the first
abandonment of feeling.

"For the handsome sum you forwarded to me as a plaster to the wound I
heartily thank you.

"I am now on my way to Bristol, to see my only relative. She is rich,
and I hope will do something for me. I shall return through Casterbridge
and Budmouth, where I shall take the packet-boat. Can you meet me with
the letters and other trifles? I shall be in the coach which changes
horses at the Antelope Hotel at half-past five Wednesday evening; I
shall be wearing a Paisley shawl with a red centre, and thus may easily
be found. I should prefer this plan of receiving them to having them
sent.--I remain still, yours; ever,

"LUCETTA"


Henchard breathed heavily. "Poor thing--better you had not known me!
On this, his Holiness confirmed the condemnations which he had
already passed on Lewis of Bavaria, and enjoined the Electors of the
empire to proceed to a new choice of the King of the Romans.

"John of Luxemburg," says Villani, "would have been emperor if he had
not been blind."

A wish to secure the empire for his son and to further his election,
brought him to the Pope at Avignon.

Prince Charles had to thank the Pontiff for being elected, but first his
Holiness made him sign, on the 22nd of April, 1346, in presence of
twelve cardinals and his brother William Roger, a declaration of
which the following is the substance:--
"If, by the grace of God, I am elected King of the Romans, I will
fulfil all the promises and confirm all the concessions of my
grandfather Henry VII. and of his predecessors.

I will revoke the acts made by Lewis of Bavaria. I will occupy no place,
either in or out of Italy, belonging to the Church. I will not
enter Rome before the day appointed for my coronation. I will depart
from thence the same day with all my attendants, and I will never return
without the permission of the Holy See." He might as well have declared
that he would give the Pope all his power, as King of the Romans,
provided he was allowed the profits; for, in reality, Charles had no
other view with regard to Italy than to make money.

This concession, which contrasts so poorly with the conduct of Charles on
many other occasions, excited universal indignation in Germany, and a
good deal even in Italy.

Petrarch exclaimed against it as mean and atrocious; for,
Catholic as he was, he was not so much a churchman as to see without
indignation the papal tiara exalted above the imperial crown.

In July, 1346, Charles was elected, and, in derision, was called "the
Emperor of the Priests." The death of his rival, Lewis of Bavaria, however,
which happened in the next year, prevented a civil war, and Charles
IV. remained peaceable possessor of the empire.

Among the fêtes that were given to Charles, a ball was held at
Avignon, in a grand saloon brightly illuminated. Thither came all the
beauties of the city and of Provence. The Prince, who had heard much
of Laura, through her poetical fame, sought her out and saluted her
in the French manner.

Petrarch went, according to his custom, to pass the term of Lent at
Vaucluse. The Bishop of Cavaillon, eager to see the poet, persuaded
him to visit his recluse residence, and remained with Petrarch as his
guest for fifteen days, in his own castle, on the summit of rocks, that
seemed more adapted for the perch of birds than the habitation of
men.

There is now scarcely a wreck of it remaining.

It would seem, however, that the Bishop's conversation made this retirement
very agreeable to Petrarch; for it inspired him with the idea of writing
a "Treatise on a Solitary Life."

Of this work he made a sketch in a short time, but did not finish
it till twenty years afterwards, when he dedicated and presented
it to the Bishop of Cavaillon.

It is agreeable to meet, in Petrarch's life at the shut-up valley,
with any circumstance, however trifling, that indicates a cheerful
state of mind; for, independently of his loneliness, the inextinguishable
passion for Laura never ceased to haunt him; and his love, strange
to say, had mad, momentary hopes, which only deepened at their
departure the returning gloom of despair.

Petrarch never wrote more sonnets on his beloved than during the
course of this year.

Laura had a fair and discreet female friend at Avignon, who was
also the friend of Petrarch, and interested in his attachment.

The ideas which this amiable confidante entertained of harmonizing
success in misplaced attachment with honour and virtue must have been
Platonic, even beyond the feelings which Petrarch, in reality,
cherished; for, occasionally, the poet's sonnets are too honest for
pure Platonism.

This lady, however, whose name is unknown, strove to convince Laura that
she ought to treat her lover with less severity.

"She pushed Laura forward," says De Sade, "and kept back Petrarch."

One day she recounted to the poet all the proofs of affection, and
after these proofs she said, "You infidel, can you doubt that she
loves you?"

It is to this fair friend that he is supposed to have addressed his
nineteenth sonnet.

This year, his Laura was seized with a defluxion in her eyes, which
made her suffer much, and even threatened her with blindness.

This was enough to bring a sonnet from Petrarch (his 94th), in
which he laments that those eyes which were the sun of his life should
be for ever eclipsed.
He went to see her during her illness, having now the privilege of visiting
her at her own house, and one day he found her perfectly recovered.
Whether the ophthalmia was infectious, or only endemic, I know
not; but so it was, that, whilst Laura's eyes got well, those of
her lover became affected with the same defluxion.

It struck his imagination, or, at least, he feigned to believe poetically,
that the malady of her eyes had passed into his; and, in one of his
sonnets, he exults at this welcome circumstance.[J] "I fixed my eyes,"
he said, "on Laura; and that moment a something inexpressible, like a
shooting star, darted from them to mine. This is a present from
love, in which I rejoice. How delightful it is thus to cure the darling
object of one's soul!"
Petrarch received some show of complacency from Laura, which his
imagination magnified; and it was some sort of consolation, at least,
that his idol was courteous to him; but even this scanty solace was
interrupted. Some malicious person communicated to Laura that Petrarch
was imposing upon her, and that he was secretly addressing his love and
his poetry to another lady under a borrowed name.

Laura gave ear to the calumny, and, for a time, debarred him from
her presence.

If she had been wholly indifferent to him, this misunderstanding would
have never existed; for jealousy and indifference are a contradiction
in terms. I mean true jealousy. There is a pseudo species of it,
with which many wives are troubled who care nothing about their husbands'
affection; a plant of ill nature that is reared merely to be a rod
of conjugal castigation.

Laura, however, discovered at last, that her admirer was playing
no double part.

She was too reasonable to protract so unjust a quarrel, and received
him again as usual.

I have already mentioned that Clement VI. had made Petrarch Canon of
Modena, which benefice he resigned in favour of his friend, Luca
Christino, and that this year his Holiness had also conferred upon him
the prebend of Parma.

This preferment excited the envy of some persons, who endeavoured
to prejudice Ugolino de' Rossi, the bishop of the diocese, against him.
Ugolino was of that family which had disputed for the sovereignty of Parma
with the Correggios, and against whom Petrarch had pleaded in
favour of their rivals.

From this circumstance it was feared that Ugolino might be inclined
to listen to those maligners who accused Petrarch of having gone
to Avignon for the purpose of undermining the Bishop in the Pope's
favour.

Petrarch, upon his promotion, wrote a letter to Ugolino, strongly
repelling this accusation. This is one of the manliest epistles
that ever issued from his pen. "Allow me to assure you," he says, "that
I would not exchange my tranquillity for your troubles, nor my poverty
for your riches. Do not imagine, however, that I despise your particular
situation. I only mean that there is no person of your rank whose preferment
I desire; nor would I accept such preferment if it were offered
to me.

I should not say thus much, if my familiar intercourse with the
Pope and the Cardinals had not convinced me that happiness in that
rank is more a shadow than a substance.

It was a memorable saying of Pope Adrian IV., 'that he knew no one
more unhappy than the Sovereign Pontiff; his throne is a seat of
thorns; his mantle is an oppressive weight; his tiara shines
splendidly indeed, but it is not without a devouring fire.'

If I had been ambitious," continues Petrarch, "I might have been
preferred to a benefice of more value than yours;" and he refers
to the fact of the Pope having given him his choice of several high
preferments.

Petrarch passed the winter of 1346-47 chiefly at Avignon, and made
but few and short excursions to Vaucluse.

In one of these, at the beginning of 1347, when he had Socrates
to keep him company at Vaucluse, the Bishop of Cavaillon invited them to
his castle. Petrarch returned the following answer:--

"Yesterday we quitted the city of storms to take refuge in this
harbour, and taste the sweets of repose.

We have nothing but coarse clothes, suitable to the season and the place
we live in; but in this rustic dress we will repair to see you, since you
command us; we fear not to present ourselves in this rustic dress; our
desire to see you puts down every other consideration.

What matters it to us how we appear before one who possesses the depth
of our hearts?

If you wish to see us often you will treat us without ceremony."
His visits to Vaucluse were rather infrequent; business, he says, detained
him often at Avignon, in spite of himself; but still at intervals he
passed a day or two to look after his gardens and trees. On one of these
occasions, he wrote a pleasing letter to William of Pastrengo, dilating
on the pleasures of his garden, which displays liveliness and warmth of
heart.

Petrarch had not seen his brother since the latter had taken the
cowl in the Carthusian monastery, some five years before.

To that convent he paid a visit in February, 1347, and he was received
like an angel from heaven. He was delighted to see a brother whom he
loved so much, and to find him contented with the life which he had
embraced.

The Carthusians, who had heard of Petrarch, renowned as the finest spirit
of the age, were flattered by his showing a strong interest in their
condition; and though he passed but a day and a night with them, they
parted so mutually well pleased, that he promised, on taking leave, to
send them a treatise on the happiness of the life which they led. And
he kept his word; for, immediately upon his return to Vaucluse,
he commenced his essay "_De Otio Religioso_--On the Leisure of the
Religious," and he finished it in a few weeks.

The object of this work is to show the sweets and advantages of their
retired state, compared with the agitations of life in the world.

From these monkish reveries Petrarch was awakened by an astounding
public event, namely, the elevation of Cola di Rienzo to the
tribuneship of Rome.

At the news of this revolution, Petrarch was animated with as much
enthusiasm as if he had been himself engaged in the enterprise.
Under the first impulse of his feelings, he sent an epistolary congratulation
and advice to Rienzo and the Roman people.

This letter breathes a strongly republican spirit. In later times, we
perceive that Petrarch would have been glad to witness the accomplishment
of his darling object--Rome restored to her ancient power and
magnificence, even under an imperial government. Our poet received from
the Tribune an answer to his epistolary oration, telling him that it
had been read to the Roman people, and received with applause. A
considerable number of letters passed between Petrarch and Cola.

When we look back on the long connection of Petrarch with the Colonna
family, his acknowledged obligations, and the attachment to them
which he expresses, it may seem, at first sight, surprising that
he should have so loudly applauded a revolution which struck at the
roots of their power.

But, if we view the matter with a more considerate eye, we shall
hold the poet in nobler and dearer estimation for his public zeal than
if he had cringed to the Colonnas. His personal attachment to _them_,
who were quite as much honoured by _his_ friendship as _he_ was by
_theirs_, was a consideration subservient to that of the honour of his
country and the freedom of his fellow-citizens; "for," as he says in his
own defence, "we owe much to our friends, still more to our parents,
but everything to our country."
Retiring during this year for some time to Vaucluse, Petrarch
composed an eclogue in honour of the Roman revolution, the fifth
in his Bucolics.

It is entitled "La Pieta Pastorale," and has three speakers, who converse
about their venerable mother Rome, but in so dull a manner, that, if
Petrarch had never written better poetry, we should not, probably, at
this moment, have heard of his existence.

In the midst of all this political fervour, the poet's devotion to
Laura continued unabated; Petrarch never composed so many sonnets
in one year as during 1347, but, for the most part, still indicative
of sadness and despair.

In his 116th sonnet, he says:--

"Soleo onde, e 'n rena fondo, e serivo in vento."

I plough in water, build on sand, and write on air.

If anything were wanting to convince us that Laura had treated him, during
his twenty years' courtship, with sufficient rigour, this and other
such expressions would suffice to prove it.

A lover, at the end of so long a period, is not apt to speak thus
despondingly of a mistress who has been kind to him.

It seems, however, that there were exceptions to her extreme reserve.

On one occasion, this year, when they met, and when Petrarch's
eyes were fixed on her in silent reverie, she stretched out her
hand to him, and allowed him to detain it in his for some time.
This incident is alluded to in his 218th sonnet.

If public events, however, were not enough to make him forget his
passion for Laura, they were sufficiently stirring to keep his
interest in them alive.

The head of Rienzo was not strong enough to stand the elevation which
he had attained. Petrarch had hitherto regarded the reports of Rienzo's
errors as highly exaggerated by his enemies; but the truth of them,
at last, became too palpable; though our poet's charitable opinion of
the Tribune considerably outlasted that of the public at large.

When the papal court heard of the multiplied extravagances of
Rienzo, they recovered a little from the panic which had seized them.
They saw that they had to deal with a man whose head was turned. His
summonses had enraged them; and they resolved to keep no measures
with him.
Towards the end of August, 1347, one of his couriers arrived without
arms, and with only the symbol of his office, the silver rod, in
his hand.

He was arrested near Avignon; his letters were taken from him and torn
to pieces; and, without being permitted to enter Avignon, he was sent
back to Rome with threats and ignominy. This proceeding appeared atrocious
in the eyes of Petrarch, and he wrote a letter to Rienzo on the subject,
expressing his strongest indignation at the act of outrage.

[Illustration: COAST OF GENOA.]
Petrarch passed almost the whole of the month of September, 1347,
at Avignon. On the 9th of this month he obtained letters of legitimation
for his son John, who might now be about ten years old. John is
entitled, in these letters, "a scholar of Florence."

The Pope empowers him to possess any kind of benefice without being obliged,
in future, to make mention of his illegitimate birth, or of the obtained
dispensation.
It appears from these letters that the mother of John was not
married.

He left his son at Verona under the tuition of Rinaldo di Villa
Franca.
Before he had left Provence in this year, for the purpose of visiting
Italy, he had announced his intention to the Pope, who wished to
retain him as an honour to his court, and offered him his choice of
several church preferments. But our poet, whose only wish was to obtain
some moderate benefice that would leave him independent and at liberty,
declined his Holiness's _vague_ offers. If we consider that Petrarch
made no secret of his good wishes for Rienzo, it may seem surprisingly
creditable to the Pontiff's liberality that he should have even
_professed_ any interest in the poet's fortune; but in a letter to
his friend Socrates, Petrarch gives us to understand that he thought
the Pope's professions were merely verbal.

He says: "To hold out treasures to a man who demands a small sum is but
a polite mode of refusal." In fact, the Pope offered him _some_ bishopric,
knowing that he wanted only _some_ benefice that should be a sinecure.

If it be asked what determined him now to leave Avignon, the counter-question
may be put, what detained him so long from Italy? It appears that he
had never parted with his house and garden at Parma; he hated
everything in Avignon excepting Laura; and of the solitude of Vaucluse
he was, in all probability, already weary.

Before he left Avignon, he went to take leave of Laura. He found her
at an assembly which she often frequented. "She was seated," he says,
"among those ladies who are generally her companions, and appeared
like a beautiful rose surrounded with flowers smaller and less
blooming."

Her air was more touching than usual.

She was dressed perfectly plain, and without pearls or garlands, or
any gay colour. Though she was not melancholy, she did not appear to have
her wonted cheerfulness, but was serious and thoughtful. She did not sing,
as usual, nor speak with that voice which used to charm every one. She
had the air of a person who fears an evil not yet arrived. "In taking
leave of her," says Petrarch, "I sought in her looks for a consolation
of my own sufferings. Her eyes had an expression which I had never seen
in them before.

What I saw in her face seemed to predict the sorrows that threatened
me."
This was the last meeting that Petrarch and Laura ever had.

Petrarch set out for Italy, towards the close of 1347, having determined
to make that country his residence for the rest of his life.

Upon his arrival at Genoa he wrote to Rienzo, reproaching him for his
follies, and exhorting him to return to his former manly conduct.
This advice, it is scarcely necessary to say, was like dew and sunshine
bestowed upon barren sands.

From Genoa he proceeded to Parma, where he received the first information
of the catastrophe of the Colonna family, six of whom had fallen
in battle with Rienzo's forces.

He showed himself deeply affected by it, and, probably, was so sincerely.
But the Colonnas, though his former patrons, were still the enemies of
a cause which he considered sacred, much as it was mismanaged and
disgraced by the Tribune; and his grief cannot be supposed to have
been immoderate. Accordingly, the letter which he wrote to Cardinal Colonna
on this occasion is quite in the style of Seneca, and more like
an ethical treatise than an epistle of condolence.

It is obvious that Petrarch slowly and reluctantly parted with his good
opinion of Rienzo. But, whatever sentiments he might have cherished
respecting him, he was now doomed to hear of his tragic fall.

The revolution which overthrew the Tribune was accomplished on the
15th of December, 1347. That his fall was, in a considerable degree,
owing to his faults, is undeniable; and to the most contemptible of
all faults--personal vanity. How hard it is on the great mass of mankind,
that this meanness is so seldom disjoined from the zeal of popular
championship! New power, like new wine, seems to intoxicate the strongest
heads.

How disgusting it is to see the restorer of Roman liberty dazzled like
a child by a scarlet robe and its golden trimming!
Nevertheless, with all his vanity, Rienzo was a better friend to the
republic than those who dethroned him. The Romans would have been wise
to have supported Rienzo, taking even his foibles into the account.
They re-admitted their oligarchs; and, if they repented of it, as
they did, they are scarcely entitled to our commiseration.

Petrarch had set out late in 1347 to visit Italy for the fifth time.
He arrived at Genoa towards the end of November, 1347, on his way to
Florence, where he was eagerly expected by his friends. They had obtained
from the Government permission for his return; and he was absolved from
the sentence of banishment in which he had been included with his
father. But, whether Petrarch was offended with the Florentines for
refusing to restore his paternal estate, or whether he was detained by
accident in Lombardy, he put off his expedition to Florence and
repaired to Parma.

It was there that he learned the certainty of the Tribune's
fall.

From Parma he went to Verona, where he arrived on the evening of the 25th
of January, 1348. His son, we have already mentioned, was placed at
Verona, under the tuition of Rinaldo di Villa Franca. Here, soon after
his arrival, as he was sitting among his books, Petrarch felt the shock
of a tremendous earthquake. It seemed as if the whole city was to be
overturned from its foundations. He rushed immediately into the
streets, where the inhabitants were gathered together in consternation;
and, whilst terror was depicted in every countenance, there was
a general cry that the end of the world was come. All contemporary
historians mention this earthquake, and agree that it originated at
the foot of the Alps.

It made sad ravages at Pisa, Bologna, Padua, and Venice, and still more
in the Frioul and Bavaria. If we may trust the narrators of this event,
sixty villages in one canton were buried under two mountains that fell
and filled up a valley five leagues in length. A whole castle, it
is added, was exploded out of the earth from its foundation, and its
ruins scattered many miles from the spot. The latter anecdote has
undoubtedly an air of the marvellous; and yet the convulsions of
nature have produced equally strange effects.

Stones have been thrown out of Mount Ætna to the distance
of eighteen miles.

The earthquake was the forerunner of awful calamities; and it is
possible that it might be physically connected with that memorable plague
in 1348, which reached, in succession, all parts of the known world, and
thinned the population of every country which it visited.
Historians generally agree that this great plague began in China
and Tartary, whence, in the space of a year, it spread its desolation
over the whole of Asia.

It extended itself over Italy early in 1348; but its severest ravages
had not yet been made, when Petrarch returned from Verona to Parma
in the month of March, 1348. He brought with him his son John, whom he
had withdrawn from the school of Rinaldo di Villa Franca, and placed
under Gilberto di Parma, a good grammarian.

His motive for this change of tutorship probably was, that he reckoned
on Parma being henceforward his own principal place of residence,
and his wish to have his son beside him.

Petrarch had scarcely arrived at Parma when he received a letter from
Luchino Visconti, who had lately received the lordship of that city.
Hearing of Petrarch's arrival there, the Prince, being at Milan, wrote
to the poet, requesting some orange plants from his garden, together
with a copy of verses. Petrarch sent him both, accompanied with a letter,
in which he praises Luchino for his encouragement of learning and his
cultivation of the Muses.

The plague was now increasing in Italy; and, after it had deprived
Petrarch of many dear friends, it struck at the root of all his
affections by attacking Laura.

He describes his apprehensions on this occasion in several of his
sonnets. The event confirmed his melancholy presages; for a letter from
his friend Socrates informed him that Laura had died of the plague on
the 1st of April, 1348. His biographers may well be believed, when they
tell us that his grief was extreme.

Laura's husband took the event more quietly, and consoled himself
by marrying again, when only seven months a widower.

Petrarch, when informed of her death, wrote that marginal note upon
his copy of Virgil, the authenticity of which has been so often, though
unjustly, called in question.
It was not till she
had opened the door that she knew the Mayor was there in the company of
a man with whom he transacted business.

"Here, Elizabeth-Jane," he said, looking round at her, "just write down
what I tell you--a few words of an agreement for me and this gentleman
to sign. I am a poor tool with a pen."

"Be jowned, and so be I," said the gentleman.

She brought forward blotting-book, paper, and ink, and sat down.

"Now then--'An agreement entered into this sixteenth day of
October'--write that first."

She started the pen in an elephantine march across the sheet. It was a
splendid round, bold hand of her own conception, a style that would have
stamped a woman as Minerva's own in more recent days. But other ideas
reigned then: Henchard's creed was that proper young girls wrote
ladies'-hand--nay, he believed that bristling characters were as innate
and inseparable a part of refined womanhood as sex itself. Hence when,
instead of scribbling, like the Princess Ida,--

     "In such a hand as when a field of corn
     Bows all its ears before the roaring East,"

Elizabeth-Jane produced a line of chain-shot and sand-bags, he reddened
in angry shame for her, and, peremptorily saying, "Never mind--I'll
finish it," dismissed her there and then.

Her considerate disposition became a pitfall to her now. She was, it
must be admitted, sometimes provokingly and unnecessarily willing to
saddle herself with manual labours. She would go to the kitchen instead
of ringing, "Not to make Phoebe come up twice." She went down on
her knees, shovel in hand, when the cat overturned the coal-scuttle;
moreover, she would persistently thank the parlour-maid for everything,
till one day, as soon as the girl was gone from the room, Henchard broke
out with, "Good God, why dostn't leave off thanking that girl as if she
were a goddess-born! Don't I pay her a dozen pound a year to do things
for 'ee?" Elizabeth shrank so visibly at the exclamation that he became
sorry a few minutes after, and said that he did not mean to be rough.

These domestic exhibitions were the small protruding needlerocks which
suggested rather than revealed what was underneath. But his passion had
less terror for her than his coldness. The increasing frequency of the
latter mood told her the sad news that he disliked her with a growing
dislike. The more interesting that her appearance and manners became
under the softening influences which she could now command, and in her
wisdom did command, the more she seemed to estrange him. Sometimes she
caught him looking at her with a louring invidiousness that she could
hardly bear. Not knowing his secret it was cruel mockery that she should
for the first time excite his animosity when she had taken his surname.

But the most terrible ordeal was to come. Elizabeth had latterly
been accustomed of an afternoon to present a cup of cider or ale and
bread-and-cheese to Nance Mockridge, who worked in the yard wimbling
hay-bonds. Nance accepted this offering thankfully at first; afterwards
as a matter of course. On a day when Henchard was on the premises he saw
his step-daughter enter the hay-barn on this errand; and, as there was
no clear spot on which to deposit the provisions, she at once set
to work arranging two trusses of hay as a table, Mockridge meanwhile
standing with her hands on her hips, easefully looking at the
preparations on her behalf.

"Elizabeth, come here!" said Henchard; and she obeyed.

"Why do you lower yourself so confoundedly?" he said with suppressed
passion. "Haven't I told you o't fifty times? Hey? Making yourself a
drudge for a common workwoman of such a character as hers! Why, ye'll
disgrace me to the dust!"

Now these words were uttered loud enough to reach Nance inside the barn
door, who fired up immediately at the slur upon her personal character.
Coming to the door she cried regardless of consequences, "Come to that,
Mr. Henchard, I can let 'ee know she've waited on worse!"

"Then she must have had more charity than sense," said Henchard.

"O no, she hadn't. 'Twere not for charity but for hire; and at a
public-house in this town!"

"It is not true!" cried Henchard indignantly.

"Just ask her," said Nance, folding her naked arms in such a manner that
she could comfortably scratch her elbows.

Henchard glanced at Elizabeth-Jane, whose complexion, now pink and white
from confinement, lost nearly all of the former colour. "What does this
mean?" he said to her. "Anything or nothing?"

"It is true," said Elizabeth-Jane. "But it was only--"

"Did you do it, or didn't you? Where was it?"

"At the Three Mariners; one evening for a little while, when we were
staying there."

Nance glanced triumphantly at Henchard, and sailed into the barn; for
assuming that she was to be discharged on the instant she had resolved
to make the most of her victory. Henchard, however, said nothing about
discharging her. Unduly sensitive on such points by reason of his
own past, he had the look of one completely ground down to the last
indignity. Elizabeth followed him to the house like a culprit; but when
she got inside she could not see him. Nor did she see him again that
day.

Convinced of the scathing damage to his local repute and position that
must have been caused by such a fact, though it had never before reached
his own ears, Henchard showed a positive distaste for the presence of
this girl not his own, whenever he encountered her. He mostly dined with
the farmers at the market-room of one of the two chief hotels, leaving
her in utter solitude. Could he have seen how she made use of those
silent hours he might have found reason to reserve his judgment on
her quality. She read and took notes incessantly, mastering facts with
painful laboriousness, but never flinching from her self-imposed task.
She began the study of Latin, incited by the Roman characteristics of
the town she lived in. "If I am not well-informed it shall be by no
fault of my own," she would say to herself through the tears that would
occasionally glide down her peachy cheeks when she was fairly baffled by
the portentous obscurity of many of these educational works.

Thus she lived on, a dumb, deep-feeling, great-eyed creature, construed
by not a single contiguous being; quenching with patient fortitude
her incipient interest in Farfrae, because it seemed to be one-sided,
unmaidenly, and unwise. True, that for reasons best known to herself,
she had, since Farfrae's dismissal, shifted her quarters from the back
room affording a view of the yard (which she had occupied with such
zest) to a front chamber overlooking the street; but as for the young
man, whenever he passed the house he seldom or never turned his head.

Winter had almost come, and unsettled weather made her still more
dependent upon indoor resources. But there were certain early winter
days in Casterbridge--days of firmamental exhaustion which followed
angry south-westerly tempests--when, if the sun shone, the air was like
velvet. She seized on these days for her periodical visits to the spot
where her mother lay buried--the still-used burial-ground of the old
Roman-British city, whose curious feature was this, its continuity as a
place of sepulture. Mrs. Henchard's dust mingled with the dust of women
who lay ornamented with glass hair-pins and amber necklaces, and men who
held in their mouths coins of Hadrian, Posthumus, and the Constantines.

Half-past ten in the morning was about her hour for seeking this spot--a
time when the town avenues were deserted as the avenues of Karnac.
Business had long since passed down them into its daily cells, and
Leisure had not arrived there. So Elizabeth-Jane walked and read,
or looked over the edge of the book to think, and thus reached the
churchyard.

There, approaching her mother's grave she saw a solitary dark figure in
the middle of the gravel-walk. This figure, too, was reading; but not
from a book: the words which engrossed it being the inscription on Mrs.
Henchard's tombstone. The personage was in mourning like herself, was
about her age and size, and might have been her wraith or double, but
for the fact that it was a lady much more beautifully dressed than she.
Indeed, comparatively indifferent as Elizabeth-Jane was to dress,
unless for some temporary whim or purpose, her eyes were arrested by
the artistic perfection of the lady's appearance. Her gait, too, had
a flexuousness about it, which seemed to avoid angularity. It was a
revelation to Elizabeth that human beings could reach this stage of
external development--she had never suspected it. She felt all the
freshness and grace to be stolen from herself on the instant by the
neighbourhood of such a stranger. And this was in face of the fact that
Elizabeth could now have been writ handsome, while the young lady was
simply pretty.

Had she been envious she might have hated the woman; but she did not
do that--she allowed herself the pleasure of feeling fascinated. She
wondered where the lady had come from. The stumpy and practical walk of
honest homeliness which mostly prevailed there, the two styles of dress
thereabout, the simple and the mistaken, equally avouched that
this figure was no Casterbridge woman's, even if a book in her hand
resembling a guide-book had not also suggested it.

The stranger presently moved from the tombstone of Mrs. Henchard, and
vanished behind the corner of the wall. Elizabeth went to the tomb
herself; beside it were two footprints distinct in the soil, signifying
that the lady had stood there a long time. She returned homeward,
musing on what she had seen, as she might have mused on a rainbow or the
Northern Lights, a rare butterfly or a cameo.

Interesting as things had been out of doors, at home it turned out to
be one of her bad days. Henchard, whose two years' mayoralty was ending,
had been made aware that he was not to be chosen to fill a vacancy in
the list of aldermen; and that Farfrae was likely to become one of the
Council. This caused the unfortunate discovery that she had played the
waiting-maid in the town of which he was Mayor to rankle in his mind yet
more poisonously. He had learnt by personal inquiry at the time that
it was to Donald Farfrae--that treacherous upstart--that she had thus
humiliated herself. And though Mrs. Stannidge seemed to attach no great
importance to the incident--the cheerful souls at the Three Mariners
having exhausted its aspects long ago--such was Henchard's haughty
spirit that the simple thrifty deed was regarded as little less than a
social catastrophe by him.

Ever since the evening of his wife's arrival with her daughter there had
been something in the air which had changed his luck. That dinner at the
King's Arms with his friends had been Henchard's Austerlitz: he had had
his successes since, but his course had not been upward. He was not
to be numbered among the aldermen--that Peerage of burghers--as he had
expected to be, and the consciousness of this soured him to-day.

"Well, where have you been?" he said to her with offhand laconism.

"I've been strolling in the Walks and churchyard, father, till I feel
quite leery." She clapped her hand to her mouth, but too late.

This was just enough to incense Henchard after the other crosses of the
day. "I WON'T have you talk like that!" he thundered. "'Leery,' indeed.
One would think you worked upon a farm! One day I learn that you lend
a hand in public-houses. Then I hear you talk like a clodhopper. I'm
burned, if it goes on, this house can't hold us two."

The only way of getting a single pleasant thought to go to sleep upon
after this was by recalling the lady she had seen that day, and hoping
she might see her again.

Meanwhile Henchard was sitting up, thinking over his jealous folly in
forbidding Farfrae to pay his addresses to this girl who did not belong
to him, when if he had allowed them to go on he might not have been
encumbered with her. At last he said to himself with satisfaction as
he jumped up and went to the writing-table: "Ah! he'll think it means
peace, and a marriage portion--not that I don't want my house to be
troubled with her, and no portion at all!" He wrote as follows:--


Sir,--On consideration, I don't wish to interfere with your courtship of
Elizabeth-Jane, if you care for her. I therefore withdraw my objection;
excepting in this--that the business be not carried on in my house.--

Yours, M. HENCHARD Mr. Farfrae.


The morrow, being fairly fine, found Elizabeth-Jane again in the
churchyard, but while looking for the lady she was startled by the
apparition of Farfrae, who passed outside the gate. He glanced up for a
moment from a pocket-book in which he appeared to be making figures as
he went; whether or not he saw her he took no notice, and disappeared.

Unduly depressed by a sense of her own superfluity she thought he
probably scorned her; and quite broken in spirit sat down on a bench.
She fell into painful thought on her position, which ended with her
saying quite loud, "O, I wish I was dead with dear mother!"

Behind the bench was a little promenade under the wall where people
sometimes walked instead of on the gravel. The bench seemed to be
touched by something, she looked round, and a face was bending over her,
veiled, but still distinct, the face of the young woman she had seen
yesterday.

Elizabeth-Jane looked confounded for a moment, knowing she had been
overheard, though there was pleasure in her confusion. "Yes, I heard
you," said the lady, in a vivacious voice, answering her look. "What can
have happened?"

"I don't--I can't tell you," said Elizabeth, putting her hand to her
face to hide a quick flush that had come.

There was no movement or word for a few seconds; then the girl felt that
the young lady was sitting down beside her.

"I guess how it is with you," said the latter. "That was your mother."
She waved her hand towards the tombstone. Elizabeth looked up at her as
if inquiring of herself whether there should be confidence. The lady's
manner was so desirous, so anxious, that the girl decided there should
be confidence. "It was my mother," she said, "my only friend."

"But your father, Mr. Henchard. He is living?"

"Yes, he is living," said Elizabeth-Jane.

"Is he not kind to you?"

"I've no wish to complain of him."

"There has been a disagreement?"

"A little."

"Perhaps you were to blame," suggested the stranger.

"I was--in many ways," sighed the meek Elizabeth. "I swept up the coals
when the servants ought to have done it; and I said I was leery;--and he
was angry with me."

The lady seemed to warm towards her for that reply. "Do you know the
impression your words give me?" she said ingenuously. "That he is a
hot-tempered man--a little proud--perhaps ambitious; but not a bad man."
Her anxiety not to condemn Henchard while siding with Elizabeth was
curious.

"O no; certainly not BAD," agreed the honest girl. "And he has not even
been unkind to me till lately--since mother died. But it has been very
much to bear while it has lasted. All is owing to my defects, I daresay;
and my defects are owing to my history."

"What is your history?"

Elizabeth-Jane looked wistfully at her questioner. She found that her
questioner was looking at her, turned her eyes down; and then seemed
compelled to look back again. "My history is not gay or attractive," she
said. "And yet I can tell it, if you really want to know."

The lady assured her that she did want to know; whereupon Elizabeth-Jane
told the tale of her life as she understood it, which was in general the
true one, except that the sale at the fair had no part therein.

Contrary to the girl's expectation her new friend was not shocked. This
cheered her; and it was not till she thought of returning to that home
in which she had been treated so roughly of late that her spirits fell.

"I don't know how to return," she murmured. "I think of going away. But
what can I do? Where can I go?"

"Perhaps it will be better soon," said her friend gently. "So I would
not go far. Now what do you think of this: I shall soon want somebody to
live in my house, partly as housekeeper, partly as companion; would you
mind coming to me? But perhaps--"

"O yes," cried Elizabeth, with tears in her eyes. "I would, indeed--I
would do anything to be independent; for then perhaps my father might
get to love me. But, ah!"

"What?"

"I am no accomplished person. And a companion to you must be that."

"O, not necessarily."

"Not? But I can't help using rural words sometimes, when I don't mean
to."

"Never mind, I shall like to know them."

"And--O, I know I shan't do!"--she cried with a distressful laugh. "I
accidentally learned to write round hand instead of ladies'-hand. And,
of course, you want some one who can write that?"

"Well, no."

"What, not necessary to write ladies'-hand?" cried the joyous Elizabeth.

"Not at all."

"But where do you live?"

"In Casterbridge, or rather I shall be living here after twelve o'clock
to-day."

Elizabeth expressed her astonishment.

"I have been staying at Budmouth for a few days while my house
was getting ready. The house I am going into is that one they call
High-Place Hall--the old stone one looking down the lane to the market.
Two or three rooms are fit for occupation, though not all: I sleep there
to-night for the first time. Now will you think over my proposal, and
meet me here the first fine day next week, and say if you are still in
the same mind?"

Elizabeth, her eyes shining at this prospect of a change from an
unbearable position, joyfully assented; and the two parted at the gate
of the churchyard.


21.


As a maxim glibly repeated from childhood remains practically unmarked
till some mature experience enforces it, so did this High-Place Hall now
for the first time really show itself to Elizabeth-Jane, though her ears
had heard its name on a hundred occasions.

Her mind dwelt upon nothing else but the stranger, and the house,
and her own chance of living there, all the rest of the day. In the
afternoon she had occasion to pay a few bills in the town and do a
little shopping when she learnt that what was a new discovery to
herself had become a common topic about the streets. High-Place Hall
was undergoing repair; a lady was coming there to live shortly; all the
shop-people knew it, and had already discounted the chance of her being
a customer.

Elizabeth-Jane could, however, add a capping touch to information so new
to her in the bulk. The lady, she said, had arrived that day.

When the lamps were lighted, and it was yet not so dark as to render
chimneys, attics, and roofs invisible, Elizabeth, almost with a lover's
feeling, thought she would like to look at the outside of High-Place
Hall. She went up the street in that direction.

The Hall, with its grey facade and parapet, was the only residence of
its sort so near the centre of the town. It had, in the first place, the
characteristics of a country mansion--birds' nests in its chimneys,
damp nooks where fungi grew and irregularities of surface direct from
Nature's trowel. At night the forms of passengers were patterned by the
lamps in black shadows upon the pale walls.

This evening motes of straw lay around, and other signs of the premises
having been in that lawless condition which accompanies the entry of a
new tenant. The house was entirely of stone, and formed an example of
dignity without great size. It was not altogether aristocratic, still
less consequential, yet the old-fashioned stranger instinctively said
"Blood built it, and Wealth enjoys it" however vague his opinions of
those accessories might be.

Yet as regards the enjoying it the stranger would have been wrong, for
until this very evening, when the new lady had arrived, the house had
been empty for a year or two while before that interval its occupancy
had been irregular. The reason of its unpopularity was soon made
manifest. Some of its rooms overlooked the market-place; and such a
prospect from such a house was not considered desirable or seemly by its
would-be occupiers.

Elizabeth's eyes sought the upper rooms, and saw lights there. The lady
had obviously arrived. The impression that this woman of comparatively
practised manner had made upon the studious girl's mind was so deep that
she enjoyed standing under an opposite archway merely to think that the
charming lady was inside the confronting walls, and to wonder what
she was doing. Her admiration for the architecture of that front was
entirely on account of the inmate it screened. Though for that matter
the architecture deserved admiration, or at least study, on its own
account. It was Palladian, and like most architecture erected since
the Gothic age was a compilation rather than a design. But its
reasonableness made it impressive. It was not rich, but rich enough. A
timely consciousness of the ultimate vanity of human architecture, no
less than of other human things, had prevented artistic superfluity.

Men had still quite recently been going in and out with parcels
and packing-cases, rendering the door and hall within like a public
thoroughfare. Elizabeth trotted through the open door in the dusk,
but becoming alarmed at her own temerity she went quickly out again by
another which stood open in the lofty wall of the back court. To her
surprise she found herself in one of the little-used alleys of the town.
Looking round at the door which had given her egress, by the light of
the solitary lamp fixed in the alley, she saw that it was arched and
old--older even than the house itself. The door was studded, and the
keystone of the arch was a mask. Originally the mask had exhibited a
comic leer, as could still be discerned; but generations of Casterbridge
boys had thrown stones at the mask, aiming at its open mouth; and the
blows thereon had chipped off the lips and jaws as if they had been
eaten away by disease. The appearance was so ghastly by the weakly
lamp-glimmer that she could not bear to look at it--the first unpleasant
feature of her visit.

The position of the queer old door and the odd presence of the leering
mask suggested one thing above all others as appertaining to the
mansion's past history--intrigue. By the alley it had been possible to
come unseen from all sorts of quarters in the town--the old play-house,
the old bull-stake, the old cock-pit, the pool wherein nameless
infants had been used to disappear. High-Place Hall could boast of its
conveniences undoubtedly.

She turned to come away in the nearest direction homeward, which was
down the alley, but hearing footsteps approaching in that quarter, and
having no great wish to be found in such a place at such a time she
quickly retreated. There being no other way out she stood behind a brick
pier till the intruder should have gone his ways.

Had she watched she would have been surprised. She would have seen that
the pedestrian on coming up made straight for the arched doorway: that
as he paused with his hand upon the latch the lamplight fell upon the
face of Henchard.

But Elizabeth-Jane clung so closely to her nook that she discerned
nothing of this. Henchard passed in, as ignorant of her presence as she
was ignorant of his identity, and disappeared in the darkness. Elizabeth
came out a second time into the alley, and made the best of her way
home.

Henchard's chiding, by begetting in her a nervous fear of doing anything
definable as unladylike, had operated thus curiously in keeping them
unknown to each other at a critical moment. Much might have resulted
from recognition--at the least a query on either side in one and the
selfsame form: What could he or she possibly be doing there?

Henchard, whatever his business at the lady's house, reached his own
home only a few minutes later than Elizabeth-Jane. Her plan was to
broach the question of leaving his roof this evening; the events of the
day had urged her to the course. But its execution depended upon his
mood, and she anxiously awaited his manner towards her. She found that
it had changed. He showed no further tendency to be angry; he
showed something worse. Absolute indifference had taken the place
of irritability; and his coldness was such that it encouraged her to
departure, even more than hot temper could have done.

"Father, have you any objection to my going away?" she asked.

"Going away! No--none whatever. Where are you going?"

She thought it undesirable and unnecessary to say anything at present
about her destination to one who took so little interest in her. He
would know that soon enough. "I have heard of an opportunity of getting
more cultivated and finished, and being less idle," she answered,
with hesitation. "A chance of a place in a household where I can have
advantages of study, and seeing refined life."

"Then make the best of it, in Heaven's name--if you can't get cultivated
where you are."

"You don't object?"

"Object--I? Ho--no! Not at all." After a pause he said, "But you won't
have enough money for this lively scheme without help, you know? If you
like I should be willing to make you an allowance, so that you not be
bound to live upon the starvation wages refined folk are likely to pay
'ee."

She thanked him for this offer.

"It had better be done properly," he added after a pause. "A small
annuity is what I should like you to have--so as to be independent of
me--and so that I may be independent of you. Would that please ye?"

"Certainly."

"Then I'll see about it this very day." He seemed relieved to get her
off his hands by this arrangement, and as far as they were concerned the
matter was settled. She now simply waited to see the lady again.

The day and the hour came; but a drizzling rain fell. Elizabeth-Jane
having now changed her orbit from one of gay independence to laborious
self-help, thought the weather good enough for such declined glory as
hers, if her friend would only face it--a matter of doubt. She went to
the boot-room where her pattens had hung ever since her apotheosis; took
them down, had their mildewed leathers blacked, and put them on as she
had done in old times. Thus mounted, and with cloak and umbrella, she
went off to the place of appointment--intending, if the lady were not
there, to call at the house.

One side of the churchyard--the side towards the weather--was sheltered
by an ancient thatched mud wall whose eaves overhung as much as one or
two feet. At the back of the wall was a corn-yard with its granary and
barns--the place wherein she had met Farfrae many months earlier. Under
the projection of the thatch she saw a figure. The young lady had come.

Her presence so exceptionally substantiated the girl's utmost hopes that
she almost feared her good fortune. Fancies find rooms in the strongest
minds. Here, in a churchyard old as civilization, in the worst of
weathers, was a strange woman of curious fascinations never seen
elsewhere: there might be some devilry about her presence. However,
Elizabeth went on to the church tower, on whose summit the rope of a
flagstaff rattled in the wind; and thus she came to the wall.

The lady had such a cheerful aspect in the drizzle that Elizabeth forgot
her fancy. "Well," said the lady, a little of the whiteness of her teeth
appearing with the word through the black fleece that protected her
face, "have you decided?"

"Yes, quite," said the other eagerly.

"Your father is willing?"

"Yes."

"Then come along."

"When?"

"Now--as soon as you like. I had a good mind to send to you to come to
my house, thinking you might not venture up here in the wind. But as I
like getting out of doors, I thought I would come and see first."

"It was my own thought."

"That shows we shall agree. Then can you come to-day? My house is so
hollow and dismal that I want some living thing there."

"I think I might be able to," said the girl, reflecting.

Voices were borne over to them at that instant on the wind and raindrops
from the other side of the wall. There came such words as "sacks,"
"quarters," "threshing," "tailing," "next Saturday's market," each
sentence being disorganized by the gusts like a face in a cracked
mirror. Both the women listened.

"Who are those?" said the lady.

"One is my father. He rents that yard and barn."

The lady seemed to forget the immediate business in listening to the
technicalities of the corn trade. At last she said suddenly, "Did you
tell him where you were going to?"

"No."

"O--how was that?"

"I thought it safer to get away first--as he is so uncertain in his
temper."

"Perhaps you are right....Besides, I have never told you my name. It is
Miss Templeman....Are they gone--on the other side?"

"No. They have only gone up into the granary."

"Well, it is getting damp here. I shall expect you to-day--this evening,
say, at six."

"Which way shall I come, ma'am?"

"The front way--round by the gate. There is no other that I have
noticed."

Elizabeth-Jane had been thinking of the door in the alley.

"Perhaps, as you have not mentioned your destination, you may as well
keep silent upon it till you are clear off. Who knows but that he may
alter his mind?"

Elizabeth-Jane shook her head. "On consideration I don't fear it," she
said sadly. "He has grown quite cold to me."

"Very well. Six o'clock then."

When they had emerged upon the open road and parted, they found enough
to do in holding their bowed umbrellas to the wind. Nevertheless the
lady looked in at the corn-yard gates as she passed them, and paused on
one foot for a moment. But nothing was visible there save the ricks, and
the humpbacked barn cushioned with moss, and the granary rising against
the church-tower behind, where the smacking of the rope against the
flag-staff still went on.

Now Henchard had not the slightest suspicion that Elizabeth-Jane's
movement was to be so prompt. Hence when, just before six, he
reached home and saw a fly at the door from the King's Arms, and his
step-daughter, with all her little bags and boxes, getting into it, he
was taken by surprise.

"But you said I might go, father?" she explained through the carriage
window.

"Said!--yes. But I thought you meant next month, or next year. 'Od,
seize it--you take time by the forelock! This, then, is how you be going
to treat me for all my trouble about ye?"

"O father! how can you speak like that? It is unjust of you!" she said
with spirit.

"Well, well, have your own way," he replied. He entered the house, and,
seeing that all her things had not yet been brought down, went up to
her room to look on. He had never been there since she had occupied it.
Evidences of her care, of her endeavours for improvement, were
visible all around, in the form of books, sketches, maps, and little
arrangements for tasteful effects. Henchard had known nothing of these
efforts. He gazed at them, turned suddenly about, and came down to the
door.

"Look here," he said, in an altered voice--he never called her by
name now--"don't 'ee go away from me. It may be I've spoke roughly to
you--but I've been grieved beyond everything by you--there's something
that caused it."

"By me?" she said, with deep concern. "What have I done?"

"I can't tell you now. But if you'll stop, and go on living as my
daughter, I'll tell you all in time."

But the proposal had come ten minutes too late. She was in the fly--was
already, in imagination, at the house of the lady whose manner had such
charms for her. "Father," she said, as considerately as she could, "I
think it best for us that I go on now. I need not stay long; I shall not
be far away, and if you want me badly I can soon come back again."

He nodded ever so slightly, as a receipt of her decision and no more.
"You are not going far, you say. What will be your address, in case I
wish to write to you? Or am I not to know?"

"Oh yes--certainly. It is only in the town--High-Place Hall!"

"Where?" said Henchard, his face stilling.

She repeated the words. He neither moved nor spoke, and waving her hand
to him in utmost friendliness she signified to the flyman to drive up
the street.


22.


We go back for a moment to the preceding night, to account for
Henchard's attitude.

At the hour when Elizabeth-Jane was contemplating her stealthy
reconnoitring excursion to the abode of the lady of her fancy, he had
been not a little amazed at receiving a letter by hand in Lucetta's
well-known characters. The self-repression, the resignation of her
previous communication had vanished from her mood; she wrote with
some of the natural lightness which had marked her in their early
acquaintance.


HIGH-PLACE HALL

MY DEAR MR. HENCHARD,--Don't be surprised. It is for your good and mine,
as I hope, that I have come to live at Casterbridge--for how long I
cannot tell. That depends upon another; and he is a man, and a merchant,
and a Mayor, and one who has the first right to my affections.

Seriously, mon ami, I am not so light-hearted as I may seem to be from
this. I have come here in consequence of hearing of the death of your
wife--whom you used to think of as dead so many years before! Poor
woman, she seems to have been a sufferer, though uncomplaining, and
though weak in intellect not an imbecile. I am glad you acted fairly by
her. As soon as I knew she was no more, it was brought home to me very
forcibly by my conscience that I ought to endeavour to disperse the
shade which my etourderie flung over my name, by asking you to carry out
your promise to me. I hope you are of the same mind, and that you
will take steps to this end. As, however, I did not know how you were
situated, or what had happened since our separation, I decided to come
and establish myself here before communicating with you.

You probably feel as I do about this. I shall be able to see you in a
day or two. Till then, farewell.--Yours,

LUCETTA.

P.S.--I was unable to keep my appointment to meet you for a moment or
two in passing through Casterbridge the other day. My plans were altered
by a family event, which it will surprise you to hear of.


Henchard had already heard that High-Place Hall was being prepared for
a tenant. He said with a puzzled air to the first person he encountered,
"Who is coming to live at the Hall?"

"A lady of the name of Templeman, I believe, sir," said his informant.

Henchard thought it over. "Lucetta is related to her, I suppose,"
he said to himself. "Yes, I must put her in her proper position,
undoubtedly."

It was by no means with the oppression that would once have accompanied
the thought that he regarded the moral necessity now; it was, indeed,
with interest, if not warmth. His bitter disappointment at finding
Elizabeth-Jane to be none of his, and himself a childless man, had left
an emotional void in Henchard that he unconsciously craved to fill. In
this frame of mind, though without strong feeling, he had strolled up
the alley and into High-Place Hall by the postern at which Elizabeth
had so nearly encountered him. He had gone on thence into the court, and
inquired of a man whom he saw unpacking china from a crate if Miss Le
Sueur was living there. Miss Le Sueur had been the name under which he
had known Lucetta--or "Lucette," as she had called herself at that time.

The man replied in the negative; that Miss Templeman only had come.
Henchard went away, concluding that Lucetta had not as yet settled in.

He was in this interested stage of the inquiry when he witnessed
Elizabeth-Jane's departure the next day. On hearing her announce the
address there suddenly took possession of him the strange thought that
Lucetta and Miss Templeman were one and the same person, for he could
recall that in her season of intimacy with him the name of the rich
relative whom he had deemed somewhat a mythical personage had been given
as Templeman. Though he was not a fortune-hunter, the possibility
that Lucetta had been sublimed into a lady of means by some munificent
testament on the part of this relative lent a charm to her image which
it might not otherwise have acquired. He was getting on towards the dead
level of middle age, when material things increasingly possess the mind.

But Henchard was not left long in suspense. Lucetta was rather addicted
to scribbling, as had been shown by the torrent of letters after the
fiasco in their marriage arrangements, and hardly had Elizabeth gone
away when another note came to the Mayor's house from High-Place Hall.


"I am in residence," she said, "and comfortable, though getting here has
been a wearisome undertaking. You probably know what I am going to tell
you, or do you not? My good Aunt Templeman, the banker's widow, whose
very existence you used to doubt, much more her affluence, has lately
died, and bequeathed some of her property to me. I will not enter into
details except to say that I have taken her name--as a means of escape
from mine, and its wrongs.

"I am now my own mistress, and have chosen to reside in Casterbridge--to
be tenant of High-Place Hall, that at least you may be put to no trouble
if you wish to see me. My first intention was to keep you in ignorance
of the changes in my life till you should meet me in the street; but I
have thought better of this.

"You probably are aware of my arrangement with your daughter, and have
doubtless laughed at the--what shall I call it?--practical joke (in all
affection) of my getting her to live with me. But my first meeting with
her was purely an accident. Do you see, Michael, partly why I have done
it?--why, to give you an excuse for coming here as if to visit HER, and
thus to form my acquaintance naturally. She is a dear, good girl, and
she thinks you have treated her with undue severity. You may have done
so in your haste, but not deliberately, I am sure. As the result has
been to bring her to me I am not disposed to upbraid you.--In haste,
yours always,

"LUCETTA."


The excitement which these announcements produced in Henchard's gloomy
soul was to him most pleasurable. He sat over his dining-table long and
dreamily, and by an almost mechanical transfer the sentiments which
had run to waste since his estrangement from Elizabeth-Jane and Donald
Farfrae gathered around Lucetta before they had grown dry. She was
plainly in a very coming-on disposition for marriage. But what else
could a poor woman be who had given her time and her heart to him
so thoughtlessly, at that former time, as to lose her credit by it?
Probably conscience no less than affection had brought her here. On the
whole he did not blame her.

"The artful little woman!" he said, smiling (with reference to Lucetta's
adroit and pleasant manoeuvre with Elizabeth-Jane).

To feel that he would like to see Lucetta was with Henchard to start
for her house. He put on his hat and went. It was between eight and nine
o'clock when he reached her door. The answer brought him was that Miss
Templeman was engaged for that evening; but that she would be happy to
see him the next day.

"That's rather like giving herself airs!" he thought. "And considering
what we--" But after all, she plainly had not expected him, and he took
the refusal quietly. Nevertheless he resolved not to go next day. "These
cursed women--there's not an inch of straight grain in 'em!" he said.

Let us follow the train of Mr. Henchard's thought as if it were a
clue line, and view the interior of High-Place Hall on this particular
evening.

On Elizabeth-Jane's arrival she had been phlegmatically asked by an
elderly woman to go upstairs and take off her things. She replied with
great earnestness that she would not think of giving that trouble, and
on the instant divested herself of her bonnet and cloak in the passage.
She was then conducted to the first floor on the landing, and left to
find her way further alone.

The room disclosed was prettily furnished as a boudoir or small
drawing-room, and on a sofa with two cylindrical pillows reclined a
dark-haired, large-eyed, pretty woman, of unmistakably French extraction
on one side or the other. She was probably some years older than
Elizabeth, and had a sparkling light in her eye. In front of the sofa
was a small table, with a pack of cards scattered upon it faces upward.

The attitude had been so full of abandonment that she bounded up like a
spring on hearing the door open.

Perceiving that it was Elizabeth she lapsed into ease, and came across
to her with a reckless skip that innate grace only prevented from being
boisterous.

"Why, you are late," she said, taking hold of Elizabeth-Jane's hands.

"There were so many little things to put up."

"And you seem dead-alive and tired. Let me try to enliven you by some
wonderful tricks I have learnt, to kill time. Sit there and don't move."
She gathered up the pack of cards, pulled the table in front of her, and
began to deal them rapidly, telling Elizabeth to choose some.

"Well, have you chosen?" she asked flinging down the last card.

"No," stammered Elizabeth, arousing herself from a reverie. "I forgot, I
was thinking of--you, and me--and how strange it is that I am here."

Miss Templeman looked at Elizabeth-Jane with interest, and laid down the
cards. "Ah! never mind," she said. "I'll lie here while you sit by me;
and we'll talk."

Elizabeth drew up silently to the head of the sofa, but with obvious
pleasure. It could be seen that though in years she was younger than her
entertainer in manner and general vision she seemed more of the sage.
Miss Templeman deposited herself on the sofa in her former flexuous
position, and throwing her arm above her brow--somewhat in the pose of
a well-known conception of Titian's--talked up at Elizabeth-Jane
invertedly across her forehead and arm.

"I must tell you something," she said. "I wonder if you have suspected
it. I have only been mistress of a large house and fortune a little
while."

"Oh--only a little while?" murmured Elizabeth-Jane, her countenance
slightly falling.

"As a girl I lived about in garrison towns and elsewhere with my father,
till I was quite flighty and unsettled. He was an officer in the army. I
should not have mentioned this had I not thought it best you should know
the truth."

"Yes, yes." She looked thoughtfully round the room--at the little square
piano with brass inlayings, at the window-curtains, at the lamp, at the
fair and dark kings and queens on the card-table, and finally at the
inverted face of Lucetta Templeman, whose large lustrous eyes had such
an odd effect upside down.

Elizabeth's mind ran on acquirements to an almost morbid degree. "You
speak French and Italian fluently, no doubt," she said. "I have not been
able to get beyond a wretched bit of Latin yet."

"Well, for that matter, in my native isle speaking French does not go
for much. It is rather the other way."

"Where is your native isle?"

It was with rather more reluctance that Miss Templeman said, "Jersey.
There they speak French on one side of the street and English on the
other, and a mixed tongue in the middle of the road. But it is a long
time since I was there. Bath is where my people really belong to, though
my ancestors in Jersey were as good as anybody in England. They were
the Le Sueurs, an old family who have done great things in their time.
I went back and lived there after my father's death. But I don't value
such past matters, and am quite an English person in my feelings and
tastes."

Lucetta's tongue had for a moment outrun her discretion. She had arrived
at Casterbridge as a Bath lady, and there were obvious reasons why
Jersey should drop out of her life. But Elizabeth had tempted her to
make free, and a deliberately formed resolve had been broken.

It could not, however, have been broken in safer company. Lucetta's
words went no further, and after this day she was so much upon her
guard that there appeared no chance of her identification with the young
Jersey woman who had been Henchard's dear comrade at a critical time.
Not the least amusing of her safeguards was her resolute avoidance of a
French word if one by accident came to her tongue more readily than
its English equivalent. She shirked it with the suddenness of the weak
Apostle at the accusation, "Thy speech bewrayeth thee!"

Expectancy sat visibly upon Lucetta the next morning. She dressed
herself for Mr. Henchard, and restlessly awaited his call before
mid-day; as he did not come she waited on through the afternoon. But
she did not tell Elizabeth that the person expected was the girl's
stepfather.

It is but fair to apply an equally large generalization to tobacco.
Chemistry can concentrate the sapid and odorous elements of the peach
and the bitter almond into a transparent fluid, of which the smell
shall be vertiginous and the taste death. But chemistry is often
misunderstood, in two ways: in the one case, by the incredulity of
total ignorance; in the other, by the overcredulity of imperfect
knowledge.

That poor woman who murdered her husband by arsenic not long
since was an instance of the first. She laughed to scorn the idea
that the chemists could discover anything in the ejected contents
of the stomach of her victim, which she voluntarily left in their
way. She could not conceive that the scattered crystals of the fatal
powder might be gathered into a metallic mirror, the first glance at
which would reflect her guilt.

They who gape, horror-struck, at the endless revelations of chemistry,
without giving reason time to act, err in the second manner. Led
away by the brilliant hues and wonderful transformations of the
laboratory, they forget the size of the world outside, in which
these changes are enacted, and the quiet way in which Nature works.

The breath of chlorine is deadly, but we daily eat it in safety,
wrapped in its poison-proof envelope of sodium, as common salt. Carbonic
acid is among the gases most hostile to man, but he drinks it in
soda-water or Champagne with impunity. So we cannot explain how a poison
will act, if introduced into the body in the diluted form in which Nature
offers it, and there subjected to the complicated chemico-vital processes
which constitute life.

In the alembic of the chemist we may learn analysis, and from it infer,
but not imitate, save in a few instances, the synthesis of Nature.

Changes in the arrangement of atoms, without one particle altered
that we can discover, may make all the difference between starch and
sugar.
By an obscure change, which we call fermentation, these may become
alcohol, the great stimulant of the world. By subtracting one atom of
water from its elements we change this to ether, the new-found
_lethe_ of pain.

As from the inexhaustible bottle of the magician, the chemist can
furnish us from the same two elements air or aquafortis.

We may be pardoned these familiar examples to prove that we must not
judge of things by their palpable qualities, when concentrated or in the
gross.
That fiery demon, nitric acid, is hid, harmless in its imperceptible
subdivision, in the dew on every flower.

From all this we conclude that the evil effects of tobacco are to be
determined by their proved _physiological_ effects; and also that
we must aid our decision by a survey of its general asserted effects.

In treating of these effects, we shall speak, first, of what is
known; second, of what its opponents assert; and, third, of what
we claim as the results of its use.

What is absolutely known is very little.

We see occasional instances of declining health; we learn that the
sufferers smoke or chew, and we are very apt to ascribe all their
maladies to tobacco.

So far as we are aware, the most notorious organic lesion which has
been supposed due to this practice is a peculiar form of cancer of
the lip, where the pipe, and particularly the clay pipe, has pressed
upon the part.

But more ample statistics have disproved this theory.

We have as yet become acquainted with no satisfactory series of
experiments upon tobacco analogous to those which have been made
of some articles of food.

The opponents of tobacco, upon whom we consider the burden of
proof to rest, in the absence of any marked ill effects palpable in so
large a consumption of the herb, are thus reduced to generalities.

Tobacco is said to produce derangement of the digestion, and of the
regular, steady action of the nervous system. These effects must be in a
measure connected; but one distinct effect of tobacco is claimed, upon
the secretions of the mouth, with which it comes into direct contact.
It is said to cause a waste and a deterioration of the saliva.

Let us examine this first.

The waste of saliva in young smokers and in immoderate chewers we
admit.
The amount secreted by a healthy man has been variously estimated at
from one and a half to three pounds _per diem_. And it certainly seems
as if the whole of this was to be found upon the vile floors of cars,
hotels, and steamboats. The quantity secreted varies much with
circumstances; but experiments prove the _quality_ to be not affected
by the amount.

To show how the deterioration of this fluid may affect digestion,
we must inquire into its normal physiological constitution and uses. Its
uses are of two kinds: to moisten the food, and to convert starch into
sugar.

The larger glands fulfil the former; the smaller, mostly, the latter
office.

Almost any substance held in the mouth provokes the flow of saliva
by mechanical irritation.

Mental causes influence it; for the thought of food will "make the
mouth water," as well as its presence within the lips.

No one who has tried to eat unmoistened food, when thirsty, will
dispute its uses as a solvent.

Tobacco seems to be a direct stimulant to the salivary apparatus. Habit
blunts this effect only to a limited extent.

The old smoker has usually some increase of this secretion, although
he does not expectorate.

But if he does not waste this product, he swallows it, it is said,
in a state unfit to promote digestion.

The saliva owes its peculiarity to one of its components, called
_ptyalin_. And this element possesses the remarkable power of converting
starch into sugar, which is the first step in its digestion.

Though many azotized substances in a state of decomposition exert
a similar agency, yet it is possessed by _ptyalin_ in a much greater
degree.

The gastric juice has probably no action on farinaceous substances.

And it has been proved by experiments, that food moistened with
water digests more slowly than when mixed with the saliva.

More than this, the conversion of starch into sugar has been shown to
be positively retarded in the stomach by the acidity of the gastric
secretions. Only after the azotized food has been somewhat disintegrated
by the action of the gastric juice, and the fluids again rendered
alkaline by the presence of saliva, swallowed in small quantities
for a considerable time after eating, does the saccharifying process
go on with normal rapidity and vigor.

Now starch is the great element, in all farinaceous articles, which is
adapted to supply us with calorifacient food. "In its original condition,
either raw or when broken up by boiling, it does not appear that starch
is capable of being absorbed by the alimentary canal. By its conversion
into sugar it can alone become a useful aliment."

This is effected almost instantaneously by the saliva in the mouth,
and at a slower rate in the stomach.

Obviously, then, if the use of tobacco interferes with the normal
action of the saliva, and if the digestion of starch ends in the
stomach, here is the strong point in the argument of the opponents
of tobacco.

We should wonder at the discrepancy between physiology and facts,
theory and the evidence of our senses and daily experience among the
world of smokers, and be ready to renounce either science or "the weed."
Fortunately for our peace of mind and for our respect for physiology,
the first point of the proposition is not satisfactorily proved,
and the second is untrue.

We are not certain that nicotin ruins ptyalin; we are certain that
the functions of other organs are vicarious of those of the salivary
glands.

We say that it is not satisfactorily proved that tobacco impairs
the sugar-making function of the saliva.

At least, we have never seen the proof from recorded experiments. Such
may exist, but we have met only with loose assertions to this
effect, of a similar nature to those hygienic _dicta_ which we find
bandied about in the would-be-physiological popular journals, which
are so plentiful in this country, and which may be styled the
"yellow-cover" literature of science.

We acknowledge this to be the weak point in our armor, and are open to
further light. Yet more, for the sake of hypothesis, we will assume
it proved. What follows? Are we to get no more sugar while we smoke? By
no means. Hard by the stomach lies the _pancreas_, an organ so similar
in structure to the salivary glands, that even so minute an observer
as Kölliker does not think it requisite to give it a separate
description.
Its secretion, which is poured into the second stomach, contains a
ferment analogous to that of the saliva, and amounts probably to
about seven ounces a day.

The food, on leaving the stomach, is next subjected to its influence,
together with that of the bile.

It helps digest fatty matters by its emulsive powers; it has been
more recently supposed to form a sort of _peptone_ with nitrogenized
articles also; but, what is more to our purpose, it turns starch
into sugar even more quickly than the saliva itself.

And even if the reformers were to beat us from this stronghold, by proving
that tobacco impaired the saccharifying power of this organ also,
we should still find the mixed fluids supplied by the smaller, but very
numerous glands of the intestines, sufficient to accomplish the
requisite modification of starch, though more slowly and to a less
degree.

We come now to the second count in the indictment,--that tobacco
injuriously affects the nervous system, and through it the digestion.

The accusation is here more vague and indefinite, and the answer also
is less susceptible of proof.

Both sides must avail themselves of circumstantial, rather than direct
evidence.

That digestion is in direct dependence upon the nervous system, and
that even transitory or emotional states of the latter affect the
former, there can be no doubt.

It is so familiar a fact, that instances need hardly be cited to
prove it.

Hence we are told, that tobacco, by deranging the one, disorders the
other,--that nervousness, or morbid irritability of the nerves,
palpitations and tremulousness, are soon followed by emaciation
and dyspepsia, or more or less inability to digest.

We conceive Prout, an eminent authority, to be near the truth, when he
says of tobacco, "The strong and healthy suffer comparatively little,
while the weak and predisposed to disease fall victims to its poisonous
operation." The hod-carrier traversing the walls of lofty buildings, and
the sailor swinging on the yard-arm, are not subject to nervousness,
though they smoke and chew; nor are they prone to dyspepsia, unless
from excesses of another kind.

It has not been shown that tobacco either hastens or delays the
metamorphosis of tissue,--that it drains the system by waste, or
clogs it by retarding the natural excretions.

We must turn, then, to its direct influence upon the nervous system
to convince ourselves of its ill effects, if such exist.

Nor has it been proved that the nervous influence is affected in
such a way as directly to impair the innervation of the organic
functions, which derive their chief impulse to action from the
scattered ganglia of the sympathetic system.

Opium, the most powerful narcotic, benumbs the brain into sleep;
produces a corresponding reaction, on awakening; shuts up the secretions,
except that of the skin, and thus deranges the alimentary functions.

The decriers of tobacco will, we conceive, be unable to show that it
produces such effects.

The reformers are reduced, then, to the vague generality, that smoking
and chewing "affect the nerves."
Students, men of sedentary, professional habits, persons of a very
nervous temperament, or those subject to much excitement in business and
politics, sometimes show debility and languor, or agitation and
nervousness, while they smoke and chew. Are there no other causes at
work, sufficient in themselves to produce these effects?

Are want of exercise, want of air, want of rest, and want of inherited
vigor to be eliminated from the estimate, while tobacco is made the
scape-goat of all their troubles?

Climate, and the various influences affecting any race which has migrated
after a stationary residence of generations to a new country extending
under different parallels of latitude, have been reasonably accused
of rendering us a nervous people. It is not so reasonable to charge one
habit with being the sole cause of this, although we should be more
prudent in not following it to excess. The larger consumption of
tobacco here is due both to the cheapness of the product and to the
wealth of the consumer. But it does not follow that we are more subjected
to its narcotic influences because we use the best varieties of
the weed.

On the contrary, the poor and rank tobaccoes, grown under a
northern sky, are the richest in nicotin.

But it will be better to continue the argument about its effects
upon the nervous system in connection with the assertions of the
reformers.

The following is a list, by no means complete, of these asserted ill
effects from its use.

Tobacco is said to cause softening of the brain,--dimness of
vision,--("the Germans smoke; the Germans are a _spectacled_ nation!"

_post hoc, ergo propter hoc?

_ the laborious intellectual habits of this people, and their trying
"text," are considered of no account,)--cancer of the stomach,--disease
of the liver,--dyspepsia,--enfeebled nutrition, and consequent
emaciation,--dryness of the mouth,--"the clergyman's sore-throat"
and loss of voice,--irritability of the nervous
system,--tremulousness,--palpitation and paralysis,--and, among the
moral ills, loss of energy, idleness, drunkenness.

A fearful catalogue, which would dedicate the _tabatière_ to Pandora, were
it true.

Hygienic reformers are usually unequalled in imaginary horrors, except
by the charlatans who vend panaceas.

We have no reasons for believing that tobacco causes softening of
the brain equal in plausibility to those which ascribe it to prolonged
and excessive mental effort.

The statistics of disease prove cancers of other organs to be twice
as frequent, among females, as cancer of the stomach is among males;
and an eminent etiologist places narcotics among the least proved
causes of this disease.

A hot climate, abuse of alcohol, a sedentary life, and sluggish
digestion happen, rather curiously, to be very frequent concomitants,
if not causes, of disease of the liver.

Dyspepsia haunts both sexes, and, we venture to assert, though we
cannot bring figures to prove it, is as frequent among those who
do not use tobacco as among those who do.

We are ready to concede that excessive chewing and smoking,
particularly if accompanied by large expectoration, may impair
nutrition and cause emaciation: that the mass of mankind eat and
digest and live, as well as use "the weed," is proof that its
moderate employment is not ordinarily followed by this result.

Dryness of the mouth follows expectoration as a matter of course;
but the salivation excited in an old smoker by tobacco is very
moderate, and not succeeded by thirst, unless the smoke be inhaled
too rapidly and at too high a temperature.

We come next to a very tender point with reformers, the laryngeal cough
and failing voice of the reverend clergy. The later generations of
ministers of this vicinity, as a body, have abandoned tobacco, and
yet the evil has not diminished. An eminent divine of our acquaintance,
who does not smoke daily, always finds a cigar relieve a trifling
bronchitis, to which he is occasionally subject The curious will
find in the "Medical Journal" of this city, for 1839, that quite as
much can be said on one side as on the other of this subject.

The minor, rarely the graver affections of the nervous system, do follow
the use of tobacco in excess. We admit this willingly; but we deny
these effects to its moderate use by persons of ordinary health and of
no peculiar idiosyncrasy. Numerous cases of paralysis among tobacco-takers
in France were traced to the lead in which the preparation was enveloped.

We pass next to what we claim as the effects of _moderate_
tobacco-using, and will take first the evidence of the toxicologists.

Both Pereira and Christison agree that "no well-ascertained ill effects
have been shown to result from the habitual practice of smoking." Beck,
a modern authority, says, "Common observation settles the question,
that the moderate and daily use of tobacco _does not_ prove injurious.

This is a general rule": and he adds, that exceptions necessarily
exist, etc.

The repugnance and nausea which greet the smoker, in his first
attempts to use tobacco, are not a stronger argument against it
than the fact that the system so soon becomes habituated to these
effects is a proof of its essential innocuousness.

Certainly the love of tobacco is not an instinctive appetite, like
that for nitrogen and carbon in the form of food.

Man was not born with a cigar in his mouth, and it is not certain
that the _Nicotiana tabacum_ flourished in the Garden of Eden.

But history proves the existence of an instinct among all races--call
it depraved, if you will, the fact remains--leading them to employ
narcotics.

And narcotics all nations have sought and found. We venture to affirm that
tobacco is harmless as any. The betel and the hop can alone compare
with it in this respect; and the hop is not a narcotic which satisfies
alone; others are used with it.

Opium and Indian hemp are not to be mentioned in comparison; while
coca, in excess, is much more hurtful.

Tobacco may more properly be called a sedative than a narcotic. Opium,
the type of the latter class, is in its primary action excitant,
but secondarily narcotic.

The opium-eaters are familiar with this, and learn by experience
to regulate the dose so as to prolong the first and shorten the
second effects, as much as possible.

Tobacco, on the other hand, is primarily sedative and relaxing. A high
authority says of its physiological action:--
"First, That its greater and first effect is to assuage and allay
and soothe the system in general.

"Second, That its lesser and second, or after effect, is to excite and
invigorate, and at the same time give steadiness and fixity to the
powers of thought."

Either of these effects will predominate, we conceive, according to
the intellectual state and capacity of the individual, as well as
in accordance with the amount used.

The dreamy Oriental is sunk into deeper reverie under the influence
of tobacco, and his happiness while smoking seems to consist in
thinking of nothing.

The studious German, on the contrary, "thinks and dreams, and dreams and
thinks, alternately; but while his body is soothed and stilled, his mind
is ever awake."
This latter description resembles, to compare small things with great,
the effects of opium, as detailed by De Quincey.

"In habitual smokers," says Pereira, "the practice, when moderately
indulged, produces that remarkably soothing and tranquillizing
effect on the mind which has caused it to be so much admired and
adopted by all classes of society."

The pleasure derived from tobacco is very hard to define, since it
is negative rather than positive, and to be estimated more by what
it prevents than by what it produces.

It relieves the little vexations and cares of life, soothes the harassed
mind, and promotes quiet reflection.
This it does most of all when used sparingly and after labor. But if
incessantly consumed, it keeps up a constant, but mild cerebral
exhilaration. The mind acts more promptly and more continuously under
its use. We think any tobacco-consumer will bear us out in this definition
of its varying effects.

After a full meal, if it does not help, it at least hides digestion.
"It settles one's dinner," as the saying is, and gives that feeling of
quiet, luxurious _bien-aise_ which would probably exist naturally
in a state of primeval health. It promotes, with most persons, the
peristaltic movements of the alimentary passages by its relaxing
properties.

Smoking is eminently social, and favors domestic habits. And in this
way, we contend, it prevents drinking, rather than leads to it. Many
still associate the cigar with the bar-room. This notion should have
become obsolete ere this, for it has an extremely limited foundation
in fact.

Bachelors and would-be-manly boys are not the only consumers of tobacco,
though they are the best patrons of the bar. The poor man's pipe retains
him by his own fireside, as well as softens his domestic asperities.

Excess in tobacco, like excess in any other material good meant for
moderate use, is followed by evil effects, more or less quickly,
according to the constitution and temperament of the abuser.

The lymphatic and obese can smoke more than the sanguine and nervous,
with impunity. How much constitutes excess varies with each
individual.

Manufacturers of tobacco do not appear to suffer. Christison states,
as the result of the researches of MM. Parent-Duchatelet and D'Arcet
among four thousand workmen in the tobacco-manufactories of France,
that they found no evidence of its being unwholesome.

Moderate tobacco-users attain longevity equal to that of any other class
in the community.

We will cite only the following brief statistics from an old physician
of a neighboring town.

In looking over the list of the oldest men, dead or alive, within his
circle of acquaintance, he finds a total of 67 men, from 73 to 93
years of age.

Their average age is 78 and a fraction. Of these 67, 54 were smokers or
chewers; 9 only, non-consumers of tobacco; and 4 were doubtful, or not
ascertained.

About nine-elevenths smoked or chewed. The compiler quaintly adds, "How
much longer these men might have lived without tobacco, it is impossible
to determine."

The tobacco-leaf is consumed by man usually in three ways: by smoking,
snuffing, or chewing.

The first is the most common; the last is the most disagreeable.

Tobacco is smoked in the East Indies, China, and Siam; in Turkey
and Persia; over Europe generally; and in North and South America.

Cigars are preferred in the East and West Indies, Spain, England, and
America.
China, Turkey, Persia, and Germany worship the pipe.

In Europe the pipe is patronized on account of its cheapness. Turks and
Persians use the mildest forms of pipe-smoking, choosing pipes
with long, flexible stems, and having the smoke cooled and purified
by passing through water.

The Germans prefer the porous meerschaum,--the Canadians, the common
clay.

Women smoke habitually in China, the East and West Indies, and to
a less extent in South America, Spain, and France.

We have no fears that any reasoning of ours would induce the other
sex to use tobacco.

The ladies set too just a value on the precious commodity of their
charms for that. There is little danger that they would do anything which
might render them disagreeable.

The practice of snuff-taking is about the only form they patronize,
and that to a slight extent.

France is the home of snuff.
She had quickened them, and now she was indifferent to
the achievement.

Her morning view of Elizabeth-Jane as a disturbing element changed, and
she no longer felt strongly the necessity of getting rid of the girl for
her stepfather's sake. When the young woman came in, sweetly unconscious
of the turn in the tide, Lucetta went up to her, and said quite
sincerely--

"I'm so glad you've come. You'll live with me a long time, won't you?"

Elizabeth as a watch-dog to keep her father off--what a new idea. Yet
it was not unpleasing. Henchard had neglected her all these days, after
compromising her indescribably in the past. The least he could have done
when he found himself free, and herself affluent, would have been to
respond heartily and promptly to her invitation.

Her emotions rose, fell, undulated, filled her with wild surmise at
their suddenness; and so passed Lucetta's experiences of that day.


24.


Poor Elizabeth-Jane, little thinking what her malignant star had done to
blast the budding attentions she had won from Donald Farfrae, was glad
to hear Lucetta's words about remaining.

For in addition to Lucetta's house being a home, that raking view of
the market-place which it afforded had as much attraction for her as for
Lucetta. The carrefour was like the regulation Open Place in spectacular
dramas, where the incidents that occur always happen to bear on the
lives of the adjoining residents. Farmers, merchants, dairymen, quacks,
hawkers, appeared there from week to week, and disappeared as the
afternoon wasted away. It was the node of all orbits.

From Saturday to Saturday was as from day to day with the two young
women now. In an emotional sense they did not live at all during the
intervals. Wherever they might go wandering on other days, on market-day
they were sure to be at home. Both stole sly glances out of the window
at Farfrae's shoulders and poll. His face they seldom saw, for, either
through shyness, or not to disturb his mercantile mood, he avoided
looking towards their quarters.

Thus things went on, till a certain market-morning brought a new
sensation. Elizabeth and Lucetta were sitting at breakfast when a parcel
containing two dresses arrived for the latter from London. She called
Elizabeth from her breakfast, and entering her friend's bedroom
Elizabeth saw the gowns spread out on the bed, one of a deep cherry
colour, the other lighter--a glove lying at the end of each sleeve, a
bonnet at the top of each neck, and parasols across the gloves,
Lucetta standing beside the suggested human figure in an attitude of
contemplation.

"I wouldn't think so hard about it," said Elizabeth, marking the
intensity with which Lucetta was alternating the question whether this
or that would suit best.

"But settling upon new clothes is so trying," said Lucetta. "You are
that person" (pointing to one of the arrangements), "or you are THAT
totally different person" (pointing to the other), "for the whole of the
coming spring and one of the two, you don't know which, may turn out to
be very objectionable."

It was finally decided by Miss Templeman that she would be the
cherry-coloured person at all hazards. The dress was pronounced to be a
fit, and Lucetta walked with it into the front room, Elizabeth following
her.

The morning was exceptionally bright for the time of year. The sun fell
so flat on the houses and pavement opposite Lucetta's residence that
they poured their brightness into her rooms. Suddenly, after a rumbling
of wheels, there were added to this steady light a fantastic series of
circling irradiations upon the ceiling, and the companions turned to the
window. Immediately opposite a vehicle of strange description had come
to a standstill, as if it had been placed there for exhibition.

It was the new-fashioned agricultural implement called a horse-drill,
till then unknown, in its modern shape, in this part of the country,
where the venerable seed-lip was still used for sowing as in the days
of the Heptarchy. Its arrival created about as much sensation in the
corn-market as a flying machine would create at Charing Cross. The
farmers crowded round it, women drew near it, children crept under and
into it. The machine was painted in bright hues of green, yellow, and
red, and it resembled as a whole a compound of hornet, grasshopper,
and shrimp, magnified enormously. Or it might have been likened to an
upright musical instrument with the front gone. That was how it struck
Lucetta. "Why, it is a sort of agricultural piano," she said.

"It has something to do with corn," said Elizabeth.

"I wonder who thought of introducing it here?"

Donald Farfrae was in the minds of both as the innovator, for though not
a farmer he was closely leagued with farming operations. And as if
in response to their thought he came up at that moment, looked at the
machine, walked round it, and handled it as if he knew something about
its make. The two watchers had inwardly started at his coming, and
Elizabeth left the window, went to the back of the room, and stood as if
absorbed in the panelling of the wall. She hardly knew that she had done
this till Lucetta, animated by the conjunction of her new attire with
the sight of Farfrae, spoke out: "Let us go and look at the instrument,
whatever it is."

Elizabeth-Jane's bonnet and shawl were pitchforked on in a moment, and
they went out. Among all the agriculturists gathered round the only
appropriate possessor of the new machine seemed to be Lucetta, because
she alone rivalled it in colour.

They examined it curiously; observing the rows of trumpet-shaped tubes
one within the other, the little scoops, like revolving salt-spoons,
which tossed the seed into the upper ends of the tubes that conducted it
to the ground; till somebody said, "Good morning, Elizabeth-Jane." She
looked up, and there was her stepfather.

His greeting had been somewhat dry and thunderous, and Elizabeth-Jane,
embarrassed out of her equanimity, stammered at random, "This is the
lady I live with, father--Miss Templeman."

Henchard put his hand to his hat, which he brought down with a great
wave till it met his body at the knee. Miss Templeman bowed. "I am
happy to become acquainted with you, Mr. Henchard," she said. "This is a
curious machine."

"Yes," Henchard replied; and he proceeded to explain it, and still more
forcibly to ridicule it.

"Who brought it here?" said Lucetta.

"Oh, don't ask me, ma'am!" said Henchard. "The thing--why 'tis
impossible it should act. 'Twas brought here by one of our machinists on
the recommendation of a jumped-up jackanapes of a fellow who thinks----"
His eye caught Elizabeth-Jane's imploring face, and he stopped, probably
thinking that the suit might be progressing.

He turned to go away. Then something seemed to occur which his
stepdaughter fancied must really be a hallucination of hers. A murmur
apparently came from Henchard's lips in which she detected the words,
"You refused to see me!" reproachfully addressed to Lucetta. She could
not believe that they had been uttered by her stepfather; unless,
indeed, they might have been spoken to one of the yellow-gaitered
farmers near them. Yet Lucetta seemed silent, and then all thought of
the incident was dissipated by the humming of a song, which sounded
as though from the interior of the machine. Henchard had by this time
vanished into the market-house, and both the women glanced towards the
corn-drill. They could see behind it the bent back of a man who was
pushing his head into the internal works to master their simple secrets.
The hummed song went on--

     "'Tw--s on a s--m--r aftern--n,
     A wee be--re the s--n w--nt d--n,
     When Kitty wi' a braw n--w g--wn
     C--me ow're the h--lls to Gowrie."

Elizabeth-Jane had apprehended the singer in a moment, and looked guilty
of she did not know what. Lucetta next recognized him, and more
mistress of herself said archly, "The 'Lass of Gowrie' from inside of a
seed-drill--what a phenomenon!"

Satisfied at last with his investigation the young man stood upright,
and met their eyes across the summit.

"We are looking at the wonderful new drill," Miss Templeman said. "But
practically it is a stupid thing--is it not?" she added, on the strength
of Henchard's information.

"Stupid? O no!" said Farfrae gravely. "It will revolutionize sowing
heerabout! No more sowers flinging their seed about broadcast, so that
some falls by the wayside and some among thorns, and all that.
Each grain will go straight to its intended place, and nowhere else
whatever!"

"Then the romance of the sower is gone for good," observed
Elizabeth-Jane, who felt herself at one with Farfrae in Bible-reading
at least. "'He that observeth the wind shall not sow,' so the Preacher
said; but his words will not be to the point any more. How things
change!"

"Ay; ay....It must be so!" Donald admitted, his gaze fixing itself on a
blank point far away. "But the machines are already very common in the
East and North of England," he added apologetically.

Lucetta seemed to be outside this train of sentiment, her acquaintance
with the Scriptures being somewhat limited. "Is the machine yours?" she
asked of Farfrae.

"O no, madam," said he, becoming embarrassed and deferential at the
sound of her voice, though with Elizabeth Jane he was quite at his ease.
"No, no--I merely recommended that it should be got."

In the silence which followed Farfrae appeared only conscious of her;
to have passed from perception of Elizabeth into a brighter sphere of
existence than she appertained to. Lucetta, discerning that he was much
mixed that day, partly in his mercantile mood and partly in his romantic
one, said gaily to him--

"Well, don't forsake the machine for us," and went indoors with her
companion.

The latter felt that she had been in the way, though why was
unaccountable to her. Lucetta explained the matter somewhat by saying
when they were again in the sitting-room--

"I had occasion to speak to Mr. Farfrae the other day, and so I knew him
this morning."

Lucetta was very kind towards Elizabeth that day. Together they saw the
market thicken, and in course of time thin away with the slow decline
of the sun towards the upper end of town, its rays taking the street
endways and enfilading the long thoroughfare from top to bottom. The
gigs and vans disappeared one by one till there was not a vehicle in the
street. The time of the riding world was over; the pedestrian world held
sway. Field labourers and their wives and children trooped in from the
villages for their weekly shopping, and instead of a rattle of wheels
and a tramp of horses ruling the sound as earlier, there was nothing but
the shuffle of many feet. All the implements were gone; all the farmers;
all the moneyed class. The character of the town's trading had changed
from bulk to multiplicity and pence were handled now as pounds had been
handled earlier in the day.

Lucetta and Elizabeth looked out upon this, for though it was night and
the street lamps were lighted, they had kept their shutters unclosed. In
the faint blink of the fire they spoke more freely.

"Your father was distant with you," said Lucetta.

"Yes." And having forgotten the momentary mystery of Henchard's seeming
speech to Lucetta she continued, "It is because he does not think I am
respectable. I have tried to be so more than you can imagine, but in
vain! My mother's separation from my father was unfortunate for me. You
don't know what it is to have shadows like that upon your life."

Lucetta seemed to wince. "I do not--of that kind precisely," she said,
"but you may feel a--sense of disgrace--shame--in other ways."

"Have you ever had any such feeling?" said the younger innocently.

"O no," said Lucetta quickly. "I was thinking of--what happens sometimes
when women get themselves in strange positions in the eyes of the world
from no fault of their own."

"It must make them very unhappy afterwards."

"It makes them anxious; for might not other women despise them?"

"Not altogether despise them. Yet not quite like or respect them."

Lucetta winced again. Her past was by no means secure from
investigation, even in Casterbridge. For one thing Henchard had never
returned to her the cloud of letters she had written and sent him in
her first excitement. Possibly they were destroyed; but she could have
wished that they had never been written.

The rencounter with Farfrae and his bearings towards Lucetta had made
the reflective Elizabeth more observant of her brilliant and amiable
companion. A few days afterwards, when her eyes met Lucetta's as
the latter was going out, she somehow knew that Miss Templeman was
nourishing a hope of seeing the attractive Scotchman. The fact was
printed large all over Lucetta's cheeks and eyes to any one who could
read her as Elizabeth-Jane was beginning to do. Lucetta passed on and
closed the street door.

A seer's spirit took possession of Elizabeth, impelling her to sit down
by the fire and divine events so surely from data already her own that
they could be held as witnessed. She followed Lucetta thus mentally--saw
her encounter Donald somewhere as if by chance--saw him wear his special
look when meeting women, with an added intensity because this one was
Lucetta. She depicted his impassioned manner; beheld the indecision
of both between their lothness to separate and their desire not to be
observed; depicted their shaking of hands; how they probably parted with
frigidity in their general contour and movements, only in the smaller
features showing the spark of passion, thus invisible to all but
themselves. This discerning silent witch had not done thinking of these
things when Lucetta came noiselessly behind her and made her start.

It was all true as she had pictured--she could have sworn it. Lucetta
had a heightened luminousness in her eye over and above the advanced
colour of her cheeks.

"You've seen Mr. Farfrae," said Elizabeth demurely.

"Yes," said Lucetta. "How did you know?"

She knelt down on the hearth and took her friend's hands excitedly in
her own. But after all she did not say when or how she had seen him or
what he had said.

That night she became restless; in the morning she was feverish; and
at breakfast-time she told her companion that she had something on her
mind--something which concerned a person in whom she was interested
much. Elizabeth was earnest to listen and sympathize.

"This person--a lady--once admired a man much--very much," she said
tentatively.

"Ah," said Elizabeth-Jane.

"They were intimate--rather. He did not think so deeply of her as she
did of him. But in an impulsive moment, purely out of reparation, he
proposed to make her his wife. She agreed. But there was an unsuspected
hitch in the proceedings; though she had been so far compromised with
him that she felt she could never belong to another man, as a pure
matter of conscience, even if she should wish to. After that they were
much apart, heard nothing of each other for a long time, and she felt
her life quite closed up for her."

"Ah--poor girl!"

"She suffered much on account of him; though I should add that he could
not altogether be blamed for what had happened. At last the obstacle
which separated them was providentially removed; and he came to marry
her."

"How delightful!"

"But in the interval she--my poor friend--had seen a man, she liked
better than him. Now comes the point: Could she in honour dismiss the
first?"

"A new man she liked better--that's bad!"

"Yes," said Lucetta, looking pained at a boy who was swinging the town
pump-handle. "It is bad! Though you must remember that she was forced
into an equivocal position with the first man by an accident--that he
was not so well educated or refined as the second, and that she had
discovered some qualities in the first that rendered him less desirable
as a husband than she had at first thought him to be."

"I cannot answer," said Elizabeth-Jane thoughtfully. "It is so
difficult. It wants a Pope to settle that!"

"You prefer not to perhaps?" Lucetta showed in her appealing tone how
much she leant on Elizabeth's judgment.

"Yes, Miss Templeman," admitted Elizabeth. "I would rather not say."

Nevertheless, Lucetta seemed relieved by the simple fact of having
opened out the situation a little, and was slowly convalescent of her
headache. "Bring me a looking-glass. How do I appear to people?" she
said languidly.

"Well--a little worn," answered Elizabeth, eyeing her as a critic eyes
a doubtful painting; fetching the glass she enabled Lucetta to survey
herself in it, which Lucetta anxiously did.

"I wonder if I wear well, as times go!" she observed after a while.

"Yes--fairly.

"Where am I worst?"

"Under your eyes--I notice a little brownness there."

"Yes. That is my worst place, I know. How many years more do you think I
shall last before I get hopelessly plain?"

There was something curious in the way in which Elizabeth, though
the younger, had come to play the part of experienced sage in these
discussions. "It may be five years," she said judicially. "Or, with a
quiet life, as many as ten. With no love you might calculate on ten."

Lucetta seemed to reflect on this as on an unalterable, impartial
verdict. She told Elizabeth-Jane no more of the past attachment she had
roughly adumbrated as the experiences of a third person; and Elizabeth,
who in spite of her philosophy was very tender-hearted, sighed that
night in bed at the thought that her pretty, rich Lucetta did not treat
her to the full confidence of names and dates in her confessions. For by
the "she" of Lucetta's story Elizabeth had not been beguiled.


25.


The next phase of the supersession of Henchard in Lucetta's heart was
an experiment in calling on her performed by Farfrae with some apparent
trepidation. Conventionally speaking he conversed with both Miss
Templeman and her companion; but in fact it was rather that Elizabeth
sat invisible in the room. Donald appeared not to see her at all, and
answered her wise little remarks with curtly indifferent monosyllables,
his looks and faculties hanging on the woman who could boast of a more
Protean variety in her phases, moods, opinions, and also principles,
than could Elizabeth. Lucetta had persisted in dragging her into the
circle; but she had remained like an awkward third point which that
circle would not touch.

Susan Henchard's daughter bore up against the frosty ache of the
treatment, as she had borne up under worse things, and contrived as soon
as possible to get out of the inharmonious room without being missed.
The Scotchman seemed hardly the same Farfrae who had danced with her and
walked with her in a delicate poise between love and friendship--that
period in the history of a love when alone it can be said to be
unalloyed with pain.

She stoically looked from her bedroom window, and contemplated her fate
as if it were written on the top of the church-tower hard by. "Yes," she
said at last, bringing down her palm upon the sill with a pat: "HE is
the second man of that story she told me!"

All this time Henchard's smouldering sentiments towards Lucetta had been
fanned into higher and higher inflammation by the circumstances of the
case. He was discovering that the young woman for whom he once felt a
pitying warmth which had been almost chilled out of him by reflection,
was, when now qualified with a slight inaccessibility and a more matured
beauty, the very being to make him satisfied with life. Day after day
proved to him, by her silence, that it was no use to think of bringing
her round by holding aloof; so he gave in, and called upon her again,
Elizabeth-Jane being absent.

He crossed the room to her with a heavy tread of some awkwardness, his
strong, warm gaze upon her--like the sun beside the moon in comparison
with Farfrae's modest look--and with something of a hail-fellow bearing,
as, indeed, was not unnatural. But she seemed so transubstantiated
by her change of position, and held out her hand to him in such cool
friendship, that he became deferential, and sat down with a perceptible
loss of power. He understood but little of fashion in dress, yet enough
to feel himself inadequate in appearance beside her whom he had hitherto
been dreaming of as almost his property. She said something very polite
about his being good enough to call. This caused him to recover balance.
He looked her oddly in the face, losing his awe.

"Why, of course I have called, Lucetta," he said. "What does that
nonsense mean? You know I couldn't have helped myself if I had
wished--that is, if I had any kindness at all. I've called to say that
I am ready, as soon as custom will permit, to give you my name in return
for your devotion and what you lost by it in thinking too little of
yourself and too much of me; to say that you can fix the day or month,
with my full consent, whenever in your opinion it would be seemly: you
know more of these things than I."

"It is full early yet," she said evasively.

"Yes, yes; I suppose it is. But you know, Lucetta, I felt directly my
poor ill-used Susan died, and when I could not bear the idea of marrying
again, that after what had happened between us it was my duty not to let
any unnecessary delay occur before putting things to rights. Still, I
wouldn't call in a hurry, because--well, you can guess how this money
you've come into made me feel." His voice slowly fell; he was conscious
that in this room his accents and manner wore a roughness not observable
in the street. He looked about the room at the novel hangings and
ingenious furniture with which she had surrounded herself.

"Upon my life I didn't know such furniture as this could be bought in
Casterbridge," he said.

"Nor can it be," said she. "Nor will it till fifty years more of
civilization have passed over the town. It took a waggon and four horses
to get it here."

"H'm. It looks as if you were living on capital."

"O no, I am not."

"So much the better. But the fact is, your setting up like this makes my
beaming towards you rather awkward."

"Why?"

An answer was not really needed, and he did not furnish one. "Well," he
went on, "there's nobody in the world I would have wished to see enter
into this wealth before you, Lucetta, and nobody, I am sure, who will
become it more." He turned to her with congratulatory admiration so
fervid that she shrank somewhat, notwithstanding that she knew him so
well.

"I am greatly obliged to you for all that," said she, rather with an air
of speaking ritual. The stint of reciprocal feeling was perceived, and
Henchard showed chagrin at once--nobody was more quick to show that than
he.

"You may be obliged or not for't. Though the things I say may not have
the polish of what you've lately learnt to expect for the first time in
your life, they are real, my lady Lucetta."

"That's rather a rude way of speaking to me," pouted Lucetta, with
stormy eyes.

"Not at all!" replied Henchard hotly. "But there, there, I don't wish
to quarrel with 'ee. I come with an honest proposal for silencing your
Jersey enemies, and you ought to be thankful."

"How can you speak so!" she answered, firing quickly. "Knowing that my
only crime was the indulging in a foolish girl's passion for you with
too little regard for correctness, and that I was what I call innocent
all the time they called me guilty, you ought not to be so cutting! I
suffered enough at that worrying time, when you wrote to tell me of
your wife's return and my consequent dismissal, and if I am a little
independent now, surely the privilege is due to me!"

"Yes, it is," he said. "But it is not by what is, in this life, but by
what appears, that you are judged; and I therefore think you ought to
accept me--for your own good name's sake. What is known in your native
Jersey may get known here."

"How you keep on about Jersey! I am English!"

"Yes, yes. Well, what do you say to my proposal?"

For the first time in their acquaintance Lucetta had the move; and yet
she was backward. "For the present let things be," she said with some
embarrassment. "Treat me as an acquaintance, and I'll treat you as
one. Time will--" She stopped; and he said nothing to fill the gap for
awhile, there being no pressure of half acquaintance to drive them into
speech if they were not minded for it.

"That's the way the wind blows, is it?" he said at last grimly, nodding
an affirmative to his own thoughts.

A yellow flood of reflected sunlight filled the room for a few instants.
It was produced by the passing of a load of newly trussed hay from the
country, in a waggon marked with Farfrae's name. Beside it rode Farfrae
himself on horseback. Lucetta's face became--as a woman's face becomes
when the man she loves rises upon her gaze like an apparition.

A turn of the eye by Henchard, a glance from the window, and the
secret of her inaccessibility would have been revealed. But Henchard in
estimating her tone was looking down so plumb-straight that he did not
note the warm consciousness upon Lucetta's face.

"I shouldn't have thought it--I shouldn't have thought it of women!" he
said emphatically by-and-by, rising and shaking himself into activity;
while Lucetta was so anxious to divert him from any suspicion of the
truth that she asked him to be in no hurry. Bringing him some apples she
insisted upon paring one for him.

He would not take it. "No, no; such is not for me," he said drily, and
moved to the door. At going out he turned his eye upon her.

"You came to live in Casterbridge entirely on my account," he said. "Yet
now you are here you won't have anything to say to my offer!"

He had hardly gone down the staircase when she dropped upon the sofa and
jumped up again in a fit of desperation. "I WILL love him!" she cried
passionately; "as for HIM--he's hot-tempered and stern, and it would be
madness to bind myself to him knowing that. I won't be a slave to the
past--I'll love where I choose!"

Yet having decided to break away from Henchard one might have supposed
her capable of aiming higher than Farfrae. But Lucetta reasoned nothing:
she feared hard words from the people with whom she had been earlier
associated; she had no relatives left; and with native lightness of
heart took kindly to what fate offered.

Elizabeth-Jane, surveying the position of Lucetta between her two lovers
from the crystalline sphere of a straightforward mind, did not fail to
perceive that her father, as she called him, and Donald Farfrae became
more desperately enamoured of her friend every day. On Farfrae's side
it was the unforced passion of youth. On Henchard's the artificially
stimulated coveting of maturer age.

The pain she experienced from the almost absolute obliviousness to
her existence that was shown by the pair of them became at times half
dissipated by her sense of its humourousness. When Lucetta had pricked
her finger they were as deeply concerned as if she were dying; when she
herself had been seriously sick or in danger they uttered a conventional
word of sympathy at the news, and forgot all about it immediately.
But, as regarded Henchard, this perception of hers also caused her
some filial grief; she could not help asking what she had done to
be neglected so, after the professions of solicitude he had made. As
regarded Farfrae, she thought, after honest reflection, that it was
quite natural. What was she beside Lucetta?--as one of the "meaner
beauties of the night," when the moon had risen in the skies.

She had learnt the lesson of renunciation, and was as familiar with the
wreck of each day's wishes as with the diurnal setting of the sun. If
her earthly career had taught her few book philosophies it had at least
well practised her in this. Yet her experience had consisted less in
a series of pure disappointments than in a series of substitutions.
Continually it had happened that what she had desired had not been
granted her, and that what had been granted her she had not desired. So
she viewed with an approach to equanimity the now cancelled days when
Donald had been her undeclared lover, and wondered what unwished-for
thing Heaven might send her in place of him.


26.


It chanced that on a fine spring morning Henchard and Farfrae met in the
chestnut-walk which ran along the south wall of the town. Each had just
come out from his early breakfast, and there was not another soul near.
Henchard was reading a letter from Lucetta, sent in answer to a note
from him, in which she made some excuse for not immediately granting him
a second interview that he had desired.

Donald had no wish to enter into conversation with his former friend on
their present constrained terms; neither would he pass him in scowling
silence. He nodded, and Henchard did the same. They receded from each
other several paces when a voice cried "Farfrae!" It was Henchard's, who
stood regarding him.

"Do you remember," said Henchard, as if it were the presence of the
thought and not of the man which made him speak, "do you remember my
story of that second woman--who suffered for her thoughtless intimacy
with me?"

"I do," said Farfrae.

"Do you remember my telling 'ee how it all began and how it ended?

"Yes."

"Well, I have offered to marry her now that I can; but she won't marry
me. Now what would you think of her--I put it to you?"

"Well, ye owe her nothing more now," said Farfrae heartily.

"It is true," said Henchard, and went on.

That he had looked up from a letter to ask his questions completely shut
out from Farfrae's mind all vision of Lucetta as the culprit. Indeed,
her present position was so different from that of the young woman of
Henchard's story as of itself to be sufficient to blind him absolutely
to her identity. As for Henchard, he was reassured by Farfrae's words
and manner against a suspicion which had crossed his mind. They were not
those of a conscious rival.

Yet that there was rivalry by some one he was firmly persuaded. Petrarch
thought long and seriously about what he should compose that might please
the Carrara; but the task was embarrassing. To praise him directly
might seem sycophantish and fulsome to the Prince himself. To censure
him would be still more indelicate. To escape the difficulty, he
projected a treatise on the best mode of governing a State, and
on the qualities required in the person who has such a charge. This
subject furnished occasion for giving indirect praises, and, at
the same time, for pointing out some defects which he had remarked
in his patron's government.

It cannot be denied that there are some excellent maxims respecting
government in this treatise, and that it was a laudable work for
the fourteenth century.O yes, she knew him, she declared; she could not help knowing almost
everybody in Casterbridge, living in such a gazebo over the centre and
arena of the town.

"Pleasant young fellow," said Henchard.

"Yes," said Lucetta.

"We both know him," said kind Elizabeth-Jane, to relieve her companion's
divined embarrassment.

There was a knock at the door; literally, three full knocks and a little
one at the end.

"That kind of knock means half-and-half--somebody between gentle
and simple," said the corn-merchant to himself. "I shouldn't wonder
therefore if it is he." In a few seconds surely enough Donald walked in.

Lucetta was full of little fidgets and flutters, which increased
Henchard's suspicions without affording any special proof of their
correctness. He was well-nigh ferocious at the sense of the queer
situation in which he stood towards this woman. One who had reproached
him for deserting her when calumniated, who had urged claims upon his
consideration on that account, who had lived waiting for him, who at the
first decent opportunity had come to ask him to rectify, by making her
his, the false position into which she had placed herself for his sake;
such she had been. And now he sat at her tea-table eager to gain her
attention, and in his amatory rage feeling the other man present to be a
villain, just as any young fool of a lover might feel.

They sat stiffly side by side at the darkening table, like some Tuscan
painting of the two disciples supping at Emmaus. Lucetta, forming the
third and haloed figure, was opposite them; Elizabeth-Jane, being out
of the game, and out of the group, could observe all from afar, like
the evangelist who had to write it down: that there were long spaces of
taciturnity, when all exterior circumstances were subdued to the touch
of spoons and china, the click of a heel on the pavement under the
window, the passing of a wheelbarrow or cart, the whistling of the
carter, the gush of water into householders' buckets at the town-pump
opposite, the exchange of greetings among their neighbours, and the
rattle of the yokes by which they carried off their evening supply.

"More bread-and-butter?" said Lucetta to Henchard and Farfrae equally,
holding out between them a plateful of long slices. Henchard took a
slice by one end and Donald by the other; each feeling certain he was
the man meant; neither let go, and the slice came in two.

"Oh--I am so sorry!" cried Lucetta, with a nervous titter. Farfrae tried
to laugh; but he was too much in love to see the incident in any but a
tragic light.

"How ridiculous of all three of them!" said Elizabeth to herself.

Henchard left the house with a ton of conjecture, though without a grain
of proof, that the counterattraction was Farfrae; and therefore he
would not make up his mind. Yet to Elizabeth-Jane it was plain as the
town-pump that Donald and Lucetta were incipient lovers. More than once,
in spite of her care, Lucetta had been unable to restrain her glance
from flitting across into Farfrae's eyes like a bird to its nest. 
Recalling their words, Jacqueline asked herself would she choose to have
him retract? She reminded herself of the only martyr whose memory
she loved, the glorious girl from Domrémy, and a lofty and stern
spirit seemed to rouse within her as she answered that question.

She believed that John had found and taught the truth; and was Truth to
be sacrificed to Power that hated it? Not by a suicidal act, at least.

She took the tracts, so judging, from underneath the stone, wistfully
looked them over, and, as she did so, recalled these words: "You cannot
buy your pardon of a priest; he has no power to sell it; he cannot
even give it. Ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally,
upbraiding not.
'If ye, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much
more shall your Heavenly Father give his Holy Spirit to them that
ask him!'"

She could never forget these words. She could never forget the preacher's
look when he used them; nor the solemnity of the assenting faith, as
attested by the countenances of those around her in that "upper
room."

But her father! What would this faith do for the departed?

Yet again she dared to pray,--here in this solitude, to ask for
that Holy Spirit, the Enlightener.

And it was truly with trembling, in the face of all presentiments
of what the gift might possibly, must certainly, import to her.

But what was she, that she could withstand God, or His gift, for
any fear of the result that might attend the giving of the gift?

Divinely she seemed to be inspired with that courageous thought.

She rose up, as if to follow the laborers who had already gone to Meaux.
But she had not passed out from the shadow of the great trees when
another shadow fell along her path.

III.

It was Victor Le Roy who was so close at hand. He recognized Jacqueline;
for, as he came down the road, now and then he caught a glimpse
of her red peasant-dress.

And he accepted his persuasion as it had been an assurance; for he
believed that on such a night no other girl would linger alone
near the place of her day's labor.

Moreover, while passing the group of harvesters, he had observed that
she was not among them.

The acquaintance of these young persons was but slight; yet it was of
such a character as must needs increase. Within the last fortnight
they had met repeatedly in the room of Leclerc's mother. On the
last night of her son's preaching they had together listened to
his words.

The young student with manly aspirations, ambitious, courageous,
inquiring, and the peasant girl who toiled in fields and vineyards,
were on the same day hearkening to the call, "Ho, every one that
thirsteth!"

with the consciousness that the call was meant for them.

When Victor Le Roy saw that Jacqueline perceived and recognized him,
he also observed the tracts in her hand and the trouble in her
countenance, and he wondered in his heart whether she could be
ignorant of what had passed that day at Meaux, and if it could be
possible that her manifest disturbance arose from any perplexity
or disquietude independent of the sentence that had been passed on
John Leclerc.

His first words brought an answer that satisfied his doubt.

"She has chosen that good part which shall not be taken from her,"
said he, as he came near.

"The country is so fair, could no one of them all except Jacqueline
see that? Were they all drawn away by the bloody fascination of Meaux?
even Elsie?"

"It was the news that hurried her home with the rest," answered she,
almost pleased at this disturbance of the solitude.

"Did that keep you here, Jacqueline?" he asked.

"It sent me out of the city. The dust choked me. Every face looked
like a devil's. To-morrow night, to-morrow night, the harvesters will
hurry all the faster.
Terrible curiosity! And if they find traces of his blood along the
streets, there will be enough to talk about through the rest of
the harvesting.

Jacqueline, if the river could be poured through those streets, the
sacred blood could never be washed out. 'Tis not the indignity, nor
the cruelty, I think of most, but the barbarous, wild sin. Shall a
man's truest liberty be taken from him, as though, indeed, he were not
a man of God, but the spiritual subject of his fellows? If that is their
plan, they may light the fires,--there are many who will not shrink from
sealing their faith with their blood."
These words, spoken with vehemence, were the first free utterance Victor
Le Roy had given to his feelings all day.

All day they had been concentrating, and now came from him fiery and
fast.

It was time for him to know in whom and in what he believed.

Greatly moved by his words, Jacqueline said, giving him the tracts,--

"I came from Domrémy, I am free. No one can be hurt by what befalls me.

I want to know the truth. I am not afraid. Did John Leclerc never give
way for a moment?

Is he really to be whipped through the streets, and on the third
day to be branded? Will he not retract?"
"Never!" was the answer,--spoken not without a shudder. "He did not
flinch through all the trial, Jacqueline.

And his old mother says, 'Blessed be Jesus Christ and his witnesses!'"

"I came from Domrémy," seemed to be in the girl's thought again; for her
eyes flashed when she looked at Victor Le Roy, as though she could
believe the heavens would open for the enlightening of such believers.

"She gave me those to read," said she, pointing to the tracts she
had given him.

"And have you been reading them here by yourself?"
"No. Elsie and I were to have read them together; but I fell to thinking."

"You mean to wait for her, then?"
"I was afraid I should not make the right sense of them."
"Sit down, Jacqueline, and let me read aloud. I have read them
before.

And I understand them better than Elsie does, or ever will."
"I am afraid that is true, Sir. If you read, I will listen."
But he did not, with this permission, begin instantly.

"You came from Domrémy, Jacqueline," said he. "I came from Picardy. My
home was within a stone's throw of the castle where Jeanne d'Arc
was a prisoner before they carried her to Rouen. I have often walked
about that castle and tried to think how it must have been with her when
they left her there a prisoner. God knows, perhaps we shall all have
an opportunity of knowing, how she felt when a prisoner of Truth. Like
a fly in a spider's net she was, poor girl! Only nineteen! She had lived
a life that was worth the living, Jacqueline. She knew she was about
to meet the fate her heart must have foretold. Girls do not run
such a course and then die quietly in their beds. They are attended to
their rest by grim sentinels, and they light fagots for them. I have
read the story many a time, when I could look at the window of the
very room where she was a prisoner.

It was strange to think of her witnessing the crowning of the King, with
the conviction that her work ended there and then,--of the women who
brought their children to touch her garments or her hands, to let her
smile on them, or speak to them, or maybe kiss them. And the soldiers
deemed their swords were stronger when they had but touched hers. And
they knelt down to kiss her standard, that white standard, so often
victorious! I have read many a time of that glorious day at Rheims."

"And she said, _that_ day,' Oh, why can I not die here?'" said
Jacqueline, with a low voice.

"And when the Archbishop asked her," continued Victor, "'Where do you,
then, expect to die?' she answered, 'I know not. I shall die where God
pleases.

I have done what the Lord my God commanded me; and I wish that He would
now send me to keep my sheep with my mother and sister.'"

"Because she loved Domrémy, and her work was done," said Jacqueline,
sadly. "And so many hated her! But her mother would be sure to love.
Jeanne would never see an evil eye in Domrémy, and no one would lie
in wait to kill her in the Vosges woods."
"It was such as you, Jacqueline, who believed in her, and comforted
her.

And to every one that consoled her Christ will surely say, 'Ye
blessed of my Father, ye did it unto me!' Yes, to be sure, there were
too many who stood ready to kill her in all France,--besides those
who were afraid of her, and fought against our armies. Even when they
were taking her to see the Dauphin, the guard would have drowned
her, and lied about it, but they were restrained. It is something to
have been born in Domrémy,--to have grown up in the very place
where she used to play, a happy little girl.

You have seen that fountain, and heard the bells she loved so much. It
was good for you, I know."

"Her prayers were everywhere," Jacqueline replied.

"Everywhere she heard the voices that called her to come and deliver
France.

But her father did not believe in her. He persecuted Jeanne."
"A man's foes are of his own household," said Victor. "You see the
same thing now. It is the very family of Christ--yes! so they
dare call it--who are going to tear and rend Leclerc to-morrow for
believing the words of Christ.

A hundred judges settled that Jeanne should be burned; and for
believing such words as are in these books"--
"Read me those words," said Jacqueline.

So they turned from speaking of Joan and her work, to contemplate
another style of heroism, and to question their own hearts.

Jacqueline Gabrie had lived through eighteen years of hardship and
exposure.

She was strong, contented, resolute. Left to herself, she would probably
have suffered no disturbance of her creed,--would have lived and
died conforming to the letter of its law.

But thrown under the influence of those who did agitate the subject,
she was brave and clear-headed.

She listened now, while, according to her wish, her neighbor
read,--listened with clear intelligence, intent on the truth.

That, or any truth, accepted, she would hardly shrink from whatever it
involved.

This was the reason why she had really feared to ask the Holy Ghost's
enlightenment! So well she understood herself! Truth was truth, and,
if received, to be abided by. She could not hold it loosely. She could
not trifle with it. She was born in Domrémy. She had played under the
Fairy Oak. She knew the woods where Joan wandered when she sought
her saintly solitude. The fact was acting on her as an inspiration,
when Domrémy became a memory, when she labored far away from the
wooded Vosges and the meadows of Lorraine.

She listened to the reading, as girls do not always listen when
they sit in the presence of a reader such as young Le Roy.

And let it here be understood--that the conclusion bring no sorrow, and
no sense of wrong to those who turn these pages, thinking to find the
climax dear to half-fledged imagination, incapable from inexperience
of any deeper truth, (I render them all homage!)

--this story is not told for any sake but truth's.

This Jacqueline did listen to this Victor, thinking actually of the words
he read. She looked at him really to ascertain whether her apprehension
of these things was all the same as his.

She questioned him, with the simple desire to learn what he
could tell her. Her hands were very hard, so constant had been
her dealing with the rough facts of this life; but the hard hand was
firm in its clasp, and ready with its helpfulness. Her eyes
were open, and very clear of dreams. There was room in them for
tenderness as well as truth.

Her voice was not the sweetest of all voices in this world; but it had
the quality that would make it prized by others when heart and flesh
were failing; for it would be strong to speak then with cheerful
faith and an unfaltering courage.

Jacqueline sat there under the chestnut-trees, upon the river-bank,
strong-hearted, high-hearted, a brave, generous woman. What if
her days were toilsome? What if her peasant-dress was not the finest
woven in the looms of Paris or of Meaux? Her prayers were brief, her
toil was long, her sleep was sound,--her virtue firm as the
everlasting mountains.

Jacqueline, I have singled you from among hordes and tribes and legions
upon legions of women, one among ten thousand, altogether lovely,--not
for dalliance, not for idleness, not for dancing, which is well; not for
song, which is better; not for beauty, which, perhaps, is best;
not for grace, or power, or passion.

There is an attribute of God which is more to His universe than all
evidence of power. It is His truth. Jacqueline, it is for this your name
shall shine upon my page.

And, manifestly, it is by virtue of this quality that her reader is moved
and attracted at this hour of twilight on the river-bank.

Her intelligence is so quick! her apprehension so direct! her conclusions
so true! He intended to aid her; but Mazurier himself had never uttered
comments so entirely to the purpose as did this young girl, speaking
from heart and brain. Better fortune, apparently, could not have
befallen him than was his in this reading; for with every sentence almost
came her comment, clear, earnest, to the point.

He had need of such a friend as Jacqueline seemed able to prove herself.

His nearest living relative was an uncle, who had sent the ambitious and
capable young student to Meaux; for he gave great promise, and was worth
an experiment, the old man thought,--and was strong to be thrown
out into the world, where he might ascertain the power of self-reliance.

He had need of friends, and, of all friends, one like Jacqueline.

From the silence and retirement of his home in Picardy he had come to
Meaux,--the town that was so astir, busy, thoroughly alive!
Inexperienced in worldly ways he came. His face was beautiful with
its refinement and power of expression.

His eyes were full of eloquence; so also was his voice. When he
came from Picardy to Meaux, his old neighbors prophesied for him. He knew
their prophecies, and purposed to fulfil them. He ceased from dreaming,
when he came to Meaux. He was not dreaming, when he looked on Jacqueline.
He was aware of what he read, and how she listened, under those
chestnut-trees.

The burden of the tracts he read to Jacqueline was salvation by faith, not
of works,--an iconoclastic doctrine, that was to sweep away the great
mass of Romish superstition, invalidating Papal power.
Image-worship, shrine-frequenting sacrifices, indulgences, were esteemed
and proved less than nothing worth in the work of salvation.

"Did you understand John, when he said that the priests deceived
us and were full of robberies, and talked about the masses for the
dead, and said the only good of them was to put money into the
Church?"

asked Jacqueline.

"I believe it," he replied, with spirit.

"That the masses are worth nothing?" she asked,--far from concealing
that the thought disturbed her.

"What can they be worth, if a man has lived a bad life?"

"_That_ my father did _not!_" she exclaimed.

"If a man is a bad man, why, then he is. He has gone where he must be
judged. The Scripture says, As a tree falls, it must lie."
"My father was a good man, Victor. But he died of a sudden,
and there was no time."
"No time for what, Jacqueline?

No time for him to turn about, and be a bad man in the end?"
"No time for confession and absolution. He died praying God to forgive
him all his sins. I heard him. I wondered, Victor, for I never thought
of his committing sins.

And my mother mourned for him as a good wife should not mourn for a
bad husband."
"Then what is your trouble, Jacqueline?"
"Do you know why I came here to Meaux? I came to get money,--to earn
it.
I should be paid more money here than I got for any work at home, they
said: that was the reason. When I had earned so much,--it was a large
sum, but I knew I should get it, and the priest encouraged me to
think I should,--he said that my heart's desire would be accomplished.

And I could earn the money before winter is over, I think. But
now, if"----
"Throw it into the Seine, when you get it, rather than pay it to the
liar for selling your father out of a place he was never in! He is safe,
believe me, if he was the good man you say. Do not disturb yourself,
Jacqueline."

"He never harmed a soul. And we loved him that way a bad man could not
be loved."
As Jacqueline said this, a smile more sad than joyful passed over her face,
and disappeared.

"He rests in peace," said Victor Le Roy.

"It is what I must believe. But what if there should be a mistake about
it? It was all I was working for."
"Think for yourself, Jacqueline. No matter what Leclerc thinks or
I think.

Can you suppose that Jesus Christ requires any such thing as this of
you, that you should make a slave of yourself for the expiation of your
father? It is a monstrous thought.

Doubt not it was love that took him away so quickly.

And love can care for him. Long before this, doubtless, he has heard
the words, 'Come, ye blessed of my father!' And what is required of you,
do you ask? You shall be merciful to them that live; and trust Him
that He will care for those who have gone beyond your reach. Is it so?
Do I understand you? You have been thinking to _buy_ this good _gift_
of God, eternal life for your father, when of course you could
have nothing to do with it.

You have been imposed upon, and robbed all this while, and this is the
amount of it."
"Well, do not speak so. If what you say is true,--and I think it may
be,--what is past is past."
"But won't you see what an infernal lie has been practised on you, and all
the rest of us who had any conscience or heart in us, all this
while? There _is_ no purgatory; and it is nonsense to think, that,
if there were, money could buy a man out of it. Jesus Christ is the
one sole atonement for sin. And by faith in Him shall a man save
his soul alive. That is the only way. If I lose my soul, and am
gone, the rest is between me and God. Do you see it _should_ be so,
and must be so, Jacqueline?" 
"He was a good man," said Jacqueline.
She did not find it quite easy to make nothing of all this matter,
which had been the main-spring of her effort since her father died.
She could not in one instant drop from her calculations that on
which she had heretofore based all her activity. She had labored
so long, so hard, to buy the rest and peace and heavenly blessedness
of the father she loved, it was hardly to be expected that at once
she would choose to see that in that rest and peace and blessedness,
she, as a producing power, had no part whatever.
As she more than hinted, the purpose of her life seemed to be taken
from her. She could not perceive that fact without some consternation;
could not instantly connect it with another, which should enable
her to look around her with the deliberation of a liberated spirit,
choosing her new work. And in this she was acted upon by more than
the fear arising from the influences of her old belief.The thoroughfare leading to this spot was now blocked by two four-horse
waggons and horses, one laden with hay-trusses, the leaders having
already passed each other, and become entangled head to tail. The
passage of the vehicles might have been practicable if empty; but built
up with hay to the bedroom windows as one was, it was impossible.

"You must have done it a' purpose!" said Farfrae's waggoner. "You can
hear my horses' bells half-a-mile such a night as this!"

"If ye'd been minding your business instead of zwailing along in such
a gawk-hammer way, you would have zeed me!" retorted the wroth
representative of Henchard.

However, according to the strict rule of the road it appeared that
Henchard's man was most in the wrong, he therefore attempted to back
into the High Street. In doing this the near hind-wheel rose against
the churchyard wall and the whole mountainous load went over, two of the
four wheels rising in the air, and the legs of the thill horse.

Instead of considering how to gather up the load the two men closed in
a fight with their fists. Before the first round was quite over Henchard
came upon the spot, somebody having run for him.

Henchard sent the two men staggering in contrary directions by collaring
one with each hand, turned to the horse that was down, and extricated
him after some trouble. He then inquired into the circumstances; and
seeing the state of his waggon and its load began hotly rating Farfrae's
man.

Lucetta and Elizabeth-Jane had by this time run down to the street
corner, whence they watched the bright heap of new hay lying in the
moon's rays, and passed and repassed by the forms of Henchard and the
waggoners. The women had witnessed what nobody else had seen--the origin
of the mishap; and Lucetta spoke.

"I saw it all, Mr. Henchard," she cried; "and your man was most in the
wrong!"

Henchard paused in his harangue and turned. "Oh, I didn't notice you,
Miss Templeman," said he. "My man in the wrong? Ah, to be sure; to be
sure! But I beg your pardon notwithstanding. The other's is the empty
waggon, and he must have been most to blame for coming on."

"No; I saw it, too," said Elizabeth-Jane. "And I can assure you he
couldn't help it."

"You can't trust THEIR senses!" murmured Henchard's man.

"Why not?" asked Henchard sharply.

"Why, you see, sir, all the women side with Farfrae--being a damn young
dand--of the sort that he is--one that creeps into a maid's heart like
the giddying worm into a sheep's brain--making crooked seem straight to
their eyes!"

"But do you know who that lady is you talk about in such a fashion? Do
you know that I pay my attentions to her, and have for some time? Just
be careful!"

"Not I. I know nothing, sir, outside eight shillings a week."

"And that Mr. Farfrae is well aware of it? He's sharp in trade, but he
wouldn't do anything so underhand as what you hint at."

Whether because Lucetta heard this low dialogue, or not her white
figure disappeared from her doorway inward, and the door was shut before
Henchard could reach it to converse with her further. This disappointed
him, for he had been sufficiently disturbed by what the man had said to
wish to speak to her more closely. While pausing the old constable came
up.

"Just see that nobody drives against that hay and waggon to-night,
Stubberd," said the corn-merchant. "It must bide till the morning, for
all hands are in the field still. And if any coach or road-waggon wants
to come along, tell 'em they must go round by the back street, and be
hanged to 'em....Any case tomorrow up in Hall?"

"Yes, sir. One in number, sir."

"Oh, what's that?"

"An old flagrant female, sir, swearing and committing a nuisance in a
horrible profane manner against the church wall, sir, as if 'twere no
more than a pot-house! That's all, sir."

"Oh. The Mayor's out o' town, isn't he?"

"He is, sir."

"Very well, then I'll be there. Don't forget to keep an eye on that hay.
Good night t' 'ee."

During those moments Henchard had determined to follow up Lucetta
notwithstanding her elusiveness, and he knocked for admission.

The answer he received was an expression of Miss Templeman's sorrow at
being unable to see him again that evening because she had an engagement
to go out.

Henchard walked away from the door to the opposite side of the street,
and stood by his hay in a lonely reverie, the constable having strolled
elsewhere, and the horses being removed. Though the moon was not bright
as yet there were no lamps lighted, and he entered the shadow of one of
the projecting jambs which formed the thoroughfare to Bull Stake; here
he watched Lucetta's door.

Candle-lights were flitting in and out of her bedroom, and it was
obvious that she was dressing for the appointment, whatever the nature
of that might be at such an hour. The lights disappeared, the clock
struck nine, and almost at the moment Farfrae came round the opposite
corner and knocked. That she had been waiting just inside for him was
certain, for she instantly opened the door herself. They went together
by the way of a back lane westward, avoiding the front street; guessing
where they were going he determined to follow.

The harvest had been so delayed by the capricious weather that whenever
a fine day occurred all sinews were strained to save what could be saved
of the damaged crops. On account of the rapid shortening of the days the
harvesters worked by moonlight. Hence to-night the wheat-fields abutting
on the two sides of the square formed by Casterbridge town were animated
by the gathering hands. Their shouts and laughter had reached Henchard
at the Market House, while he stood there waiting, and he had little
doubt from the turn which Farfrae and Lucetta had taken that they were
bound for the spot.

Nearly the whole town had gone into the fields. The Casterbridge
populace still retained the primitive habit of helping one another in
time of need; and thus, though the corn belonged to the farming section
of the little community--that inhabiting the Durnover quarter--the
remainder was no less interested in the labour of getting it home.

Reaching the top of the lane Henchard crossed the shaded avenue on the
walls, slid down the green rampart, and stood amongst the stubble. The
"stitches" or shocks rose like tents about the yellow expanse, those in
the distance becoming lost in the moonlit hazes.

He had entered at a point removed from the scene of immediate
operations; but two others had entered at that place, and he could
see them winding among the shocks. They were paying no regard to the
direction of their walk, whose vague serpentining soon began to
bear down towards Henchard. A meeting promised to be awkward, and he
therefore stepped into the hollow of the nearest shock, and sat down.

"You have my leave," Lucetta was saying gaily. "Speak what you like."

"Well, then," replied Farfrae, with the unmistakable inflection of the
lover pure, which Henchard had never heard in full resonance of his lips
before, "you are sure to be much sought after for your position, wealth,
talents, and beauty. But will ye resist the temptation to be one of
those ladies with lots of admirers--ay--and be content to have only a
homely one?"

"And he the speaker?" said she, laughing. "Very well, sir, what next?"

"Ah! I'm afraid that what I feel will make me forget my manners!"

"Then I hope you'll never have any, if you lack them only for that
cause." After some broken words which Henchard lost she added, "Are you
sure you won't be jealous?"

Farfrae seemed to assure her that he would not, by taking her hand.

"You are convinced, Donald, that I love nobody else," she presently
said. "But I should wish to have my own way in some things."

"In everything! What special thing did you mean?"

"If I wished not to live always in Casterbridge, for instance, upon
finding that I should not be happy here?"

Henchard did not hear the reply; he might have done so and much more,
but he did not care to play the eavesdropper. They went on towards
the scene of activity, where the sheaves were being handed, a dozen a
minute, upon the carts and waggons which carried them away.

Lucetta insisted on parting from Farfrae when they drew near the
workpeople. He had some business with them, and, though he entreated
her to wait a few minutes, she was inexorable, and tripped off homeward
alone.

Henchard thereupon left the field and followed her. His state of mind
was such that on reaching Lucetta's door he did not knock but opened it,
and walked straight up to her sitting-room, expecting to find her
there. But the room was empty, and he perceived that in his haste he had
somehow passed her on the way hither. He had not to wait many minutes,
however, for he soon heard her dress rustling in the hall, followed by a
soft closing of the door. In a moment she appeared.

The light was so low that she did not notice Henchard at first. As soon
as she saw him she uttered a little cry, almost of terror.

"How can you frighten me so?" she exclaimed, with a flushed face. "It
is past ten o'clock, and you have no right to surprise me here at such a
time."

"I don't know that I've not the right. At any rate I have the excuse. Is
it so necessary that I should stop to think of manners and customs?"

"It is too late for propriety, and might injure me."

"I called an hour ago, and you would not see me, and I thought you were
in when I called now. It is you, Lucetta, who are doing wrong. It is
not proper in 'ee to throw me over like this. I have a little matter to
remind you of, which you seem to forget."

She sank into a chair, and turned pale.

"I don't want to hear it--I don't want to hear it!" she said through her
hands, as he, standing close to the edge of her gown, began to allude to
the Jersey days.

"But you ought to hear it," said he.

"It came to nothing; and through you. Then why not leave me the freedom
that I gained with such sorrow! Had I found that you proposed to marry
me for pure love I might have felt bound now. But I soon learnt that
you had planned it out of mere charity--almost as an unpleasant
duty--because I had nursed you, and compromised myself, and you thought
you must repay me. After that I did not care for you so deeply as
before."

"Why did you come here to find me, then?"

"I thought I ought to marry you for conscience' sake, since you were
free, even though I--did not like you so well."

"And why then don't you think so now?"

She was silent. It was only too obvious that conscience had ruled well
enough till new love had intervened and usurped that rule. In feeling
this she herself forgot for the moment her partially justifying
argument--that having discovered Henchard's infirmities of temper, she
had some excuse for not risking her happiness in his hands after once
escaping them. The only thing she could say was, "I was a poor girl
then; and now my circumstances have altered, so I am hardly the same
person."

"That's true. And it makes the case awkward for me. But I don't want to
touch your money. I am quite willing that every penny of your property
shall remain to your personal use. Besides, that argument has nothing in
it. The man you are thinking of is no better than I."

"If you were as good as he you would leave me!" she cried passionately.

This unluckily aroused Henchard. "You cannot in honour refuse me," he
said. "And unless you give me your promise this very night to be my
wife, before a witness, I'll reveal our intimacy--in common fairness to
other men!"

A look of resignation settled upon her. Henchard saw its bitterness;
and had Lucetta's heart been given to any other man in the world than
Farfrae he would probably have had pity upon her at that moment. But the
supplanter was the upstart (as Henchard called him) who had mounted into
prominence upon his shoulders, and he could bring himself to show no
mercy.

Without another word she rang the bell, and directed that Elizabeth-Jane
should be fetched from her room. The latter appeared, surprised in the
midst of her lucubrations. As soon as she saw Henchard she went across
to him dutifully.

"Elizabeth-Jane," he said, taking her hand, "I want you to hear this."
And turning to Lucetta: "Will you, or will you not, marry me?

"If you--wish it, I must agree!"

"You say yes?"

"I do."

No sooner had she given the promise than she fell back in a fainting
state.

"What dreadful thing drives her to say this, father, when it is such a
pain to her?" asked Elizabeth, kneeling down by Lucetta. "Don't compel
her to do anything against her will! I have lived with her, and know
that she cannot bear much."

"Don't be a no'thern simpleton!" said Henchard drily. "This promise will
leave him free for you, if you want him, won't it?"

At this Lucetta seemed to wake from her swoon with a start.

"Him? Who are you talking about?" she said wildly.

"Nobody, as far as I am concerned," said Elizabeth firmly.

"Oh--well. Then it is my mistake," said Henchard. "But the business is
between me and Miss Templeman. She agrees to be my wife."

"But don't dwell on it just now," entreated Elizabeth, holding Lucetta's
hand.

"I don't wish to, if she promises," said Henchard.

"I have, I have," groaned Lucetta, her limbs hanging like fluid, from
very misery and faintness. "Michael, please don't argue it any more!"

"I will not," he said. And taking up his hat he went away.

Elizabeth-Jane continued to kneel by Lucetta. "What is this?" she said.
"You called my father 'Michael' as if you knew him well? And how is it
he has got this power over you, that you promise to marry him against
your will? Ah--you have many many secrets from me!"

"Perhaps you have some from me," Lucetta murmured with closed eyes,
little thinking, however, so unsuspicious was she, that the secret of
Elizabeth's heart concerned the young man who had caused this damage to
her own.

"I would not--do anything against you at all!" stammered Elizabeth,
keeping in all signs of emotion till she was ready to burst. "I cannot
understand how my father can command you so; I don't sympathize with him
in it at all. I'll go to him and ask him to release you."

"No, no," said Lucetta. "Let it all be."


28.


The next morning Henchard went to the Town Hall below Lucetta's house,
to attend Petty Sessions, being still a magistrate for the year by
virtue of his late position as Mayor. In passing he looked up at her
windows, but nothing of her was to be seen.

Henchard as a Justice of the Peace may at first seem to be an even
greater incongruity than Shallow and Silence themselves. But his rough
and ready perceptions, his sledge-hammer directness, had often served
him better than nice legal knowledge in despatching such simple business
as fell to his hands in this Court. To-day Dr. Chalkfield, the Mayor for
the year, being absent, the corn-merchant took the big chair, his eyes
still abstractedly stretching out of the window to the ashlar front of
High-Place Hall.

There was one case only, and the offender stood before him. She was an
old woman of mottled countenance, attired in a shawl of that nameless
tertiary hue which comes, but cannot be made--a hue neither tawny,
russet, hazel, nor ash; a sticky black bonnet that seemed to have been
worn in the country of the Psalmist where the clouds drop fatness; and
an apron that had been white in time so comparatively recent as still to
contrast visibly with the rest of her clothes. The steeped aspect of the
woman as a whole showed her to be no native of the country-side or even
of a country-town.

She looked cursorily at Henchard and the second magistrate, and Henchard
looked at her, with a momentary pause, as if she had reminded him
indistinctly of somebody or something which passed from his mind as
quickly as it had come. "Well, and what has she been doing?" he said,
looking down at the charge sheet.

"She is charged, sir, with the offence of disorderly female and
nuisance," whispered Stubberd.

"Where did she do that?" said the other magistrate.

"By the church, sir, of all the horrible places in the world!--I caught
her in the act, your worship."

"Stand back then," said Henchard, "and let's hear what you've got to
say."

Stubberd was sworn in, the magistrate's clerk dipped his pen, Henchard
being no note-taker himself, and the constable began--

"Hearing a' illegal noise I went down the street at twenty-five minutes
past eleven P.M. on the night of the fifth instinct, Hannah Dominy. When
I had--

"Don't go so fast, Stubberd," said the clerk.

The constable waited, with his eyes on the clerk's pen, till the latter
stopped scratching and said, "yes." Stubberd continued: "When I had
proceeded to the spot I saw defendant at another spot, namely, the
gutter." He paused, watching the point of the clerk's pen again.

"Gutter, yes, Stubberd."

"Spot measuring twelve feet nine inches or thereabouts from where I--"
Still careful not to outrun the clerk's penmanship Stubberd pulled up
again; for having got his evidence by heart it was immaterial to him
whereabouts he broke off.

"I object to that," spoke up the old woman, "'spot measuring twelve feet
nine or thereabouts from where I,' is not sound testimony!"

The magistrates consulted, and the second one said that the bench was
of opinion that twelve feet nine inches from a man on his oath was
admissible.

Stubberd, with a suppressed gaze of victorious rectitude at the old
woman, continued: "Was standing myself. She was wambling about quite
dangerous to the thoroughfare and when I approached to draw near she
committed the nuisance, and insulted me."

"'Insulted me.'...Yes, what did she say?"

"She said, 'Put away that dee lantern,' she says."

"Yes."

"Says she, 'Dost hear, old turmit-head? Put away that dee lantern. I
have floored fellows a dee sight finer-looking than a dee fool like
thee, you son of a bee, dee me if I haint,' she says.

"I object to that conversation!" interposed the old woman. "I was not
capable enough to hear what I said, and what is said out of my hearing
is not evidence."

There was another stoppage for consultation, a book was referred to, and
finally Stubberd was allowed to go on again. The truth was that the
old woman had appeared in court so many more times than the magistrates
themselves, that they were obliged to keep a sharp look-out upon their
procedure. However, when Stubberd had rambled on a little further
Henchard broke out impatiently, "Come--we don't want to hear any more of
them cust dees and bees! Say the words out like a man, and don't be so
modest, Stubberd; or else leave it alone!" Turning to the woman, "Now
then, have you any questions to ask him, or anything to say?"

"Yes," she replied with a twinkle in her eye; and the clerk dipped his
pen.

"Twenty years ago or thereabout I was selling of furmity in a tent at
Weydon Fair----"

"'Twenty years ago'--well, that's beginning at the beginning; suppose
you go back to the Creation!" said the clerk, not without satire.

But Henchard stared, and quite forgot what was evidence and what was
not.

"A man and a woman with a little child came into my tent," the woman
continued. "They sat down and had a basin apiece. Ah, Lord's my life! I
was of a more respectable station in the world then than I am now, being
a land smuggler in a large way of business; and I used to season my
furmity with rum for them who asked for't. I did it for the man; and
then he had more and more; till at last he quarrelled with his wife, and
offered to sell her to the highest bidder. A sailor came in and bid five
guineas, and paid the money, and led her away. And the man who sold his
wife in that fashion is the man sitting there in the great big chair."
The speaker concluded by nodding her head at Henchard and folding her
arms.

Everybody looked at Henchard. His face seemed strange, and in tint as if
it had been powdered over with ashes. "We don't want to hear your life
and adventures," said the second magistrate sharply, filling the pause
which followed. "You've been asked if you've anything to say bearing on
the case."

"That bears on the case. It proves that he's no better than I, and has
no right to sit there in judgment upon me."

"'Tis a concocted story," said the clerk. "So hold your tongue!"

"No--'tis true." The words came from Henchard. "'Tis as true as the
light," he said slowly. "And upon my soul it does prove that I'm no
better than she! And to keep out of any temptation to treat her hard for
her revenge, I'll leave her to you."

The sensation in the court was indescribably great. Henchard left the
chair, and came out, passing through a group of people on the steps
and outside that was much larger than usual; for it seemed that the old
furmity dealer had mysteriously hinted to the denizens of the lane in
which she had been lodging since her arrival, that she knew a queer
thing or two about their great local man Mr. Henchard, if she chose to
tell it. This had brought them hither.

"Why are there so many idlers round the Town Hall to-day?" said Lucetta
to her servant when the case was over. She had risen late, and had just
looked out of the window.

"Oh, please, ma'am, 'tis this larry about Mr. Henchard. A woman has
proved that before he became a gentleman he sold his wife for five
guineas in a booth at a fair."

In all the accounts which Henchard had given her of the separation from
his wife Susan for so many years, of his belief in her death, and so on,
he had never clearly explained the actual and immediate cause of that
separation. The story she now heard for the first time.

A gradual misery overspread Lucetta's face as she dwelt upon the promise
wrung from her the night before. At bottom, then, Henchard was this.
How terrible a contingency for a woman who should commit herself to his
care.

During the day she went out to the Ring and to other places, not coming
in till nearly dusk. As soon as she saw Elizabeth-Jane after her return
indoors she told her that she had resolved to go away from home to the
seaside for a few days--to Port-Bredy; Casterbridge was so gloomy.

Elizabeth, seeing that she looked wan and disturbed, encouraged her in
the idea, thinking a change would afford her relief. She could not help
suspecting that the gloom which seemed to have come over Casterbridge
in Lucetta's eyes might be partially owing to the fact that Farfrae was
away from home.

Elizabeth saw her friend depart for Port-Bredy, and took charge of
High-Place Hall till her return. After two or three days of solitude and
incessant rain Henchard called at the house. He seemed disappointed to
hear of Lucetta's absence and though he nodded with outward indifference
he went away handling his beard with a nettled mien.

The next day he called again. "Is she come now?" he asked.

"Yes. She returned this morning," replied his stepdaughter. "But she
is not indoors. She has gone for a walk along the turnpike-road to
Port-Bredy. She will be home by dusk."

After a few words, which only served to reveal his restless impatience,
he left the house again.


29.


At this hour Lucetta was bounding along the road to Port-Bredy just as
Elizabeth had announced. That she had chosen for her afternoon walk the
road along which she had returned to Casterbridge three hours earlier
in a carriage was curious--if anything should be called curious in
concatenations of phenomena wherein each is known to have its accounting
cause. It was the day of the chief market--Saturday--and Farfrae
for once had been missed from his corn-stand in the dealers' room.
Nevertheless, it was known that he would be home that night--"for
Sunday," as Casterbridge expressed it.

Lucetta, in continuing her walk, had at length reached the end of the
ranked trees which bordered the highway in this and other directions out
of the town. This end marked a mile; and here she stopped.

The spot was a vale between two gentle acclivities, and the road,
still adhering to its Roman foundation, stretched onward straight as a
surveyor's line till lost to sight on the most distant ridge. There was
neither hedge nor tree in the prospect now, the road clinging to the
stubby expanse of corn-land like a strip to an undulating garment. Near
her was a barn--the single building of any kind within her horizon.

She strained her eyes up the lessening road, but nothing appeared
thereon--not so much as a speck. She sighed one word--"Donald!" and
turned her face to the town for retreat.

Here the case was different. A single figure was approaching
her--Elizabeth-Jane's.

Lucetta, in spite of her loneliness, seemed a little vexed. Elizabeth's
face, as soon as she recognized her friend, shaped itself into
affectionate lines while yet beyond speaking distance. "I suddenly
thought I would come and meet you," she said, smiling.

Lucetta's reply was taken from her lips by an unexpected diversion. A
by-road on her right hand descended from the fields into the highway
at the point where she stood, and down the track a bull was rambling
uncertainly towards her and Elizabeth, who, facing the other way, did
not observe him.

In the latter quarter of each year cattle were at once the mainstay and
the terror of families about Casterbridge and its neighbourhood, where
breeding was carried on with Abrahamic success. The head of stock
driven into and out of the town at this season to be sold by the local
auctioneer was very large; and all these horned beasts, in travelling to
and fro, sent women and children to shelter as nothing else could do.
In the main the animals would have walked along quietly enough; but the
Casterbridge tradition was that to drive stock it was indispensable that
hideous cries, coupled with Yahoo antics and gestures, should be used,
large sticks flourished, stray dogs called in, and in general everything
done that was likely to infuriate the viciously disposed and terrify the
mild. Nothing was commoner than for a house-holder on going out of his
parlour to find his hall or passage full of little children, nursemaids,
aged women, or a ladies' school, who apologized for their presence by
saying, "A bull passing down street from the sale."

Lucetta and Elizabeth regarded the animal in doubt, he meanwhile drawing
vaguely towards them. It was a large specimen of the breed, in colour
rich dun, though disfigured at present by splotches of mud about
his seamy sides. His horns were thick and tipped with brass; his two
nostrils like the Thames Tunnel as seen in the perspective toys of yore.
Between them, through the gristle of his nose, was a stout copper ring,
welded on, and irremovable as Gurth's collar of brass. To the ring was
attached an ash staff about a yard long, which the bull with the motions
of his head flung about like a flail.

It was not till they observed this dangling stick that the young women
were really alarmed; for it revealed to them that the bull was an old
one, too savage to be driven, which had in some way escaped, the staff
being the means by which the drover controlled him and kept his horns at
arms' length.

They looked round for some shelter or hiding-place, and thought of the
barn hard by. As long as they had kept their eyes on the bull he had
shown some deference in his manner of approach; but no sooner did they
turn their backs to seek the barn than he tossed his head and decided
to thoroughly terrify them. This caused the two helpless girls to run
wildly, whereupon the bull advanced in a deliberate charge.

The barn stood behind a green slimy pond, and it was closed save as to
one of the usual pair of doors facing them, which had been propped open
by a hurdle-stick, and for this opening they made. The interior had been
cleared by a recent bout of threshing except at one end, where there was
a stack of dry clover. Elizabeth-Jane took in the situation. "We must
climb up there," she said.

But before they had even approached it they heard the bull scampering
through the pond without, and in a second he dashed into the barn,
knocking down the hurdle-stake in passing; the heavy door slammed behind
him; and all three were imprisoned in the barn together. The mistaken
creature saw them, and stalked towards the end of the barn into which
they had fled. The girls doubled so adroitly that their pursuer was
against the wall when the fugitives were already half way to the other
end. By the time that his length would allow him to turn and follow them
thither they had crossed over; thus the pursuit went on, the hot air
from his nostrils blowing over them like a sirocco, and not a moment
being attainable by Elizabeth or Lucetta in which to open the door. What
might have happened had their situation continued cannot be said; but
in a few moments a rattling of the door distracted their adversary's
attention, and a man appeared. He ran forward towards the leading-staff,
seized it, and wrenched the animal's head as if he would snap it off.
The wrench was in reality so violent that the thick neck seemed to have
lost its stiffness and to become half-paralyzed, whilst the nose dropped
blood. The premeditated human contrivance of the nose-ring was too
cunning for impulsive brute force, and the creature flinched.

The man was seen in the partial gloom to be large-framed and
unhesitating. He led the bull to the door, and the light revealed
Henchard. He made the bull fast without, and re-entered to the succour
of Lucetta; for he had not perceived Elizabeth, who had climbed on to
the clover-heap. Lucetta was hysterical, and Henchard took her in his
arms and carried her to the door.

"You--have saved me!" she cried, as soon as she could speak.

"I have returned your kindness," he responded tenderly. "You once saved
me."

"How--comes it to be you--you?" she asked, not heeding his reply.

"I came out here to look for you. I have been wanting to tell you
something these two or three days; but you have been away, and I could
not. Perhaps you cannot talk now?"

"Oh--no! Where is Elizabeth?"

"Here am I!" cried the missing one cheerfully; and without waiting for
the ladder to be placed she slid down the face of the clover-stack to
the floor.

Henchard supporting Lucetta on one side, and Elizabeth-Jane on the
other, they went slowly along the rising road. They had reached the top
and were descending again when Lucetta, now much recovered, recollected
that she had dropped her muff in the barn.

"I'll run back," said Elizabeth-Jane. "I don't mind it at all, as I am
not tired as you are." She thereupon hastened down again to the barn,
the others pursuing their way.

Elizabeth soon found the muff, such an article being by no means small
at that time. Coming out she paused to look for a moment at the bull,
now rather to be pitied with his bleeding nose, having perhaps rather
intended a practical joke than a murder. Henchard had secured him by
jamming the staff into the hinge of the barn-door, and wedging it
there with a stake. At length she turned to hasten onward after her
contemplation, when she saw a green-and-black gig approaching from the
contrary direction, the vehicle being driven by Farfrae.

His presence here seemed to explain Lucetta's walk that way. Donald saw
her, drew up, and was hastily made acquainted with what had occurred. At
Elizabeth-Jane mentioning how greatly Lucetta had been jeopardized, he
exhibited an agitation different in kind no less than in intensity
from any she had seen in him before. He became so absorbed in the
circumstance that he scarcely had sufficient knowledge of what he was
doing to think of helping her up beside him.

"She has gone on with Mr. Henchard, you say?" he inquired at last.

"Yes. He is taking her home. They are almost there by this time."

"And you are sure she can get home?"

Elizabeth-Jane was quite sure.

"Your stepfather saved her?"

"Entirely."

Farfrae checked his horse's pace; she guessed why. He was thinking that
it would be best not to intrude on the other two just now. Henchard
had saved Lucetta, and to provoke a possible exhibition of her deeper
affection for himself was as ungenerous as it was unwise.

The immediate subject of their talk being exhausted she felt more
embarrassed at sitting thus beside her past lover; but soon the two
figures of the others were visible at the entrance to the town. The face
of the woman was frequently turned back, but Farfrae did not whip on the
horse. When these reached the town walls Henchard and his companion
had disappeared down the street; Farfrae set down Elizabeth-Jane on her
expressing a particular wish to alight there, and drove round to the
stables at the back of his lodgings.

On this account he entered the house through his garden, and going up to
his apartments found them in a particularly disturbed state, his boxes
being hauled out upon the landing, and his bookcase standing in three
pieces. These phenomena, however, seemed to cause him not the least
surprise. "When will everything be sent up?" he said to the mistress of
the house, who was superintending.

"I am afraid not before eight, sir," said she. "You see we wasn't aware
till this morning that you were going to move, or we could have been
forwarder."

"A--well, never mind, never mind!" said Farfrae cheerily. "Eight o'clock
will do well enough if it be not later. Now, don't ye be standing here
talking, or it will be twelve, I doubt." Thus speaking he went out by
the front door and up the street.

During this interval Henchard and Lucetta had had experiences of
a different kind. After Elizabeth's departure for the muff the
corn-merchant opened himself frankly, holding her hand within his arm,
though she would fain have withdrawn it. "Dear Lucetta, I have been
very, very anxious to see you these two or three days," he said, "ever
since I saw you last! I have thought over the way I got your promise
that night. You said to me, 'If I were a man I should not insist.' That
cut me deep. I felt that there was some truth in it. I don't want to
make you wretched; and to marry me just now would do that as nothing
else could--it is but too plain. Therefore I agree to an indefinite
engagement--to put off all thought of marriage for a year or two."

"But--but--can I do nothing of a different kind?" said Lucetta. "I am
full of gratitude to you--you have saved my life. And your care of me is
like coals of fire on my head! I am a monied person now. Surely I can do
something in return for your goodness--something practical?"

Henchard remained in thought. He had evidently not expected this. "There
is one thing you might do, Lucetta," he said. "But not exactly of that
kind."

"Then of what kind is it?" she asked with renewed misgiving.

"I must tell you a secret to ask it.--You may have heard that I have
been unlucky this year? I did what I have never done before--speculated
rashly; and I lost. That's just put me in a strait.

"And you would wish me to advance some money?"

"No, no!" said Henchard, almost in anger. "I'm not the man to sponge on
a woman, even though she may be so nearly my own as you. No, Lucetta;
what you can do is this and it would save me. My great creditor is
Grower, and it is at his hands I shall suffer if at anybody's; while a
fortnight's forbearance on his part would be enough to allow me to pull
through. This may be got out of him in one way--that you would let it be
known to him that you are my intended--that we are to be quietly married
in the next fortnight.--Now stop, you haven't heard all! Let him have
this story, without, of course, any prejudice to the fact that the
actual engagement between us is to be a long one. Nobody else need know:
you could go with me to Mr. Grower and just let me speak to 'ee before
him as if we were on such terms. We'll ask him to keep it secret. He
will willingly wait then. At the fortnight's end I shall be able to face
him; and I can coolly tell him all is postponed between us for a year
or two. Not a soul in the town need know how you've helped me. Since you
wish to be of use, there's your way."

It being now what the people called the "pinking in" of the day, that
is, the quarter-hour just before dusk, he did not at first observe the
result of his own words upon her.

"If it were anything else," she began, and the dryness of her lips was
represented in her voice.

"But it is such a little thing!" he said, with a deep reproach. "Less
than you have offered--just the beginning of what you have so lately
promised! I could have told him as much myself, but he would not have
believed me."

"It is not because I won't--it is because I absolutely can't," she said,
with rising distress.

"You are provoking!" he burst out. "It is enough to make me force you to
carry out at once what you have promised."

"I cannot!" she insisted desperately.

"Why? When I have only within these few minutes released you from your
promise to do the thing offhand."

"Because--he was a witness!"

"Witness? Of what?

"If I must tell you----. Don't, don't upbraid me!"

"Well! Let's hear what you mean?"

"Witness of my marriage--Mr. Grower was!"

"Marriage?"

"Yes. With Mr. Farfrae. O Michael! I am already his wife. We were
married this week at Port-Bredy. There were reasons against our doing it
here. Mr. Grower was a witness because he happened to be at Port-Bredy
at the time."

Henchard stood as if idiotized. She was so alarmed at his silence that
she murmured something about lending him sufficient money to tide over
the perilous fortnight.

"Married him?" said Henchard at length. "My good--what, married him
whilst--bound to marry me?"

"It was like this," she explained, with tears in her eyes and quavers
in her voice; "don't--don't be cruel! I loved him so much, and I thought
you might tell him of the past--and that grieved me! And then, when I
had promised you, I learnt of the rumour that you had--sold your first
wife at a fair like a horse or cow! How could I keep my promise after
hearing that? I could not risk myself in your hands; it would have been
letting myself down to take your name after such a scandal. But I knew I
should lose Donald if I did not secure him at once--for you would carry
out your threat of telling him of our former acquaintance, as long as
there was a chance of keeping me for yourself by doing so. But you will
not do so now, will you, Michael? for it is too late to separate us."

The notes of St. Peter's bells in full peal had been wafted to them
while he spoke, and now the genial thumping of the town band, renowned
for its unstinted use of the drum-stick, throbbed down the street.

"Then this racket they are making is on account of it, I suppose?" said
he.

"Yes--I think he has told them, or else Mr. Grower has....May I leave
you now? My--he was detained at Port-Bredy to-day, and sent me on a few
hours before him."

"Then it is HIS WIFE'S life I have saved this afternoon."

"Yes--and he will be for ever grateful to you."

"I am much obliged to him....O you false woman!" burst from Henchard.
"You promised me!"

"Yes, yes! But it was under compulsion, and I did not know all your
past----"

"And now I've a mind to punish you as you deserve! One word to this
bran-new husband of how you courted me, and your precious happiness is
blown to atoms!"

"Michael--pity me, and be generous!"

"You don't deserve pity! You did; but you don't now."

"I'll help you to pay off your debt."

"A pensioner of Farfrae's wife--not I! Don't stay with me longer--I
shall say something worse. Go home!"

She disappeared under the trees of the south walk as the band came round
the corner, awaking the echoes of every stock and stone in celebration
of her happiness. Lucetta took no heed, but ran up the back street and
reached her own home unperceived.


30.


Farfrae's words to his landlady had referred to the removal of his boxes
and other effects from his late lodgings to Lucetta's house. The work
was not heavy, but it had been much hindered on account of the frequent
pauses necessitated by exclamations of surprise at the event, of which
the good woman had been briefly informed by letter a few hours earlier.

At the last moment of leaving Port-Bredy, Farfrae, like John Gilpin,
had been detained by important customers, whom, even in the exceptional
circumstances, he was not the man to neglect. Moreover, there was a
convenience in Lucetta arriving first at her house. Nobody there as yet
knew what had happened; and she was best in a position to break the news
to the inmates, and give directions for her husband's accommodation. He
had, therefore, sent on his two-days' bride in a hired brougham, whilst
he went across the country to a certain group of wheat and barley ricks
a few miles off, telling her the hour at which he might be expected
the same evening. This accounted for her trotting out to meet him after
their separation of four hours.

By a strenuous effort, after leaving Henchard she calmed herself in
readiness to receive Donald at High-Place Hall when he came on from his
lodgings. One supreme fact empowered her to this, the sense that, come
what would, she had secured him. Half-an-hour after her arrival he
walked in, and she met him with a relieved gladness, which a month's
perilous absence could not have intensified.

"There is one thing I have not done; and yet it is important," she said
earnestly, when she had finished talking about the adventure with
the bull. "That is, broken the news of our marriage to my dear
Elizabeth-Jane."

"Ah, and you have not?" he said thoughtfully. "I gave her a lift from
the barn homewards; but I did not tell her either; for I thought
she might have heard of it in the town, and was keeping back her
congratulations from shyness, and all that."

"She can hardly have heard of it. But I'll find out; I'll go to her
now. And, Donald, you don't mind her living on with me just the same as
before? She is so quiet and unassuming."

"O no, indeed I don't," Farfrae answered with, perhaps, a faint
awkwardness. "But I wonder if she would care to?"

"O yes!" said Lucetta eagerly. "I am sure she would like to. Besides,
poor thing, she has no other home."

Farfrae looked at her and saw that she did not suspect the secret of
her more reserved friend. He liked her all the better for the blindness.
"Arrange as you like with her by all means," he said. "It is I who have
come to your house, not you to mine."

"I'll run and speak to her," said Lucetta.

When she got upstairs to Elizabeth-Jane's room the latter had taken off
her out-door things, and was resting over a book. Lucetta found in a
moment that she had not yet learnt the news.

"I did not come down to you, Miss Templeman," she said simply. "I was
coming to ask if you had quite recovered from your fright, but I found
you had a visitor. What are the bells ringing for, I wonder? And the
band, too, is playing. Somebody must be married; or else they are
practising for Christmas."

Lucetta uttered a vague "Yes," and seating herself by the other young
woman looked musingly at her. "What a lonely creature you are," she
presently said; "never knowing what's going on, or what people are
talking about everywhere with keen interest. You should get out, and
gossip about as other women do, and then you wouldn't be obliged to ask
me a question of that kind. Well, now, I have something to tell you."

Elizabeth-Jane said she was so glad, and made herself receptive.

"I must go rather a long way back," said Lucetta, the difficulty of
explaining herself satisfactorily to the pondering one beside her
growing more apparent at each syllable. "You remember that trying case
of conscience I told you of some time ago--about the first lover and the
second lover?" She let out in jerky phrases a leading word or two of the
story she had told.

"O yes--I remember the story of YOUR FRIEND," said Elizabeth drily,
regarding the irises of Lucetta's eyes as though to catch their exact
shade. "The two lovers--the old one and the new: how she wanted to marry
the second, but felt she ought to marry the first; so that she neglected
the better course to follow the evil, like the poet Ovid I've just been
construing: 'Video meliora proboque, deteriora sequor.'"

"O no; she didn't follow evil exactly!" said Lucetta hastily.

"But you said that she--or as I may say you"--answered Elizabeth,
dropping the mask, "were in honour and conscience bound to marry the
first?"

Lucetta's blush at being seen through came and went again before
she replied anxiously, "You will never breathe this, will you,
Elizabeth-Jane?"

"Certainly not, if you say not.

"Then I will tell you that the case is more complicated--worse, in
fact--than it seemed in my story. I and the first man were thrown
together in a strange way, and felt that we ought to be united, as the
world had talked of us. He was a widower, as he supposed. He had not
heard of his first wife for many years. But the wife returned, and
we parted. She is now dead, and the husband comes paying me addresses
again, saying, 'Now we'll complete our purposes.' But, Elizabeth-Jane,
all this amounts to a new courtship of me by him; I was absolved from
all vows by the return of the other woman."

"Have you not lately renewed your promise?" said the younger with quiet
surmise. She had divined Man Number One.

"That was wrung from me by a threat."

"Yes, it was. But I think when any one gets coupled up with a man in the
past so unfortunately as you have done she ought to become his wife if
she can, even if she were not the sinning party."

Lucetta's countenance lost its sparkle. "He turned out to be a man I
should be afraid to marry," she pleaded. "Really afraid! And it was not
till after my renewed promise that I knew it."

"Then there is only one course left to honesty. You must remain a single
woman."

"But think again! Do consider----"

"I am certain," interrupted her companion hardily. "I have guessed very
well who the man is. My father; and I say it is him or nobody for you."

Any suspicion of impropriety was to Elizabeth-Jane like a red rag to
a bull. Her craving for correctness of procedure was, indeed, almost
vicious. Owing to her early troubles with regard to her mother a
semblance of irregularity had terrors for her which those whose names
are safeguarded from suspicion know nothing of. "You ought to marry
Mr. Henchard or nobody--certainly not another man!" she went on with a
quivering lip in whose movement two passions shared.

"I don't admit that!" said Lucetta passionately.

"Admit it or not, it is true!"

Lucetta covered her eyes with her right hand, as if she could plead no
more, holding out her left to Elizabeth-Jane.

"Why, you HAVE married him!" cried the latter, jumping up with pleasure
after a glance at Lucetta's fingers. "When did you do it? Why did you
not tell me, instead of teasing me like this? How very honourable
of you! He did treat my mother badly once, it seems, in a moment of
intoxication. And it is true that he is stern sometimes. But you
will rule him entirely, I am sure, with your beauty and wealth and
accomplishments. You are the woman he will adore, and we shall all three
be happy together now!"

"O, my Elizabeth-Jane!" cried Lucetta distressfully. "'Tis somebody else
that I have married! I was so desperate--so afraid of being forced to
anything else--so afraid of revelations that would quench his love for
me, that I resolved to do it offhand, come what might, and purchase a
week of happiness at any cost!"

"You--have--married Mr. Farfrae!" cried Elizabeth-Jane, in Nathan tones

Lucetta bowed. She had recovered herself.

"The bells are ringing on that account," she said. "My husband is
downstairs. He will live here till a more suitable house is ready for
us; and I have told him that I want you to stay with me just as before."

"Let me think of it alone," the girl quickly replied, corking up the
turmoil of her feeling with grand control.

"You shall. I am sure we shall be happy together."

Lucetta departed to join Donald below, a vague uneasiness floating over
her joy at seeing him quite at home there. Not on account of her friend
Elizabeth did she feel it: for of the bearings of Elizabeth-Jane's
emotions she had not the least suspicion; but on Henchard's alone.

Now the instant decision of Susan Henchard's daughter was to dwell
in that house no more. Apart from her estimate of the propriety of
Lucetta's conduct, Farfrae had been so nearly her avowed lover that she
felt she could not abide there.

It was still early in the evening when she hastily put on her things and
went out. In a few minutes, knowing the ground, she had found a suitable
lodging, and arranged to enter it that night. Returning and entering
noiselessly she took off her pretty dress and arrayed herself in a plain
one, packing up the other to keep as her best; for she would have to
be very economical now. She wrote a note to leave for Lucetta, who
was closely shut up in the drawing-room with Farfrae; and then
Elizabeth-Jane called a man with a wheel-barrow; and seeing her boxes
put into it she trotted off down the street to her rooms. They were in
the street in which Henchard lived, and almost opposite his door.

Here she sat down and considered the means of subsistence. The little
annual sum settled on her by her stepfather would keep body and soul
together. A wonderful skill in netting of all sorts--acquired in
childhood by making seines in Newson's home--might serve her in good
stead; and her studies, which were pursued unremittingly, might serve
her in still better.

By this time the marriage that had taken place was known throughout
Casterbridge; had been discussed noisily on kerbstones, confidentially
behind counters, and jovially at the Three Mariners. Whether Farfrae
would sell his business and set up for a gentleman on his wife's money,
or whether he would show independence enough to stick to his trade in
spite of his brilliant alliance, was a great point of interest.


31.


The retort of the furmity-woman before the magistrates had spread; and
in four-and-twenty hours there was not a person in Casterbridge
who remained unacquainted with the story of Henchard's mad freak at
Weydon-Priors Fair, long years before. The amends he had made in after
life were lost sight of in the dramatic glare of the original act. Had
the incident been well known of old and always, it might by this time
have grown to be lightly regarded as the rather tall wild oat, but
well-nigh the single one, of a young man with whom the steady and mature
(if somewhat headstrong) burgher of to-day had scarcely a point in
common. But the act having lain as dead and buried ever since, the
interspace of years was unperceived; and the black spot of his youth
wore the aspect of a recent crime.

Small as the police-court incident had been in itself, it formed the
edge or turn in the incline of Henchard's fortunes. On that day--almost
at that minute--he passed the ridge of prosperity and honour, and began
to descend rapidly on the other side. It was strange how soon he sank
in esteem. Socially he had received a startling fillip downwards; and,
having already lost commercial buoyancy from rash transactions, the
velocity of his descent in both aspects became accelerated every hour.

He now gazed more at the pavements and less at the house-fronts when he
walked about; more at the feet and leggings of men, and less into the
pupils of their eyes with the blazing regard which formerly had made
them blink.

New events combined to undo him. It had been a bad year for others
besides himself, and the heavy failure of a debtor whom he had trusted
generously completed the overthrow of his tottering credit. And now,
in his desperation, he failed to preserve that strict correspondence
between bulk and sample which is the soul of commerce in grain. For
this, one of his men was mainly to blame; that worthy, in his great
unwisdom, having picked over the sample of an enormous quantity of
second-rate corn which Henchard had in hand, and removed the pinched,
blasted, and smutted grains in great numbers. The produce if
honestly offered would have created no scandal; but the blunder of
misrepresentation, coming at such a moment, dragged Henchard's name into
the ditch.

The details of his failure were of the ordinary kind. One day
Elizabeth-Jane was passing the King's Arms, when she saw people bustling
in and out more than usual where there was no market. A bystander
informed her, with some surprise at her ignorance, that it was a meeting
of the Commissioners under Mr. Henchard's bankruptcy. She felt quite
tearful, and when she heard that he was present in the hotel she wished
to go in and see him, but was advised not to intrude that day.

The room in which debtor and creditors had assembled was a front
one, and Henchard, looking out of the window, had caught sight of
Elizabeth-Jane through the wire blind. His examination had closed, and
the creditors were leaving. The appearance of Elizabeth threw him into a
reverie, till, turning his face from the window, and towering above all
the rest, he called their attention for a moment more. His countenance
had somewhat changed from its flush of prosperity; the black hair and
whiskers were the same as ever, but a film of ash was over the rest.

"Gentlemen," he said, "over and above the assets that we've been talking
about, and that appear on the balance-sheet, there be these. It all
belongs to ye, as much as everything else I've got, and I don't wish to
keep it from you, not I." Saying this, he took his gold watch from
his pocket and laid it on the table; then his purse--the yellow canvas
moneybag, such as was carried by all farmers and dealers--untying it,
and shaking the money out upon the table beside the watch. The latter
he drew back quickly for an instant, to remove the hair-guard made and
given him by Lucetta. "There, now you have all I've got in the world,"
he said. "And I wish for your sakes 'twas more."

The creditors, farmers almost to a man, looked at the watch, and at the
money, and into the street; when Farmer James Everdene of Weatherbury
spoke.

"No, no, Henchard," he said warmly. "We don't want that. 'Tis honourable
in ye; but keep it. What do you say, neighbours--do ye agree?"

"Ay, sure: we don't wish it at all," said Grower, another creditor.

"Let him keep it, of course," murmured another in the background--a
silent, reserved young man named Boldwood; and the rest responded
unanimously.

"Well," said the senior Commissioner, addressing Henchard, "though the
case is a desperate one, I am bound to admit that I have never met a
debtor who behaved more fairly. I've proved the balance-sheet to be as
honestly made out as it could possibly be; we have had no trouble; there
have been no evasions and no concealments. The rashness of dealing which
led to this unhappy situation is obvious enough; but as far as I can see
every attempt has been made to avoid wronging anybody."

Henchard was more affected by this than he cared to let them perceive,
and he turned aside to the window again. A general murmur of agreement
followed the Commissioner's words, and the meeting dispersed. When they
were gone Henchard regarded the watch they had returned to him. "'Tisn't
mine by rights," he said to himself. "Why the devil didn't they take
it?--I don't want what don't belong to me!" Moved by a recollection he
took the watch to the maker's just opposite, sold it there and then for
what the tradesman offered, and went with the proceeds to one among
the smaller of his creditors, a cottager of Durnover in straitened
circumstances, to whom he handed the money.

When everything was ticketed that Henchard had owned, and the auctions
were in progress, there was quite a sympathetic reaction in the town,
which till then for some time past had done nothing but condemn him. Now
that Henchard's whole career was pictured distinctly to his neighbours,
and they could see how admirably he had used his one talent of energy
to create a position of affluence out of absolutely nothing--which
was really all he could show when he came to the town as a journeyman
hay-trusser, with his wimble and knife in his basket--they wondered and
regretted his fall.

Try as she might, Elizabeth could never meet with him. She believed
in him still, though nobody else did; and she wanted to be allowed to
forgive him for his roughness to her, and to help him in his trouble.

She wrote to him; he did not reply. She then went to his house--the
great house she had lived in so happily for a time--with its front
of dun brick, vitrified here and there and its heavy sash-bars--but
Henchard was to be found there no more. The ex-Mayor had left the home
of his prosperity, and gone into Jopp's cottage by the Priory Mill--the
sad purlieu to which he had wandered on the night of his discovery that
she was not his daughter. Thither she went.

Elizabeth thought it odd that he had fixed on this spot to retire to,
but assumed that necessity had no choice. Trees which seemed old enough
to have been planted by the friars still stood around, and the back
hatch of the original mill yet formed a cascade which had raised its
terrific roar for centuries. The cottage itself was built of old
stones from the long dismantled Priory, scraps of tracery, moulded
window-jambs, and arch-labels, being mixed in with the rubble of the
walls.

In this cottage he occupied a couple of rooms, Jopp, whom Henchard
had employed, abused, cajoled, and dismissed by turns, being the
householder. But even here her stepfather could not be seen.

"Not by his daughter?" pleaded Elizabeth.

"By nobody--at present: that's his order," she was informed.

Afterwards she was passing by the corn-stores and hay-barns which had
been the headquarters of his business. She knew that he ruled there
no longer; but it was with amazement that she regarded the familiar
gateway. A smear of decisive lead-coloured paint had been laid on to
obliterate Henchard's name, though its letters dimly loomed through like
ships in a fog. Over these, in fresh white, spread the name of Farfrae.

Abel Whittle was edging his skeleton in at the wicket, and she said,
"Mr. Farfrae is master here?"

"Yaas, Miss Henchet," he said, "Mr. Farfrae have bought the concern and
all of we work-folk with it; and 'tis better for us than 'twas--though
I shouldn't say that to you as a daughter-law. We work harder, but we
bain't made afeard now. It was fear made my few poor hairs so thin! No
busting out, no slamming of doors, no meddling with yer eternal soul and
all that; and though 'tis a shilling a week less I'm the richer man; for
what's all the world if yer mind is always in a larry, Miss Henchet?"

The intelligence was in a general sense true; and Henchard's stores,
which had remained in a paralyzed condition during the settlement of
his bankruptcy, were stirred into activity again when the new tenant had
possession. Thenceforward the full sacks, looped with the shining chain,
went scurrying up and down under the cat-head, hairy arms were thrust
out from the different door-ways, and the grain was hauled in; trusses
of hay were tossed anew in and out of the barns, and the wimbles
creaked; while the scales and steel-yards began to be busy where
guess-work had formerly been the rule.


32.


Two bridges stood near the lower part of Casterbridge town. The first,
of weather-stained brick, was immediately at the end of High Street,
where a diverging branch from that thoroughfare ran round to the
low-lying Durnover lanes; so that the precincts of the bridge formed
the merging point of respectability and indigence. The second bridge, of
stone, was further out on the highway--in fact, fairly in the meadows,
though still within the town boundary.

These bridges had speaking countenances. Every projection in each
was worn down to obtuseness, partly by weather, more by friction from
generations of loungers, whose toes and heels had from year to year
made restless movements against these parapets, as they had stood there
meditating on the aspect of affairs. In the case of the more friable
bricks and stones even the flat faces were worn into hollows by the same
mixed mechanism. The masonry of the top was clamped with iron at each
joint; since it had been no uncommon thing for desperate men to wrench
the coping off and throw it down the river, in reckless defiance of the
magistrates.

For to this pair of bridges gravitated all the failures of the town;
those who had failed in business, in love, in sobriety, in crime. Why
the unhappy hereabout usually chose the bridges for their meditations in
preference to a railing, a gate, or a stile, was not so clear.

There was a marked difference of quality between the personages who
haunted the near bridge of brick and the personages who haunted the far
one of stone. Those of lowest character preferred the former, adjoining
the town; they did not mind the glare of the public eye. They had been
of comparatively no account during their successes; and though they
might feel dispirited, they had no particular sense of shame in their
ruin. Their hands were mostly kept in their pockets; they wore a leather
strap round their hips or knees, and boots that required a great deal
of lacing, but seemed never to get any. Instead of sighing at their
adversities they spat, and instead of saying the iron had entered into
their souls they said they were down on their luck. Jopp in his time of
distress had often stood here; so had Mother Cuxsom, Christopher Coney,
and poor Abel Whittle.

The miserables who would pause on the remoter bridge were of a politer
stamp. They included bankrupts, hypochondriacs, persons who were what is
called "out of a situation" from fault or lucklessness, the inefficient
of the professional class--shabby-genteel men, who did not know how to
get rid of the weary time between breakfast and dinner, and the yet more
weary time between dinner and dark. The eye of this species were mostly
directed over the parapet upon the running water below. A man seen there
looking thus fixedly into the river was pretty sure to be one whom
the world did not treat kindly for some reason or other. While one in
straits on the townward bridge did not mind who saw him so, and kept
his back to the parapet to survey the passers-by, one in straits on this
never faced the road, never turned his head at coming footsteps, but,
sensitive to his own condition, watched the current whenever a stranger
approached, as if some strange fish interested him, though every finned
thing had been poached out of the river years before.

There and thus they would muse; if their grief were the grief of
oppression they would wish themselves kings; if their grief were
poverty, wish themselves millionaires; if sin, they would wish they were
saints or angels; if despised love, that they were some much-courted
Adonis of county fame. Some had been known to stand and think so long
with this fixed gaze downward that eventually they had allowed their
poor carcases to follow that gaze; and they were discovered the next
morning out of reach of their troubles, either here or in the deep pool
called Blackwater, a little higher up the river.

To this bridge came Henchard, as other unfortunates had come before him,
his way thither being by the riverside path on the chilly edge of the
town. Here he was standing one windy afternoon when Durnover church
clock struck five. While the gusts were bringing the notes to his ears
across the damp intervening flat a man passed behind him and greeted
Henchard by name. Henchard turned slightly and saw that the corner was
Jopp, his old foreman, now employed elsewhere, to whom, though he
hated him, he had gone for lodgings because Jopp was the one man in
Casterbridge whose observation and opinion the fallen corn-merchant
despised to the point of indifference.

Henchard returned him a scarcely perceptible nod, and Jopp stopped.

"He and she are gone into their new house to-day," said Jopp.

"Oh," said Henchard absently. "Which house is that?"

"Your old one."

"Gone into my house?" And starting up Henchard added, "MY house of all
others in the town!"

"Well, as somebody was sure to live there, and you couldn't, it can do
'ee no harm that he's the man."

It was quite true: he felt that it was doing him no harm. Farfrae, who
had already taken the yards and stores, had acquired possession of the
house for the obvious convenience of its contiguity. And yet this act
of his taking up residence within those roomy chambers while he, their
former tenant, lived in a cottage, galled Henchard indescribably.

Jopp continued: "And you heard of that fellow who bought all the best
furniture at your sale? He was bidding for no other than Farfrae all the
while! It has never been moved out of the house, as he'd already got the
lease."

"My furniture too! Surely he'll buy my body and soul likewise!"

"There's no saying he won't, if you be willing to sell." And having
planted these wounds in the heart of his once imperious master Jopp went
on his way; while Henchard stared and stared into the racing river till
the bridge seemed moving backward with him.

The low land grew blacker, and the sky a deeper grey, When the landscape
looked like a picture blotted in with ink, another traveller approached
the great stone bridge. He was driving a gig, his direction being also
townwards. On the round of the middle of the arch the gig stopped. "Mr
Henchard?" came from it in the voice of Farfrae. Henchard turned his
face.

Finding that he had guessed rightly Farfrae told the man who accompanied
him to drive home; while he alighted and went up to his former friend.

"I have heard that you think of emigrating, Mr. Henchard?" he said. "Is
it true? I have a real reason for asking."

Henchard withheld his answer for several instants, and then said, "Yes;
it is true. I am going where you were going to a few years ago, when I
prevented you and got you to bide here. 'Tis turn and turn about, isn't
it! Do ye mind how we stood like this in the Chalk Walk when I persuaded
'ee to stay? You then stood without a chattel to your name, and I was
the master of the house in Corn Street. But now I stand without a stick
or a rag, and the master of that house is you."

"Yes, yes; that's so! It's the way o' the warrld," said Farfrae.

"Ha, ha, true!" cried Henchard, throwing himself into a mood of
jocularity. "Up and down! I'm used to it. What's the odds after all!"

"Now listen to me, if it's no taking up your time," said Farfrae, "just
as I listened to you. Don't go. Stay at home."

"But I can do nothing else, man!" said Henchard scornfully. "The little
money I have will just keep body and soul together for a few weeks, and
no more. I have not felt inclined to go back to journey-work yet; but I
can't stay doing nothing, and my best chance is elsewhere."

"No; but what I propose is this--if ye will listen. Come and live in
your old house. We can spare some rooms very well--I am sure my wife
would not mind it at all--until there's an opening for ye."

Henchard started. Probably the picture drawn by the unsuspecting Donald
of himself under the same roof with Lucetta was too striking to
be received with equanimity. "No, no," he said gruffly; "we should
quarrel."

"You should hae a part to yourself," said Farfrae; "and nobody to
interfere wi' you. It will be a deal healthier than down there by the
river where you live now."

Still Henchard refused. "You don't know what you ask," he said.
"However, I can do no less than thank 'ee."

They walked into the town together side by side, as they had done when
Henchard persuaded the young Scotchman to remain. "Will you come in
and have some supper?" said Farfrae when they reached the middle of the
town, where their paths diverged right and left.

"No, no."

"By-the-bye, I had nearly forgot. I bought a good deal of your
furniture.

"So I have heard."

"Well, it was no that I wanted it so very much for myself; but I wish ye
to pick out all that you care to have--such things as may be endeared to
ye by associations, or particularly suited to your use. And take them
to your own house--it will not be depriving me, we can do with less very
well, and I will have plenty of opportunities of getting more."

"What--give it to me for nothing?" said Henchard. "But you paid the
creditors for it!"

"Ah, yes; but maybe it's worth more to you than it is to me."

Henchard was a little moved. "I--sometimes think I've wronged 'ee!" he
said, in tones which showed the disquietude that the night shades hid in
his face. He shook Farfrae abruptly by the hand, and hastened away as
if unwilling to betray himself further. Farfrae saw him turn through the
thoroughfare into Bull Stake and vanish down towards the Priory Mill.

Meanwhile Elizabeth-Jane, in an upper room no larger than the Prophet's
chamber, and with the silk attire of her palmy days packed away in a
box, was netting with great industry between the hours which she devoted
to studying such books as she could get hold of.

Her lodgings being nearly opposite her stepfather's former residence,
now Farfrae's, she could see Donald and Lucetta speeding in and out
of their door with all the bounding enthusiasm of their situation. She
avoided looking that way as much as possible, but it was hardly in human
nature to keep the eyes averted when the door slammed.

While living on thus quietly she heard the news that Henchard had caught
cold and was confined to his room--possibly a result of standing about
the meads in damp weather. She went off to his house at once. This
time she was determined not to be denied admittance, and made her way
upstairs. He was sitting up in the bed with a greatcoat round him, and
at first resented her intrusion. "Go away--go away," he said. "I don't
like to see 'ee!"

"But, father--"

"I don't like to see 'ee," he repeated.

However, the ice was broken, and she remained. She made the room more
comfortable, gave directions to the people below, and by the time she
went away had reconciled her stepfather to her visiting him.

The effect, either of her ministrations or of her mere presence, was a
rapid recovery. He soon was well enough to go out; and now things seemed
to wear a new colour in his eyes. He no longer thought of emigration,
and thought more of Elizabeth. The having nothing to do made him more
dreary than any other circumstance; and one day, with better views of
Farfrae than he had held for some time, and a sense that honest work was
not a thing to be ashamed of, he stoically went down to Farfrae's yard
and asked to be taken on as a journeyman hay-trusser. He was engaged
at once. This hiring of Henchard was done through a foreman, Farfrae
feeling that it was undesirable to come personally in contact with the
ex-corn-factor more than was absolutely necessary. While anxious to help
him he was well aware by this time of his uncertain temper, and thought
reserved relations best. For the same reason his orders to Henchard to
proceed to this and that country farm trussing in the usual way were
always given through a third person.

For a time these arrangements worked well, it being the custom to truss
in the respective stack-yards, before bringing it away, the hay bought
at the different farms about the neighbourhood; so that Henchard was
often absent at such places the whole week long. When this was all done,
and Henchard had become in a measure broken in, he came to work daily on
the home premises like the rest. And thus the once flourishing merchant
and Mayor and what not stood as a day-labourer in the barns and
granaries he formerly had owned.

"I have worked as a journeyman before now, ha'n't I?" he would say in
his defiant way; "and why shouldn't I do it again?" But he looked a far
different journeyman from the one he had been in his earlier days. Then
he had worn clean, suitable clothes, light and cheerful in hue; leggings
yellow as marigolds, corduroys immaculate as new flax, and a neckerchief
like a flower-garden. Now he wore the remains of an old blue cloth
suit of his gentlemanly times, a rusty silk hat, and a once black
satin stock, soiled and shabby. Great was the joy on this occasion,
for the Empress had been married five years, but, until now, had been
childless. Petrarch, in his answer, dated the 23rd of the same month,
after expressing his sense of the honour which her Imperial Majesty
had done him, adds some common-places, and seasons them with his
accustomed pedantry.

He pronounces a grand eulogy on the numbers of the fair sex who had
distinguished themselves by their virtues and their courage. Among these
he instances Isis, Carmenta, the mother of Evander, Sappho, the
Sybils, the Amazons, Semiramis, Tomiris, Cleopatra, Zenobia, the
Countess Matilda, Lucretia, Cornelia, the mother of the Gracchi,
Martia, Portia, and Livia.

The Empress Anne was no doubt highly edified by this muster-roll of
illustrious women; though some of the heroines, such as Lucretia, might
have bridled up at their chaste names being classed with that of
Cleopatra.

Petrarch repaired to Linterno, on the 1st of October, 1359; but his
stay there was very short. The winter set in sooner than usual. The
constant rains made his rural retreat disagreeable, and induced him to
return to the city about the end of the month.

On rising, one morning, soon after his return to Milan, he found that he
had been robbed of everything valuable in his house, excepting his
books. As it was a domestic robbery, he could accuse nobody of it but his
son John and his servants, the former of whom had returned from Avignon.
On this, he determined to quit his house at St. Ambrosio, and to take
a small lodging in the city; here, however, he could not live in
peace. His son and servants quarrelled every day, in his very presence,
so violently that they exchanged blows. Petrarch then lost all patience,
and turned the whole of his pugnacious inmates out of doors.

His son John had now become an arrant debauchee; and it was undoubtedly
to supply his debaucheries that he pillaged his own father. He pleaded
strongly to be readmitted to his home; but Petrarch persevered for
some time in excluding him, though he ultimately took him back.

It appears from one of Petrarch's letters, that many people at Milan
doubted his veracity about the story of the robbery, alleging that
it was merely a pretext to excuse his inconstancy in quitting his
house at St.

Ambrosio; but that he was capable of accusing his own son on false
grounds is a suspicion which the whole character of Petrarch easily
repels.

He went and settled himself in the monastery of St.

Simplician, an abbey of the Benedictines of Monte Cassino, pleasantly
situated without the walls of the city.

He was scarcely established in his new home at St. Simplician's,
when Galeazzo Visconti arrived in triumph at Milan, after having
taken possession of Pavia.

The capture of this city much augmented the power of the Lords of Milan;
and nothing was wanting to their satisfaction but the secure addition to
their dominions of Bologna, to which Barnabo Visconti was laying siege,
although John of Olegea had given it up to the Church in consideration
of a pension and the possession of the city of Fermo.

This affair had thrown the court of Avignon into much embarrassment,
and the Pope requested Nicholas Acciajuoli, Grand Seneschal of
Naples, who had been sent to the Papal city by his Neapolitan
Majesty, to return by way of Milan, and there negotiate a peace
between the Church and Barnabo Visconti.

Acciajuoli reached Milan at the end of May, very eager to see
Petrarch, of whom he had heard much, without having yet made his
acquaintance.

Petrarch describes their first interview in a letter to Zanobi da
Strada, and seems to have been captivated by the gracious manners
of the Grand Seneschal.

With all his popularity, the Seneschal was not successful
in his mission. When the Seneschal's proposals were read to the impetuous
Barnabo, he said, at the end of every sentence "Io voglio Bologna."
It is said that Petrarch detached Galeazzo Visconti from the ambitious
projects of his brother; and that it was by our poet's advice
that Galeazzo made a separate peace with the Pope; though, perhaps, the
true cause of his accommodation with the Church was his being in
treaty with France and soliciting the French monarch's daughter,
Isabella, in marriage for his son Giovanni.

After this marriage had been celebrated with magnificent festivities,
Petrarch was requested by Galeazzo to go to Paris, and to congratulate
the unfortunate King John upon his return to his country. Our poet
had a transalpine prejudice against France; but he undertook this
mission to its capital, and was deeply touched by its unfortunate
condition.

If the aspect of the country in general was miserable, that of the capital
was still worse. "Where is Paris," exclaims Petrarch, "that metropolis,
which, though inferior to its reputation, was, nevertheless, a great
city?" He tells us that its streets were covered with briars and grass,
and that it looked like a vast desert.

Here, however, in spite of its desolate condition, Petrarch witnessed
the joy with which the Parisians received their King John and the
Dauphin Charles.

The King had not been well educated, yet he respected literature and
learned men. The Dauphin was an accomplished prince; and our
poet says that he was captivated by his modesty, sense, and
information.

Petrarch arrived at Milan early in March, 1361, bringing letters from
King John and his son the Dauphin, in which those princes entreat
the two Lords of Milan to persuade Petrarch by every means to come
and establish himself at their court.

No sooner had he refused their pressing invitations, than he received
an equally earnest request from the Emperor to accept his hospitality at
Prague.

At this period, it had given great joy in Bohemia that the Empress
had produced a son, and that the kingdom now possessed an heir apparent.
His Imperial Majesty's satisfaction made him, for once, generous,
and he distributed rich presents among his friends. Nor was our poet
forgotten on this occasion.

The Emperor sent him a gold embossed cup of admirable workmanship,
accompanied by a letter, expressing his high regard, and repeating
his request that he would pay him a visit in Germany. Petrarch
returned him a letter of grateful thanks, saying: "Who would not be
astonished at seeing transferred to my use a vase consecrated by the
mouth of Cæsar? But I will not profane the sacred gift by the common use
of it.

It shall adorn my table only on days of solemn festivity." With regard to
the Imperial invitation, he concludes a long apology for not accepting
it immediately, but promising that, as soon as the summer was over,
if he could find a companion for the journey, he would go to the
court of Prague, and remain as long as it pleased his Majesty, since
the presence of Cæsar would console him for the absence of his
books, his friends, and his country.

This epistle is dated July 17th, 1861.

Petrarch quitted Milan during this year, a removal for which various
reasons are alleged by his biographers, though none of them appear
to me quite satisfactory.

He had now a new subject of grief to descant upon. The Marquis of
Montferrat, unable to contend against the Visconti, applied to the Pope
for assistance. He had already made a treaty with the court of London,
by which it was agreed that a body of English troops were to be
sent to assist the Marquis against the Visconti.

They entered Italy by Nice. It was the first time that our countrymen had
ever entered the Saturnian land. They did no credit to the English
character for humanity, but ravaged lands and villages, killing men and
violating women. Their general appellation was the bulldogs of England.
What must have been Petrarch's horror at these unkennelled hounds!

In one of his letters he vents his indignation at their atrocities;
but, by-and-by, in the same epistle, he glides into his bookworm
habit of apostrophizing the ancient heroes of Rome, Brutus, Camillus,
and God knows how many more!

[Illustration: THE LIBRARY OF ST. MARK, ST. MARK'S PLACE, VENICE.]
The plague now again broke out in Italy; and the English and other
predatory troops contributed much to spread its ravages.

It extended to many places; but most of all it afflicted Milan.

       It is probable that these disasters
          were among the causes of
        Petrarch's leaving Milan. He settled
          at Padua, when the plague had not reached it.

        At this time, Petrarch lost his
         son John. Whether
        he died at Milan or at Padua is not
          certain, but, wherever he died, it was most probably of the plague.

        John had not quite attained his
          twenty-fourth year.
        
          In the same year, 1361, he married his daughter Francesca, now near
the age of twenty, to Francesco di Brossano, a gentleman of Milan.

        Petrarch speaks highly of his son-in-law's
          talents, and of the
        mildness of his character.
          Boccaccio has drawn his portrait in the most pleasing colours.

Of the poet's daughter, also, he tells us, "that without being handsome,
she had a very agreeable face, and much resembled her father." It does
not seem that she inherited his genius; but she was an excellent
wife, a tender mother, and a dutiful daughter. Petrarch was certainly
pleased both with her and with his son-in-law; and, if he did not live
with the married pair, he was, at least, near them, and much in their
society.

When our poet arrived at Padua, Francesco di Carrara, the son of
his friend Jacopo, reigned there in peace and alone. He had inherited
his father's affection for Petrarch. Here, too, was his friend Pandolfo
Malatesta, one of the bravest condottieri of the fourteenth century, who
had been driven away from Milan by the rage and jealousy of Barnabo.

The plague, which still continued to infest Southern Europe in 1362,
had even in the preceding year deprived our poet of his beloved
friend Socrates, who died at Avignon. "He was," says Petrarch, "of all
men the dearest to my heart.

His sentiments towards me never varied during an acquaintance of
thirty-one years."
The plague and war rendered Italy at this time so disagreeable to Petrarch,
that he resolved on returning to Vaucluse. He, therefore, set out from
Padua for Milan, on the 10th of January, 1362, reckoning that when
the cold weather was over he might depart from the latter place on his
route to Avignon. But when he reached Milan, he found that the state of
the country would not permit him to proceed to the Alps.

The Emperor of Germany now sent Petrarch a third letter of invitation
to come and see him, which our poet promised to accept; but alleged
that he was prevented by the impossibility of getting a safe
passage.

Boccaccio, hearing that Petrarch meditated a journey to the far North,
was much alarmed, and reproached him for his intention of dragging
the Muses into Sarmatia, when Italy was the true Parnassus.

In June, 1362, the plague, which had begun its ravages at Padua,
chased Petrarch from that place, and he took the resolution of
establishing himself at Venice, which it had not reached.

The course of the pestilence, like that of the cholera, was not
general, but unaccountably capricious. Villani says that it acted like
hail, which will desolate fields to the right and left, whilst it
spares those in the middle.

The war had not permitted our poet to travel either to Avignon or into
Germany. The plague had driven him out of Milan and Padua. "I am not
flying from death," he said, "but seeking repose."

Having resolved to repair to Venice, Petrarch as usual took his books
along with him. From one of his letters to Boccaccio, it appears that
it was his intention to bestow his library on some religious
community, but, soon after his arrival at Venice, he conceived the idea
of offering this treasure to the Venetian Republic.

He wrote to the Government that he wished the blessed Evangelist,
St. Mark, to be the heir of those books, on condition that they should
all be placed in safety, that they should neither be sold nor
separated, and that they should be sheltered from fire and water,
and carefully preserved for the use and amusement of the learned
and noble in Venice.

He expressed his hopes, at the same time, that the illustrious city would
acquire other trusts of the same kind for the good of the public, and
that the citizens who loved their country, the nobles above all, and
even strangers, would follow his example in bequeathing books to
the church of St.

       Mark, which might one day contain
          a great collection similar to those of the ancients.

The procurators of the church of St. Mark having offered to defray the
expense of lodging and preserving his library, the republic decreed that
our poet's offer did honour to the Venetian state. They assigned to
Petrarch for his own residence a large palace, called the Two Towers,
formerly belonging to the family of Molina.

The mansion was very lofty, and commanded a prospect of the harbour.
Our poet took great pleasure in this view, and describes it with
vivid interest.

"From this port," he says, "I see vessels departing, which are
as large as the house I inhabit, and which have masts taller than
its towers.

These ships resemble a mountain floating on the sea; they go to all
parts of the world amidst a thousand dangers; they carry our wines
to the English, our honey to the Scythians, our saffron, our oils,
and our linen to the Syrians, Armenians, Persians, and Arabians;
and, wonderful to say, convey our wood to the Greeks and Egyptians.

From all these countries they bring back in return articles of
merchandise, which they diffuse over all Europe. They go even as far
as the Tanais.

The navigation of our seas does not extend farther north; but, when
they have arrived there, they quit their vessels, and travel on to trade
with India and China; and, after passing the Caucasus and the Ganges,
they proceed as far as the Eastern Ocean."
It is natural to suppose that Petrarch took all proper precautions for the
presentation of his books; nevertheless, they are not now to be seen at
Venice. Tomasini tells us that they had been placed at the top of the
church of St. Mark, that he demanded a sight of them, but that he
found them almost entirely spoiled, and some of them even petrified.

Whilst Petrarch was forming his new establishment at Venice, the
news arrived that Pope Innocent VI. had died on the 12th of September.

"He was a good, just, and simple man," says the continuator of Nangis.
A simple man he certainly was, for he believed Petrarch to be a sorcerer
on account of his reading Virgil. Innocent was succeeded in the
pontificate, to the surprise of all the world, by William Grimoard,
abbot of St.

Victor at Marseilles, who took the title of Urban V. The Cardinals
chose him, though he was not of their Sacred College, from their jealousy
lest a pope should be elected from the opposite party of their own body.
Petrarch rejoiced at his election, and ascribed it to the direct
interference of Heaven. De Sade says that the new Pope desired Petrarch
to be the apostolic secretary, but that he was not to be tempted
by a gilded chain.

About this time Petrarch received news of the death of Azzo
Correggio, one of his dearest friends, whose widow and children wrote
to him on this occasion, the latter telling him that they regarded him
as a father.

Boccaccio came to Venice to see Petrarch in 1363, and their meeting
was joyous.

They spent delightfully together the months of June, July, and August,
1363. Boccaccio had not long left him, when, in the following year, our
poet heard of the death of his friend Lælius, and his tears were still
fresh for his loss, when he received another shock in being bereft of
Simonides. It requires a certain age and degree of experience to
appreciate this kind of calamity, when we feel the desolation of losing
our accustomed friends, and almost wish ourselves out of life that we
may escape from its solitude. Boccaccio returned to Florence early in
September, 1363.

In 1364, peace was concluded between Barnabo Visconti and Urban V.
Barnabo having refused to treat with the Cardinal Albornoz, whom
he personally hated, his Holiness sent the Cardinal Androine de la
Roche to Italy as his legate.

Petrarch repaired to Bologna to pay his respects to the new
representative of the Pope.

He was touched by the sad condition in which he found that city,
which had been so nourishing when he studied at its university.

"I seem," he says, "to be in a dream when I see the once fair city
desolated by war, by slavery, and by famine.
Instead of the joy that once reigned here, sadness is everywhere spread,
and you hear only sighs and wailings in place of songs.

Where you formerly saw troops of girls dancing, there are now only
bands of robbers and assassins."

Lucchino del Verme, one of the most famous condottieri of his time,
had commanded troops in the service of the Visconti, at whose court
he made the acquaintance of Petrarch.

Our poet invited him to serve the Venetians in the war in which
they were engaged with the people of Candia.

Lucchino went to Venice whilst Petrarch was absent, reviewed the troops,
and embarked for Candia on board the fleet, which consisted of thirty
galleys and eight large vessels.

Petrarch did not return to Venice till the expedition had sailed.
He passed the summer in the country, having at his house one of
his friends, Barthelemi di Pappazuori, Bishop of Christi, whom he had
known at Avignon, and who had come purposely to see him. One day,
when they were both at a window which overlooked the sea, they beheld
one of the long vessels which the Italians call a galeazza, entering
the harbour.

The green branches with which it was decked, the air of joy that appeared
among the mariners, the young men crowned with laurel, who, from the
prow, saluted the standard of their country--everything betokened
that the galeazza brought good news. When the vessel came a little nearer,
they could perceive the captured colours of their enemies suspended
from the poop, and no doubt could be entertained that a great victory
had been won.

The moment that the sentinel on the tower had made the signal of a vessel
entering the harbour, the people flocked thither in crowds, and their
joy was even beyond expectation when they learned that the rebellion
had been totally crushed, and the island reduced to obedience.

The most magnificent festivals were given at Venice on this occasion.

Shortly after these Venetian fêtes, we find our poet writing a long
letter to Boccaccio, in which he gives a curious and interesting
description of the Jongleurs of Italy. He speaks of them in a very
different manner from those pictures that have come down to us of the
Provençal Troubadours. The latter were at once poets and musicians, who
frequented the courts and castles of great lords, and sang their
praises.

Their strains, too, were sometimes satirical. They amused themselves with
different subjects, and wedded their verses to the sound of the harp
and other instruments. They were called Troubadours from the word
_trobar_, "to invent." They were original poets, of the true minstrel
breed, similar to those whom Bishop Percy ascribes to England in the
olden time, but about the reality of whom, as a professional body,
Ritson has shown some cause to doubt.

Of the Italian Jongleurs, Petrarch gives us a humble notion. "They are a
class," he says, "who have little wit, but a great deal of memory, and
still more impudence.
Having nothing of their own to recite, they snatch at what they can
get from others, and go about to the courts of princes to declaim
verses, in the vulgar tongue, which they have got by heart. At those
courts they insinuate themselves into the favour of the great, and get
subsistence and presents. They seek their means of livelihood,
that is, the verses they recite, among the best authors, from whom
they obtain, by dint of solicitation, and even by bribes of money,
compositions for their rehearsal. I have often repelled their
importunities, but sometimes, touched by their entreaties, I have
spent hours in composing productions for them.

I have seen them leave me in rags and poverty, and return, some time
afterwards, clothed in silks, and with purses well furnished, to thank
me for having relieved them."
In the course of the same amusing correspondence with Boccaccio, which
our poet maintained at this period, he gives an account of an atheist
and blasphemer at Venice, with whom he had a long conversation. It ended
in our poet seizing the infidel by the mantle, and ejecting him
from his house with unceremonious celerity.

This conclusion of their dialogue gives us a higher notion of
Petrarch's piety than of his powers of argument.

Petrarch went to spend the autumn of 1365 at Pavia, which city Galeazzo
Visconti made his principal abode. To pass the winter till Easter, our
poet returned first to Venice, and then to Padua, according to his custom,
to do the duties of his canonry. It was then that his native Florence,
wishing to recall a man who did her so much honour, thought of asking
for him from the Pope the canonry of either Florence or Fiesole.
Petrarch fully appreciated the shabby kindness of his countrymen. A
republic that could afford to be lavish in all other expenses, limited
their bounty towards him to the begging of a canonicate for him from
his Holiness, though Florence had confiscated his father's property.
But the Pope had other views for him, and had actually appointed
him to the canonry of Carpentras, when a false rumour of his death
unhappily induced the Pontiff to dispose not only of that living,
but of Parma and others which he had resigned to indigent friends.

"About that little seedsman's shop," he said, "the shop overlooking the
churchyard, which is to let. It is not for myself I want it, but for our
unlucky fellow-townsman Henchard. It would be a new beginning for him,
if a small one; and I have told the Council that I would head a private
subscription among them to set him up in it--that I would be fifty
pounds, if they would make up the other fifty among them."

"Yes, yes; so I've heard; and there's nothing to say against it for that
matter," the town-clerk replied, in his plain, frank way. "But, Farfrae,
others see what you don't. Henchard hates 'ee--ay, hates 'ee; and 'tis
right that you should know it. To my knowledge he was at the Three
Mariners last night, saying in public that about you which a man ought
not to say about another."

"Is that so--ah, is that so?" said Farfrae, looking down. "Why should he
do it?" added the young man bitterly; "what harm have I done him that he
should try to wrong me?"

"God only knows," said Joyce, lifting his eyebrows. "It shows much
long-suffering in you to put up with him, and keep him in your employ."

"But I cannet discharge a man who was once a good friend to me. How can
I forget that when I came here 'twas he enabled me to make a footing for
mysel'? No, no. As long as I've a day's work to offer he shall do it if
he chooses. 'Tis not I who will deny him such a little as that. But I'll
drop the idea of establishing him in a shop till I can think more about
it."

It grieved Farfrae much to give up this scheme. But a damp having
been thrown over it by these and other voices in the air, he went and
countermanded his orders. The then occupier of the shop was in it when
Farfrae spoke to him and feeling it necessary to give some explanation
of his withdrawal from the negotiation Donald mentioned Henchard's name,
and stated that the intentions of the Council had been changed.

The occupier was much disappointed, and straight-way informed Henchard,
as soon as he saw him, that a scheme of the Council for setting him up
in a shop had been knocked on the head by Farfrae. And thus out of error
enmity grew.

When Farfrae got indoors that evening the tea-kettle was singing on the
high hob of the semi-egg-shaped grate. Lucetta, light as a sylph, ran
forward and seized his hands, whereupon Farfrae duly kissed her.

"Oh!" she cried playfully, turning to the window. "See--the blinds are
not drawn down, and the people can look in--what a scandal!"

When the candles were lighted, the curtains drawn, and the twain sat at
tea, she noticed that he looked serious. Without directly inquiring why
she let her eyes linger solicitously on his face.

"Who has called?" he absently asked. "Any folk for me?"

"No," said Lucetta. "What's the matter, Donald?"

"Well--nothing worth talking of," he responded sadly.

"Then, never mind it. You will get through it, Scotchmen are always
lucky."

"No--not always!" he said, shaking his head gloomily as he contemplated
a crumb on the table. "I know many who have not been so! There was
Sandy Macfarlane, who started to America to try his fortune, and he was
drowned; and Archibald Leith, he was murdered! And poor Willie Dunbleeze
and Maitland Macfreeze--they fell into bad courses, and went the way of
all such!"

"Why--you old goosey--I was only speaking in a general sense, of course!
You are always so literal. Now when we have finished tea, sing me
that funny song about high-heeled shoon and siller tags, and the
one-and-forty wooers."

"No, no. I couldna sing to-night! It's Henchard--he hates me; so that I
may not be his friend if I would. I would understand why there should be
a wee bit of envy; but I cannet see a reason for the whole intensity
of what he feels. Now, can you, Lucetta? It is more like old-fashioned
rivalry in love than just a bit of rivalry in trade."

Lucetta had grown somewhat wan. "No," she replied.

"I give him employment--I cannet refuse it. But neither can I blind
myself to the fact that with a man of passions such as his, there is no
safeguard for conduct!"

"What have you heard--O Donald, dearest?" said Lucetta in alarm. The
words on her lips were "anything about me?"--but she did not utter them.
She could not, however, suppress her agitation, and her eyes filled with
tears.

"No, no--it is not so serious as ye fancy," declared Farfrae soothingly;
though he did not know its seriousness so well as she.

"I wish you would do what we have talked of," mournfully remarked
Lucetta. "Give up business, and go away from here. We have plenty of
money, and why should we stay?"

Farfrae seemed seriously disposed to discuss this move, and they talked
thereon till a visitor was announced. Their neighbour Alderman Vatt came
in.

"You've heard, I suppose of poor Doctor Chalkfield's death? Yes--died
this afternoon at five," said Mr. Vatt. Chalkfield was the Councilman who
had succeeded to the Mayoralty in the preceding November.

Farfrae was sorry at the intelligence, and Mr. Vatt continued: "Well, we
know he's been going some days, and as his family is well provided for
we must take it all as it is. Now I have called to ask 'ee this--quite
privately. If I should nominate 'ee to succeed him, and there should be
no particular opposition, will 'ee accept the chair?"

"But there are folk whose turn is before mine; and I'm over young, and
may be thought pushing!" said Farfrae after a pause.

"Not at all. I don't speak for myself only, several have named it. You
won't refuse?"

"We thought of going away," interposed Lucetta, looking at Farfrae
anxiously.

Flattery is an art unknown to me. I have to offer you only complaints and
regrets. You have forgotten us.

I say more--you have forgotten yourself in neglecting Italy. We had high
hopes that Heaven had sent you to restore us our liberty; but it
seems that you refuse this mission, and, whilst the time should be
spent in acting, you lose it in deliberating.

"You see, Cæsar, with what confidence an obscure man addresses you, a man
who has not even the advantage of being known to you. But, far from being
offended with the liberty I take, you ought rather to thank your
own character, which inspires me with such confidence.

To return to my subject--wherefore do you lose time in consultation?
To all appearance, you are sure of the future, if you will avail
yourself of the present.
You cannot be ignorant that the success of great affairs often hangs
upon an instant, and that a day has been frequently sufficient to
consummate what it required ages to undo.

Believe me, your glory and the safety of the commonwealth, your own
interests, as well as ours, require that there be no delay.
You are still young, but time is flying; and old age will come and
take you by surprise when you are at least expecting it. Are you afraid
of too soon commencing an enterprise for which a long life would
scarcely suffice?

"The Roman empire, shaken by a thousand storms, and as often deceived
by fallacious calms, places at last its whole hopes in you.

It recovers a little breath even under the shelter of your name; but
hope alone will not support it.

In proportion as you know the grandeur of the undertaking, consummate
it the sooner. Let not the love of your Transalpine dominions detain
you longer. In beholding Germany, think of Italy. If the one has given
you birth, the other has given you greatness.

If you are king of the one, you are king and emperor of the other. Let
me say, without meaning offence to other nations, that here is the
head of your monarchy.

Everywhere else you will find only its members. What a glorious project
to unite those members to their head!

"I am aware that you dislike all innovation; but what I propose would be
no innovation on your part. Italy is as well known to you as
Germany.
Brought hither in your youth by your illustrious sire, he made you
acquainted with our cities and our manners, and taught you here the
first lessons of war.

In the bloom of your youth, you have obtained great victories. Can
you fear at present to enter a country where you have triumphed since
your childhood?

"By the singular favour of Heaven we have regained the ancient right
of being governed by a prince of our own nation.[L] Let Germany say what
she will, Italy is veritably your country * * * * * Come with haste to
restore peace to Italy.

Behold Rome, once the empress of the world, now pale, with scattered
locks and torn garments, at your feet, imploring your presence and
support!" Then follows a dissertation on the history and heroes of
Rome, which might be wearisome if transcribed to a modern reader. But
the epistle, upon the whole, is manly and eloquent.

A few days after despatching his letter to the Emperor, Petrarch
made a journey to Verona to see his friends.

There he wrote to Socrates. In this letter, after enumerating the
few friends whom the plague had spared, he confesses that he could
not flatter himself with the hope of being able to join them in
Provence.

He therefore invokes them to come to Italy, and to settle either at Parma
or at Padua, or any other place that would suit them.

His remaining friends, here enumerated, were only Barbato of Sulmona,
Francesco Rinucci, John Boccaccio, Lælius, Guido Settimo, and
Socrates.

Petrarch had returned to Padua, there to rejoin the Cardinal of Boulogne.
The Cardinal came back thither at the end of April, 1350, and,
after dispensing his blessings, spiritual and temporal, set out for
Avignon, travelling by way of Milan and Genoa. Petrarch accompanied
the prelate out of personal attachment on a part of his journey. The
Cardinal was fond of his conversation, but sometimes rallied the poet
on his enthusiasm for his native Italy. When they reached the
territory of Verona, near the lake of Guarda, they were struck by the
beauty of the prospect, and stopped to contemplate it.

In the distance were the Alps, topped with snow even in summer. Beneath
was the lake of Guarda, with its flux and reflux, like the sea, and
around them were the rich hills and fertile valleys. "It must be confessed,"
said the Legate to Petrarch, "that your country is more beautiful
than ours."

The face of Petrarch brightened up. "But you must agree," continued
the Cardinal, perhaps to moderate the poet's exultation, "that
ours is more tranquil."
"You don't
forget, of course," he resumed, "that curious chapter in the history of
my past which I told you of, and that you gave me some assistance in?
These letters are, in fact, related to that unhappy business. Though,
thank God, it is all over now."

"What became of the poor woman?" asked Farfrae.

"Luckily she married, and married well," said Henchard. "So that these
reproaches she poured out on me do not now cause me any twinges, as they
might otherwise have done....Just listen to what an angry woman will
say!"

Farfrae, willing to humour Henchard, though quite uninterested, and
bursting with yawns, gave well-mannered attention.

"'For me,'" Henchard read, "'there is practically no future. A creature
too unconventionally devoted to you--who feels it impossible that she
can be the wife of any other man; and who is yet no more to you than the
first woman you meet in the street--such am I. I quite acquit you of any
intention to wrong me, yet you are the door through which wrong has come
to me. That in the event of your present wife's death you will place me
in her position is a consolation so far as it goes--but how far does it
go? Thus I sit here, forsaken by my few acquaintance, and forsaken by
you!'"

"That's how she went on to me," said Henchard, "acres of words like
that, when what had happened was what I could not cure."

"Yes," said Farfrae absently, "it is the way wi' women." But the
fact was that he knew very little of the sex; yet detecting a sort of
resemblance in style between the effusions of the woman he worshipped
and those of the supposed stranger, he concluded that Aphrodite ever
spoke thus, whosesoever the personality she assumed.

Henchard unfolded another letter, and read it through likewise, stopping
at the subscription as before. "Her name I don't give," he said blandly.
"As I didn't marry her, and another man did, I can scarcely do that in
fairness to her."

"Tr-rue, tr-rue," said Farfrae. "But why didn't you marry her when your
wife Susan died?" Farfrae asked this and the other questions in the
comfortably indifferent tone of one whom the matter very remotely
concerned.

"Ah--well you may ask that!" said Henchard, the new-moon-shaped
grin adumbrating itself again upon his mouth. "In spite of all her
protestations, when I came forward to do so, as in generosity bound, she
was not the woman for me."

"She had already married another--maybe?"

Henchard seemed to think it would be sailing too near the wind to
descend further into particulars, and he answered "Yes."

"The young lady must have had a heart that bore transplanting very
readily!"

"She had, she had," said Henchard emphatically.

He opened a third and fourth letter, and read. This time he approached
the conclusion as if the signature were indeed coming with the rest. But
again he stopped short. The truth was that, as may be divined, he had
quite intended to effect a grand catastrophe at the end of this drama
by reading out the name, he had come to the house with no other thought.
But sitting here in cold blood he could not do it.

Such a wrecking of hearts appalled even him. His quality was such
that he could have annihilated them both in the heat of action; but to
accomplish the deed by oral poison was beyond the nerve of his enmity.


35.


As Donald stated, Lucetta had retired early to her room because of
fatigue. She had, however, not gone to rest, but sat in the bedside
chair reading and thinking over the events of the day. At the ringing of
the door-bell by Henchard she wondered who it should be that would call
at that comparatively late hour. The dining-room was almost under her
bed-room; she could hear that somebody was admitted there, and presently
the indistinct murmur of a person reading became audible.

The usual time for Donald's arrival upstairs came and passed, yet still
the reading and conversation went on. This was very singular. She could
think of nothing but that some extraordinary crime had been committed,
and that the visitor, whoever he might be, was reading an account of it
from a special edition of the Casterbridge Chronicle. At last she left
the room, and descended the stairs. The dining-room door was ajar, and
in the silence of the resting household the voice and the words were
recognizable before she reached the lower flight. She stood transfixed.
Her own words greeted her in Henchard's voice, like spirits from the
grave.

Lucetta leant upon the banister with her cheek against the smooth
hand-rail, as if she would make a friend of it in her misery. Rigid in
this position, more and more words fell successively upon her ear. But
what amazed her most was the tone of her husband. He spoke merely in the
accents of a man who made a present of his time.

"One word," he was saying, as the crackling of paper denoted that
Henchard was unfolding yet another sheet. "Is it quite fair to this
young woman's memory to read at such length to a stranger what was
intended for your eye alone?"

"Well, yes," said Henchard. "By not giving her name I make it an example
of all womankind, and not a scandal to one."

"If I were you I would destroy them," said Farfrae, giving more thought
to the letters than he had hitherto done. "As another man's wife it
would injure the woman if it were known.

"No, I shall not destroy them," murmured Henchard, putting the letters
away. Then he arose, and Lucetta heard no more.

She went back to her bedroom in a semi-paralyzed state. For very fear
she could not undress, but sat on the edge of the bed, waiting. Would
Henchard let out the secret in his parting words? Her suspense was
terrible. Had she confessed all to Donald in their early acquaintance he
might possibly have got over it, and married her just the same--unlikely
as it had once seemed; but for her or any one else to tell him now would
be fatal.

The door slammed; she could hear her husband bolting it. After looking
round in his customary way he came leisurely up the stairs. The spark in
her eyes well-nigh went out when he appeared round the bedroom door. Her
gaze hung doubtful for a moment, then to her joyous amazement she saw
that he looked at her with the rallying smile of one who had just been
relieved of a scene that was irksome. She could hold out no longer, and
sobbed hysterically.

When he had restored her Farfrae naturally enough spoke of Henchard. "Of
all men he was the least desirable as a visitor," he said; "but it is my
belief that he's just a bit crazed. He has been reading to me a long
lot of letters relating to his past life; and I could do no less than
indulge him by listening."

This was sufficient. Henchard, then, had not told. Henchard's last
words to Farfrae, in short, as he stood on the doorstep, had been these:
"Well--I'm obliged to 'ee for listening. I may tell more about her some
day."

Finding this, she was much perplexed as to Henchard's motives in opening
the matter at all; for in such cases we attribute to an enemy a power
of consistent action which we never find in ourselves or in our friends;
and forget that abortive efforts from want of heart are as possible to
revenge as to generosity.

Next morning Lucetta remained in bed, meditating how to parry this
incipient attack. He arrived in safety at Padua, on the 9th of June,
1368.

The Pope wished much to see our poet at Rome; but Petrarch excused
himself on account of his health and the summer season, which was always
trying to him. But he promised to repair to his Holiness as soon as his
health should permit, not to ask benefices of the holy father, but
only his blessing.

During the same year, we find Petrarch complaining often and painfully
of his bodily infirmities. In a letter to Coluccio Salutati, he says:--"Age,
which makes others garrulous, only makes me silent. When young, I used
to write many and long letters. At present, I write only to my particular
friends, and even to them very short letters." Petrarch was now sixty-four
years old. He had never seen Pope Urban V., as he tells us himself; but
he was very desirous of seeing him, and of seeing Rome adorned by
the two great luminaries of the world, the Pope and the Emperor.

Pope Urban, fearing the heats of Italy, to which he was not accustomed,
had gone to pass the dog-days at Monte-Fiascone.

When he returned to Rome, in October, on his arrival at the Colline gate,
near the church of St. Angelo, he found the Emperor, who was waiting
for him. The Emperor, the moment he saw his Holiness, dismounted from
his horse, took the reins of that of the Pope, and conducted him on
foot to the church of St. Peter. As to this submission of civil to
ecclesiastical dignity, different opinions were entertained, even at
Rome; and the wiser class of men disapproved of it. Petrarch's
opinion on the subject is not recorded; but, during this year, there
is no proof that he had any connection with the Emperor; and my own
opinion is that he did not approve of his conduct.

It is certain that Petrarch condemned the Pope's entering Rome at the
head of 2000 soldiery. "The Roman Pontiff," he remarks, "should trust to
his dignity and to his sanctity, when coming into our capital, and not
to an army with their swords and cuirasses. The cross of Jesus is the
only standard which he ought to rear.

Trumpets and drums were out of place. It would have been enough to have
sung hallelujahs."
Petrarch, in his letter to Boccaccio, in the month of September,
says that he had got the fever; and he was still so feeble that he
was obliged to employ the hand of a stranger in writing to him.But having reached the arena she saw a change in his bearing: he stood
still at a little distance from her; she could not think why.

Nor could any one else have known. The truth was that in appointing this
spot, and this hour, for the rendezvous, Lucetta had unwittingly backed
up her entreaty by the strongest argument she could have used outside
words, with this man of moods, glooms, and superstitions. Her figure in
the midst of the huge enclosure, the unusual plainness of her dress, her
attitude of hope and appeal, so strongly revived in his soul the memory
of another ill-used woman who had stood there and thus in bygone days,
and had now passed away into her rest, that he was unmanned, and his
heart smote him for having attempted reprisals on one of a sex so weak.
When he approached her, and before she had spoken a word, her point was
half gained.

His manner as he had come down had been one of cynical carelessness; but
he now put away his grim half-smile, and said, in a kindly subdued tone,
"Goodnight t'ye. Of course I'm glad to come if you want me."

"O, thank you," she said apprehensively.

"I am sorry to see 'ee looking so ill," he stammered with unconcealed
compunction.

She shook her head. "How can you be sorry," she asked, "when you
deliberately cause it?"

"What!" said Henchard uneasily. "Is it anything I have done that has
pulled you down like that?"

"It is all your doing," she said. "I have no other grief. My happiness
would be secure enough but for your threats. O Michael! don't wreck me
like this! You might think that you have done enough! When I came here
I was a young woman; now I am rapidly becoming an old one. Neither my
husband nor any other man will regard me with interest long."

Henchard was disarmed. His old feeling of supercilious pity for
womankind in general was intensified by this suppliant appearing here
as the double of the first. Moreover that thoughtless want of foresight
which had led to all her trouble remained with poor Lucetta still; she
had come to meet him here in this compromising way without perceiving
the risk. Such a woman was very small deer to hunt; he felt ashamed,
lost all zest and desire to humiliate Lucetta there and then, and no
longer envied Farfrae his bargain. He had married money, but nothing
more. Henchard was anxious to wash his hands of the game.

"Well, what do you want me to do?" he said gently. "I am sure I shall be
very willing. My reading of those letters was only a sort of practical
joke, and I revealed nothing."

"To give me back the letters and any papers you may have that breathe of
matrimony or worse."

"So be it. Every scrap shall be yours....But, between you and me,
Lucetta, he is sure to find out something of the matter, sooner or
later.

"Ah!" she said with eager tremulousness; "but not till I have proved
myself a faithful and deserving wife to him, and then he may forgive me
everything!"

Henchard silently looked at her: he almost envied Farfrae such love
as that, even now. "H'm--I hope so," he said. "But you shall have the
letters without fail. And your secret shall be kept. I swear it."

"How good you are!--how shall I get them?"

He reflected, and said he would send them the next morning. "Now don't
doubt me," he added. "I can keep my word."


36.


Returning from her appointment Lucetta saw a man waiting by the lamp
nearest to her own door. When she stopped to go in he came and spoke to
her. It was Jopp.

He begged her pardon for addressing her. But he had heard that Mr.
Farfrae had been applied to by a neighbouring corn-merchant to recommend
a working partner; if so he wished to offer himself. He could give good
security, and had stated as much to Mr. Farfrae in a letter; but he
would feel much obliged if Lucetta would say a word in his favour to her
husband.

"It is a thing I know nothing about," said Lucetta coldly.

"But you can testify to my trustworthiness better than anybody, ma'am,"
said Jopp. "I was in Jersey several years, and knew you there by sight."

"Indeed," she replied. "But I knew nothing of you."

"I think, ma'am, that a word or two from you would secure for me what I
covet very much," he persisted.

She steadily refused to have anything to do with the affair, and cutting
him short, because of her anxiety to get indoors before her husband
should miss her, left him on the pavement.

He watched her till she had vanished, and then went home. When he got
there he sat down in the fireless chimney corner looking at the iron
dogs, and the wood laid across them for heating the morning kettle.
A movement upstairs disturbed him, and Henchard came down from his
bedroom, where he seemed to have been rummaging boxes.

"I wish," said Henchard, "you would do me a service, Jopp,
now--to-night, I mean, if you can. Leave this at Mrs. Farfrae's for her.
I should take it myself, of course, but I don't wish to be seen there."

He handed a package in brown paper, sealed. Henchard had been as good
as his word. Immediately on coming indoors he had searched over his few
belongings, and every scrap of Lucetta's writing that he possessed was
here. Jopp indifferently expressed his willingness.

"Well, how have ye got on to-day?" his lodger asked. "Any prospect of an
opening?"

"I am afraid not," said Jopp, who had not told the other of his
application to Farfrae.

"There never will be in Casterbridge," declared Henchard decisively.
"You must roam further afield." He said goodnight to Jopp, and returned
to his own part of the house.

Jopp sat on till his eyes were attracted by the shadow of the
candle-snuff on the wall, and looking at the original he found that it
had formed itself into a head like a red-hot cauliflower. Henchard's
packet next met his gaze. He knew there had been something of the nature
of wooing between Henchard and the now Mrs. Farfrae; and his vague ideas
on the subject narrowed themselves down to these: Henchard had a parcel
belonging to Mrs. Farfrae, and he had reasons for not returning that
parcel to her in person. What could be inside it? So he went on and on
till, animated by resentment at Lucetta's haughtiness, as he thought it,
and curiosity to learn if there were any weak sides to this transaction
with Henchard, he examined the package. The pen and all its relations
being awkward tools in Henchard's hands he had affixed the seals without
an impression, it never occurring to him that the efficacy of such a
fastening depended on this. Jopp was far less of a tyro; he lifted one
of the seals with his penknife, peeped in at the end thus opened, saw
that the bundle consisted of letters; and, having satisfied himself
thus far, sealed up the end again by simply softening the wax with the
candle, and went off with the parcel as requested.

His path was by the river-side at the foot of the town. Coming into
the light at the bridge which stood at the end of High Street he beheld
lounging thereon Mother Cuxsom and Nance Mockridge.

"We be just going down Mixen Lane way, to look into Peter's Finger afore
creeping to bed," said Mrs. Cuxsom. "There's a fiddle and tambourine
going on there. Lord, what's all the world--do ye come along too,
Jopp--'twon't hinder ye five minutes."

Jopp had mostly kept himself out of this company, but present
circumstances made him somewhat more reckless than usual, and without
many words he decided to go to his destination that way.


Though the upper part of Durnover was mainly composed of a curious
congeries of barns and farm-steads, there was a less picturesque side to
the parish. This was Mixen Lane, now in great part pulled down.

Mixen Lane was the Adullam of all the surrounding villages. It was the
hiding-place of those who were in distress, and in debt, and trouble
of every kind. Farm-labourers and other peasants, who combined a little
poaching with their farming, and a little brawling and bibbing with
their poaching, found themselves sooner or later in Mixen Lane. Rural
mechanics too idle to mechanize, rural servants too rebellious to serve,
drifted or were forced into Mixen Lane.

The lane and its surrounding thicket of thatched cottages stretched out
like a spit into the moist and misty lowland. Much that was sad, much
that was low, some things that were baneful, could be seen in
Mixen Lane. Vice ran freely in and out certain of the doors in the
neighbourhood; recklessness dwelt under the roof with the crooked
chimney; shame in some bow-windows; theft (in times of privation) in the
thatched and mud-walled houses by the sallows. Even slaughter had not
been altogether unknown here. In a block of cottages up an alley there
might have been erected an altar to disease in years gone by. Such was
Mixen Lane in the times when Henchard and Farfrae were Mayors.

Yet this mildewed leaf in the sturdy and flourishing Casterbridge plant
lay close to the open country; not a hundred yards from a row of
noble elms, and commanding a view across the moor of airy uplands and
corn-fields, and mansions of the great. A brook divided the moor from
the tenements, and to outward view there was no way across it--no way
to the houses but round about by the road. But under every householder's
stairs there was kept a mysterious plank nine inches wide; which plank
was a secret bridge.

If you, as one of those refugee householders, came in from business
after dark--and this was the business time here--you stealthily crossed
the moor, approached the border of the aforesaid brook, and whistled
opposite the house to which you belonged. A shape thereupon made its
appearance on the other side bearing the bridge on end against the sky;
it was lowered; you crossed, and a hand helped you to land yourself,
together with the pheasants and hares gathered from neighbouring manors.
You sold them slily the next morning, and the day after you stood
before the magistrates with the eyes of all your sympathizing neighbours
concentrated on your back. You disappeared for a time; then you were
again found quietly living in Mixen Lane.

Walking along the lane at dusk the stranger was struck by two or three
peculiar features therein. One was an intermittent rumbling from the
back premises of the inn half-way up; this meant a skittle alley.
Another was the extensive prevalence of whistling in the various
domiciles--a piped note of some kind coming from nearly every open door.
Another was the frequency of white aprons over dingy gowns among the
women around the doorways. A white apron is a suspicious vesture in
situations where spotlessness is difficult; moreover, the industry and
cleanliness which the white apron expressed were belied by the postures
and gaits of the women who wore it--their knuckles being mostly on their
hips (an attitude which lent them the aspect of two-handled mugs), and
their shoulders against door-posts; while there was a curious alacrity
in the turn of each honest woman's head upon her neck and in the twirl
of her honest eyes, at any noise resembling a masculine footfall along
the lane.

Yet amid so much that was bad needy respectability also found a home.
Under some of the roofs abode pure and virtuous souls whose presence
there was due to the iron hand of necessity, and to that alone. Families
from decayed villages--families of that once bulky, but now
nearly extinct, section of village society called "liviers," or
lifeholders--copyholders and others, whose roof-trees had fallen for
some reason or other, compelling them to quit the rural spot that had
been their home for generations--came here, unless they chose to lie
under a hedge by the wayside.

The inn called Peter's Finger was the church of Mixen Lane.

It was centrally situate, as such places should be, and bore about the
same social relation to the Three Mariners as the latter bore to
the King's Arms. At first sight the inn was so respectable as to be
puzzling. The front door was kept shut, and the step was so clean that
evidently but few persons entered over its sanded surface. But at the
corner of the public-house was an alley, a mere slit, dividing it from
the next building. Half-way up the alley was a narrow door, shiny and
paintless from the rub of infinite hands and shoulders. This was the
actual entrance to the inn.

A pedestrian would be seen abstractedly passing along Mixen Lane; and
then, in a moment, he would vanish, causing the gazer to blink like
Ashton at the disappearance of Ravenswood. That abstracted pedestrian
had edged into the slit by the adroit fillip of his person sideways;
from the slit he edged into the tavern by a similar exercise of skill.

The company at the Three Mariners were persons of quality in comparison
with the company which gathered here; though it must be admitted that
the lowest fringe of the Mariner's party touched the crest of Peter's at
points. Waifs and strays of all sorts loitered about here. The landlady
was a virtuous woman who years ago had been unjustly sent to gaol as
an accessory to something or other after the fact. She underwent her
twelvemonth, and had worn a martyr's countenance ever since, except at
times of meeting the constable who apprehended her, when she winked her
eye.

To this house Jopp and his acquaintances had arrived. The settles on
which they sat down were thin and tall, their tops being guyed by pieces
of twine to hooks in the ceiling; for when the guests grew boisterous
the settles would rock and overturn without some such security. The
thunder of bowls echoed from the backyard; swingels hung behind the
blower of the chimney; and ex-poachers and ex-gamekeepers, whom squires
had persecuted without a cause, sat elbowing each other--men who in past
times had met in fights under the moon, till lapse of sentences on the
one part, and loss of favour and expulsion from service on the other,
brought them here together to a common level, where they sat calmly
discussing old times.

"Dost mind how you could jerk a trout ashore with a bramble, and not
ruffle the stream, Charl?" a deposed keeper was saying. "'Twas at that I
caught 'ee once, if you can mind?"

"That I can. But the worst larry for me was that pheasant business
at Yalbury Wood. Your wife swore false that time, Joe--O, by Gad, she
did--there's no denying it."

"How was that?" asked Jopp.

"Why--Joe closed wi' me, and we rolled down together, close to his
garden hedge. Hearing the noise, out ran his wife with the oven pyle,
and it being dark under the trees she couldn't see which was uppermost.
'Where beest thee, Joe, under or top?' she screeched. 'O--under, by
Gad!' says he. She then began to rap down upon my skull, back, and ribs
with the pyle till we'd roll over again. 'Where beest now, dear Joe,
under or top?' she'd scream again. By George, 'twas through her I was
took! And then when we got up in hall she sware that the cock pheasant
was one of her rearing, when 'twas not your bird at all, Joe; 'twas
Squire Brown's bird--that's whose 'twas--one that we'd picked off as
we passed his wood, an hour afore. It did hurt my feelings to be so
wronged!... Ah well--'tis over now."

"I might have had 'ee days afore that," said the keeper. "I was within
a few yards of 'ee dozens of times, with a sight more of birds than that
poor one."

"Yes--'tis not our greatest doings that the world gets wind of," said
the furmity-woman, who, lately settled in this purlieu, sat among
the rest. Having travelled a great deal in her time she spoke with
cosmopolitan largeness of idea. It was she who presently asked Jopp what
was the parcel he kept so snugly under his arm.

"Ah, therein lies a grand secret," said Jopp. "It is the passion of
love. To think that a woman should love one man so well, and hate
another so unmercifully."

"Who's the object of your meditation, sir?"

"One that stands high in this town. I'd like to shame her! Upon my life,
'twould be as good as a play to read her love-letters, the proud piece
of silk and wax-work! For 'tis her love-letters that I've got here."

"Love letters? then let's hear 'em, good soul," said Mother Cuxsom.
"Lord, do ye mind, Richard, what fools we used to be when we were
younger? Getting a schoolboy to write ours for us; and giving him a
penny, do ye mind, not to tell other folks what he'd put inside, do ye
mind?"

By this time Jopp had pushed his finger under the seals, and unfastened
the letters, tumbling them over and picking up one here and there at
random, which he read aloud. These passages soon began to uncover the
secret which Lucetta had so earnestly hoped to keep buried, though the
epistles, being allusive only, did not make it altogether plain.

"Mrs. Farfrae wrote that!" said Nance Mockridge. "'Tis a humbling thing
for us, as respectable women, that one of the same sex could do it. And
now she's avowed herself to another man!"

"So much the better for her," said the aged furmity-woman. "Ah, I saved
her from a real bad marriage, and she's never been the one to thank me."

"I say, what a good foundation for a skimmity-ride," said Nance.

"True," said Mrs. Cuxsom, reflecting. "'Tis as good a ground for a
skimmity-ride as ever I knowed; and it ought not to be wasted. The last
one seen in Casterbridge must have been ten years ago, if a day."

At this moment there was a shrill whistle, and the landlady said to the
man who had been called Charl, "'Tis Jim coming in. Would ye go and let
down the bridge for me?"

Without replying Charl and his comrade Joe rose, and receiving a lantern
from her went out at the back door and down the garden-path, which ended
abruptly at the edge of the stream already mentioned. Beyond the stream
was the open moor, from which a clammy breeze smote upon their faces
as they advanced. Taking up the board that had lain in readiness one
of them lowered it across the water, and the instant its further end
touched the ground footsteps entered upon it, and there appeared from
the shade a stalwart man with straps round his knees, a double-barrelled
gun under his arm and some birds slung up behind him. They asked him if
he had had much luck.

"Not much," he said indifferently. "All safe inside?"

Receiving a reply in the affirmative he went on inwards, the others
withdrawing the bridge and beginning to retreat in his rear. Before,
however, they had entered the house a cry of "Ahoy" from the moor led
them to pause.

The cry was repeated. They pushed the lantern into an outhouse, and went
back to the brink of the stream.

"Ahoy--is this the way to Casterbridge?" said some one from the other
side.

"Not in particular," said Charl. "There's a river afore 'ee."

"I don't care--here's for through it!" said the man in the moor. "I've
had travelling enough for to-day."

"Stop a minute, then," said Charl, finding that the man was no enemy.
"Joe, bring the plank and lantern; here's somebody that's lost his
way. You should have kept along the turnpike road, friend, and not have
strook across here."

"I should--as I see now. But I saw a light here, and says I to myself,
that's an outlying house, depend on't."

The plank was now lowered; and the stranger's form shaped itself
from the darkness. He was a middle-aged man, with hair and whiskers
prematurely grey, and a broad and genial face. He had crossed on the
plank without hesitation, and seemed to see nothing odd in the transit.
He thanked them, and walked between them up the garden. "What place is
this?" he asked, when they reached the door.

"A public-house."

"Ah, perhaps it will suit me to put up at. Now then, come in and wet
your whistle at my expense for the lift over you have given me."

They followed him into the inn, where the increased light exhibited him
as one who would stand higher in an estimate by the eye than in one by
the ear. He was dressed with a certain clumsy richness--his coat being
furred, and his head covered by a cap of seal-skin, which, though the
nights were chilly, must have been warm for the daytime, spring being
somewhat advanced. In his hand he carried a small mahogany case,
strapped, and clamped with brass.

Apparently surprised at the kind of company which confronted him through
the kitchen door, he at once abandoned his idea of putting up at the
house; but taking the situation lightly, he called for glasses of the
best, paid for them as he stood in the passage, and turned to proceed on
his way by the front door. This was barred, and while the landlady was
unfastening it the conversation about the skimmington was continued in
the sitting-room, and reached his ears.

"What do they mean by a 'skimmity-ride'?" he asked.

"O, sir!" said the landlady, swinging her long earrings with deprecating
modesty; "'tis a' old foolish thing they do in these parts when a
man's wife is--well, not too particularly his own. But as a respectable
householder I don't encourage it.

"Still, are they going to do it shortly? It is a good sight to see, I
suppose?"

"Well, sir!" she simpered. And then, bursting into naturalness, and
glancing from the corner of her eye, "'Tis the funniest thing under the
sun! And it costs money."

"Ah! I remember hearing of some such thing. Now I shall be in
Casterbridge for two or three weeks to come, and should not mind
seeing the performance. Wait a moment." He turned back, entered the
sitting-room, and said, "Here, good folks; I should like to see the
old custom you are talking of, and I don't mind being something towards
it--take that." He threw a sovereign on the table and returned to the
landlady at the door, of whom, having inquired the way into the town, he
took his leave.

"There were more where that one came from," said Charl when the
sovereign had been taken up and handed to the landlady for safe keeping.
"By George! we ought to have got a few more while we had him here."

"No, no," answered the landlady. "This is a respectable house, thank
God! And I'll have nothing done but what's honourable."

"Well," said Jopp; "now we'll consider the business begun, and will soon
get it in train."

"We will!" said Nance. "A good laugh warms my heart more than a cordial,
and that's the truth on't."

Jopp gathered up the letters, and it being now somewhat late he did
not attempt to call at Farfrae's with them that night. He reached home,
sealed them up as before, and delivered the parcel at its address next
morning. Within an hour its contents were reduced to ashes by Lucetta,
who, poor soul! was inclined to fall down on her knees in thankfulness
that at last no evidence remained of the unlucky episode with Henchard
in her past. For though hers had been rather the laxity of inadvertence
than of intention, that episode, if known, was not the less likely to
operate fatally between herself and her husband.


37.


Such was the state of things when the current affairs of Casterbridge
were interrupted by an event of such magnitude that its influence
reached to the lowest social stratum there, stirring the depths of its
society simultaneously with the preparations for the skimmington. It
was one of those excitements which, when they move a country town, leave
permanent mark upon its chronicles, as a warm summer permanently marks
the ring in the tree-trunk corresponding to its date.

A Royal Personage was about to pass through the borough on his course
further west, to inaugurate an immense engineering work out that way. He
had consented to halt half-an-hour or so in the town, and to receive an
address from the corporation of Casterbridge, which, as a representative
centre of husbandry, wished thus to express its sense of the great
services he had rendered to agricultural science and economics, by his
zealous promotion of designs for placing the art of farming on a more
scientific footing.

Royalty had not been seen in Casterbridge since the days of the third
King George, and then only by candlelight for a few minutes, when that
monarch, on a night-journey, had stopped to change horses at the
King's Arms. The inhabitants therefore decided to make a thorough fete
carillonee of the unwonted occasion. Half-an-hour's pause was not long,
it is true; but much might be done in it by a judicious grouping of
incidents, above all, if the weather were fine.

The address was prepared on parchment by an artist who was handy at
ornamental lettering, and was laid on with the best gold-leaf and
colours that the sign-painter had in his shop. The Council had met on
the Tuesday before the appointed day, to arrange the details of the
procedure. While they were sitting, the door of the Council Chamber
standing open, they heard a heavy footstep coming up the stairs. It
advanced along the passage, and Henchard entered the room, in clothes of
frayed and threadbare shabbiness, the very clothes which he had used to
wear in the primal days when he had sat among them.

"I have a feeling," he said, advancing to the table and laying his hand
upon the green cloth, "that I should like to join ye in this reception
of our illustrious visitor. I suppose I could walk with the rest?"

Embarrassed glances were exchanged by the Council and Grower nearly
ate the end of his quill-pen off, so gnawed he it during the silence.
Farfrae the young Mayor, who by virtue of his office sat in the large
chair, intuitively caught the sense of the meeting, and as spokesman
was obliged to utter it, glad as he would have been that the duty should
have fallen to another tongue.

"I hardly see that it would be proper, Mr. Henchard," said he. "The
Council are the Council, and as ye are no longer one of the body, there
would be an irregularity in the proceeding. If ye were included, why not
others?"

"I have a particular reason for wishing to assist at the ceremony."

Farfrae looked round. "I think I have expressed the feeling of the
Council," he said.

"Yes, yes," from Dr. Bath, Lawyer Long, Alderman Tubber, and several
more.

"Then I am not to be allowed to have anything to do with it officially?"

"I am afraid so; it is out of the question, indeed. But of course you
can see the doings full well, such as they are to be, like the rest of
the spectators."

Henchard did not reply to that very obvious suggestion, and, turning on
his heel, went away.

It had been only a passing fancy of his, but opposition crystallized
it into a determination. "I'll welcome his Royal Highness, or nobody
shall!" he went about saying. "I am not going to be sat upon by Farfrae,
or any of the rest of the paltry crew! You shall see."

The eventful morning was bright, a full-faced sun confronting early
window-gazers eastward, and all perceived (for they were practised in
weather-lore) that there was permanence in the glow. Visitors soon began
to flock in from county houses, villages, remote copses, and lonely
uplands, the latter in oiled boots and tilt bonnets, to see the
reception, or if not to see it, at any rate to be near it. There was
hardly a workman in the town who did not put a clean shirt on. Solomon
Longways, Christopher Coney, Buzzford, and the rest of that fraternity,
showed their sense of the occasion by advancing their customary eleven
o'clock pint to half-past ten; from which they found a difficulty in
getting back to the proper hour for several days.

Henchard had determined to do no work that day. He primed himself in
the morning with a glass of rum, and walking down the street met
Elizabeth-Jane, whom he had not seen for a week. "It was lucky," he
said to her, "my twenty-one years had expired before this came on, or I
should never have had the nerve to carry it out."

"Carry out what?" said she, alarmed.

"This welcome I am going to give our Royal visitor."

She was perplexed. "Shall we go and see it together?" she said.

"See it! I have other fish to fry. You see it. It will be worth seeing!"

She could do nothing to elucidate this, and decked herself out with a
heavy heart. As the appointed time drew near she got sight again of her
stepfather. She thought he was going to the Three Mariners; but no,
he elbowed his way through the gay throng to the shop of Woolfrey, the
draper. She waited in the crowd without.

In a few minutes he emerged, wearing, to her surprise, a brilliant
rosette, while more surprising still, in his hand he carried a flag of
somewhat homely construction, formed by tacking one of the small
Union Jacks, which abounded in the town to-day, to the end of a deal
wand--probably the roller from a piece of calico. Henchard rolled up his
flag on the doorstep, put it under his arm, and went down the street.

Suddenly the taller members of the crowd turned their heads, and the
shorter stood on tiptoe. It was said that the Royal cortege approached.
The railway had stretched out an arm towards Casterbridge at this time,
but had not reached it by several miles as yet; so that the intervening
distance, as well as the remainder of the journey, was to be traversed
by road in the old fashion. People thus waited--the county families
in their carriages, the masses on foot--and watched the far-stretching
London highway to the ringing of bells and chatter of tongues.

From the background Elizabeth-Jane watched the scene. Some seats had
been arranged from which ladies could witness the spectacle, and the
front seat was occupied by Lucetta, the Mayor's wife, just at present.
In the road under her eyes stood Henchard. She appeared so bright and
pretty that, as it seemed, he was experiencing the momentary weakness of
wishing for her notice. But he was far from attractive to a woman's eye,
ruled as that is so largely by the superficies of things. He was not
only a journeyman, unable to appear as he formerly had appeared, but he
disdained to appear as well as he might. Everybody else, from the
Mayor to the washerwoman, shone in new vesture according to means; but
Henchard had doggedly retained the fretted and weather-beaten garments
of bygone years.

Hence, alas, this occurred: Lucetta's eyes slid over him to this side
and to that without anchoring on his features--as gaily dressed women's
eyes will too often do on such occasions. Her manner signified quite
plainly that she meant to know him in public no more.

But she was never tired of watching Donald, as he stood in animated
converse with his friends a few yards off, wearing round his young neck
the official gold chain with great square links, like that round the
Royal unicorn. Every trifling emotion that her husband showed as he
talked had its reflex on her face and lips, which moved in little
duplicates to his. She was living his part rather than her own, and
cared for no one's situation but Farfrae's that day.

At length a man stationed at the furthest turn of the high road, namely,
on the second bridge of which mention has been made, gave a signal, and
the Corporation in their robes proceeded from the front of the Town
Hall to the archway erected at the entrance to the town. The carriages
containing the Royal visitor and his suite arrived at the spot in a
cloud of dust, a procession was formed, and the whole came on to the
Town Hall at a walking pace.

This spot was the centre of interest. There were a few clear yards in
front of the Royal carriage, sanded; and into this space a man stepped
before any one could prevent him. It was Henchard. He had unrolled
his private flag, and removing his hat he staggered to the side of the
slowing vehicle, waving the Union Jack to and fro with his left hand
while he blandly held out his right to the Illustrious Personage.

All the ladies said with bated breath, "O, look there!" and Lucetta was
ready to faint. Elizabeth-Jane peeped through the shoulders of those in
front, saw what it was, and was terrified; and then her interest in the
spectacle as a strange phenomenon got the better of her fear.

Farfrae, with Mayoral authority, immediately rose to the occasion. He
seized Henchard by the shoulder, dragged him back, and told him roughly
to be off. Henchard's eyes met his, and Farfrae observed the fierce
light in them despite his excitement and irritation. For a moment
Henchard stood his ground rigidly; then by an unaccountable impulse gave
way and retired. Farfrae glanced to the ladies' gallery, and saw that
his Calphurnia's cheek was pale.

"Why--it is your husband's old patron!" said Mrs. Blowbody, a lady of
the neighbourhood who sat beside Lucetta.

"Patron!" said Donald's wife with quick indignation.

"Do you say the man is an acquaintance of Mr. Farfrae's?" observed Mrs.
Bath, the physician's wife, a new-comer to the town through her recent
marriage with the doctor.

"He works for my husband," said Lucetta.

"Oh--is that all? They have been saying to me that it was through him
your husband first got a footing in Casterbridge. What stories people
will tell!"

"They will indeed. It was not so at all. Donald's genius would have
enabled him to get a footing anywhere, without anybody's help! He would
have been just the same if there had been no Henchard in the world!"

It was partly Lucetta's ignorance of the circumstances of Donald's
arrival which led her to speak thus, partly the sensation that everybody
seemed bent on snubbing her at this triumphant time. The incident had
occupied but a few moments, but it was necessarily witnessed by the
Royal Personage, who, however, with practised tact affected not to have
noticed anything unusual. He alighted, the Mayor advanced, the address
was read; the Illustrious Personage replied, then said a few words to
Farfrae, and shook hands with Lucetta as the Mayor's wife. The ceremony
occupied but a few minutes, and the carriages rattled heavily as
Pharaoh's chariots down Corn Street and out upon the Budmouth Road, in
continuation of the journey coastward.

In the crowd stood Coney, Buzzford, and Longways "Some difference
between him now and when he zung at the Dree Mariners," said the first.
"'Tis wonderful how he could get a lady of her quality to go snacks wi'
en in such quick time."

"True. Yet how folk do worship fine clothes! Now there's a
better-looking woman than she that nobody notices at all, because she's
akin to that hontish fellow Henchard."

"I could worship ye, Buzz, for saying that," remarked Nance Mockridge.
"I do like to see the trimming pulled off such Christmas candles. I am
quite unequal to the part of villain myself, or I'd gi'e all my small
silver to see that lady toppered....And perhaps I shall soon," she added
significantly.

"That's not a noble passiont for a 'oman to keep up," said Longways.

Nance did not reply, but every one knew what she meant. The ideas
diffused by the reading of Lucetta's letters at Peter's Finger had
condensed into a scandal, which was spreading like a miasmatic fog
through Mixen Lane, and thence up the back streets of Casterbridge.

The mixed assemblage of idlers known to each other presently fell apart
into two bands by a process of natural selection, the frequenters of
Peter's Finger going off Mixen Lanewards, where most of them lived,
while Coney, Buzzford, Longways, and that connection remained in the
street.

"You know what's brewing down there, I suppose?" said Buzzford
mysteriously to the others.

Coney looked at him. "Not the skimmity-ride?"

Buzzford nodded.

"I have my doubts if it will be carried out," said Longways. "If they
are getting it up they are keeping it mighty close.

"I heard they were thinking of it a fortnight ago, at all events."

"If I were sure o't I'd lay information," said Longways emphatically.
"'Tis too rough a joke, and apt to wake riots in towns. We know that
the Scotchman is a right enough man, and that his lady has been a right
enough 'oman since she came here, and if there was anything wrong about
her afore, that's their business, not ours."

Coney reflected. Farfrae was still liked in the community; but it must
be owned that, as the Mayor and man of money, engrossed with affairs and
ambitions, he had lost in the eyes of the poorer inhabitants something
of that wondrous charm which he had had for them as a light-hearted
penniless young man, who sang ditties as readily as the birds in the
trees. Hence the anxiety to keep him from annoyance showed not quite the
ardour that would have animated it in former days.

"Suppose we make inquiration into it, Christopher," continued Longways;
"and if we find there's really anything in it, drop a letter to them
most concerned, and advise 'em to keep out of the way?"

This course was decided on, and the group separated, Buzzford saying to
Coney, "Come, my ancient friend; let's move on. There's nothing more to
see here."

These well-intentioned ones would have been surprised had they known how
ripe the great jocular plot really was. "Yes, to-night," Jopp had said
to the Peter's party at the corner of Mixen Lane. "As a wind-up to the
Royal visit the hit will be all the more pat by reason of their great
elevation to-day."

To him, at least, it was not a joke, but a retaliation.


38.


The proceedings had been brief--too brief--to Lucetta whom an
intoxicating Weltlust had fairly mastered; but they had brought her a
great triumph nevertheless. The shake of the Royal hand still lingered
in her fingers; and the chit-chat she had overheard, that her husband
might possibly receive the honour of knighthood, though idle to a
degree, seemed not the wildest vision; stranger things had occurred to
men so good and captivating as her Scotchman was.

After the collision with the Mayor, Henchard had withdrawn behind the
ladies' stand; and there he stood, regarding with a stare of abstraction
the spot on the lapel of his coat where Farfrae's hand had seized it.
He put his own hand there, as if he could hardly realize such an outrage
from one whom it had once been his wont to treat with ardent generosity.
While pausing in this half-stupefied state the conversation of Lucetta
with the other ladies reached his ears; and he distinctly heard her deny
him--deny that he had assisted Donald, that he was anything more than a
common journeyman.

He moved on homeward, and met Jopp in the archway to the Bull Stake. "So
you've had a snub," said Jopp.

"And what if I have?" answered Henchard sternly.

"Why, I've had one too, so we are both under the same cold shade." He
briefly related his attempt to win Lucetta's intercession.

Henchard merely heard his story, without taking it deeply in. His own
relation to Farfrae and Lucetta overshadowed all kindred ones. He went
on saying brokenly to himself, "She has supplicated to me in her time;
and now her tongue won't own me nor her eyes see me!... And he--how angry
he looked. He drove me back as if I were a bull breaking fence.... I
took it like a lamb, for I saw it could not be settled there. He can
rub brine on a green wound!... But he shall pay for it, and she shall be
sorry. It must come to a tussle--face to face; and then we'll see how a
coxcomb can front a man!"

Without further reflection the fallen merchant, bent on some wild
purpose, ate a hasty dinner and went forth to find Farfrae. After being
injured by him as a rival, and snubbed by him as a journeyman, the
crowning degradation had been reserved for this day--that he should be
shaken at the collar by him as a vagabond in the face of the whole town.

The crowds had dispersed. But for the green arches which still stood
as they were erected Casterbridge life had resumed its ordinary shape.
Henchard went down Corn Street till he came to Farfrae's house, where he
knocked, and left a message that he would be glad to see his employer at
the granaries as soon as he conveniently could come there. Having done
this he proceeded round to the back and entered the yard.

Nobody was present, for, as he had been aware, the labourers and
carters were enjoying a half-holiday on account of the events of the
morning--though the carters would have to return for a short time later
on, to feed and litter down the horses. He had reached the granary steps
and was about to ascend, when he said to himself aloud, "I'm stronger
than he."

Henchard returned to a shed, where he selected a short piece of rope
from several pieces that were lying about; hitching one end of this to
a nail, he took the other in his right hand and turned himself bodily
round, while keeping his arm against his side; by this contrivance he
pinioned the arm effectively. He now went up the ladders to the top
floor of the corn-stores.

It was empty except of a few sacks, and at the further end was the door
often mentioned, opening under the cathead and chain that hoisted the
sacks. He fixed the door open and looked over the sill. There was a
depth of thirty or forty feet to the ground; here was the spot on which
he had been standing with Farfrae when Elizabeth-Jane had seen him lift
his arm, with many misgivings as to what the movement portended.

He retired a few steps into the loft and waited. From this elevated
perch his eyes could sweep the roofs round about, the upper parts of the
luxurious chestnut trees, now delicate in leaves of a week's age, and
the drooping boughs of the lines; Farfrae's garden and the green door
leading therefrom. In course of time--he could not say how long--that
green door opened and Farfrae came through. He was dressed as if for a
journey. The low light of the nearing evening caught his head and
face when he emerged from the shadow of the wall, warming them to a
complexion of flame-colour. Henchard watched him with his mouth firmly
set, the squareness of his jaw and the verticality of his profile being
unduly marked.

Farfrae came on with one hand in his pocket, and humming a tune in a way
which told that the words were most in his mind. To please you, and satisfy
your doubts as far as possible, I have looked into the old books,--into
Schenckius and Turner and Kenelm Digby and the rest, where I have found
plenty of curious stories which you must take for what they are
worth.

          Your first question I can answer in
             the affirmative upon pretty good authority.

Mizaldus tells, in his "Memorabilia," the well-known story of the girl fed
on poisons, who was sent by the king of the Indies to Alexander
the Great.

"When Aristotle saw her eyes _sparkling and snapping like those of
serpents_, he said, 'Look out for yourself, Alexander!

this is a dangerous companion for you!'"

--and sure enough, the young lady proved to be a very unsafe person to
her friends.
Cardanus gets a story from Avicenna, of a certain man bit by a
serpent, who recovered of his bite, the snake dying therefrom.

This man afterwards had a daughter whom no venomous serpent could harm,
though _she had a fatal power over them_.

I suppose you may remember the statements of old authors about _lycanthropy_,
the disease in which men took on the nature and aspect of wolves.

Aëtius and Paulus, both men of authority, describe it. Altomaris gives a
horrid case; and Fincelius mentions one occurring as late as 1541,
the subject of which was captured, still _insisting that he was a
wolf_, only that the hair of his hide was turned in!

_Versipelles_, it may be remembered, was the Latin name for these
"were-wolves."
As for the cases where rabid persons have barked and bit like dogs,
there are plenty of such on record.

More singular, or at least more rare, is the account given by Andreas
Baccius, of a man who was struck in the hand by a cock, with his
beak, and who died on the third day thereafter, looking for all the
world _like a fighting-cock_, to the great horror of the spectators.

As to impressions transmitted _at a very early period of existence_,
every one knows the story of King James's fear of a naked sword and
the way it is accounted for. Sir Kenelm Digby says,--"I remember when he
dubbed me Knight, in the ceremony of putting the point of a naked
sword upon my shoulder, he could not endure to look upon it, but
turned his face another way, insomuch, that, in lieu of touching
my shoulder, he had almost thrust the point into my eyes, had not
the Duke of Buckingham guided his hand aright."

It is he, too, who tells the story of the _mulberry mark_ upon the
neck of a certain lady of high condition, which "every year, in
mulberry season, did swell, grow big, and itch."

And Gaffarel mentions the case of a girl born with the figure of a _fish_
on one of her limbs, of which the wonder was, that, when the girl did
eat fish, this mark put her to sensible pain.

But there is no end to cases of this kind, and I could give some
of recent date, if necessary, lending a certain plausibility at
least to the doctrine of transmitted impressions.

I never saw a distinct case of _evil eye_, though I have seen eyes
so bad that they might produce strange effects on very sensitive
natures.

But the belief in it under various names, fascination, _jettatura_,
etc., is so permanent and universal, from Egypt to Italy, and from
the days of Solomon to those of Ferdinand of Naples, that there
must be some _peculiarity_, to say the least, on which the opinion
is based.

There is very strong evidence that some such power is exercised by
certain of the lower animals. Thus, it is stated on good authority
that "almost every animal becomes panic-struck at the sight of the
_rattlesnake_, and seems at once deprived of the power of motion, or the
exercise of its usual instinct of self-preservation." Other
serpents seem to share this power of fascination, as the _Cobra_ and
the _Bucephalus Capensis_. Some think that it is nothing but fright;
others attribute it to the

"strange powers that lie Within the magic circle of the eye,"--
as Churchill said, speaking of Garrick.

You ask me about those mysterious and frightful intimacies between
children and serpents of which so many instances have been recorded.

I am sure I cannot tell what to make of them. I have seen several such
accounts in recent papers, but here is one published in the seventeenth
century which is as striking as any of the more modern ones:--
"Mr. _Herbert Jones_ of _Monmouth_, when he was a little Boy, was used to
eat his Milk in a Garden in the Morning, and was no sooner there, but
a large Snake always came, and eat out of the Dish with him, and
did so for a considerable time, till one Morning, he striking the
Snake on the Head, it hissed at him.

Upon which he told his Mother that the Baby (for so he call'd it) cry'd
_Hiss_ at him. His Mother had it kill'd, which occasioned him a great
_Fit of Sickness_, and 'twas thought would have dy'd, but did recover."

There was likewise one "_William Writtle_, condemned at _Maidston
Assizes_ for a double murder, told a Minister that was with him after
he was condemned, that his mother told him, that when he was a Child,
there crept always to him a Snake, wherever she laid him. Sometimes she
would convey him up Stairs, and leave him never so little, she should be
sure to find a Snake in the Cradle with him, but never perceived it
did him any harm."

One of the most striking alleged facts connected with the mysterious
relation existing between the serpent and the human species is the
influence which the poison of the _Crotalus_, taken internally,
seemed to produce over the _moral faculties_, in the experiments
instituted by Dr. Hering at Surinam. There is something frightful
in the disposition of certain ophidians, as the whip-snake, which darts
at the eyes of cattle without any apparent provocation or other motive.
It is natural enough that the evil principle should have been represented
in the form of a serpent, but it is strange to think of introducing it
into a human being like cow-pox by vaccination.

You know all about the _Psylli_, or ancient serpent-tamers, I suppose.

Savary gives an account of the modern serpent-tamers in his "Letters on
Egypt."

These modern jugglers are in the habit of making the venomous _Naja_
counterfeit death, lying out straight and stiff, _changing it into
a rod_, as the ancient magicians did with their serpents, (probably
the same animal,) in the time of Moses.

I am afraid I cannot throw much light on "Christabel" or "Lamia"
by any criticism I can offer.

Geraldine, in the former, seems to be simply a malignant witch-woman,
with the _evil eye_, but with no absolute ophidian relationship. Lamia
is a serpent transformed by magic into a woman. The idea of both is
mythological, and not in any sense physiological. Some women unquestionably
suggest the image of serpents; men rarely or never.

I have been struck, like many others, with the ophidian head and eye
of the famous Rachel.

Your question about inherited predispositions, as limiting the sphere of
the will, and, consequently, of moral accountability, opens a very
wide range of speculation.

I can give you only a brief abstract of my own opinions on this delicate
and difficult subject. Crime and sin, being the _preserves_ of two great
organized interests, have been guarded against all reforming poachers
with as great jealousy as the Royal Forests. It is so easy to
hang a troublesome fellow! It is so much simpler to consign a soul to
perdition, or gay masses, for money, to save it, than to take
the blame on ourselves for letting it grow up in neglect and run to
ruin for want of humanizing influences! They hung poor, crazy Bellingham
for shooting Mr. Perceval.

The ordinary of Newgate preached to women who were to swing at Tyburn
for a petty theft as if they were worse than other people,--just as
though he would not have been a pickpocket or shoplifter, himself,
if he had been born in a den of thieves and bred up to steal or starve!
The English law never began to get hold of the idea that a crime
was not necessarily a sin, till Hadfield, who thought he was the
Saviour of mankind, was tried for shooting at George the Third;--lucky
for him that he did not hit his Majesty!

It is very singular that we recognize all the bodily defects that
unfit a man for military service, and all the intellectual ones
that limit his range of thought, but always talk at him as if all
his moral powers were perfect I suppose we must punish evil-doers
as we extirpate vermin; but I don't know that we have any more right
to judge them than we have to judge rats and mice, which are just
as good as cats and weasels, though we think it necessary to treat
them as criminals.

The limitations of human responsibility have never been properly
studied, unless it be by the phrenologists. You know from my lectures
that I consider phrenology, as taught, a pseudo-science, and not a
branch of positive knowledge; but, for all that, we owe it an immense
debt. It has melted the world's conscience in its crucible and cast it
in a new mould, with features less like those of Moloch and more like
those of humanity. If it has failed to demonstrate its system of special
correspondences, it has proved that there are fixed relations between
organization and mind and character. It has brought out that great
doctrine of moral insanity, which has done more to make men
charitable and soften legal and theological barbarism than any one
doctrine that I can think of since the message of peace and good-will
to men.

Automatic action in the moral world; the _reflex movement_ which _seems_
to be self-determination, and has been hanged and howled at as such
(metaphorically) for nobody knows how many centuries: until somebody shall
study this as Marshall Hall has studied reflex nervous action in
the bodily system, I would not give much for men's judgments of
each other's characters.

Shut up the robber and the defaulter, we must.

But what if your oldest boy had been stolen from his cradle and bred in a
North-Street cellar? What if you are drinking a little too much wine
and smoking a little too much tobacco, and your son takes after you, and
so your poor grandson's brain being a little injured in physical texture,
he loses the fine moral sense on which you pride yourself, and
doesn't see the difference between signing another man's name to a
draft and his own?

I suppose the study of automatic action in the moral world (you see
what I mean through the apparent contradiction of terms) may be a
dangerous one in the view of many people. It is liable to abuse, no
doubt.
People are always glad to get hold of anything which limits
their responsibility. But remember that our moral estimates come
down to us from ancestors who hanged children for stealing forty shillings'
worth, and sent their souls to perdition for the sin of being born,--who
punished the unfortunate families of suicides, and in their eagerness
for justice executed one innocent person every three years, on the
average, as Sir James Mackintosh tells us.

I do not know in what shape the practical question may present
itself to you; but I will tell you my rule in life, and I think you
will find it a good one.

_Treat bad men exactly as if they were insane_. They are _in-sane_,
out of health, morally. Reason, which is food to sound minds, is not
tolerated, still less assimilated, unless administered with the greatest
caution; perhaps, not at all. Avoid collision with them, as far as you
honorably can; keep your temper, if you can,--for one angry man is as
good as another; restrain them from injury, promptly, completely, and
with the least possible injury, just as in the case of maniacs,--and
when you have got rid of them, or got them tied hand and foot so
that they can do no mischief, sit down and contemplate them charitably,
remembering that nine-tenths of their perversity comes from outside
influences, drunken ancestors, abuse in childhood, bad company,
from which you have happily been preserved, and for some of which
you, as a member of society, may be fractionally responsible.

I think also that there are _special influences_ which _work in the blood
like ferments_, and I have a suspicion that some of those curious old
stories I cited may have more recent parallels. Have you ever met with
any cases which admitted of a solution like that which I have mentioned?

Yours very truly,
* * * * *
_Bernard Langdon to Philip Staples._
MY DEAR PHILIP,--
I have been for some months established in this place, turning the
main crank of the machinery for the manufactory of accomplishments
superintended by, or rather worked to the profit of, a certain Mr.

Silas Peckham. He is a poor wretch, with a little thin fishy blood in
his body, lean and flat, long-armed and large-handed, thick-jointed
and thin-muscled,--you know those unwholesome, weak-eyed, half-fed
creatures, that look not fit to be round among live folks, and yet not
quite dead enough to bury. If you ever hear of my being in court to answer
to a charge of assault and battery, you may guess that I have been
giving him a thrashing to settle off old scores; for he is a tyrant,
and has come pretty near killing his principal lady-assistant with
overworking her and keeping her out of all decent privileges.

Helen Darley is this lady's name,--twenty-two or -three years old, I
should think,--a very sweet, pale woman,--daughter of the usual
country-clergyman,--thrown on her own resources from an early age,
and the rest: a common story, but an uncommon person,--very.

All conscience and sensibility, I should say,--a cruel worker,--no kind
of regard for herself,--seems as fragile and supple as a young willow-shoot,
but try her and you find she has the spring in her of a steel crossbow.
I am glad I happened to come to this place, if it were only for her
sake. I have saved that girl's life; I am as sure of it as if I had pulled
her out of the fire or water.

Of course I'm in love with her, you say,--we always love those
whom we have benefited: "saved her life,--her love was the reward of
his devotion," etc., etc., as in a regular set novel. In love, Philip?
Well, about that,--I love Helen Darley--very much: there is hardly anybody
I love so well. What a noble creature she is!

One of those that just go right on, do their own work and everybody
else's, killing themselves inch by inch without ever thinking about
it,--singing and dancing at their toil when they begin, worn and saddened
after a while, but pressing steadily on, tottering by-and-by, and catching
at the rail by the wayside to help them lift one foot before the other,
and at last falling, face down, arms stretched forward----
Philip, my boy, do you know I am the sort of man that locks his
door sometimes and cries his heart out of his eyes,--that can sob
like a woman and not be ashamed of it?

I come of fighting-blood on my mother's side, you know; I think I
could be savage on occasion.

But I am tender,--more and more tender as I come into my fulness
of manhood.

I don't like to strike a man, (laugh, if you like,--I know I hit
hard when I do strike,)--but what I can't stand is the sight of
these poor, patient, toiling women, that never find out in this
life how good they are, and never know what it is to be told they
are angels while they still wear the pleasing incumbrances of
humanity.

I don't know what to make of these cases.

To think that a woman is never to be a woman again, whatever she
may come to as an unsexed angel,--and that she should die unloved!

Why does not somebody come and carry off this noble woman, waiting
here all ready to make a man happy?

Philip, do you know the pathos there is in the eyes of unsought
women, oppressed with the burden of an inner life unshared?

I can see into them now as I could not in those earlier days. I
sometimes think their pupils dilate on purpose to let my consciousness
glide through them; indeed, I dread them, I come so close to the
nerve of the soul itself in these momentary intimacies.

You used to tell me I was a Turk,--that my heart was full of
pigeon-holes, with accommodations inside for a whole flock of doves.

I don't know but I am still as Youngish as ever in my
ways,--Brigham-Youngish, I mean; at any rate, I always want to give
a little love to all the poor things that cannot have a whole man
to themselves.

If they would only be contented with a little!

Here now are two girls in this school where I am teaching.

One of them, Rosa M., is not more than sixteen years old, I think they
say; but Nature has forced her into a tropical luxuriance of beauty,
as if it were July with her, instead of May.

I suppose it is all natural enough that this girl should like a young
man's attention, even if he were a grave schoolmaster; but the
eloquence of this young thing's look is unmistakable,--and yet she
does not know the language it is talking,--they none of them do;
and there is where a good many poor creatures of our good-for-nothing
sex are mistaken.

There is no danger of my being rash, but I think this girl will cost
somebody his life yet.
She is one of those women men make a quarrel about and fight to the
death for,--the old feral instinct, you know.

Pray, don't think I am lost in conceit, but there is another girl
here that I begin to think looks with a certain kindness on me. Her name
is Elsie V., and she is the only daughter and heiress of an old
family in this place.

She is a portentous and mysterious creature. If I should tell you all
I know and half of what I fancy about her, you would tell me to get
my life insured at once. Yet she is the most painfully interesting
being,--so handsome! so lonely!--for she has no friends among the
girls, and sits apart from them,--with black hair like the flow
of a mountain-brook after a thaw, with a low-browed, scowling
beauty of face, and such eyes as were never seen before, I really
believe, in any human creature.

Philip, I don't know what to say about this Elsie. There is a mystery
around her I have not fathomed. I have conjectures about her which
I could not utter to any living soul.

I dare not even hint the possibilities which have suggested themselves to
me.

This I will say,--that I do take the most intense interest in this
young person, an interest much more like pity than love in its
common sense.

If what I guess at is true, of all the tragedies of existence I
ever knew this is the saddest, and yet so full of meaning!

Do not ask me any questions,--I have said more than I meant to
already; but I am involved in strange doubts and perplexities,--in dangers
too, very possibly,--and it is a relief just to speak ever so
guardedly of them to an early and faithful friend.

Yours ever, BERNARD.

P. S. I remember you had a copy of Fortunius Licetus "De Monstris"
among your old books.

Can't you lend it to me for a while? I am curious, and it will amuse
me.

ANNO DOMINI, 1860.

My youth is past!--this morn I stand, With manhood's signet of command,
Firm-planted on life's middle-land!

Behind, the scene recedes afar, Where cloudy mists and vapors mar
The lustre of my morning-star.

I mark the courses of my days, Inwound through many a doubtful maze,--
To marvel at those devious ways!

They lead through hills and levels lone, Green fields, and woodlands
overgrown, And where deep waters pulse and moan;--
By ruined tower, by darksome dell, The home of night-birds fierce and fell,
Wherein strange shapes of Horror dwell;--
Out to the blessed sunshine free, The breezy moors of liberty, And
skies outpouring harmony;--
By palace-wall, by haunted tomb, Through bright and dark, through
joy and gloom:
My life hath known both blight and bloom.

And now, as from some mountain-height, Backward I strain my eager
sight, Till all the landscape melts in night;--
Then, whispering to my Heart, "Be bold!" I turn from years whose "tale
is told," To greet the Future's dawn of gold:

High hopes and nobler labors wait Beyond that Future's opening
gate,-- Brave deeds which hold the seeds of Fate.

Thy strength, O Lord, shall fire my blood, Shall nerve my soul, make
wise my mood, And win me to the pure and good!

Or if, O Father, thou shouldst say, "Dark Angel, close his mortal
day!"

And smite me on my vanward way,--
Grant that in armor firm and strong, Whilst pealing still Life's
battle-song, And struggling, manful, 'gainst the wrong,
Thy soldier, who would fight to win No crown of dross, no bays of
sin, May fall amidst the foremost din
Of Truth's grand conflict, blest by Thee,-- And even though Death
should conquer, see How false, how brief his victory!

* * * * *

DARWIN ON THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES.

[Continued.]

"I can entertain no doubt, after the most deliberate study and
dispassionate judgment of which I am capable, that the view which
most naturalists entertain, and which I formerly entertained,--namely,
that each species has been independently created,--is erroneous.

I am fully convinced that species are not immutable; but that those
belonging to what are called the same genera are lineal descendants of
some other and generally extinct species, in the same manner as the
acknowledged varieties of any one species are the descendants of that
species.
Furthermore, I am convinced that Natural Selection has been the main,
but not exclusive means of modification."
This is the kernel of the new theory, the Darwinian creed, as recited
at the close of the introduction to the remarkable book under consideration.
The questions, "What will he do with it?" and "How far will he carry
it?"

the author answers at the close of the volume: "I cannot doubt
that the theory of descent with modification embraces all the members of
the same class." Furthermore, "I believe that all animals have descended
from at most only four or five progenitors, and plants from an equal
or lesser number."

Seeing that analogy as strongly suggests a further step in the same
direction, while he protests that "analogy may be a deceitful
guide," yet he follows its inexorable leading to the inference that
"probably all the organic beings which have ever lived on this earth
have descended from some one primordial form, into which life was
first breathed."

[a]
In the first extract we have the thin end of the wedge driven
a little way; in the last, the wedge is driven home.

We have already (in the preceding number) sketched some of the
reasons suggestive of such a theory of derivation of species,--reasons
which give it plausibility, and even no small probability, as
applied to our actual world and to changes occurring since the
latest tertiary period.

We are well pleased at this moment to find that the conclusions we
were arriving at in this respect are sustained by the very high
authority and impartial judgment of Pictet, the Swiss palaeontologist.

In his review of Darwin's book,[b]--much the fairest and most
admirable opposing one that has yet appeared,--he freely accepts that
_ensemble_ of natural operations which Darwin impersonates under the
now familiar name of Natural Selection, allows that the exposition
throughout the first chapters seems "_à la fois prudent et fort_"
and is disposed to accept the whole argument in its foundations,
that is, so far as it relates to what is now going on, or has taken
place in the present geological period,--which period he carries
back through the diluvial epoch to the borders of the tertiary.

[c] Pictet accordingly admits that the theory will very well account
for the origination by divergence of nearly related species, whether
within the present period or in remoter geological times: a very natural
view for him to take; since he appears to have reached and published,
several years ago, the pregnant conclusion, that there most probably
was some material connection between the closely related species
of two successive faunas, and that the numerous close species, whose
limits are so difficult to determine, were not all created distinct
and independent.

But while accepting, or ready to accept, the basis of Darwin's
theory, and all its legitimate direct inferences, he rejects the
ultimate conclusions, brings some weighty arguments to bear against
them, and is evidently convinced that he can draw a clear line
between the sound inferences, which he favors, and the unsound or
unwarranted theoretical deductions, which he rejects.

He turned
back a few steps and was lost in grave reflection, finally wending his
way homeward by the obscure river-side path. Unable to rest there he
went to his step-daughter's lodging, and was told that Elizabeth-Jane
had gone to Mr. Farfrae's. Like one acting in obedience to a charm, and
with a nameless apprehension, he followed in the same direction in the
hope of meeting her, the roysterers having vanished. Disappointed in
this he gave the gentlest of pulls to the door-bell, and then learnt
particulars of what had occurred, together with the doctor's imperative
orders that Farfrae should be brought home, and how they had set out to
meet him on the Budmouth Road.

"But he has gone to Mellstock and Weatherbury!" exclaimed Henchard, now
unspeakably grieved. "Not Budmouth way at all."

But, alas! for Henchard; he had lost his good name. They would
not believe him, taking his words but as the frothy utterances of
recklessness. Though Lucetta's life seemed at that moment to depend upon
her husband's return (she being in great mental agony lest he should
never know the unexaggerated truth of her past relations with Henchard),
no messenger was despatched towards Weatherbury. Henchard, in a state of
bitter anxiety and contrition, determined to seek Farfrae himself.

To this end he hastened down the town, ran along the eastern road over
Durnover Moor, up the hill beyond, and thus onward in the moderate
darkness of this spring night till he had reached a second and almost
a third hill about three miles distant. In Yalbury Bottom, or Plain,
at the foot of the hill, he listened. At first nothing, beyond his own
heart-throbs, was to be heard but the slow wind making its moan among
the masses of spruce and larch of Yalbury Wood which clothed the heights
on either hand; but presently there came the sound of light wheels
whetting their felloes against the newly stoned patches of road,
accompanied by the distant glimmer of lights.

He knew it was Farfrae's gig descending the hill from an indescribable
personality in its noise, the vehicle having been his own till bought
by the Scotchman at the sale of his effects. Henchard thereupon retraced
his steps along Yalbury Plain, the gig coming up with him as its driver
slackened speed between two plantations.

It was a point in the highway near which the road to Mellstock branched
off from the homeward direction. By diverging to that village, as he had
intended to do, Farfrae might probably delay his return by a couple of
hours. It soon appeared that his intention was to do so still, the
light swerving towards Cuckoo Lane, the by-road aforesaid. Farfrae's off
gig-lamp flashed in Henchard's face. At the same time Farfrae discerned
his late antagonist.

"Farfrae--Mr. Farfrae!" cried the breathless Henchard, holding up his
hand.

Farfrae allowed the horse to turn several steps into the branch lane
before he pulled up. He then drew rein, and said "Yes?" over his
shoulder, as one would towards a pronounced enemy.

"Come back to Casterbridge at once!" Henchard said. "There's something
wrong at your house--requiring your return. I've run all the way here on
purpose to tell ye."

Farfrae was silent, and at his silence Henchard's soul sank within him.
Why had he not, before this, thought of what was only too obvious? He
who, four hours earlier, had enticed Farfrae into a deadly wrestle stood
now in the darkness of late night-time on a lonely road, inviting him
to come a particular way, where an assailant might have confederates,
instead of going his purposed way, where there might be a better
opportunity of guarding himself from attack. Henchard could almost feel
this view of things in course of passage through Farfrae's mind.

"I have to go to Mellstock," said Farfrae coldly, as he loosened his
reins to move on.

"But," implored Henchard, "the matter is more serious than your business
at Mellstock. It is--your wife! She is ill. I can tell you particulars
as we go along."

The very agitation and abruptness of Henchard increased Farfrae's
suspicion that this was a ruse to decoy him on to the next wood, where
might be effectually compassed what, from policy or want of nerve,
Henchard had failed to do earlier in the day. He started the horse.

"I know what you think," deprecated Henchard running after, almost bowed
down with despair as he perceived the image of unscrupulous villainy
that he assumed in his former friend's eyes. "But I am not what you
think!" he cried hoarsely. "Believe me, Farfrae; I have come entirely on
your own and your wife's account. She is in danger. I know no more; and
they want you to come. Your man has gone the other way in a mistake. O
Farfrae! don't mistrust me--I am a wretched man; but my heart is true to
you still!"

Farfrae, however, did distrust him utterly. He knew his wife was
with child, but he had left her not long ago in perfect health; and
Henchard's treachery was more credible than his story. He had in his
time heard bitter ironies from Henchard's lips, and there might be
ironies now. He quickened the horse's pace, and had soon risen into the
high country lying between there and Mellstock, Henchard's spasmodic run
after him lending yet more substance to his thought of evil purposes.

The gig and its driver lessened against the sky in Henchard's eyes;
his exertions for Farfrae's good had been in vain. Over this repentant
sinner, at least, there was to be no joy in heaven. He cursed himself
like a less scrupulous Job, as a vehement man will do when he loses
self-respect, the last mental prop under poverty. To this he had come
after a time of emotional darkness of which the adjoining woodland shade
afforded inadequate illustration. Presently he began to walk back again
along the way by which he had arrived. Farfrae should at all events have
no reason for delay upon the road by seeing him there when he took his
journey homeward later on.

Arriving at Casterbridge Henchard went again to Farfrae's house to make
inquiries. As soon as the door opened anxious faces confronted his
from the staircase, hall, and landing; and they all said in grievous
disappointment, "O--it is not he!" The manservant, finding his mistake,
had long since returned, and all hopes had centred upon Henchard.

"But haven't you found him?" said the doctor.

"Yes....I cannot tell 'ee!" Henchard replied as he sank down on a chair
within the entrance. "He can't be home for two hours."

"H'm," said the surgeon, returning upstairs.

"How is she?" asked Henchard of Elizabeth, who formed one of the group.

"In great danger, father. Her anxiety to see her husband makes her
fearfully restless. In a letter dated thence to his friend the Prior of the Holy Apostles,
we find him acknowledging feelings that were far distant from settled
contentment.

"You have heard," he says, "how much my peace has been disturbed, and
my leisure broken in upon, by an importunate crowd and by unforeseen
occupations. The Legate has left Milan. He was received at Florence
with unbounded applause: as for poor me, I am again in my retreat. I
have been long free, happy, and master of my time; but I feel, at
present, that liberty and leisure are only for souls of consummate virtue.
When we are not of that class of beings, nothing is more dangerous for
a heart subject to the passions than to be free, idle, and alone. The
snares of voluptuousness are _then_ more dangerous, and corrupt thoughts
gain an easier entrance--above all, love, that seducing tormentor,
from whom I thought that I had now nothing more to fear."

From these expressions we might almost conclude that he had again fallen
in love; but if it was so, we have no evidence as to the object
of his new passion.

During his half-retirement, Petrarch learned news which disturbed
his repose. A courier arrived, one night, bringing an account of
the entire destruction of the Genoese fleet, in a naval combat
with that of the Venetians, which took place on the 19th of August,
1353, near the island of Sardinia.

The letters which the poet had written, in order to conciliate
those two republics, had proved as useless as the pacificatory
efforts of Clement VI. and his successor, Innocent.

Petrarch, who had constantly predicted the eventual success of
Genoa, could hardly believe his senses, when he heard of the Genoese
being defeated at sea.

He wrote a letter of lamentation and astonishment on the subject to his
friend Guido Settimo.

He saw, as it were, one of the eyes of his country destroying the other.
The courier, who brought these tidings to Milan, gave a distressing
account of the state of Genoa.

There was not a family which had not lost one of its members.

Petrarch passed a whole night in composing a letter to the Genoese, in
which he exhorted them, after the example of the Romans, never to
despair of the republic. His lecture never reached them. On awakening
in the morning, Petrarch learned that the Genoese had lost every
spark of their courage, and that the day before they had subscribed
the most humiliating concessions in despair.

It has been alleged by some of his biographers that Petrarch suppressed
his letter to the Genoese from his fear of the Visconti family. John
Visconti had views on Genoa, which was a port so conveniently situated
that he naturally coveted the possession of it. He invested it on all
sides by land, whilst its other enemies blockaded it by sea; so that the
city was reduced to famine. The partizans of John Visconti insinuated
to the Genoese that they had no other remedy than to place themselves
under the protection of the Prince of Milan.

Petrarch was not ignorant of the Visconti's views; and it has been,
therefore, suspected that he kept back his exhortatory epistle from
his apprehension, that if he had despatched it, John Visconti would have
made it the last epistle of his life. The morning after writing it, he
found that Genoa had signed a treaty of almost abject submission; after
which his exhortation would have been only an insult to the vanquished.

The Genoese were not long in deliberating on the measures which they
were to take. In a few days their deputies arrived at Milan, imploring
the aid and protection of John Visconti, as well as offering him
the republic of Genoa and all that belonged to it. After some conferences,
the articles of the treaty were signed; and the Lord of Milan accepted
with pleasure the possession that was offered to him.

Petrarch, as a counsellor of Milan, attended these conferences, and
condoled with the deputies from Genoa; though we cannot suppose that
he approved, in his heart, of the desperate submission of the Genoese
in thus throwing themselves into the arms of the tyrant of Italy, who
had been so long anxious either to invade them in open quarrel,
or to enter their States upon a more amicable pretext.

The last of his calls was made about four o'clock in the morning, in the
steely light of dawn. Lucifer was fading into day across Durnover Moor,
the sparrows were just alighting into the street, and the hens had begun
to cackle from the outhouses. When within a few yards of Farfrae's he
saw the door gently opened, and a servant raise her hand to the knocker,
to untie the piece of cloth which had muffled it. He went across, the
sparrows in his way scarcely flying up from the road-litter, so little
did they believe in human aggression at so early a time.

"Why do you take off that?" said Henchard.

She turned in some surprise at his presence, and did not answer for an
instant or two. Recognizing him, she said, "Because they may knock as
loud as they will; she will never hear it any more."


41.


Henchard went home. The morning having now fully broke he lit his fire,
and sat abstractedly beside it. He had not sat there long when a gentle
footstep approached the house and entered the passage, a finger tapping
lightly at the door. Henchard's face brightened, for he knew the motions
to be Elizabeth's. She came into his room, looking wan and sad.

"Have you heard?" she asked. "Mrs. Farfrae! She is--dead! Yes,
indeed--about an hour ago!"

"I know it," said Henchard. "I have but lately come in from there. It
is so very good of 'ee, Elizabeth, to come and tell me. You must be
so tired out, too, with sitting up. Now do you bide here with me this
morning. You can go and rest in the other room; and I will call 'ee when
breakfast is ready."

To please him, and herself--for his recent kindliness was winning a
surprised gratitude from the lonely girl--she did as he bade her, and
lay down on a sort of couch which Henchard had rigged up out of a
settle in the adjoining room. She could hear him moving about in his
preparations; but her mind ran most strongly on Lucetta, whose death
in such fulness of life and amid such cheerful hopes of maternity was
appallingly unexpected. Presently she fell asleep.

Meanwhile her stepfather in the outer room had set the breakfast in
readiness; but finding that she dozed he would not call her; he
waited on, looking into the fire and keeping the kettle boiling with
house-wifely care, as if it were an honour to have her in his house. In
truth, a great change had come over him with regard to her, and he was
developing the dream of a future lit by her filial presence, as though
that way alone could happiness lie.

He was disturbed by another knock at the door, and rose to open it,
rather deprecating a call from anybody just then. A stoutly built man
stood on the doorstep, with an alien, unfamiliar air about his figure
and bearing--an air which might have been called colonial by people of
cosmopolitan experience. It was the man who had asked the way at Peter's
finger. Henchard nodded, and looked inquiry.

"Good morning, good morning," said the stranger with profuse heartiness.
"Is it Mr. Henchard I am talking to?"

"My name is Henchard."

"Then I've caught 'ee at home--that's right. Morning's the time for
business, says I. Can I have a few words with you?"

"By all means," Henchard answered, showing the way in.

"You may remember me?" said his visitor, seating himself.

Henchard observed him indifferently, and shook his head.

"Well--perhaps you may not. My name is Newson."

Henchard's face and eyes seemed to die. The other did not notice it. "I
know the name well," Henchard said at last, looking on the floor.

"I make no doubt of that. Well, the fact is, I've been looking for 'ee
this fortnight past. I landed at Havenpool and went through Casterbridge
on my way to Falmouth, and when I got there, they told me you had some
years before been living at Casterbridge. Back came I again, and by long
and by late I got here by coach, ten minutes ago. 'He lives down by the
mill,' says they. So here I am. Now--that transaction between us
some twenty years agone--'tis that I've called about. 'Twas a curious
business. I was younger then than I am now, and perhaps the less said
about it, in one sense, the better."

"Curious business! 'Twas worse than curious. I cannot even allow that
I'm the man you met then. I was not in my senses, and a man's senses are
himself."

"We were young and thoughtless," said Newson. "However, I've come to
mend matters rather than open arguments. Poor Susan--hers was a strange
experience."

"She was a warm-hearted, home-spun woman. She was not what they call
shrewd or sharp at all--better she had been."

"She was not."

"As you in all likelihood know, she was simple-minded enough to think
that the sale was in a way binding. She was as guiltless o' wrong-doing
in that particular as a saint in the clouds."

"I know it, I know it. I found it out directly," said Henchard, still
with averted eyes. "There lay the sting o't to me. If she had seen it as
what it was she would never have left me. Never! But how should she be
expected to know? What advantages had she? None. She could write her own
name, and no more."

"Well, it was not in my heart to undeceive her when the deed was done,"
said the sailor of former days. "I thought, and there was not much
vanity in thinking it, that she would be happier with me. She was fairly
happy, and I never would have undeceived her till the day of her
death. Your child died; she had another, and all went well. But a time
came--mind me, a time always does come. A time came--it was some while
after she and I and the child returned from America--when somebody she
had confided her history to, told her my claim to her was a mockery, and
made a jest of her belief in my right. After that she was never happy
with me. She pined and pined, and socked and sighed. She said she must
leave me, and then came the question of our child. Then a man advised
me how to act, and I did it, for I thought it was best. I left her
at Falmouth, and went off to sea. When I got to the other side of
the Atlantic there was a storm, and it was supposed that a lot of
us, including myself, had been washed overboard. I got ashore at
Newfoundland, and then I asked myself what I should do.

"'Since I'm here, here I'll bide,' I thought to myself; ''twill be most
kindness to her, now she's taken against me, to let her believe me lost,
for,' I thought, 'while she supposes us both alive she'll be miserable;
but if she thinks me dead she'll go back to him, and the child will have
a home.' I've never returned to this country till a month ago, and I
found that, as I supposed, she went to you, and my daughter with
her. They told me in Falmouth that Susan was dead. But my
Elizabeth-Jane--where is she?"

"Dead likewise," said Henchard doggedly. "Surely you learnt that too?"

The sailor started up, and took an enervated pace or two down the room.
"Dead!" he said, in a low voice. "Then what's the use of my money to
me?"

Henchard, without answering, shook his head as if that were rather a
question for Newson himself than for him.

"Where is she buried?" the traveller inquired.

"Beside her mother," said Henchard, in the same stolid tones.

"When did she die?"

"A year ago and more," replied the other without hesitation.

The sailor continued standing. Henchard never looked up from the floor.
At last Newson said: "My journey hither has been for nothing! I may as
well go as I came! It has served me right. I'll trouble you no longer."

Henchard heard the retreating footsteps of Newson upon the sanded floor,
the mechanical lifting of the latch, the slow opening and closing of the
door that was natural to a baulked or dejected man; but he did not turn
his head. Newson's shadow passed the window. He was gone.

Then Henchard, scarcely believing the evidence of his senses, rose
from his seat amazed at what he had done. It had been the impulse of a
moment. The regard he had lately acquired for Elizabeth, the new-sprung
hope of his loneliness that she would be to him a daughter of whom he
could feel as proud as of the actual daughter she still believed herself
to be, had been stimulated by the unexpected coming of Newson to a
greedy exclusiveness in relation to her; so that the sudden prospect of
her loss had caused him to speak mad lies like a child, in pure mockery
of consequences. He had expected questions to close in round him, and
unmask his fabrication in five minutes; yet such questioning had not
come. But surely they would come; Newson's departure could be but
momentary; he would learn all by inquiries in the town; and return to
curse him, and carry his last treasure away!

He hastily put on his hat, and went out in the direction that Newson had
taken. Newson's back was soon visible up the road, crossing Bull-stake.
Henchard followed, and saw his visitor stop at the King's Arms, where
the morning coach which had brought him waited half-an-hour for another
coach which crossed there. The coach Newson had come by was now about to
move again. Newson mounted, his luggage was put in, and in a few minutes
the vehicle disappeared with him.

He had not so much as turned his head. It was an act of simple faith
in Henchard's words--faith so simple as to be almost sublime. The young
sailor who had taken Susan Henchard on the spur of the moment and on the
faith of a glance at her face, more than twenty years before, was still
living and acting under the form of the grizzled traveller who had taken
Henchard's words on trust so absolute as to shame him as he stood.

Was Elizabeth-Jane to remain his by virtue of this hardy invention of a
moment? "Perhaps not for long," said he. Newson might converse with his
fellow-travellers, some of whom might be Casterbridge people; and the
trick would be discovered.

This probability threw Henchard into a defensive attitude, and instead
of considering how best to right the wrong, and acquaint Elizabeth's
father with the truth at once, he bethought himself of ways to keep the
position he had accidentally won. Towards the young woman herself his
affection grew more jealously strong with each new hazard to which his
claim to her was exposed.

He watched the distant highway expecting to see Newson return on foot,
enlightened and indignant, to claim his child. But no figure appeared.
Possibly he had spoken to nobody on the coach, but buried his grief in
his own heart.

His grief!--what was it, after all, to that which he, Henchard, would
feel at the loss of her? Newson's affection cooled by years, could not
equal his who had been constantly in her presence. And thus his jealous
soul speciously argued to excuse the separation of father and child.

He returned to the house half expecting that she would have vanished.
No; there she was--just coming out from the inner room, the marks of
sleep upon her eyelids, and exhibiting a generally refreshed air.

"O father!" she said smiling. "I had no sooner lain down than I napped,
though I did not mean to. I wonder I did not dream about poor Mrs.
Farfrae, after thinking of her so; but I did not. How strange it is that
we do not often dream of latest events, absorbing as they may be."

"I am glad you have been able to sleep," he said, taking her hand with
anxious proprietorship--an act which gave her a pleasant surprise.

They sat down to breakfast, and Elizabeth-Jane's thoughts reverted to
Lucetta. Their sadness added charm to a countenance whose beauty had
ever lain in its meditative soberness.

"Father," she said, as soon as she recalled herself to the outspread
meal, "it is so kind of you to get this nice breakfast with your own
hands, and I idly asleep the while."

"I do it every day," he replied. "You have left me; everybody has left
me; how should I live but by my own hands."

"You are very lonely, are you not?"

"Ay, child--to a degree that you know nothing of! It is my own fault.
You are the only one who has been near me for weeks. And you will come
no more."

"Why do you say that? Indeed I will, if you would like to see me."

Henchard signified dubiousness. Though he had so lately hoped that
Elizabeth-Jane might again live in his house as daughter, he would
not ask her to do so now. Newson might return at any moment, and what
Elizabeth would think of him for his deception it were best to bear
apart from her.

When they had breakfasted his stepdaughter still lingered, till the
moment arrived at which Henchard was accustomed to go to his daily work.
Then she arose, and with assurance of coming again soon went up the hill
in the morning sunlight.

"At this moment her heart is as warm towards me as mine is towards her,
she would live with me here in this humble cottage for the asking! Yet
before the evening probably he will have come, and then she will scorn
me!"

This reflection, constantly repeated by Henchard to himself, accompanied
him everywhere through the day. His mood was no longer that of the
rebellious, ironical, reckless misadventurer; but the leaden gloom of
one who has lost all that can make life interesting, or even tolerable.
There would remain nobody for him to be proud of, nobody to fortify him;
for Elizabeth-Jane would soon be but as a stranger, and worse. Susan,
Farfrae, Lucetta, Elizabeth--all had gone from him, one after one,
either by his fault or by his misfortune.

In place of them he had no interest, hobby, or desire. If he could have
summoned music to his aid his existence might even now have been borne;
for with Henchard music was of regal power. The merest trumpet or organ
tone was enough to move him, and high harmonies transubstantiated him.
But hard fate had ordained that he should be unable to call up this
Divine spirit in his need.

The whole land ahead of him was as darkness itself; there was nothing
to come, nothing to wait for. Yet in the natural course of life he might
possibly have to linger on earth another thirty or forty years--scoffed
at; at best pitied.

The thought of it was unendurable.

To the east of Casterbridge lay moors and meadows through which much
water flowed. The wanderer in this direction who should stand still
for a few moments on a quiet night, might hear singular symphonies from
these waters, as from a lampless orchestra, all playing in their sundry
tones from near and far parts of the moor. At a hole in a rotten weir
they executed a recitative; where a tributary brook fell over a stone
breastwork they trilled cheerily; under an arch they performed a
metallic cymballing, and at Durnover Hole they hissed. The spot at
which their instrumentation rose loudest was a place called Ten Hatches,
whence during high springs there proceeded a very fugue of sounds.

The river here was deep and strong at all times, and the hatches on this
account were raised and lowered by cogs and a winch. A patch led
from the second bridge over the highway (so often mentioned) to these
Hatches, crossing the stream at their head by a narrow plank-bridge. But
after night-fall human beings were seldom found going that way, the path
leading only to a deep reach of the stream called Blackwater, and the
passage being dangerous.

Henchard, however, leaving the town by the east road, proceeded to the
second, or stone bridge, and thence struck into this path of solitude,
following its course beside the stream till the dark shapes of the Ten
Hatches cut the sheen thrown upon the river by the weak lustre that
still lingered in the west. In a second or two he stood beside the
weir-hole where the water was at its deepest. He looked backwards and
forwards, and no creature appeared in view. He then took off his coat
and hat, and stood on the brink of the stream with his hands clasped in
front of him.

While his eyes were bent on the water beneath there slowly became
visible a something floating in the circular pool formed by the wash of
centuries; the pool he was intending to make his death-bed. At first
it was indistinct by reason of the shadow from the bank; but it emerged
thence and took shape, which was that of a human body, lying stiff and
stark upon the surface of the stream.

In the circular current imparted by the central flow the form was
brought forward, till it passed under his eyes; and then he perceived
with a sense of horror that it was HIMSELF. Not a man somewhat
resembling him, but one in all respects his counterpart, his actual
double, was floating as if dead in Ten Hatches Hole.

The sense of the supernatural was strong in this unhappy man, and
he turned away as one might have done in the actual presence of an
appalling miracle. He covered his eyes and bowed his head. Without
looking again into the stream he took his coat and hat, and went slowly
away.

Presently he found himself by the door of his own dwelling. To his
surprise Elizabeth-Jane was standing there. She came forward, spoke,
called him "father" just as before. Newson, then, had not even yet
returned.

"I thought you seemed very sad this morning," she said, "so I have come
again to see you. Not that I am anything but sad myself. But everybody
and everything seem against you so, and I know you must be suffering."

How this woman divined things! Yet she had not divined their whole
extremity.

He said to her, "Are miracles still worked, do ye think, Elizabeth? I
am not a read man. I don't know so much as I could wish. Peter, where
Petrarch offered up his crown of laurel before the altar. The same
day the Count of Anguillara caused letters patent to be delivered
to Petrarch, in which the senators, after a flattering preamble,
declared that he had merited the title of a great poet and historian;
that, to mark his distinction, they had put upon his head a laurel
crown, not only by the authority of Kong Robert, but by that of the
Roman Senate and people; and that they gave him, at Rome and
elsewhere, the privilege to read, to dispute, to explain ancient
books, to make new ones, to compose poems, and to wear a crown
according to his choice, either of laurel, beech, or myrtle, as
well as the poetic habit.

At that time a particular dress was affected by the poets.

Dante was buried in this costume.

Petrarch continued only a few days at Rome after his coronation;
but he had scarcely departed when he found that there were banditti
on the road waiting for him, and anxious to relieve him of any
superfluous wealth which he might have about him.

He was thus obliged to return to Rome with all expedition; but he
set out the following day, attended by a guard of armed men, and arrived
at Pisa on the 20th of April.

From Pisa he went to Parma, to see his friend Azzo Correggio, and soon
after his arrival he was witness to a revolution in that city of
which Azzo had the principal direction.

The Scalas, who held the sovereignty of Parma, had for some time
oppressed the inhabitants with exorbitant taxes, which excited
murmurs and seditions.

The Correggios, to whom the city was entrusted in the absence of
Mastino della Scala, profited by the public discontent, hoisted the
flag of liberty, and, on the 22nd of May, 1341, drove out the
garrison, and made themselves lords of the commonwealth.

On this occasion, Azzo has been accused of the worst ingratitude to
his nephews, Alberto and Mastino. But, if the people were oppressed, he
was surely justified in rescuing them from misgovernment.
To a great degree, also, the conduct of the Correggios sanctioned
the revolution.

They introduced into Parma such a mild and equitable administration
as the city had never before experienced.

Some exceptionable acts they undoubtedly committed; and when Petrarch
extols Azzo as another Cato, it is to be hoped that he did so with
some mental reservation.

Petrarch had proposed to cross the Alps immediately, and proceed
to Avignon; but he was prevailed upon by the solicitations of Azzo
to remain some time at Parma.

He was consulted by the Correggios on their most important affairs, and
was admitted to their secret councils.

In the present instance, this confidence was peculiarly agreeable
to him; as the four brothers were, at that time, unanimous in their
opinions; and their designs were all calculated to promote the
welfare of their subjects.

Soon after his arrival at Parma, he received one of those tokens,
of his popularity which are exceedingly expressive, though they
come from a humble admirer.

A blind old man, who had been a grammar-school master at Pontremoli,
came to Parma, in order to pay his devotions to the laureate.

The poor man had already walked to Naples, guided in his blindness by
his only son, for the purpose of finding Petrarch. The poet had left
that city; but King Robert, pleased with his enthusiasm, made him a
present of some money.

The aged pilgrim returned to Pontremoti, where, being informed that
Petrarch was at Parma, he crossed the Apennines, in spite of the
severity of the weather, and travelled thither, having sent before
him a tolerable copy of verses.

He was presented to Petrarch, whose hand he kissed with devotion and
exclamations of joy. One day, before many spectators, the blind man said
to Petrarch, "Sir, I have come far to see you." The bystanders laughed,
on which the old man replied, "I appeal to you, Petrarch, whether I do
not see you more clearly and distinctly than these men who have their
eyesight."

Petrarch gave him a kind reception, and dismissed him with a considerable
present.

The pleasure which Petrarch had in retirement, reading, and reflection,
induced him to hire a house on the outskirts of the city of Parma,
with a garden, beautifully watered by a stream, a _rus in urbe_,
as he calls it; and he was so pleased with this locality, that he
purchased and embellished it.

His happiness, however, he tells us, was here embittered by the
loss of some friends who shared the first place in his affections.

One of these was Tommaso da Messina, with whom he had formed a
friendship when they were fellow-students at Bologna, and ever since
kept up a familiar correspondence. They were of the same age, addicted
to the same pursuits, and imbued with similar sentiments.

Tommaso wrote a volume of Latin poems, several of which were published
after the invention of printing. Petrarch, in his Triumphs of Love,
reckons him an excellent poet.

This loss was followed by another which affected Petrarch still more
strongly. Having received frequent invitations to Lombes from the Bishop,
who had resided some time in his diocese, Petrarch looked forward with
pleasure to the time when he should revisit him.

But he received accounts that the Bishop was taken dangerously ill.

Whilst his mind was agitated by this news, he had the following dream,
which he has himself related. "Methought I saw the Bishop crossing the
rivulet of my garden alone. I was astonished at this meeting, and
asked him whence he came, whither he was going in such haste, and
why he was alone.

He smiled upon me with his usual complacency, and said, 'Remember that
when you were in Gascony the tempestuous climate was insupportable
to you. I also am tired of it. I have quitted Gascony, never to return,
and I am going to Rome.' At the conclusion of these words, he had reached
the end of the garden, and, as I endeavoured to accompany him, he
in the kindest and gentlest manner waved his hand; but, upon my
persevering, he cried out in a more peremptory manner, 'Stay!

you must not at present attend me.' Whilst he spoke these words, I
fixed my eyes upon him, and saw the paleness of death upon his
countenance. Seized with horror, I uttered a loud cry, which awoke
me. I took notice of the time. I told the circumstance to all my friends;
and, at the expiration of five-and-twenty days, I received accounts
of his death, which happened in the very same night in winch he had
appeared to me."
On a little reflection, this incident will not appear to be supernatural.
That Petrarch, oppressed as he was with anxiety about his friend, should
fall into fanciful reveries during his sleep, and imagine that he saw
him in the paleness of death, was nothing wonderful--nay, that he
should frame this allegory in his dream is equally conceivable.
The sleeper's imagination is often a great improvisatore. It forms
scenes and stories; it puts questions, and answers them itself,
all the time believing that the responses come from those whom it
interrogates.

Petrarch, deeply attached to Azzo da Correggio, now began to consider
himself as settled at Parma, where he enjoyed literary retirement in
the bosom of his beloved Italy. But he had not resided there a year,
when he was summoned to Avignon by orders he considered that he could
not disobey. Tiraboschi, and after him Baldelli, ascribe his return to
Avignon to the commission which he received in 1342, to go as advocate
of the Roman people to the new Pope, Clement VI., who had succeeded
to the tiara on the death of Benedict XII., and Petrarch's own words
coincide with what they say.

The feelings of joy with which Petrarch revisited Avignon, though to
appearance he had weaned himself from Laura, may be imagined. He had
friendship, however, if he had not love, to welcome him. Here he met,
with reciprocal gladness, his friends Socrates and Lælius, who had
established themselves at the court of the Cardinal Colonna. "Socrates,"
says De Sade, "devoted himself entirely to Petrarch, and even went with
him to Vaucluse." It thus appears that Petrarch had not given up his
peculium on the Sorgue, nor had any one rented the field and cottage
in his absence.

Benedict's successor, Clement VI., was conversant with the world, and
accustomed to the splendour of courts. Quite a contrast to the plain
rigidity of Benedict, he was courteous and munificent, but withal a
voluptuary; and his luxury and profusion gave rise to extortions, to
rapine, and to boundless simony. His artful and arrogant mistress, the
Countess of Turenne, ruled him so absolutely, that all places in
his gift, which had escaped the grasp of his relations, were disposed
of through her interest; and she amassed great wealth by the sale
of benefices.

The Romans applied to Clement VI., as they had applied to Benedict XII.,
imploring him to bring back the sacred seat to their capital; and they
selected Petrarch to be among those who should present their supplication.
Our poet appealed to his Holiness on this subject, both in prose and
verse. The Pope received him with smiles, complimented him on his
eloquence, bestowed on him the priory of Migliorino, but, for the
present, consigned his remonstrance to oblivion.

In this mission to Clement at Avignon there was joined with Petrarch
the famous Nicola Gabrino, better known by the name Cola di Rienzo,
who, very soon afterwards, attached the history of Rome to his
biography. He was for the present comparatively little known; but Petrarch,
thus coming into connection with this extraordinary person, was captivated
with his eloquence, whilst Clement complimented Rienzo, admitted
him daily to his presence, and conversed with him on the wretched state
of Rome, the tyranny of the nobles, and the sufferings of the people.

Cola and Petrarch were the two chiefs of this Roman embassy to the
Pope; and it appears that the poet gave precedency to the future tribune
on this occasion. They both elaborately exposed the three demands of
the Roman people, namely, that the Pope, already the acknowledged
patron of Rome, should assume the title and functions of its senator,
in order to extinguish the civil wars kindled by the Roman barons;
that he should return to his pontifical chair on the banks of the
Tiber; and that he should grant permission for the jubilee, instituted
by Boniface VIII., to be held every fifty years, and not at the end
of a century, as its extension to the latter period went far beyond
the ordinary duration of human life, and cut off the greater part
of the faithful from enjoying the institution.

Clement praised both orators, and conceded that the Romans should have a
jubilee every fifty years; but he excused himself from going to Rome,
alleging that he was prevented by the disputes between France and England.
"Holy Father," said Petrarch, "how much it were to be wished that
you had known Italy before you knew France."

"I wish I had," said the Pontiff, very coldly.

Petrarch gave vent to his indignation at the papal court in a writing,
entitled, "A Book of Letters without a Title," and in several severe
sonnets. The "Liber Epistolarum sine Titulo" contains, as it is printed
in his works (Basle edit., 1581), eighteen letters, fulminating as
freely against papal luxury and corruption as if they had been penned
by Luther or John Knox. From their contents, we might set down Petrarch
as the earliest preacher of the Reformation, if there were not, in the
writings of Dante, some passages of the same stamp. If these epistles
were really circulated at the time when they were written, it is
matter of astonishment that Petrarch never suffered from any other
flames than those of love; for many honest reformers, who have been
roasted alive, have uttered less anti-papal vituperation than our
poet; nor, although Petrarch would have been startled at a revolution
in the hierarchy, can it be doubted that his writings contributed
to the Reformation.

It must be remembered, at the same time, that he wrote against the
church government of Avignon, and not that of Rome.

He compares Avignon with the Assyrian Babylon, with Egypt under the
mad tyranny of Cambyses; or rather, denies that the latter empires
can be held as parallels of guilt to the western Babylon; nay, he
tells us that neither Avernus nor Tartarus can be confronted with
this infernal place.

"The successors of a troop of fishermen," he says, "have forgotten
their origin.

They are not contented, like the first followers of Christ, who gained
their livelihood by the Lake of Gennesareth, with modest habitations,
but they must build themselves splendid palaces, and go about
covered with gold and purple.

They are fishers of men, who catch a credulous multitude, and devour
them for their prey."

This "Liber Epistolarum" includes some descriptions of the debaucheries
of the churchmen, which are too scandalous for translation.

They are nevertheless curious relics of history.

In this year, Gherardo, the brother of our poet, retired, by his advice,
to the Carthusian monastery of Montrieux, which they had both visited
in the pilgrimage to Baume three years before. Gherardo had been
struck down with affliction by the death of a beautiful woman at Avignon,
to whom he was devoted. Her name and history are quite unknown, but it
may be hoped, if not conjectured, that she was not married, and could
be more liberal in her affections than the poet's Laura.

Amidst all the incidents of this period of his life, the attachment
of Petrarch to Laura continued unabated. It appears, too, that, since
his return from Parma, she treated him with more than wonted complacency.
He passed the greater part of the year 1342 at Avignon, and went to
Vaucluse but seldom and for short intervals.

In the meantime, love, that makes other people idle, interfered not
with Petrarch's fondness for study. He found an opportunity of
commencing the study of Greek, and seized it with avidity. That
language had never been totally extinct in Italy; but at the time
on which we are touching, there were not probably six persons in the
whole country acquainted with it. Dante had quoted Greek authors, but
without having known the Greek alphabet. The person who favoured
Petrarch with this coveted instruction was Bernardo Barlaamo, a Calabrian
monk, who had been three years before at Avignon, having come as envoy
from Andronicus, the eastern Emperor, on pretext of proposing a union
between the Greek and Roman churches, but, in reality for the
purpose of trying to borrow money from the Pope for the Emperor.

Some of Petrarch's biographers date his commencement of the study of
Greek from the period of Barlaamo's first visit to Avignon; but I am
inclined to postpone it to 1342, when Barlaamo returned to the
west and settled at Avignon. Petrarch began studying Greek by the reading
of Plato. He never obtained instruction sufficient to make him a good
Grecian, but he imbibed much of the spirit of Plato from the labour
which he bestowed on his works.

Could he have heard such conversation as passed he would
have been enlightened thus much:--

HE.--"You like walking this way, Miss Henchard--and is it not so?"
(uttered in his undulatory accents, and with an appraising, pondering
gaze at her).

SHE.--"O yes. I have chosen this road latterly. I have no great reason
for it."

HE.--"But that may make a reason for others."

SHE (reddening).--"I don't know that. My reason, however, such as it is,
is that I wish to get a glimpse of the sea every day."

HE.--"Is it a secret why?"

SHE ( reluctantly ).--"Yes."

HE (with the pathos of one of his native ballads).--"Ah, I doubt there
will be any good in secrets! A secret cast a deep shadow over my life.
And well you know what it was."

Elizabeth admitted that she did, but she refrained from confessing why
the sea attracted her. She could not herself account for it fully, not
knowing the secret possibly to be that, in addition to early marine
associations, her blood was a sailor's.

"Thank you for those new books, Mr. Farfrae," she added shyly. "I wonder
if I ought to accept so many!"

"Ay! why not? It gives me more pleasure to get them for you, than you to
have them!"

"It cannot."

They proceeded along the road together till they reached the town, and
their paths diverged.

Henchard vowed that he would leave them to their own devices, put
nothing in the way of their courses, whatever they might mean. If he
were doomed to be bereft of her, so it must be. In the situation which
their marriage would create he could see no locus standi for himself
at all. Farfrae would never recognize him more than superciliously; his
poverty ensured that, no less than his past conduct. And so Elizabeth
would grow to be a stranger to him, and the end of his life would be
friendless solitude.

With such a possibility impending he could not help watchfulness.
Indeed, within certain lines, he had the right to keep an eye upon her
as his charge. The meetings seemed to become matters of course with them
on special days of the week.

At last full proof was given him. He was standing behind a wall close
to the place at which Farfrae encountered her. He heard the young man
address her as "Dearest Elizabeth-Jane," and then kiss her, the girl
looking quickly round to assure herself that nobody was near.

When they were gone their way Henchard came out from the wall, and
mournfully followed them to Casterbridge. The chief looming trouble
in this engagement had not decreased. Both Farfrae and Elizabeth-Jane,
unlike the rest of the people, must suppose Elizabeth to be his actual
daughter, from his own assertion while he himself had the same belief;
and though Farfrae must have so far forgiven him as to have no objection
to own him as a father-in-law, intimate they could never be. Thus would
the girl, who was his only friend, be withdrawn from him by degrees
through her husband's influence, and learn to despise him.

Had she lost her heart to any other man in the world than the one he had
rivalled, cursed, wrestled with for life in days before his spirit was
broken, Henchard would have said, "I am content." But content with the
prospect as now depicted was hard to acquire.

There is an outer chamber of the brain in which thoughts unowned,
unsolicited, and of noxious kind, are sometimes allowed to wander for a
moment prior to being sent off whence they came. One of these thoughts
sailed into Henchard's ken now.

Suppose he were to communicate to Farfrae the fact that his betrothed
was not the child of Michael Henchard at all--legally, nobody's child;
how would that correct and leading townsman receive the information?
He might possibly forsake Elizabeth-Jane, and then she would be her
step-sire's own again.

Henchard shuddered, and exclaimed, "God forbid such a thing! Why should
I still be subject to these visitations of the devil, when I try so hard
to keep him away?"


43.


What Henchard saw thus early was, naturally enough, seen at a little
later date by other people. That Mr. Farfrae "walked with that bankrupt
Henchard's step-daughter, of all women," became a common topic in the
town, the simple perambulating term being used hereabout to signify a
wooing; and the nineteen superior young ladies of Casterbridge, who
had each looked upon herself as the only woman capable of making the
merchant Councilman happy, indignantly left off going to the church
Farfrae attended, left off conscious mannerisms, left off putting him in
their prayers at night amongst their blood relations; in short, reverted
to their normal courses.

Perhaps the only inhabitants of the town to whom this looming choice
of the Scotchman's gave unmixed satisfaction were the members of the
philosophic party, which included Longways, Christopher Coney, Billy
Wills, Mr. Buzzford, and the like. The Three Mariners having been, years
before, the house in which they had witnessed the young man and woman's
first and humble appearance on the Casterbridge stage, they took a
kindly interest in their career, not unconnected, perhaps, with visions
of festive treatment at their hands hereafter. Mrs. Stannidge, having
rolled into the large parlour one evening and said that it was a wonder
such a man as Mr. Farfrae, "a pillow of the town," who might have chosen
one of the daughters of the professional men or private residents,
should stoop so low, Coney ventured to disagree with her.

"No, ma'am, no wonder at all. 'Tis she that's a stooping to he--that's
my opinion. A widow man--whose first wife was no credit to him--what is
it for a young perusing woman that's her own mistress and well liked?
But as a neat patching up of things I see much good in it. When a man
have put up a tomb of best marble-stone to the other one, as he've
done, and weeped his fill, and thought it all over, and said to hisself,
'T'other took me in, I knowed this one first; she's a sensible piece for
a partner, and there's no faithful woman in high life now';--well, he
may do worse than not to take her, if she's tender-inclined."

Thus they talked at the Mariners. But we must guard against a too
liberal use of the conventional declaration that a great sensation was
caused by the prospective event, that all the gossips' tongues were set
wagging thereby, and so-on, even though such a declaration might lend
some eclat to the career of our poor only heroine. When all has been
said about busy rumourers, a superficial and temporary thing is the
interest of anybody in affairs which do not directly touch them. It
would be a truer representation to say that Casterbridge (ever excepting
the nineteen young ladies) looked up for a moment at the news, and
withdrawing its attention, went on labouring and victualling, bringing
up its children, and burying its dead, without caring a tittle for
Farfrae's domestic plans.

Not a hint of the matter was thrown out to her stepfather by Elizabeth
herself or by Farfrae either. Reasoning on the cause of their reticence
he concluded that, estimating him by his past, the throbbing pair were
afraid to broach the subject, and looked upon him as an irksome obstacle
whom they would be heartily glad to get out of the way. Embittered as he
was against society, this moody view of himself took deeper and deeper
hold of Henchard, till the daily necessity of facing mankind, and of
them particularly Elizabeth-Jane, became well-nigh more than he could
endure. His health declined; he became morbidly sensitive. He wished he
could escape those who did not want him, and hide his head for ever.

But what if he were mistaken in his views, and there were no necessity
that his own absolute separation from her should be involved in the
incident of her marriage?

He proceeded to draw a picture of the alternative--himself living like a
fangless lion about the back rooms of a house in which his stepdaughter
was mistress, an inoffensive old man, tenderly smiled on by Elizabeth,
and good-naturedly tolerated by her husband. It was terrible to his
pride to think of descending so low; and yet, for the girl's sake
he might put up with anything; even from Farfrae; even snubbings and
masterful tongue-scourgings. The privilege of being in the house she
occupied would almost outweigh the personal humiliation.

Whether this were a dim possibility or the reverse, the courtship--which
it evidently now was--had an absorbing interest for him.

Elizabeth, as has been said, often took her walks on the Budmouth Road,
and Farfrae as often made it convenient to create an accidental meeting
with her there. Two miles out, a quarter of a mile from the highway,
was the prehistoric fort called Mai Dun, of huge dimensions and many
ramparts, within or upon whose enclosures a human being as seen from
the road, was but an insignificant speck. Hitherward Henchard often
resorted, glass in hand, and scanned the hedgeless Via--for it was the
original track laid out by the legions of the Empire--to a distance of
two or three miles, his object being to read the progress of affairs
between Farfrae and his charmer.

One day Henchard was at this spot when a masculine figure came along
the road from Budmouth, and lingered. Applying his telescope to his eye
Henchard expected that Farfrae's features would be disclosed as usual.
But the lenses revealed that today the man was not Elizabeth-Jane's
lover.

It was one clothed as a merchant captain, and as he turned in the
scrutiny of the road he revealed his face. Henchard lived a lifetime the
moment he saw it. The face was Newson's.

Henchard dropped the glass, and for some seconds made no other movement.
Newson waited, and Henchard waited--if that could be called a waiting
which was a transfixture. But Elizabeth-Jane did not come. Something
or other had caused her to neglect her customary walk that day. Perhaps
Farfrae and she had chosen another road for variety's sake. But what did
that amount to? She might be here to-morrow, and in any case Newson, if
bent on a private meeting and a revelation of the truth to her, would
soon make his opportunity.

Then he would tell her not only of his paternity, but of the ruse by
which he had been once sent away. Elizabeth's strict nature would cause
her for the first time to despise her stepfather, would root out his
image as that of an arch-deceiver, and Newson would reign in her heart
in his stead.

But Newson did not see anything of her that morning. Having stood still
awhile he at last retraced his steps, and Henchard felt like a condemned
man who has a few hours' respite. When he reached his own house he found
her there.

"O father!" she said innocently. "I have had a letter--a strange
one--not signed. Somebody has asked me to meet him, either on the
Budmouth Road at noon today, or in the evening at Mr. Farfrae's. He says
he came to see me some time ago, but a trick was played him, so that he
did not see me. I don't understand it; but between you and me I think
Donald is at the bottom of the mystery, and that it is a relation of
his who wants to pass an opinion on his choice. But I did not like to go
till I had seen you. Shall I go?"

Henchard replied heavily, "Yes; go."

The question of his remaining in Casterbridge was for ever disposed of
by this closing in of Newson on the scene. Henchard was not the man to
stand the certainty of condemnation on a matter so near his heart. And
being an old hand at bearing anguish in silence, and haughty withal,
he resolved to make as light as he could of his intentions, while
immediately taking his measures.

He surprised the young woman whom he had looked upon as his all in this
world by saying to her, as if he did not care about her more: "I am
going to leave Casterbridge, Elizabeth-Jane."

"Leave Casterbridge!" she cried, "and leave--me?"

"Yes, this little shop can be managed by you alone as well as by us
both; I don't care about shops and streets and folk--I would rather get
into the country by myself, out of sight, and follow my own ways, and
leave you to yours."

She looked down and her tears fell silently. It seemed to her that this
resolve of his had come on account of her attachment and its probable
result. She showed her devotion to Farfrae, however, by mastering her
emotion and speaking out.

"I am sorry you have decided on this," she said with difficult firmness.
"For I thought it probable--possible--that I might marry Mr. Farfrae
some little time hence, and I did not know that you disapproved of the
step!"

"I approve of anything you desire to do, Izzy," said Henchard huskily.
"If I did not approve it would be no matter! I wish to go away. My
presence might make things awkward in the future, and, in short, it is
best that I go."

Nothing that her affection could urge would induce him to reconsider his
determination; for she could not urge what she did not know--that when
she should learn he was not related to her other than as a step-parent
she would refrain from despising him, and that when she knew what he had
done to keep her in ignorance she would refrain from hating him. It was
his conviction that she would not so refrain; and there existed as yet
neither word nor event which could argue it away.

"Then," she said at last, "you will not be able to come to my wedding;
and that is not as it ought to be."

"I don't want to see it--I don't want to see it!" he exclaimed; adding
more softly, "but think of me sometimes in your future life--you'll do
that, Izzy?--think of me when you are living as the wife of the richest,
the foremost man in the town, and don't let my sins, WHEN YOU KNOW THEM
ALL, cause 'ee to quite forget that though I loved 'ee late I loved 'ee
well."

"It is because of Donald!" she sobbed.

"I don't forbid you to marry him," said Henchard. "Promise not to quite
forget me when----" He meant when Newson should come.

She promised mechanically, in her agitation; and the same evening at
dusk Henchard left the town, to whose development he had been one of
the chief stimulants for many years. During the day he had bought a new
tool-basket, cleaned up his old hay-knife and wimble, set himself up in
fresh leggings, kneenaps and corduroys, and in other ways gone back
to the working clothes of his young manhood, discarding for ever the
shabby-genteel suit of cloth and rusty silk hat that since his decline
had characterized him in the Casterbridge street as a man who had seen
better days.

He went secretly and alone, not a soul of the many who had known him
being aware of his departure. Elizabeth-Jane accompanied him as far as
the second bridge on the highway--for the hour of her appointment with
the unguessed visitor at Farfrae's had not yet arrived--and parted from
him with unfeigned wonder and sorrow, keeping him back a minute or two
before finally letting him go. She watched his form diminish across the
moor, the yellow rush-basket at his back moving up and down with each
tread, and the creases behind his knees coming and going alternately
till she could no longer see them. Though she did not know it Henchard
formed at this moment much the same picture as he had presented when
entering Casterbridge for the first time nearly a quarter of a century
before; except, to be sure, that the serious addition to his years
had considerably lessened the spring to his stride, that his state
of hopelessness had weakened him, and imparted to his shoulders, as
weighted by the basket, a perceptible bend.

He went on till he came to the first milestone, which stood in the bank,
half way up a steep hill. He rested his basket on the top of the stone,
placed his elbows on it, and gave way to a convulsive twitch, which was
worse than a sob, because it was so hard and so dry.

"If I had only got her with me--if I only had!" he said. "Hard work
would be nothing to me then! But that was not to be. I--Cain--go alone
as I deserve--an outcast and a vagabond. But my punishment is not
greater than I can bear!"

He sternly subdued his anguish, shouldered his basket, and went on.

Elizabeth, in the meantime, had breathed him a sigh, recovered her
equanimity, and turned her face to Casterbridge. Before she had reached
the first house she was met in her walk by Donald Farfrae. This was
evidently not their first meeting that day; they joined hands without
ceremony, and Farfrae anxiously asked, "And is he gone--and did you tell
him?--I mean of the other matter--not of ours."

"He is gone; and I told him all I knew of your friend. Donald, who is
he?"

"Well, well, dearie; you will know soon about that. And Mr. Henchard
will hear of it if he does not go far."

"He will go far--he's bent upon getting out of sight and sound!"

She walked beside her lover, and when they reached the Crossways, or
Bow, turned with him into Corn Street instead of going straight on to
her own door. At Farfrae's house they stopped and went in.

Farfrae flung open the door of the ground-floor sitting-room, saying,
"There he is waiting for you," and Elizabeth entered. In the arm-chair
sat the broad-faced genial man who had called on Henchard on a memorable
morning between one and two years before this time, and whom the latter
had seen mount the coach and depart within half-an-hour of his arrival.
It was Richard Newson. The meeting with the light-hearted father from
whom she had been separated half-a-dozen years, as if by death, need
hardly be detailed. It was an affecting one, apart from the question of
paternity. Henchard's departure was in a moment explained. When the
true facts came to be handled the difficulty of restoring her to her
old belief in Newson was not so great as might have seemed likely,
for Henchard's conduct itself was a proof that those facts were true.
Moreover, she had grown up under Newson's paternal care; and even had
Henchard been her father in nature, this father in early domiciliation
might almost have carried the point against him, when the incidents of
her parting with Henchard had a little worn off.

Newson's pride in what she had grown up to be was more than he could
express. He kissed her again and again.

"I've saved you the trouble to come and meet me--ha-ha!" said Newson.
"The fact is that Mr. Farfrae here, he said, 'Come up and stop with me
for a day or two, Captain Newson, and I'll bring her round.' 'Faith,'
says I, 'so I will'; and here I am."

"Well, Henchard is gone," said Farfrae, shutting the door. It maybe
presumed that the next confessor who occupied an arm-chair in the
church would have somewhat of novelty to enliven what some priests have
stated to be the most wearisome of the work, namely, the hearing
of confessions in a nunnery.

This evening was passed in the house of the British Consul, who, in amusing
recognition of our nationalities, comprising, as they did, both branches
of the Anglo-Saxon race, treated us to Lemann's captain's-biscuit and
Boston crackers. Notwithstanding the interesting conversation of our
host, who had not allowed a residence of many years in a mind-rusting
city to impair his love of literature, a love dating from the time
when Praed edited the "Etonian," and Metius Tarpa contributed to
the "College Magazine," we were obliged to leave early.

Our arrangements for a very early start next morning were completed,
and a thirty miles' ride lay before us.

To save further allusion to them, it may be as well to describe these
arrangements, which were made for us by Signor Ragusa, landlord of the
Trinacria hotel.

A guide, Giuseppe Agnello by name, took upon himself the whole
responsibility of our board, lodging, and travelling, at a fixed rate
of forty-two (?) _carlini_ a head,--which sum, including his
_buonamano_ and return voyage from Syracuse or Messina, amounted to
about twenty francs each _per diem_. For this sum he furnished us with
good mules, a hearty breakfast at daybreak, cold meat and hard eggs
at noon, and a plentiful dinner or supper, call it which you choose,
on arriving at our night's quarters.

Agnello himself was cook, and proved a very tolerable one. This is
essential; for Spanish custom prevails in the inns, whose host
considers his duty accomplished when he has provided ample stabling
for the mules and dubious bedding for his biped guests.

[To be continued.]
* * * * *

THE PROFESSOR'S STORY.

CHAPTER XV.

PHYSIOLOGICAL.But you know best. I've provided for men and
shipmates times enough, but I'm as ignorant as a child how many glasses
of grog a woman, that's not a drinking woman, is expected to consume at
these ceremonies?"

"Oh, none--we'll no want much of that--O no!" said Farfrae, shaking his
head with appalled gravity. "Do you leave all to me."

When they had gone a little further in these particulars Newson, leaning
back in his chair and smiling reflectively at the ceiling, said, "I've
never told ye, or have I, Mr. Farfrae, how Henchard put me off the scent
that time?"

He expressed ignorance of what the Captain alluded to.

"Ah, I thought I hadn't. I resolved that I would not, I remember, not
to hurt the man's name. But now he's gone I can tell ye. Why, I came to
Casterbridge nine or ten months before that day last week that I found
ye out. I had been here twice before then. The first time I passed
through the town on my way westward, not knowing Elizabeth lived here.
Then hearing at some place--I forget where--that a man of the name of
Henchard had been mayor here, I came back, and called at his house one
morning. The old rascal!--he said Elizabeth-Jane had died years ago."

Elizabeth now gave earnest heed to his story.

"Now, it never crossed my mind that the man was selling me a packet,"
continued Newson. "And, if you'll believe me, I was that upset, that
I went back to the coach that had brought me, and took passage onward
without lying in the town half-an-hour. Ha-ha!--'twas a good joke, and
well carried out, and I give the man credit for't!"

Elizabeth-Jane was amazed at the intelligence. "A joke?--O no!" she
cried. "Then he kept you from me, father, all those months, when you
might have been here?"

The father admitted that such was the case.

"He ought not to have done it!" said Farfrae.

Elizabeth sighed. "I said I would never forget him. But O! I think I
ought to forget him now!"

Newson, like a good many rovers and sojourners among strange men and
strange moralities, failed to perceive the enormity of Henchard's crime,
notwithstanding that he himself had been the chief sufferer therefrom.
Indeed, the attack upon the absent culprit waxing serious, he began to
take Henchard's part.

"Well, 'twas not ten words that he said, after all," Newson pleaded.
"And how could he know that I should be such a simpleton as to believe
him? 'Twas as much my fault as his, poor fellow!"

"No," said Elizabeth-Jane firmly, in her revulsion of feeling. "He knew
your disposition--you always were so trusting, father; I've heard my
mother say so hundreds of times--and he did it to wrong you. After
weaning me from you these five years by saying he was my father, he
should not have done this."

Thus they conversed; and there was nobody to set before Elizabeth
any extenuation of the absent one's deceit. Even had he been present
Henchard might scarce have pleaded it, so little did he value himself or
his good name.

"Well, well--never mind--it is all over and past," said Newson
good-naturedly. "Now, about this wedding again."


44.


Meanwhile, the man of their talk had pursued his solitary way eastward
till weariness overtook him, and he looked about for a place of rest.
His heart was so exacerbated at parting from the girl that he could not
face an inn, or even a household of the most humble kind; and entering
a field he lay down under a wheatrick, feeling no want of food. The idea
of a number of persons clubbing together and helping each other
with their money and brains, and working together to produce an
article at the least possible cost, is of course a very excellent
one.

It would seem as though these methods would help to make the articles that
we daily need much cheaper to us, and that the cost of living would be
less.

But unfortunately it is not always so.

While Trusts could and should work for the benefit of the people, they
are too often used as a means to harm them.

When Trusts get so large that they include nearly all the manufacturers
of a special article, they are not only able to produce the article
at the least possible cost, but to say for how much it shall be sold.

A Trust is formed that the manufacturers may make a better article at
a lower cost--at least, that is what the Trusts say; but the danger
is that they may obtain entire control of the market, create a
monopoly, and having the public at their mercy, make the prices as
high as they please.

A monopoly is the sole power of dealing in any class of goods.

If there were no Trusts controlling the market, no one manufacturer would
dare to put his price too high, because another one would instantly step
in with lower prices, and take his trade away from him.

This would create what is called competition, because the first
manufacturer would not want to lose his trade, and would lower his
prices below the second manufacturer."Yes, we came up that way," he said, after ascertaining his bearings.
"She was carrying the baby, and I was reading a ballet-sheet. Then we
crossed about here--she so sad and weary, and I speaking to her hardly
at all, because of my cursed pride and mortification at being poor.
Then we saw the tent--that must have stood more this way." He walked to
another spot, it was not really where the tent had stood but it seemed
so to him. "Here we went in, and here we sat down. I faced this way.
Then I drank, and committed my crime. It must have been just on that
very pixy-ring that she was standing when she said her last words to me
before going off with him; I can hear their sound now, and the sound of
her sobs: 'O Mike! I've lived with thee all this while, and had nothing
but temper. Now I'm no more to 'ee--I'll try my luck elsewhere.'"

He experienced not only the bitterness of a man who finds, in looking
back upon an ambitious course, that what he has sacrificed in sentiment
was worth as much as what he has gained in substance; but the superadded
bitterness of seeing his very recantation nullified. He had been sorry
for all this long ago; but his attempts to replace ambition by love had
been as fully foiled as his ambition itself. His wronged wife had foiled
them by a fraud so grandly simple as to be almost a virtue. It was an
odd sequence that out of all this tampering with social law came that
flower of Nature, Elizabeth. Part of his wish to wash his hands of
life arose from his perception of its contrarious inconsistencies--of
Nature's jaunty readiness to support unorthodox social principles.

He intended to go on from this place--visited as an act of penance--into
another part of the country altogether. But he could not help thinking
of Elizabeth, and the quarter of the horizon in which she lived. Out of
this it happened that the centrifugal tendency imparted by weariness of
the world was counteracted by the centripetal influence of his love
for his stepdaughter. As a consequence, instead of following a straight
course yet further away from Casterbridge, Henchard gradually, almost
unconsciously, deflected from that right line of his first intention;
till, by degrees, his wandering, like that of the Canadian woodsman,
became part of a circle of which Casterbridge formed the centre. In
ascending any particular hill he ascertained the bearings as nearly as
he could by means of the sun, moon, or stars, and settled in his mind
the exact direction in which Casterbridge and Elizabeth-Jane lay.
Sneering at himself for his weakness he yet every hour--nay, every few
minutes--conjectured her actions for the time being--her sitting down
and rising up, her goings and comings, till thought of Newson's and
Farfrae's counter-influence would pass like a cold blast over a pool,
and efface her image. And then he would say to himself, "O you fool! All
this about a daughter who is no daughter of thine!"

At length he obtained employment at his own occupation of hay-trusser,
work of that sort being in demand at this autumn time. The scene of his
hiring was a pastoral farm near the old western highway, whose course
was the channel of all such communications as passed between the busy
centres of novelty and the remote Wessex boroughs. He had chosen the
neighbourhood of this artery from a sense that, situated here, though at
a distance of fifty miles, he was virtually nearer to her whose welfare
was so dear than he would be at a roadless spot only half as remote.

And thus Henchard found himself again on the precise standing which he
had occupied a quarter of a century before. Externally there was nothing
to hinder his making another start on the upward slope, and by his new
lights achieving higher things than his soul in its half-formed state
had been able to accomplish. But the ingenious machinery contrived
by the Gods for reducing human possibilities of amelioration to a
minimum--which arranges that wisdom to do shall come pari passu with
the departure of zest for doing--stood in the way of all that. He had
no wish to make an arena a second time of a world that had become a mere
painted scene to him.

Very often, as his hay-knife crunched down among the sweet-smelling
grassy stems, he would survey mankind and say to himself: "Here and
everywhere be folk dying before their time like frosted leaves, though
wanted by their families, the country, and the world; while I, an
outcast, an encumberer of the ground, wanted by nobody, and despised by
all, live on against my will!"

_" ringing too loud, methought, to be good metal; the "_Suoni la
tromba_" at that night's theatre,--the digging at the fortifications,--women
carrying huge stones,--men more willing to shout for them than
to do their own share,--Capuchin friars digging with the best,--finally,
the wild dance of men, women, cowled and bearded monks, all together,
brandishing their spades and shovels in cadence to the military
band. With this came to me the mild smile and doubtful shake of the
head of the good Admiral Baudin, and his prophetic remark,--"I have
seen much fighting in various parts of the world; and if these men
mean to fight, I cannot comprehend them."

While this mental diorama was unrolling, even Sicilian laziness had time
to reach the shore; and passing by a rough mass of rocks, where
our second cutter had once run too close for comfort, and the Friedland's
launch had upset and lost two men, we at length landed close to
the city gate.

A custom-house officer pounced on us for a fee, notwithstanding our
examination on first landing, and ("_uno avulso, non deficit aureus
alter_,") at the city gate, not thirty yards distant, a third
repeated the demand, equivalent to "Your money or your keys."

A capital breakfast at the Trinacria hotel was the fitting conclusion
to these oft-recorded troubles, and the gratifying news that the
Viceroy had just left the island for Naples obviated the necessity
of a formal visit, and left us free to enjoy the notabilities of
Palermo.

The plan of this beautiful city is very simple, being a tolerably
accurate square, surrounded by walls, of which the northern face
skirts the sea, and the southern faces the head of the lovely valley
in which the city stands,--the Golden Shell.

Two perfectly straight streets, intersecting in a small, but highly
ornamented _piazza_, traverse the city.

The Toledo, or Via Cassaro,--for it bears both these designations,--runs
from the sea to the Monreale gate, close to which is the Royal Palace,
and the Cathedral square opens from this street.

The Via Macqueda contains few buildings of interest except the
University.

Between the wall and the sea runs the magnificent Marina, a more beautiful
promenade than even the Villa Reale of Naples, having on the right the
low but picturesque headland of Bagaria, while on the left rise the all
but perpendicular rocks of Monte Pellegrino, once the impregnable
mountain-throne of Hamilcar Barcas, and later the spot where in a rude
cavern, now sheeted with marble and jasper, "from all the youth
of Sicily, Saint Rosalie retired to God."

The handicraftsmen of Palermo still occupy almost exclusively the
streets named after their trades,--an indication of immobility rarely
to be met with nowadays, though Rome displays it in a minor degree.

We first visited the University Museum. Numerous pictures, far beyond
the ordinary degree of badness, occupy the upper rooms, where the
only object of interest is a very fine and well-preserved bronze of
Hercules and the Pompeian Fawn, half life-size.
To intrude as little of his personality as possible upon a gay event
with which that personality could show nothing in keeping, he decided
not to make his appearance till evening--when stiffness would have worn
off, and a gentle wish to let bygones be bygones would exercise its sway
in all hearts.

He started on foot, two mornings before St. Martin's-tide, allowing
himself about sixteen miles to perform for each of the three days'
journey, reckoning the wedding-day as one. There were only two towns,
Melchester and Shottsford, of any importance along his course, and at
the latter he stopped on the second night, not only to rest, but to
prepare himself for the next evening.

Possessing no clothes but the working suit he stood in--now stained and
distorted by their two months of hard usage, he entered a shop to make
some purchases which should put him, externally at any rate, a little in
harmony with the prevailing tone of the morrow. A rough yet respectable
coat and hat, a new shirt and neck-cloth, were the chief of these; and
having satisfied himself that in appearance at least he would not now
offend her, he proceeded to the more interesting particular of buying
her some present.

What should that present be? He walked up and down the street, regarding
dubiously the display in the shop windows, from a gloomy sense that what
he might most like to give her would be beyond his miserable pocket.
At length a caged goldfinch met his eye. The cage was a plain and small
one, the shop humble, and on inquiry he concluded he could afford
the modest sum asked. A sheet of newspaper was tied round the little
creature's wire prison, and with the wrapped up cage in his hand
Henchard sought a lodging for the night.

Next day he set out upon the last stage, and was soon within the
district which had been his dealing ground in bygone years. Part of the
distance he travelled by carrier, seating himself in the darkest corner
at the back of that trader's van; and as the other passengers, mainly
women going short journeys, mounted and alighted in front of Henchard,
they talked over much local news, not the least portion of this being
the wedding then in course of celebration at the town they were nearing.
It appeared from their accounts that the town band had been hired for
the evening party, and, lest the convivial instincts of that body
should get the better of their skill, the further step had been taken of
engaging the string band from Budmouth, so that there would be a reserve
of harmony to fall back upon in case of need.

He heard, however, but few particulars beyond those known to him
already, the incident of the deepest interest on the journey being the
soft pealing of the Casterbridge bells, which reached the travellers'
ears while the van paused on the top of Yalbury Hill to have the drag
lowered. The time was just after twelve o'clock.

Those notes were a signal that all had gone well; that there had been
no slip 'twixt cup and lip in this case; that Elizabeth-Jane and Donald
Farfrae were man and wife.

Henchard did not care to ride any further with his chattering companions
after hearing this sound. Indeed, it quite unmanned him; and in
pursuance of his plan of not showing himself in Casterbridge street till
evening, lest he should mortify Farfrae and his bride, he alighted here,
with his bundle and bird-cage, and was soon left as a lonely figure on
the broad white highway.

It was the hill near which he had waited to meet Farfrae, almost two
years earlier, to tell him of the serious illness of his wife Lucetta.
The place was unchanged; the same larches sighed the same notes; but
Farfrae had another wife--and, as Henchard knew, a better one. He only
hoped that Elizabeth-Jane had obtained a better home than had been hers
at the former time.

He passed the remainder of the afternoon in a curious highstrung
condition, unable to do much but think of the approaching meeting with
her, and sadly satirize himself for his emotions thereon, as a Samson
shorn. Such an innovation on Casterbridge customs as a flitting of
bridegroom and bride from the town immediately after the ceremony, was
not likely, but if it should have taken place he would wait till their
return. To assure himself on this point he asked a market-man when near
the borough if the newly-married couple had gone away, and was promptly
informed that they had not; they were at that hour, according to all
accounts, entertaining a houseful of guests at their home in Corn
Street.

Henchard dusted his boots, washed his hands at the riverside, and
proceeded up the town under the feeble lamps. He need have made no
inquiries beforehand, for on drawing near Farfrae's residence it was
plain to the least observant that festivity prevailed within, and that
Donald himself shared it, his voice being distinctly audible in the
street, giving strong expression to a song of his dear native country
that he loved so well as never to have revisited it. Idlers were
standing on the pavement in front; and wishing to escape the notice of
these Henchard passed quickly on to the door.

It was wide open, the hall was lighted extravagantly, and people were
going up and down the stairs. His courage failed him; to enter footsore,
laden, and poorly dressed into the midst of such resplendency was to
bring needless humiliation upon her he loved, if not to court repulse
from her husband. Accordingly he went round into the street at the back
that he knew so well, entered the garden, and came quietly into the
house through the kitchen, temporarily depositing the bird and cage
under a bush outside, to lessen the awkwardness of his arrival.

Solitude and sadness had so emolliated Henchard that he now feared
circumstances he would formerly have scorned, and he began to wish that
he had not taken upon himself to arrive at such a juncture. With respect
to his little property at Vaucluse, he leaves it to the hospital in
that diocese. His last bequest is to his brother Gherardo, a Carthusian
of Montrieux. He desires his heir to write to him immediately after
his decease, and to give him the option of a hundred florins of
gold, payable at once, or by five or ten florins every year.

A few days after he had made this will, he set out for Rome.

The pleasure with which he undertook the journey made him suppose that
he could support it. But when he reached Ferrara he fell down in a fit,
in which he continued thirty hours, without sense or motion; and
it was supposed that he was dead. The most violent remedies were used
to restore him to consciousness, but he says that he felt them no more
than a statue.

Nicholas d'Este II., the son of Obizzo, was at that time Lord of
Ferrara, a friend and admirer of Petrarch. The physicians thought him
dead, and the whole city was in grief. The news spread to Padua,
Venice, Milan, and Pavia. Crowds came from all parts to his burial. Ugo
d'Este, the brother of Nicholas, a young man of much merit, who had an
enthusiastic regard for Petrarch, paid him unremitting attention
during his illness.

He came three or four times a day to see him, and sent messengers
incessantly to inquire how he was. Our poet acknowledged that he owed
his life to the kindness of those two noblemen.

When Petrarch was recovering, he was impatient to pursue his route,
though the physicians assured him that he could not get to Rome alive.

He would have attempted the journey in spite of their warnings, if his
strength had seconded his desires, but he was unable to sit his
horse.

They brought him back to Padua, laid on a soft seat on a boat. His
unhoped-for return caused as much surprise as joy in that city, where
he was received by its lords and citizens with as much joy as if he
had come back from the other world. To re-establish his health, he went
to a village called Arquà, situated on the slope of a hill famous for
the salubrity of its air, the goodness of its wines, and the beauty
of its vineyards. An everlasting spring reigns there, and the place
commands a view of pleasingly-scattered villas. Petrarch built himself
a house on the high ground of the village, and he added to the vines
of the country a great number of other fruit-trees.

He had scarcely fixed himself at Arquà, when he put his last hand to a
work which he had begun in the year 1367. To explain the subject of
this work, and the circumstances which gave rise to it, I
think it necessary to state what was the real cause of our poet's
disgust at Venice. He appeared there, no doubt, to lead an agreeable life
among many friends, whose society was delightful to him. But there reigned
in this city what Petrarch thought licentiousness in conversation. The
most ignorant persons were in the habit of undervaluing the finest geniuses.
It fills one with regret to find Petrarch impatient of a liberty
of speech, which, whatever its abuses may be, cannot be suppressed,
without crushing the liberty of human thought.

At Venice, moreover, the philosophy of Aristotle was much in
vogue, if doctrines could be called Aristotelian, which had been
disfigured by commentators, and still worse garbled by Averroes.

The disciples of Averroes at Venice insisted on the world having
been co-eternal with God, and made a joke of Moses and his book
of Genesis. "Would the eternal architect," they said, "remain
from all eternity doing nothing? Certainly not! The world's youthful
appearance is owing to its revolutions, and the changes it has
undergone by deluges and conflagrations." "Those free-thinkers,"
Petrarch tells us, "had a great contempt for Christ and his Apostles,
as well as for all those who did not bow the knee to the Stagirite.""Oh--it is--Mr. Henchard!" she said, starting back.

"What, Elizabeth?" he cried, as she seized her hand. "What do you
say?--Mr. Henchard? Don't, don't scourge me like that! Call me worthless
old Henchard--anything--but don't 'ee be so cold as this! O my maid--I
see you have another--a real father in my place. Then you know all; but
don't give all your thought to him! Do ye save a little room for me!"

She flushed up, and gently drew her hand away. "I could have loved you
always--I would have, gladly," she said. "But how can I when I know you
have deceived me so--so bitterly deceived me! You persuaded me that
my father was not my father--allowed me to live on in ignorance of the
truth for years; and then when he, my warm-hearted real father, came
to find me, cruelly sent him away with a wicked invention of my death,
which nearly broke his heart. O how can I love as I once did a man who
has served us like this!"

Henchard's lips half parted to begin an explanation. But he shut them up
like a vice, and uttered not a sound. How should he, there and then, set
before her with any effect the palliatives of his great faults--that he
had himself been deceived in her identity at first, till informed by
her mother's letter that his own child had died; that, in the second
accusation, his lie had been the last desperate throw of a gamester
who loved her affection better than his own honour? Among the many
hindrances to such a pleading not the least was this, that he did not
sufficiently value himself to lessen his sufferings by strenuous appeal
or elaborate argument.

Waiving, therefore, his privilege of self-defence, he regarded only his
discomposure. "Don't ye distress yourself on my account," he said, with
proud superiority. "I would not wish it--at such a time, too, as this.
I have done wrong in coming to 'ee--I see my error. But it is only for
once, so forgive it. I'll never trouble 'ee again, Elizabeth-Jane--no,
not to my dying day! Good-night. Good-bye!"

Then, before she could collect her thoughts, Henchard went out from her
rooms, and departed from the house by the back way as he had come; and
she saw him no more.


45.


It was about a month after the day which closed as in the last chapter.
Elizabeth-Jane had grown accustomed to the novelty of her situation, and
the only difference between Donald's movements now and formerly was that
he hastened indoors rather more quickly after business hours than he had
been in the habit of doing for some time.

Newson had stayed in Casterbridge three days after the wedding party
(whose gaiety, as might have been surmised, was of his making rather
than of the married couple's), and was stared at and honoured as became
the returned Crusoe of the hour. But whether or not because Casterbridge
was difficult to excite by dramatic returns and disappearances through
having been for centuries an assize town, in which sensational exits
from the world, antipodean absences, and such like, were half-yearly
occurrences, the inhabitants did not altogether lose their equanimity
on his account. On the fourth morning he was discovered disconsolately
climbing a hill, in his craving to get a glimpse of the sea from
somewhere or other. The contiguity of salt water proved to be such a
necessity of his existence that he preferred Budmouth as a place of
residence, notwithstanding the society of his daughter in the other
town. Thither he went, and settled in lodgings in a green-shuttered
cottage which had a bow-window, jutting out sufficiently to afford
glimpses of a vertical strip of blue sea to any one opening the sash,
and leaning forward far enough to look through a narrow lane of tall
intervening houses.

Elizabeth-Jane was standing in the middle of her upstairs parlour,
critically surveying some re-arrangement of articles with her head to
one side, when the housemaid came in with the announcement, "Oh, please
ma'am, we know now how that bird-cage came there."

In exploring her new domain during the first week of residence, gazing
with critical satisfaction on this cheerful room and that, penetrating
cautiously into dark cellars, sallying forth with gingerly tread to
the garden, now leaf-strewn by autumn winds, and thus, like a wise
field-marshal, estimating the capabilities of the site whereon she
was about to open her housekeeping campaign--Mrs. Donald Farfrae had
discovered in a screened corner a new bird-cage, shrouded in newspaper,
and at the bottom of the cage a little ball of feathers--the dead body
of a goldfinch. Nobody could tell her how the bird and cage had come
there, though that the poor little songster had been starved to death
was evident. The sadness of the incident had made an impression on her.
She had not been able to forget it for days, despite Farfrae's tender
banter; and now when the matter had been nearly forgotten it was again
revived.

"Oh, please ma'am, we know how the bird-cage came there. That farmer's
man who called on the evening of the wedding--he was seen wi' it in his
hand as he came up the street; and 'tis thoughted that he put it down
while he came in with his message, and then went away forgetting where
he had left it."

This was enough to set Elizabeth thinking, and in thinking she seized
hold of the idea, at one feminine bound, that the caged bird had been
brought by Henchard for her as a wedding gift and token of repentance.
He had not expressed to her any regrets or excuses for what he had done
in the past; but it was a part of his nature to extenuate nothing, and
live on as one of his own worst accusers. She went out, looked at the
cage, buried the starved little singer, and from that hour her heart
softened towards the self-alienated man.

When her husband came in she told him her solution of the bird-cage
mystery; and begged Donald to help her in finding out, as soon as
possible, whither Henchard had banished himself, that she might make her
peace with him; try to do something to render his life less that of
an outcast, and more tolerable to him. Although Farfrae had never so
passionately liked Henchard as Henchard had liked him, he had, on the
other hand, never so passionately hated in the same direction as his
former friend had done, and he was therefore not the least indisposed to
assist Elizabeth-Jane in her laudable plan.

But it was by no means easy to set about discovering Henchard. He had
apparently sunk into the earth on leaving Mr. and Mrs. Farfrae's door.
Elizabeth-Jane remembered what he had once attempted; and trembled.

But though she did not know it Henchard had become a changed man since
then--as far, that is, as change of emotional basis can justify such
a radical phrase; and she needed not to fear. In a few days Farfrae's
inquiries elicited that Henchard had been seen by one who knew him
walking steadily along the Melchester highway eastward, at twelve
o'clock at night--in other words, retracing his steps on the road by
which he had come.

This was enough; and the next morning Farfrae might have been discovered
driving his gig out of Casterbridge in that direction, Elizabeth-Jane
sitting beside him, wrapped in a thick flat fur--the victorine of the
period--her complexion somewhat richer than formerly, and an incipient
matronly dignity, which the serene Minerva-eyes of one "whose gestures
beamed with mind" made becoming, settling on her face. Having herself
arrived at a promising haven from at least the grosser troubles of her
life, her object was to place Henchard in some similar quietude before
he should sink into that lower stage of existence which was only too
possible to him now.

After driving along the highway for a few miles they made further
inquiries, and learnt of a road-mender, who had been working thereabouts
for weeks, that he had observed such a man at the time mentioned; he had
left the Melchester coachroad at Weatherbury by a forking highway which
skirted the north of Egdon Heath. Into this road they directed the
horse's head, and soon were bowling across that ancient country
whose surface never had been stirred to a finger's depth, save by
the scratchings of rabbits, since brushed by the feet of the earliest
tribes. The tumuli these had left behind, dun and shagged with heather,
jutted roundly into the sky from the uplands, as though they were the
full breasts of Diana Multimammia supinely extended there.

They searched Egdon, but found no Henchard. Farfrae drove onward, and by
the afternoon reached the neighbourhood of some extension of the heath
to the north of Anglebury, a prominent feature of which, in the form of
a blasted clump of firs on a summit of a hill, they soon passed under.
That the road they were following had, up to this point, been Henchard's
track on foot they were pretty certain; but the ramifications which now
began to reveal themselves in the route made further progress in the
right direction a matter of pure guess-work, and Donald strongly advised
his wife to give up the search in person, and trust to other means for
obtaining news of her stepfather. They were now a score of miles at
least from home, but, by resting the horse for a couple of hours at a
village they had just traversed, it would be possible to get back to
Casterbridge that same day, while to go much further afield would reduce
them to the necessity of camping out for the night, "and that will make
a hole in a sovereign," said Farfrae. She pondered the position, and
agreed with him.

Not a hand labored more diligently. Under the broad-brimmed peasant-hat
was a sad countenance,--under the peasant-dress a heavily burdened spirit.
Silent, all day, she labored. She was alone at noon under the
river-bordered trees, eating her coarse fare without zest, but with a
conscience,--to sustain the body that was born to toil. But in the
maelström of doubt and anxiety was she tossed and whirled, and she
cared not for her life.
To be rid of it, now for the first time, she felt might be a
blessing.

What purpose, indeed, had she? She turned her thought from this question,
but it would not let her alone.

Again and yet again she turned to meet it, and thus would surely have
at length its satisfying answer.

John Leclerc might pass through this ordeal, as from the first she had
expected of him. But she listened to the speech of many of her fellow-laborers.
Some prophecies which had a sound incredible escaped them. She did not
credit them, but they tormented her. They contended with one another.
John, some foretold, would certainly retract. One day of public whipping
would suffice. When the blood began to flow, he would see his duty
clearer! The men were prophesying from the depths and the abundance of
their self-consciousness. Others speculated on the final result of the
executed sentence. They believed that the "obstinacy" and courage of
the man would provoke his judges, and the executors of his sentence,--that
with rigor they would execute it,--and that, led on by passion,
and provoked by such as would side with the victim, the sentence
would terminate in his destruction.

Sooner or later, nothing but his life would be found ultimately to satisfy
his enemies.

It might be so, thought Jacqueline Gabrie. What then? what then?

--she thought. There was inspiration to the girl in that cruel
prophecy. Her lifework was not ended.

If Christ was the One Ransom, and it did truly fall on Him, and not
on her, to care for those beloved, departed from this life, her
work was still for love.

John Leclerc disabled or dead, who should care then for his
aged mother?

Who should minister to him?

Who, indeed, but Jacqueline?

Living or dying, she said to herself, with grand enthusiasm,--living or
dying, let him do the Master's pleasure! She also was here to serve that
Master; and while in spiritual things he fed the hungry, clothed the
naked, gave the cup of living water, visited the imprisoned, and the
sick of sin, she would bind herself to minister to him and his old
mother in temporal things; so should he live above all cares save
those of heavenly love. She could support them all by her diligence,
and in this there would be joy.

She thought this through her toil; and the thought was its own reward.

It strengthened her like an angel,--strengthened heart and faith. She
labored as no other peasant-woman did that day,--like a beast of burden,
unresisting, patient,--like a holy saint, so peaceful and assured, so
conscious of the present very God!

[To be continued.] 
* * * * * 

MIDSUMMER.
Around this lovely valley rise The purple hills of Paradise.
Oh, softly on yon banks of haze Her rosy face the Summer lays!
Becalmed along the azure sky, The argosies of cloudland lie, Whose
shores, with many a shining rift, Far off their pearl-white peaks
uplift.
Through all the long midsummer-day The meadow-sides are sweet with
hay.Then
I went on further, and some neighbourly woodmen lent me a bed, and a
chair, and a few other traps, and we brought 'em here, and made him
as comfortable as we could. But he didn't gain strength, for you see,
ma'am, he couldn't eat--no appetite at all--and he got weaker; and
to-day he died. One of the neighbours have gone to get a man to measure
him."

"Dear me--is that so!" said Farfrae.

As for Elizabeth, she said nothing.

"Upon the head of his bed he pinned a piece of paper, with some writing
upon it," continued Abel Whittle. "But not being a man o' letters, I
can't read writing; so I don't know what it is. I can get it and show
ye."

They stood in silence while he ran into the cottage; returning in a
moment with a crumpled scrap of paper. On it there was pencilled as
follows:--


MICHAEL HENCHARD'S WILL

"That Elizabeth-Jane Farfrae be not told of my death, or made to grieve
on account of me.
"& that I be not bury'd in consecrated ground.
"& that no sexton be asked to toll the bell.
"& that nobody is wished to see my dead body.
"& that no murners walk behind me at my funeral.
"& that no flours be planted on my grave,
"& that no man remember me.
"To this I put my name.

"MICHAEL HENCHARD"


"What are we to do?" said Donald, when he had handed the paper to her.

She could not answer distinctly. "O Donald!" she cried at last through
her tears, "what bitterness lies there! O I would not have minded so
much if it had not been for my unkindness at that last parting!... But
there's no altering--so it must be."

The princes with whom they were leagued had taken into their pay the
mercenary troops of Count Lando, which composed a very formidable
force; and further, the Emperor promised to appear very soon in Italy
at the head of an army.

Some months afterwards, Petrarch wrote to the Doge of Venice, saying,
that he saw with grief that the hearts of the Venetians were shut
against wise counsels, and he then praises John Visconti as a lover
of peace and humanity.All was over at last, even her regrets for having misunderstood him on
his last visit, for not having searched him out sooner, though
these were deep and sharp for a good while. From this time forward
Elizabeth-Jane found herself in a latitude of calm weather, kindly and
grateful in itself, and doubly so after the Capharnaum in which some of
her preceding years had been spent. As the lively and sparkling emotions
of her early married live cohered into an equable serenity, the finer
movements of her nature found scope in discovering to the narrow-lived
ones around her the secret (as she had once learnt it) of making limited
opportunities endurable; which she deemed to consist in the cunning
enlargement, by a species of microscopic treatment, of those minute
forms of satisfaction that offer themselves to everybody not in positive
pain; which, thus handled, have much of the same inspiring effect upon
life as wider interests cursorily embraced.

Her teaching had a reflex action upon herself, insomuch that she thought
she could perceive no great personal difference between being respected
in the nether parts of Casterbridge and glorified at the uppermost end
of the social world. Admiral Bunce thought that the search-light system
which is in use on all our war-vessels would make it extremely difficult
for a blockade runner to pass a modern blockade, and it was to test
this that the game of blockade running was tried off Charleston.

When all was in readiness for the game to begin, the _New York_,
which was the flagship, sent up a rocket, warning the other vessels
to be on the lookout for the blockade runner.
The flagship of a fleet is always the one which has the admiral on
board.But her strong sense that
neither she nor any human being deserved less than was given, did not
blind her to the fact that there were others receiving less who had
deserved much more. And in being forced to class herself among the
fortunate she did not cease to wonder at the persistence of the
unforeseen, when the one to whom such unbroken tranquility had been
accorded in the adult stage was she whose youth had seemed to teach that
happiness was but the occasional episode in a general drama of pain.