Produced by Charles Keller and David Widger


CAST UPON THE BREAKERS

by Horatio Alger, Jr.


CHAPTER I.


A FAITHLESS GUARDIAN.


"Well, good by, Rodney! I leave school tomorrow. I am going to learn a
trade."

"I am sorry to part with you, David. Couldn't you stay another term?"

"No: my uncle says I must be earning my living, and I have a chance to
learn the carpenter's trade."

"Where are you going?"

"To Duffield, some twenty miles away. I wish I were in your shoes. You
have no money cares, and can go on quietly and complete your education."

"I don't know how I am situated, David. I only know that my guardian
pays my expenses at this boarding school."

"Yes, you are a star boarder, and have the nicest room in the
institution. I am only a poor day scholar. Still I feel thankful that I
have been allowed to remain as long as I have. Who is your guardian?"

"A Mr. Benjamin Fielding, of New York."

"Is he a business man?"

"I believe so."

"Do you know how much you will inherit when you come of age?" 
COMMISSIONER. I thought not.

Remember, please, I don't want you to get any of the popular ideas
about the corruption of our best society.

Slit skirts cause as much harm. [Stroebel bows.]

What is her name?

STROEBEL. Ninon De Hauteville. But her real name is Therese
Hochstetter.

COMMISSIONER. H-a-u-t-e V-i-l-l-e?

STROEBEL.

She comes of a good family. Her father was a Peruvian consul. When he lost
his money, she married a consular secretary.

He divorced her four years ago.

COMMISSIONER. Indeed. So she is a person of refinement.

STROEBEL.

But she has ...

COMMISSIONER. ... A demoralizing influence. I know all about that.

Tell me, what made you arrest her?

STROEBEL [with importance]. Eight days ago, I received a letter severely
rebuking the police because her place was tolerated. ...

COMMISSIONER. Who was the letter from?

STROEBEL [hesitatingly']. It was ... really ... anonymous.

COMMISSIONER. I hope that you are very careful about anonymous
communications.

STROEBEL. Generally, I pay little attention to them.

But this letter was so full of details, I simply had to consider it. Of
course, only as a hint and I intended to get proof. I gave it to
Schmuttermaier and told him to keep the Hochstetter woman under
strict surveillance.

Saturday at noon we obtained positive evidence,
COMMISSIONER. Then?

STROEBEL. Then I ordered Schmuttermaier to raid the place ...

COMMISSIONER. ... During which you found a diary in her apartments?

STROEBEL.

Yes, Commissioner; a diary with the names of her visitors.

The dates and their social standing. Everything.

COMMISSIONER. Have you finished reading it?

STROEBEL. No, sir. I just glanced at it. I only got it from
Schmuttermaier an hour ago.

I was not in the office yesterday.

COMMISSIONER [thoughtfully].

It's too late to do anything to-day.
[Consulting his watch.]

Let me see. Bring me an exact report of all important names contained
in the diary ... at ten to-morrow morning.

STROEBEL. Yes, Commissioner, at ten o'clock.

COMMISSIONER. And remember, it's very important that you make this
report personally.

Don't let the clerk see the diary. It has not yet been in his hands?

STROEBEL [going to his desk]. No. It's locked up in my desk.
COMMISSIONER. Time enough to bring it to me tomorrow morning when
you make your report.
STROEBEL. How do you want me to get my data, Commissioner? Shall I
summon the important people involved?
COMMISSIONER [with emphasis]. Only ... the important ... names
...
that's all. By the way, how far have you gone in the case? Have you
taken any further steps?
STROEBEL. No. I will examine the Hochstetter woman in a little
while. ...
COMMISSIONER. And Schmuttermaier? Has he orders to make any further
raids?

STROEBEL. Not yet. I want to read the diary first.
COMMISSIONER. Above all, I do not want him to act without instructions.
People of no importance like to do important things.
STROEBEL. Yes, Commissioner. Your orders will be carried
out.
COMMISSIONER. Orders? I never give orders. You have your duties to
perform. I don't care to tell you what to do. ... But there must
be no further raids until I have seen the diary.
STROEBEL. Certainly, Commissioner.
COMMISSIONER. At the same time, don't neglect your duty.
STROEBEL. I will do everything necessary for the promotion of public
decency.
COMMISSIONER [who has been pacing the room, turns suddenly.] Public
decency? Very well, very well. ... [Short pause.] We occupy a most
peculiar position Do we not, Herr Stroebel?I have never told you
the amount, but I will say now that it was about fifty thousand dollars.
Until two years since I kept it intact but then began a series of
reverses in which my own fortune was swallowed up. In the hope of
relieving myself I regret to say that I was tempted to use your money.
That went also, and now of the whole sum there remains but enough to
pay the balance of your school bills, leaving you penniless. How much I
regret this I cannot tell you. I shall leave New York at once. I do not
care at present to say where I shall go, but I shall try to make good
the loss, and eventually restore to you your lost fortune. I may be
successful or I may not. I shall do my best and I hope in time to have
better news to communicate.

One thing I am glad to say. I have a casket containing your mother's
jewels. These are intact. I shall send you the casket by express,
knowing that you will wish to keep them out of regard for your mother's
memory. In case you are reduced to the necessity of pawning or selling
them, I am sure that your mother, could she be consulted, would advise
you to do so. This would be better than to have you suffer from want.

There is nothing further for me to write except to repeat my regret, and
renew my promise to make up your lost fortune if I shall ever to able to
do so. Your Guardian, BENJAMIN FIELDING.


Rodney read this like one dazed. In an instant he was reduced from the
position of a favorite of fortune to a needy boy, with his living to
make.

He could not help recalling what had passed between his friend David and
himself earlier in the day. Now he was as poor as David--poorer, in fact
for David had a chance to learn a trade that would yield him a living,
while he was utterly without resources, except in having an unusually
good education.

"Well," said Dr. Sampson, "have you read your letter?"

"Yes, sir."

"Your guardian wrote to me also. This is his letter," and he placed the
brief epistle in Rodney's hands.


DR. SAMPSON--I have written my ward, Rodney Ropes, an important
letter which he will show you. The news which it contains will make it
necessary for him to leave school. I inclose a check for one hundred and
twenty five dollars. Keep whatever is due you, and give him the balance.
BENJAMIN FIELDING.


"I have read the letter, but I don't know what it means," said Dr.
Sampson. "Can you throw any light upon it?"

"Here is my letter, doctor. You can read it for yourself."

Dr. Sampson's face changed as he read Rodney's letter. It changed and
hardened, and his expression became quite different from that to which
Rodney had been accustomed.

"This is a bad business, Ropes," said the doctor in a hard tone.

He had always said Rodney before.

"Yes, sir."

"That was a handsome fortune which your father left you."

"Yes, sir. I never knew before how much it amounted to."

"You only learn when you have lost it. Mr. Fielding has treated you
shamefully."

"Yes, sir, I suppose he has, but he says he will try to make it up to me
in the future."

"Pish! that is all humbug. Even if he is favored by fortune you will
never get back a cent."

"I think I shall, sir."

"You are young. You do not know the iniquities of business men. I do."

"I prefer to hope for the best."

"Just as you please."

"Have you anything more to say to me?"

"Only that I will figure up your account and see how much money is to
come to you out of the check your guardian has sent. You can stay here
till Monday; then you will find it best to make new arrangements."

"Very well, sir."

Rodney left the room, realizing that Dr. Sampson's feelings had been
changed by his pupil's reverse of fortune.

It was the way of the world, but it was not a pleasant way, and Rodney
felt depressed.


CHAPTER II.


THE CASKET OF JEWELS.


It was not till the latter part of the afternoon that the casket
arrived. Rodney was occupied with a recitation, and it was only in
the evening that he got an opportunity to open it. There was a pearl
necklace, very handsome, a pair of bracelets, two gold chains, some
minor articles of jewelry and a gold ring.

A locket attracted Rodney's notice, and he opened it. It contained the
pictures of his father and mother.

His father he could barely remember, his mother died before he was old
enough to have her image impressed upon his memory. He examined the
locket and his heart was saddened. He felt how different his life would
have been had his parents lived.

He had never before realized the sorrow of being alone in the world.
Misfortune had come upon him, and so far as he knew he had not a friend.
Even Dr. Sampson, who had been paid so much money on his account, and
who had always professed so great friendship for him, had turned cold.

As he was standing with the locket in his hand there was a knock at the
door.

"Come in!" he called out.

The door opened and a stout, coarse looking boy, dressed in an expensive
manner, entered.

"Good evening, John," said Rodney, but not cordially.

Next to himself, John Bundy, who was the son of a wealthy saloon keeper
in the city of New York, had been a favorite with Dr. Sampson.

If there was anything Dr. Sampson bowed down to and respected it was
wealth, and Mr. Bundy, senior, was reputed to be worth a considerable
fortune.

In Rodney's mood John Bundy was about the last person whom he wanted to
see.

"Ha!" said John, espying the open casket, "where did you get all that
jewelry?"

"It contains my mother's jewels," said Rodney gravely.

"You never showed it to me before."

"I never had it before. It came to me by express this afternoon."

"It must be worth a good pile of money," said John, his eyes gleaming
with cupidity.

"I suppose it is."

"Have you any idea what it is worth?"

"I have no thought about it."

"What are you going to do with it? It won't be of use to you, especially
the diamond earrings," he added, with a coarse laugh.

"No," answered Rodney shortly.

"My eyes, wouldn't my mother like to own all this jewelry. She's fond of
ornament, but pa won't buy them for her."

Rodney did not answer.

"I say, Ropes, I mustn't forget my errand. Will you do me a favor?"

"What is it?"

"Lend me five dollars till the first of next month. My allowance comes
due then. Now I haven't but a quarter left."

"What makes you apply to me, Bundy?"

"Because you always have money. I don't suppose you are worth as much as
my father, but you have more money for yourself than I have."

"I have had, perhaps, but I haven't now."

"Why, what's up? What has happened?"

"I have lost my fortune."

John whistled. This was his way of expressing amazement.

"Why, what have you been doing? How could you lose your fortune?"

"My guardian has lost it for me. That amount to the same thing."

"When did you hear that?"

"This morning."

"Is that true? Are you really a poor boy?"

"Yes."

John Bundy was astonished, but on the whole he was not saddened. In the
estimation of the school Rodney had always ranked higher than he, and
been looked upon as the star pupil in point of wealth.

Now that he was dethroned John himself would take his place. This would
be gratifying, though just at present, and till the beginning of the
next month, he would be distressed for ready money.

"Well, that's a stunner!" he said. "How do you feel about it? Shall you
stay in school?"

"No; I can't afford it. I must get to work."

"Isn't there anything left--not a cent?"

"There may be a few dollars."

"And then," said Bundy with a sudden thought, "there is this casket of
jewelry. You can sell it for a good deal of money."

"I don't mean to sell it."

"Then you're a fool; that's all I've got to say."

"I don't suppose you will understand my feeling in the matter, but these
articles belonged to my mother. They are all I have to remind me of her.
I do not mean to sell them unless it is absolutely necessary."

"I would sell them quicker'n a wink," said Bundy. "What's the good of
keeping them?"

"We won't discuss the matter," said Rodney coldly.

"Do you mind my telling the other boys about your losing your money?"

"No; it will be known tomorrow at any rate; there is no advantage in
concealing it."

A heavy step was heard outside. It stopped before the door.

"I must be getting," said Bundy, "or I'll get into trouble."

It was against the rule at the school for boys to make calls upon each
other in the evening unless permission were given.

John Bundy opened the door suddenly, and to his dismay found himself
facing the rigid figure of Dr. Sampson, the principal.

"How do you happen to be here, Bundy?" asked the doctor sternly.

"Please, sir, I was sympathizing with Ropes on his losing his money,"
said Bundy with ready wit.

"Very well! I will excuse you this time."

"I'm awful sorry for you, Ropes," said Bundy effusively.

"Thank you," responded Rodney.

"You can go now," said the principal. "I have a little business with
Master Ropes."

"All right, sir. Good night."

"Good night."

"Won't you sit down, Dr. Sampson?" said Rodney politely, and he took the
casket from the chair.

"Yes, I wish to have five minutes' conversation with you. So these are
the jewels, are they?"

"Yes, sir."

"They seem to be quite valuable," went on the doctor, lifting the pearl
necklace and poising it in his fingers. "It will be well for you to have
them appraised by a jeweler."

"It would, sir, if I wished to sell them, but I mean to keep them as
they are."

"I would hardly advise it. You will need the money. Probably you do not
know how near penniless you are."

"No, sir; I don't know."

"Your guardian, as you are aware, sent me a check for one hundred and
twenty five dollars. I have figured up how much of this sum is due to
me, and I find it to be one hundred and thirteen dollars and thirty
seven cents."

"Yes, sir," said Rodney indifferently.

"This leaves for you only eleven dollars and sixty three cents. You
follow me, do you not?"

"Yes, sir."

"Have you any money saved up from your allowance?"

"A few dollars only, sir."

"Ahem! that is a pity. You will need all you can raise. But of course
you did not anticipate what has occurred?"

"No, sir."

"I will throw off the thirty seven cents," said the principal
magnanimously, "and give you back twelve dollars."

"I would rather pay you the whole amount of your bill," said Rodney.

"Ahem! Well perhaps that would be more business-like. So you don't wish
to part with any of the jewelry, Ropes?"

"No, sir."

"I thought, perhaps, by way of helping you, I would take the earrings,
and perhaps the necklace, off your hands and present them to Mrs.
Sampson."

Rodney shuddered with aversion at the idea of these precious articles,
which had once belonged to his mother, being transferred to the stout
and coarse featured consort of the principal.

"I think I would rather keep them," he replied.

"Oh well, just as you please," said Dr. Sampson with a shade of
disappointment for he had no idea of paying more than half what the
articles were worth. "If the time comes when you wish to dispose of them
let me know."

Rodney nodded, but did not answer in words.

"Of course, Ropes," went on the doctor in a perfunctory way, "I am very
sorry for you. I shall miss you, and, if I could afford it, I would tell
you to stay without charge. But I am a poor man."

"Yes," said Rodney hastily, "I understand. I thank you for your words
but would not under any circumstances accept such a favor at your
hands."

"I am afraid you are proud, Ropes. Pride is--ahem--a wrong feeling."

"Perhaps so, Dr. Sampson, but I wish to earn my own living without being
indebted to any one."

"Perhaps you are right, Ropes. I dare say I should feel so myself. When
do you propose leaving us?"

"Some time tomorrow, sir."

"I shall feel sad to have you go. You have been here so long that
you seem to me like a son. But we must submit to the dispensations of
Providence--" and Dr. Sampson blew a vigorous blast upon his red silk
handkerchief. "I will give you the balance due in the morning."

"Very well, sir."

Rodney was glad to be left alone. He had no faith in Dr. Sampson's
sympathy. The doctor had the reputation of being worth from thirty to
forty thousand dollars, and his assumption of being a poor man Rodney
knew to be a sham.

He went to bed early, for tomorrow was to be the beginning of a new life
for him.


CHAPTER III.


A STRANGE DISAPPEARANCE.


When it was generally known in the school that Rodney was to leave
because he had lost his property much sympathy was felt and expressed
for him.

Though he had received more than ordinary attention from the principal
on account of his pecuniary position and expectations, this had not
impaired his popularity. He never put on any airs and was on as cordial
relations with the poorest student as with the richest.

"I'm awfully sorry you're going, Rodney," said more than one. "Is it
really true that you have lost your property?"

"Yes, it is true."

"Do you feel bad about it?"

"I feel sorry, but not discouraged."

"I say, Rodney," said Ernest Rayner, in a low voice, calling Rodney
aside, "are you very short of money?"

"I haven't much left, Ernest."

"Because I received five dollars last week as a birthday present. I
haven't spent any of it. You can have it as well as not."

Rodney was much moved. "My dear Ernest," he said, putting his arm
caressingly around the neck of the smaller boy, "you are a true friend.
I won't forget your generous offer, though I don't need to accept it."

"But are you sure you have money enough?" asked Ernest.

"Yes, I have enough for the present. By the time I need more I shall
have earned it."

There was one boy, already introduced, John Bundy, who did not share in
the general feeling of sympathy for Rodney. This was John Bundy.

He felt that Rodney's departure would leave him the star pupil and give
him the chief social position in school. As to scholarship he was not
ambitious to stand high in that.

"I say, Ropes," he said complacently, "I'm to have your room after
you're gone."

"I congratulate you," returned Rodney. "It is an excellent room."

"Yes, I s'pose it'll make you feel bad. Where are you going?"

"I hope you will enjoy it as much as I have done."

"Oh yes, I guess there's no doubt of that. I'm going to get pa to send
me some nice pictures to hang on the wall. When you come back here on a
visit you'll see how nice it looks."

"I think it will be a good while before I come here on a visit."

"Yes. I s'pose it'll make you feel bad. Where are you going?"

"To the City of New York."

"You'll have to live in a small hall bedroom there."

"Why will I?"

"Because you are poor, and it costs a good deal of money to live in New
York. It'll be a great come down."

"It will indeed, but if I can earn enough to support me in plain style
I won't complain. I suppose you'll call and see me when you come to New
York?"

"Perhaps so, if you don't live in a tenement house. Pa objects to my
going to tenement houses. There's no knowing what disease there may be
in them."

"It is well to be prudent," said Rodney, smiling.

It did not trouble him much to think he was not likely to receive a call
from his quondan schoolmate.

"Here is the balance of your money, Ropes," said Dr. Sampson, drawing
a small roll of bills from his pocket, later in the day. "I am quite
willing to give you the odd thirty seven cents."

"Thank you, doctor, but I shan't need it."

"You are poorly provided. Now I would pay you a good sum for some of
your mother's jewelry, as I told you last evening."

"Thank you," said Rodney hastily, "but I don't care to sell at present."

"Let me know when you are ready to dispose of the necklace."

Here the depot carriage appeared in the street outside and Rodney with
his gripsack in one hand and the precious casket in the other, climbed
to a seat beside the driver.

His trunk he left behind, promising to send for it when he had found a
new boarding place.

There was a chorus of good byes. Rodney waved his handkerchief in
general farewell, and the carriage started for the depot.

"Be you goin' for good?" asked Joel, the driver, who knew Rodney well
and felt friendly to him.

"Yes, Joel."

"It's kind of sudden, isn't it?"

"Yes."

"What makes you go?"

"Bad news, Joel."

"Be any of your folks dead?"

"It is not death. I haven't any 'folks.' I'm alone in the world.
It's because I've lost my property and am too poor to remain in school."

"That's too bad," said the driver in a tone of sympathy. "Where are you
goin'?"

"To the city."

"Are you goin' to work?"

"Yes, I shall have to."

"If you was a little older you might get a chance to drive a street car,
but I s'pose you're too young."

"Yes, I don't think they would take me."

"I've thought sometimes I should like such a chance myself," said Joel.
"I've got tired of the country. I should like to live in the city where
there's theaters, and shows, and such like. Do you know what the drivers
on street cars get?"

"No, I never heard."

"I wish you'd find out and let me know. You can send the letter to Joel
Phipps, Groveton. Then find out if it's easy to get such a chance."

"I will. I shall be glad to oblige you."

"You always was obligin', Rodney. I've asked Jack Bundy to do it--you
know his folks live in the city--but he never would. He's a mighty
disagreeable boy. He never liked you."

"Didn't he?"

"No, I surmise he was jealous of you. He used to say you put on so many
airs it made him sick."

"I don't think any of the other boys would say that."

"No, but they could say it of him. Do you think his father is rich?"

"I have always heard that he was."

"I hope he's better about paying his debt than Jack. I lent him twenty
five cents a year ago and I never could get it back."

The distance from the school to the station was a mile. Joel fetched the
carriage round with a sweep and then jumped off, opened the door, and
then helped the passengers to disembark, if that word is allowable.

"How soon does the train start, Joel?" asked Rodney.

"In about five minutes."

"Then I had better purchase my ticket without delay."

"Don't forget to ask about horse car drivers!"

"No, I won't. I should like to have you come to New York. I know no one
there, and I should feel glad to see a familiar face."

The train came up in time, and Rodney was one of half a dozen passengers
who entered the cars.

He obtained a place next to a stout man dressed in a pepper and salt
suit.

"Is this seat engaged?" asked Rodney.

"Yes--to you," and his fellow passenger laughed.

Rodney laughed too, for he saw that the remark was meant to be jocose.

He put his gripsack on the floor at his feet, but held the casket in his
lap. He did not like to run any risk with that.

"Are you a drummer?" asked the stout man, with a glance at the casket.

"No, sir."

"I thought you might be, and that THAT might contain your samples."

"No, sir. That is private property."

He had thought of telling what it contained, but checked himself. He
knew nothing of his companion, and was not sure how far it might be safe
to trust a stranger.

"I used to be a drummer myself--in the jewelry line--" continued his
companion, "and I carried a box just like that."

"Ah, indeed! Then you are not in that business now?"

"No, I got tired of it. I deal in quite a different article now."

"Indeed?"

"Suburban lot."

"You don't happen to have any of them with you?"

The stout man roared with laughter, giving Rodney the impression that he
had said a very witty thing.

"That's a good one," he remarked, "the best I've heard for a long time.
No, I haven't any of the lots with me, but I've got a circular. Just
cast your eye over that," and he drew a large and showy prospectus from
his pocket.

"If you should be looking for a good investment," he continued, "you
can't do any better than buy a lot at Morton Park. It is only eighteen
miles from the city and is rapidly building up. You can buy lot on easy
installments, and I will myself pick one out for you that is almost sure
to double in value in a year or two."

"Thank you," said Rodney, "but I shall have to invest my money, if I get
any, in a different way."

"As what for instance?"

"In board and lodging."

"Good. That is even more necessary than real estate."

"How long have you been in the business, sir?"

"About six months."

"And how does it pay?"

"Very well, if you know how to talk."

"I should think you might do well, then."

"Thank you. I appreciate the compliment. What business are you going
into, that is, if you are going to the city?"

"I am going to the city, but I have no idea yet what I shall do."

"Perhaps you may like to become an agent for our lots. I shall be ready
to employ you as sub agent if you feel disposed."

"Thank you, sir. If you will give me your card, I may call upon you."

The short man drew from his card case a business card. It bore the name


ADIN WOODS. ROYAL BUILDING. NASSAU ST. Morton Park Lots.


"Come to see me at any time," he said, "and we will talk the matter
over."

Here the train boy came along and Rodney bought a copy of Puck, while
the agent resumed the perusal of a copy of a magazine. For an hour
the cars ran smoothly. Then there was a sudden shock causing all the
passengers to start to their feet.

"We're off the track!" shouted an excitable person in front of Rodney.

The instinct of self preservation is perhaps stronger than any other.
Rodney and his seat mate both jumped to their feet and hurried to the
door of the car, not knowing what was in store for them.

But fortunately the train had not been going rapidly. It was approaching
a station and was "slowing up." So, though it had really run off the
track, there was not likely to be any injury to the passengers.

"We are safe," said Adin Woods. "The only harm done is the delay. I hope
that won't be long. Suppose we go back to our seat." They returned to
the seat which they had jointly occupied.

Then Rodney made an alarming discovery. "My casket!" he exclaimed.
"Where is it?"

"What did you do with it?"

"Left it on the seat."

"It may have fallen to the floor."

Rodney searched for it in feverish excitement, but his search was vain.
THE CASKET HAD DISAPPEARED!


CHAPTER IV.


IN PURSUIT OF A THIEF.


"Were the contents of the casket valuable?" asked the land agent.

"Yes; it contained my mother's jewels, all the more valuable because she
is dead," replied Rodney.

"Were they of much intrinsic worth?"

"They must be worth several hundred dollars at least."

"Then they must be found," said Adin Woods energetically. "They have
evidently been taken by some passenger during the five minutes we were
away from our seat."

"Were you inquiring about the casket?" asked a lady sitting opposite.

"Yes, madam. Can you give any information about it?"

"Just after you left your seat the man that sat behind you rose and
reaching over for it went to the rear end of the car and got out."

"I wish you had stopped him, madam."

"He was so cool about it that I thought he might be a friend of the
young gentleman."

"I didn't know him. He must have been a thief."

"What was his appearance, madam?" asked the lot agent.

"He was a thin, dark complexioned man, with side whiskers coming half
way down his cheeks."

"And you say he got out of the rear end of the car?"

"Yes, sir."

"He won't get on the train again," said the agent turning to Rodney. "He
thinks the casket valuable enough to pay him for the interruption of his
journey."

"What shall I do then?" asked Rodney, feeling helpless and at a loss
which way to turn.

"Follow him," said the agent briefly. "He will probably stop over in the
village a day and resume his journey tomorrow."

"Even if I found him I am afraid I shouldn't know how to deal with him."

"Then I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll stop over with you and help you
make it hot for him. I've had a spite against thieves ever since I had a
valuable overcoat stolen in one of my journeys."

"I shall feel very much obliged to you, Mr. Woods, but won't it
interfere with your business?"

"Not materially. If we succeed in overhauling the rascal I shall feel
sufficiently repaid for the small interruption. But come on, we can't
afford to linger here while he is carrying off the plunder."

"I don't know how I can repay you, Mr. Woods," said Rodney gratefully.

"You can buy a lot of me when you get rich enough."

"I will certainly do so, though I am afraid it will be a long time
first."

"You don't know what good fortune may be in store for you. Did you
notice, madam, in which direction the thief went?"

"Yes, I was looking out of the window. He went over the road to the
left."

"That leads to the village. The very fact that Hilton Fenley was attacking
you in your absence prejudiced us against him at the outset.

There were other matters, which I need not go into now, which
converted our dislike into active suspicion.

"But it is only fair that you should understand how narrow was your
escape from arrest.

Had the local police been in sole charge I am bound to say you would
have passed this night in a cell. Luckily for you, Mr.

Furneaux and I set our faces against the notion of your guilt from the
beginning.

Long before we saw you, we were keeping an eye on the real criminal.

When you did appear, your conduct only confirmed our belief in your
innocence."

"I told you why, you will remember," piped Furneaux.

But Robert Fenley said no word. He was stunned. He began to feel ill
again, and made for his room. Sylvia had not been seen since she heard
of Mrs. Fenley's death. The detectives collected their belongings, which
with the gun and a bag packed with various articles taken from
Hilton Fenley's suite--the reel, for instance, a suit of clothes
bearing marks, possibly of moss, and the leather portfolio of
papers--were entrusted to Farrow and another constable for safe
conveyance.

Accompanied by Trenholme, they walked to Easton. On the way the artist
supplied sufficient details of his two meetings with Sylvia to put
them in possession of the main incidents.

Furneaux, though suffering from a splitting headache, had recovered
the use of a vinegary tongue.

"I was mistaken in you," he chuckled. "You're a rank impressionist.

Indeed, you're a neo-impressionist, a get-busy-and-do-it-now master of
art.... But she's a mighty nice girl, isn't she?"
"Meaning Miss Manning?" said Trenholme coldly.

"No. Eliza."

"Sorry. I misunderstood."
"_'Cré nom!_ You've got it bad."

"Got what bad?"

"The matrimonial measles.

You're sickening for them now.

One of the worst symptoms in the man is his curt refusal to permit
anybody else to admire one bright particular star of womanhood.

If the girl hears another girl gushing over the young man, she's
ready to scratch her eyes out.

By Jove! It'll be many a day before you forget your visit to Roxton Park
this morning, or yesterday morning, or whenever it was.

"I'm mixed.

Life has been very strenuous during the past fifteen hours.

If you love me, James, put my poor head under a pump, or I'll be
dreaming that our lightning sketch performer here, long John
Trenholme, late candidate for the P.

R.

A., but now devoted to the cult of Hymen, is going to marry Eliza, of
the White Horse, and that the fair Sylvia is pledged to cook us a
dinner tomorrow night--or is it tonight?

Oh, Gemini, how my head aches!"
"Don't mind a word he's saying, Mr.

Trenholme," put in Winter.

"Hilton Fenley hit him a smack with that rifle, and it developed
certain cracks already well marked.

But he's a marvelously 'cute little codger when you make due allowance
for his peculiar ways, and he has a queer trick of guessing at future
events with an accuracy which has surprised me more times than I
can keep track of."

Trenholme was too good a fellow not to put up with a little mild
chaff of that sort.

He looked at the horizon, where the faint streaks of another dawn
were beginning to show in the northeast.

"Please God," he said piously, "if I'm deemed worthy of such a boon,
I'll marry Sylvia Manning, or no other woman. And, when the chance
offers, Eliza of the White Horse shall cook you a dinner to make
your mouth water.

Thus will Mr. Furneaux's dream come true, because dreams go by
contraries!"

CHAPTER XVII

THE SETTLEMENT

Winter tried to persuade his mercurial-spirited friend to snatch a
few hours' rest.

The Police Inspector obligingly offered a bed; but short of a positive
order, which the Superintendent did not care to give, nothing would
induce Furneaux to let go his grip on the Fenley case.

"Wait till the doctor's car comes back," he urged.

"The chauffeur will carry the story a few pages farther.

At any rate, we shall know where he dropped Fenley, and that is
something."

Winter produced a big cigar, and Trenholme felt in his pockets for pipe
and tobacco.

"No, you don't, young man," said the big man firmly. "You're going
straight to your room in the White Horse.

And I'll tell you why. From what I have heard about the Fenleys,
they were a lonely crowd.

Their friends were business associates and they seem to own no
relatives; while Miss Manning, if ever she possessed any, has been
carefully shut away from them.

The position of affairs in The Towers will be strained tomorrow. The elder
Fenleys are dead; one son may be in jail--or, if he isn't, might
as well be--and the other, as soon as he feels his feet, will be
giving himself airs.

Now, haven't you a mother or an aunt who would come to Roxton and
meet Miss Manning, and perhaps help her to get away from a house
which is no fit place for her to live in at present?"

"My mother can be here within an hour of the opening of the telegraph
office," said Trenholme.

"Write the telegram now, and the constable on night duty will attend
to it.

When your mother arrives, tell her the whole story, and send her
to Miss Manning.

Don't go yourself. You might meet Robert Fenley, and he would certainly
be cantankerous.

If your mother resembles you, she will have no difficulty in arranging
matters with the young lady."

"If I resemble my mother, I am a very fortunate man," said the artist
simply.

"I thought it would be that way," was the smiling comment.

"One other thing: I don't suppose for a minute that Miss Manning is
acquainted with a reputable firm of solicitors.

If she is, tell her to consult them, and get them to communicate
with Scotland Yard, where I shall supply or leave with others certain
information which should be acted on promptly in her behalf.

If, as I expect, she knows no lawyer, see that she takes this card
to the address on it and give Messrs.

Gibb, Morris & Gibb my message. You understand?"

"Yes."

"Finally, she must be warned to say nothing of this to Robert Fenley.

In fact, the less that young spark knows about her affairs the better.

After tonight's adventure that hint is hardly needed, perhaps; but
it is always well to be explicit.

Now off with you."
"I'm not tired. Can I be of any service?"

"Yes. I want you to be ready for a long day's work in Miss Manning's
interests. Mr. Furneaux and I may be busy elsewhere.

Unquestionably we shall not be in Roxton; we may even be far from
London.

Miss Manning will want a friend.

See to it that you start the day refreshed by some hours of sleep."'

"Good-by," said Trenholme promptly. "Sorry you two will miss Eliza's
dinner.

But that is only a feast deferred. By the way, if I leave Roxton I'll send
you my address."

"Don't worry about that," smiled the Superintendent. "Our friend the
Inspector here will keep tab on you.

Before you're finished with inquests, police courts and assizes
you'll wish you'd never heard the name of Fenley.... By Jove, I nearly
forgot to caution you. Not a word to the press.... Phi-ew!" he whistled.
"If they get on to this story in its entirety, won't they publish
chapter and verse!"

So Trenholme went out into the village street and walked to his
quarters in the White Horse Inn.

It was not yet two o'clock, but dawn had already silvered the
northeast arc of the horizon.

Just twenty hours earlier an alarm clock had waked him into such a
day as few have experienced.

Many a man has been brought unexpectedly into intimate touch with
a tragedy of no personal concern, but seldom indeed do the Fates
contrive that death and love and high adventure should be so closely
bound, and packed pellmell into one long day.

Only to think of it!

When he stole upstairs with the clock to play a trick on Eliza, he had
never seen Sylvia nor so much as heard her name spoken.

When he sang of love and the dawn while striding homeward through the park,
he had seen her, yet did not know her, and had no hope of ever
seeing her again.

When he worked at her picture, he had labored at the idealization
of a dream which bade fair to remain a dream.

And now by some magic jugglery of ordinary events, each well within the
bounds of credibility, yet so overwhelmingly incredible in their
sequence and completeness, he was Sylvia's lover, her defender, her
trusted knight-errant.

Even the concluding words of that big, round-headed, sensible detective
had brought a fantasy nearer attainment.

If Sylvia were rich, why then a youngster who painted pictures for a
living would hardly dare think of marrying her. But if Sylvia were
poor--and Winter's comments seemed to show that these financiers had
been financing themselves at her expense--what earthly reason was
there that she should not become Mrs.

John Trenholme at the earliest practicable date? None that he could
conceive.

Why, a fellow would have to be a fool indeed who did not know when
he had met the one woman in the world! He had often laughed at other
fellows who spoke in that way about the chosen one.

Now he understood that they had been wise and he foolish.

But suppose Sylvia--oh, dash it, no need to spoil one's brief rest by
allowing a beastly doubt like that to rear its ugly head!

One thing he was sure of--Robert Fenley could never be a rival; and
Fenley, churl that he was, had known her for years, and could
hardly be pestering her with his attentions if she were pledged to
another man.

Moreover he, John, newly in love and tingling with the thrill of
it, fancied that Sylvia would not have clung to him with such
complete confidence when the uproar arose in the park if----Well,
well--the history of the Fenley case will never be brought to an
end if any attempt is made to analyze the effects of love's first
vigorous growth in the artistic temperament.

About a quarter past three Dr.

Stern's little landaulet was halted at the same cross-road where a
policeman had stopped it nearly three hours earlier.

"That you, Tom?"

said the constable. "You're wanted at the station."
"What station?" inquired the chauffeur.

"The police station."

"Am I, by gum? What's up?"
"The Scotland Yard men want you."
"But what for? I haven't run over so much as a hen."
"Oh, it's all right.

You're wanted as a witness. Never mind why.
_They_'ll tell you.

The doctor is there, smoking a cigar till you turn up."
"I left him at Joe Bland's."

"Joe Bland has left Boxton for Kingdom Come. And The Towers is half
burnt down.

Things haven't been happening while you were away, have they?"

"Not half," said Tom.

"No, nor quarter," grinned the policeman to himself when the car
moved on.

"Wait till you know who you took on that trip, and why, and _your_
sparkin'-plug'll be out of order for a week."

It was as well that the chauffeur had not the slightest notion that
he had conveyed a murderer to London when he began to tell his tale
to his employer and the detectives.

They wanted a plain, unvarnished story, and got it.

On leaving the offices in Bishopsgate Street, Fenley asked to be
driven to Gloucester Mansions, Shaftesbury Avenue.

Tom had seen the last of him standing on the pavement, with a
suitcase on the ground at his feet.

He was wearing an overcoat and a derby hat, and was pressing an
electric bell.

"He tol' me I needn't wait, so I made for the Edgware Road; an'
that's all," said Tom.

"Cool as a fish!" commented Furneaux.

"Well, sir, I didn't get hot over it," said the surprised chauffeur.

"I'm not talking about you. Could you manage another run to town? Are
you too tired?"

The mystified Tom looked at his employer. Dr. Stern laughed.

"Go right ahead!" he cried.

"I'm thinking of buying a new car. A hundred and twenty miles in one
night should settle the matter so far as this old rattletrap is
concerned."

"Of course we'll pay you, doctor," said Winter.

"That's more than Hilton Fenley will ever do, I'm afraid."
Tom tickled his scalp under his cap.

"Mr. Hilton gemme a fiver," he said rather sheepishly. There was
something going on that he did not understand, but he thought it
advisable to own up with regard to that lordly tip.

"You're a lucky fellow," said the doctor. "What about petrol? And do you
feel able to take these gentlemen to London?"
Tom was a wiry person.

In five minutes he was on the road again bound for Scotland Yard
this time.

As a matter of form a detective was sent to Gloucester Mansions, and
came back with the not unforeseen news that Mrs. Garth was very angry
at being disturbed at such an unearthly hour. No; she had seen nothing
of Mr. Hilton Fenley since the preceding afternoon. Some one had rung
the bell about two o'clock that morning, but the summons was not
repeated; and she had not inquired into it, thinking that a mistake
had been made and discovered by the blunderer.

Sheldon was brought from his residence. He had a very complete report
concerning Mrs. Lisle; but that lady's shadowy form need not flit across
the screen, since Robert Fenley's intrigues cease to be of interest. He
had dispatched her to France, urging that he must be given a free hand
until the upset caused by his father's death was put straight. Suffice
it to say that when he secured some few hundreds a year out of the residue
of the estate, he married Mrs. Lisle, and possibly became a henpecked
husband.

The Garths, too, mother and daughter, may be dropped. There was no getting
any restitution by them of any share of the proceeds of the robbery.
They vowed they were innocent agents and received no share of the
plunder.

Miss Eileen Garth has taken up musical comedy, if not seriously at least
zealously, and commenced in the chorus with quite a decent show
of diamonds.

London was scoured next morning for traces of Hilton Fenley, but with no
result.

This again fell in with anticipation. The brain that could plan the
brutal murder of a father was not likely to fail when contriving
its own safety. Somehow both Winter and Furneaux were convinced that
Fenley would make for Paris, and that once there it would be
difficult to lay hands on him.

Furneaux, be it remembered, had gone very thoroughly into the bond
robbery, and had reached certain conclusions when Mortimer Fenley
stopped the inquiry.

In pursuance of this notion they resolved to watch the likeliest
ports.

Furneaux took Dover, Winter Newhaven and Sheldon Folkestone.

They did not even trouble to search the outgoing trains at the
London termini, though a detailed description of the fugitive was
circulated in the ordinary way.

Each man traveled by the earliest train to his destination and,
having secured the aid of the local police, mounted guard over the
gangways.

Furneaux drew the prize, which was only a just compensation for a
sore head and sorer feelings.

He had changed his clothing, but adopted no other disguise than a
traveling-cap pulled well down over his eyes.

He took it for granted that Fenley, like every other intelligent
person going abroad, was aware that all persons leaving the country
are subjected to close if unobtrusive scrutiny as they step from
pier to ship.

Fenley, therefore, would have a sharp eye for the quietly dressed
men who stand close to the steamer officials at the head of the
gangway, but would hardly expect to find Nemesis hidden in the
purser's cabin.

Through a porthole Furneaux saw every face and, on the third essay,
while the fashionable crowd which elects to pay higher rates for
the eleven o'clock express from Victoria was struggling like less
exalted people to be on board quickly, he found his man in the thick
of the press.

Fenley had procured a new suit, a Homburg hat, and some baggage.

In fact, it was learned afterwards that he hired a taxi at Charing
Cross, breakfasted at Canterbury, and made his purchases there at
leisure, before driving on to Dover.

He passed between two uniformed policemen with the utmost
self-possession, even pausing there momentarily to give some
instruction to a porter about the disposition of his portmanteaux.

That was a piece of pure bravado, perhaps a final test of his own
highly strung nerves.

The men, of course, were not watching him or any other individual
in the hurrying throng.

They had a sharp eye for Furneaux, however, and when he nodded and
hurried from his lair one of them grabbed Fenley by the shoulder.

At that instant a burly German, careless of any one's comfort but
his own, and somewhat irritated by Fenley's halt at the mouth of
the gangway, brushed forward.

His weight, and Fenley's quick flinching from that ominous clutch,
loosed the policeman's hold, and the murderer was free once more
for a few fleeting seconds.

The constable pressed on, shoving the other man against the rail.

"Here.

I want you," he said, and the quietly spoken words rang in Fenley's
ears as if they had been bellowed through a megaphone.

Owing to his own delay, there was a clear space in front.

He took that way of escape instinctively, though he knew he was
doomed, since the ship's officers would seize him at the policeman's
call.

Then he saw Furneaux, whose foot was already on the lower end of the
gangway.

That, then, was the end! He was done for now. All that was left of life
was the ghastly progress of the law's ceremonial until he was
brought to the scaffold and hanged amidst a whole nation's loathing.

His eyes met Furneaux's in a glare of deadly malice.

Then he looked into eternity with daring despair, and dived headlong over
the railing into the sea.

That awesome plunge created tremendous excitement among the bystanders
on quay and ship.

It was seen by hundreds.

Men shouted, women screamed, not a few fainted.

A sailor on the lower deck ran with a life belt, but Fenley never rose.
His body was carried out by the tide, and was cast ashore some
days later at the foot of Shakespeare's Cliff.

Then the poor mortal husk made some amends for the misdeeds of a
warped soul.

In the pockets were found a large amount of negotiable scrip, and
no small sum in notes and gold, with the result that Messrs.

Gibb, Morris & Gibb were enabled to recover the whole of Sylvia Manning's
fortune, while the sale of the estate provided sufficiently for
Robert Fenley's future.

The course of true love never ran smoother than for John and Sylvia.

They were so obviously made for each other, they had so determinedly
flown to each other's arms, that it did not matter tuppence to
either whether Sylvia were rich or poor.

But it mattered a great deal when they came to make plans for a
glorious future.

What a big, grand world it was, to be sure! And how much there was to see
in it! The Continent, America, the gorgeous East!

They mapped out tours that would find them middle-aged before they neared
England again.

Does life consist then, in flitting from hotel to hotel, from train to
steamship? Not it.

"So he wanted to clear himself with you?"

"Yes; he asked where I was staying."

"I hope you didn't tell him."

"I only said I was at a boarding house on West Fourteenth Street, but
didn't mention the number."

"He thinks you have the casket with you, and that he may get possession
of it. It is well that you stored it at Tiffany's."

"I think so. Now I have no anxiety about it. Do you think he will find
out where we live?"

"Probably, as you gave him a clew. But, Rodney, it is about lunch time,
and I confess I have an appetite. Come and lunch with me."

"But I am afraid, Mr. Woods, I shall not be able to return the
compliment."

"There is no occasion for it. I feel in good humor this morning. I have
sold one lot, and have hopes of disposing of another. The one lot pays
me a commission of twenty dollars."

"I wish I could make twenty dollars in a week."

"Sometimes I only sell one lot in a week. It isn't like a regular
business. It is precarious. Still, take the year through and I make a
pretty good income. Come in here. We can get a good lunch here," and he
led the way into a modest restaurant, not far from the site of the old
post office, which will be remembered by those whose residence in New
York dates back twenty years or more.

"Now we will have a nice lunch," said the agent. "I hope you can do
justice to it."

"I generally can," responded Rodney, smiling. "I am seldom troubled with
a poor appetite."

"Ditto for me. Now what have you been doing this morning?"

"Looking for a place."

"With what success?"

"Pretty good if I had only been earlier."

Rodney told the story of his application to the manager of the railroad
office.

"You will know better next time. I think you'll succeed. I did. When I
came to New York at the age of twenty two I had only fifty dollars. That
small sum had to last me twelve weeks. You can judge that I didn't
live on the fat of the land during that time. I couldn't often eat at
Delmonico's. Even Beefsteak John's would have been too expensive for me.
However, those old days are over."

The next day and the two following Rodney went about the city making
application for positions, but every place seemed full.

On the third day Mr. Woods said, "I shall have to leave you for a week
or more, Rodney."

"Where are you going?"

"To Philadelphia. There's a man there who is a capitalist and likes land
investments. I am going to visit him, and hope to sell him several lots.
He once lived in this city, so he won't object to New York investments."

"I hope you will succeed, Mr. Woods. I think if you are going away I had
better give up the room, and find cheaper accommodations. I am getting
near the end of my money."

"You are right. It is best to be prudent."

That evening Rodney found a room which he could rent for two dollars a
week. He estimated that by economy he could get along for fifty cents a
day for his eating, and that would be a decided saving.

He was just leaving the house the next morning, gripsack in hand, when
on the steps he met Louis Wheeler, his acquaintance of the train.

"Where are you going?" asked Wheeler.

"I am leaving this house. I have hired a room elsewhere."

Wheeler's countenance fell, and he looked dismayed.

"Why, I have just taken a room here for a week," he said.

"You will find it a good place."

"But--I wouldn't have come here if I hadn't thought I should have
company."

"I ought to feel complimented."

Rodney was convinced that Wheeler had come in the hopes of stealing
the casket of jewels a second time, and he felt amused at the fellow's
discomfiture.

"You haven't got your jewel box with you?"

"No, I can take that another time."

"Then it's still in the house," thought Wheeler with satisfaction. "It
won't be my fault if I don't get it in my hands. Well, good morning," he
said. "Come around and call on me."

"Thank you!"


CHAPTER VII.


AT THE NEWSBOY'S LODGING HOUSE.


Within a week Rodney had spent all his money, with the exception of
about fifty cents. He had made every effort to obtain a place, but
without success.

Boys born and bred in New York have within my observation tried for
months to secure a position in vain, so it is not surprising that Rodney
who was a stranger proved equally unsuccessful.

Though naturally hopeful Rodney became despondent.

"There seems to be no place for me," he said to himself. "When I was at
boarding school I had no idea how difficult it is for a boy to earn a
living."

He had one resource. He could withdraw the box of jewels from Tiffany's,
and sell some article that it contained. But this he had a great
objection to doing. One thing was evident however, he must do something.

His friend, the lot agent, was out of town, and he hardly knew whom
to advise with. At last Mike Flynn, the friendly bootblack, whose
acquaintance he had made in front of the Astor House, occurred to him.

Mike, humble as he was, was better off than himself. Moreover he was
a New York boy, and knew more about "hustling" than Rodney did. So he
sought out Mike in his "office."

"Good morning, Mike," said Rodney, as the bootblack was brushing off a
customer.

"Oh, its you, Rodney," said Mike smiling with evident pleasure. "How
you're gettin' on?"

"Not at all."

"That's bad. Can I help you? Just say the word, and I'll draw a check
for you on the Park Bank."

"Is that where you keep your money?"

"It's one of my banks. You don't think I'd put all my spondulics in one
bank, do you?"

"I won't trouble you to draw a check this morning. I only want to ask
some advice."

"I've got plenty of that."

"I haven't been able to get anything to do, and I have only fifty cents
left. I can't go on like that."

"That's so."

"I've got to give up my room on Fourteenth Street. I can't pay for it
any longer. Do you think I could get in at the Lodge?"

"Yes. I'll introduce you to Mr. O'Connor."

"When shall I meet you?"

"At five o'clock. We'll be in time for supper."

"All right."

At five o'clock Mike accompanied Rodney to the large Newsboys' Lodging
House on New Chambers Street. Mr. O'Connor, the popular and efficient
superintendent, now dead, looked in surprise at Mike's companion. He was
a stout man with a kindly face, and Rodney felt that he would prove to
be a friend.

"Mr. O'Connor, let me introduce me friend, Mr. Rodney Ropes," said Mike.

"Could you give me a lodging?" asked Rodney in an embarrassed tone.

"Yes; but I am surprised to see a boy of your appearance here."

"I am surprised to be here myself," admitted Rodney.

The superintendent fixed upon him a shrewd, but kindly glance.

"Have you run away from home?" he asked.

"No, sir. It is my home that has run away from me."

"Have you parents?"

"No, sir."

"Do you come from the country?"

"Yes, sir."

"Where have you been living?"

"At a boarding school a few hours from New York."

"Why did you leave it?"

"Because my guardian sent me word that he had lost my fortune, and could
no longer pay my bills."

"You have been unfortunate truly. What do you propose to do now?"

"Earn my living if I can. I have been in the city for about two weeks,
and have applied at a good many places but in vain."

"Then you were right in coming here. Supper is ready, and although it
is not what you are used to, it will satisfy hunger. Mike, you can take
Rodney with you."

Within five minutes Rodney was standing at a long table with a bowl
of coffee and a segment of bread before him. It wouldn't have been
attractive to one brought up to good living, as was the case with him,
but he was hungry.

He had eaten nothing since morning except an apple which he had bought
at a street stand for a penny, and his stomach urgently craved a fresh
supply of food.

Mike stood next to him. The young bootblack, who was used to nothing
better, ate his portion with zest, and glanced askance at Rodney to
see how he relished his supper. He was surprised to see that his more
aristocratic companion seemed to enjoy it quite as much as himself.

"I didn't think you'd like it," he said.

"Anything tastes good when you're hungry, Mike."

"That's so."

"And I haven't eaten anything except an apple, since morning."

"Is dat so? Why didn't you tell me? I'd have stood treat at de Boss
Tweed eatin' house."

"I had money, but I didn't dare to spend it. I was afraid of having
nothing left."

When Rodney had eaten his supper he felt that he could have eaten more,
but the craving was satisfied and he felt relieved.

He looked around him with some curiosity, for he had never been in such
a motley gathering before. There were perhaps one hundred and fifty boys
recruited from the street, to about all of whom except himself the term
street Arab might be applied.

The majority of them had the shrewd and good humored Celtic face. Many
of them were fun loving and even mischievous, but scarcely any were
really bad.

Naturally Rodney, with his good clothes, attracted attention. The boys
felt that he was not one of them, and they had a suspicion that he felt
above them.

"Get on to de dude!" remarked one boy, who was loosely attired in a
ragged shirt and tattered trousers.

"He means me, Mike," said Rodney with a smile.

"I say, Patsy Glenn, what do you mean by callin' me friend Rodney a
dude?" demanded Mike angrily.

"Coz he's got a dandy suit on."

"What if he has? Wouldn't you wear one like it if you could!"

"You bet!"

"Then just let him alone! He's just got back from de inauguration."

"Where'd you pick him up, Mike?"

"Never mind! He's one of us. How much money have you got in your pocket
Rodney?"

"Thirty two cents."

"He can't put on no frills wid dat money."

"That's so. I take it all back," and Patsy offered a begrimed hand to
Rodney, which the latter shook heartily with a pleasant smile.

That turned the tide in favor of Rodney, the boys gathered around him
and he told his story in a few words.

"I used to be rich, boys," he said, "but my guardian spent all my money,
and now I am as poor as any of you."

"You'd ought to have had me for your guardian, Rodney," observed Mike.

"I wish you had. You wouldn't have lost my money for me."

"True for you! I say so, boys, if we can find Rodney's guardian, what'll
we do to him?"

"Give him de grand bounce," suggested Patsy.

"Drop him out of a high winder," said another.

"What's his name?"

"I don't care to tell you, boys. He's written me a letter, saying he
will try to pay me back some day. I think he will. He isn't a bad man,
but he has been unlucky."

Mike, at the request of Mr. O'Connor, showed Rodney a locker in which he
could store such articles of clothing as he had with him. After that he
felt more at home, and as if he were staying at a hotel though an humble
one.

At eight o'clock some of the boys had already gone to bed, but Mike
and Rodney were among those who remained up. Rodney noticed with what
kindness yet fairness the superintendent managed his unruly flock.
Unruly they might have been with a different man, but he had no trouble
in keeping them within bounds.

It was at this time that two strangers were announced, one a New
York merchant named Goodnow, the other a tall, slender man with sandy
whiskers of the mutton chop pattern.

"Good evening, Mr. Goodnow," said the superintendent, who recognized the
merchant as a friend of the society.

"Good evening, Mr. O'Connor. I have brought my friend and correspondent
Mr. Mulgrave, of London, to see some of your young Arabs."

"I shall be glad to give him all the opportunity he desires."

The Englishman looked curiously at the faces of the boys who in turn
were examining him with equal interest.

"They are not unlike our boys of a similar grade, but seem sharper and
more intelligent," he said. "But surely," pointing to Rodney, "that boy
is not one of the--Arabs. Why, he looks like a young gentleman."

"He is a new comer. He only appeared tonight."

"He must have a history. May I speak with him?"

"By all means. Rodney, this gentleman would like to talk with you."

Rodney came forward with the ease of a boy who was accustomed to good
society, and said: "I shall be very happy to speak with him."


CHAPTER VIII.


RODNEY FINDS A PLACE.


"Surely," said the Englishman, "you were not brought up in the street?"

"Oh, no," answered Rodney, "I was more fortunate."

"Then how does it happen that I find you here--among the needy boys of
the city?"

"Because I am needy, too."

"But you were not always poor?"

"No; I inherited a moderate fortune from my father. It was only within a
short time that I learned from my guardian that it was lost. I left the
boarding school where I was being educated, and came to the city to try
to make a living."

"But surely your guardian would try to provide for you?"

"He is no longer in the city."

"Who was he?" asked Otis Goodnow.

"Mr. Benjamin Fielding."

"Is it possible? Why, I lost three thousand dollars by him. He has
treated you shamefully."

"It was not intentional, I am sure," said Rodney. "He was probably drawn
into using my money by the hope of retrieving himself. He wrote me that
he hoped at some time to make restitution."

"You speak of him generously, my lad," said Mr. Mulgrave. "Yet he has
brought you to absolute poverty."

"Yes, sir, and I won't pretend that it is not a hard trial to me, but if
I can get a chance to earn my own living, I will not complain."

"Goodnow, a word with you," said the Englishman, and he drew his friend
aside. "Can't you make room for this boy in your establishment?"

Otis Goodnow hesitated. "At present there is no vacancy," he said.

"Make room for him, and draw upon me for his wages for the first six
months."

"I will do so, but before the end of that time I am sure he will justify
my paying him out of my own pocket."

There was a little further conference, and then the two gentlemen came
up to where Rodney was standing with Mr. O'Connor.

"My boy," said Mr. Mulgrave, "my friend here will give you a place at
five dollars a week. Will that satisfy you?"

Rodney's face flushed with pleasure.

"It will make me very happy," he said.

"Come round to my warehouse--here is my business card--tomorrow
morning," said the merchant. "Ask to see me."

"At what time shall I call, sir?"

"At half past nine o'clock. That is for the first morning. When you get
to work you will have to be there at eight."

"There will be no trouble about that, sir."

"Now it is my turn," said the Englishman. "Here are five dollars to keep
you till your first week's wages come due. I dare say you will find them
useful."

"Thank you very much, sir. I was almost out of money."

After the two gentlemen left the Lodging House Rodney looked at the card
and found that his new place of employment was situated on Reade Street
not far from Broadway.

"It's you that's in luck, Rodney," said his friend Mike. "Who'd think
that a gentleman would come to the Lodging House to give you a place?"

"Yes, I am in luck, Mike, and now I'm going to make you a proposal."

"What is it?"

"Why can't we take a room together? It will be better than living here."

"Sure you wouldn't room with a poor boy like me?"

"Why shouldn't I? You are a good friend, and I should like your company.
Besides I mean to help you get an education. I suppose you're not a
first class scholar, Mike?"

"About fourth class, I guess, Rodney."

"Then you shall study with me. Then when you know a little more you may
get a chance to get out of your present business, and get into a store."

"That will be bully!" said Mike with pleasure.

"Now we'd better go to bed; I must be up bright and early in the
morning. We'll engage a room before I go to work."

There was no difficulty about rising early. It is one of the rules
of the Lodging House for the boys to rise at six o'clock, and after
a frugal breakfast of coffee and rolls they are expected to go out to
their business whatever it may be. Mike and Rodney dispensed with the
regulation breakfast and went out to a restaurant on Park Row where they
fared better.

"Now where shall we go for a room?" asked Rodney.

"There's a feller I know has a good room on Bleecker Street," said Mike.

"How far is that?"

"A little more'n a mile."

"All right! Let us go and see."

Bleecker Street once stood in better repute than at present. It is said
that A. T. Stewart once made his home there. Now it is given over to
shops and cheap lodging houses.

Finally the boys found a room decently furnished, about ten feet square,
of which the rental was two dollars and a half per week. Mike succeeded
in beating down the lodging house keeper to two dollars, and at that
figure they engaged it.

"When will you come?" asked Mrs. McCarty.

"Right off," said Mike.

"I'll need a little time to put it in order."

"Me and my partner will be at our business till six o'clock," returned
Mike.

"You can send in your trunks during the day if you like."

"My trunk is at the Windsor Hotel," said Mike. "I've lent it to a friend
for a few days."

Mrs. McCarty looked at Mike with a puzzled expression. She was one of
those women who are slow to comprehend a joke, and she could not quite
make it seem natural that her new lodger, who was in rather neglige
costume, should be a guest at a fashionable hotel.

"I will leave my valise," said Rodney, "and will send for my trunk. It
is in the country."

Mike looked at him, not feeling quite certain whether he was in earnest,
but Rodney was perfectly serious.

"You're better off than me," said Mike, when they reached the street.
"If I had a trunk I wouldn't have anything to put into it."

"I'll see if I can't rig you out, Mike. I've got a good many clothes,
bought when I was rich. You and I are about the same size. I'll give you
a suit of clothes to wear on Sundays."

"Will you?" exclaimed Mike, his face showing pleasure. "I'd like to see
how I look in good clo'es. I never wore any yet. It wouldn't do no good
in my business."

"You won't want to wear them when at work. But wouldn't you like to
change your business?"

"Yes."

"Have you ever tried?"

"What'd be the use of tryin'? They'd know I was a bootblack in these
clo'es."

"When you wear a better suit you can go round and try your luck."

"I'd like to," said Mike wistfully. "I don't want you to tell at the
store that you room with a bootblack."

"It isn't that I think of, Mike. I want you to do better. I'm going to
make a man of you."

"I hope you are. Sometimes I've thought I'd have to be a bootblack
always. When do you think you'll get the clo'es?"

"I shall write to the principal of the boarding school at once, asking
him to forward my trunk by express. I want to economize a little this
week, and shall have to pay the express charges."

"I'll pay up my part of the rent, Rodney, a quarter a day."

Rodney had advanced the whole sum, as Mike was not in funds.

"If you can't pay a dollar a week I will pay a little more than half."

"There ain't no need. I'll pay my half and be glad to have a nice room."

"I've got three or four pictures at the school, and some books. I'll
send for them later on, and we'll fix up the room."

"Will you? We'll have a reg'lar bang up place. I tell you that'll be
better than livin' at the Lodge."

"Still that seems a very neat place. It is lucky for poor boys that they
can get lodging so cheap."

"But it isn't like havin' a room of your own, Rodney. I say, when we're
all fixed I'll ask some of me friends to come in some evenin' and take a
look at us. They'll be s'prised."

"Certainly, Mike. I shall be glad to see any of your friends."

It may seem strange that Rodney, carefully as he had been brought up,
should have made a companion of Mike, but he recognized in the warm
hearted Irish boy, illiterate as he was, sterling qualities, and he felt
desirous of helping to educate him. He knew that he could always depend
on his devoted friendship, and looked forward with pleasure to their
more intimate companionship.

After selecting their room and making arrangements to take possession of
it, the boys went down town. Rodney stepped into the reading room at the
Astor House and wrote the following letter to Dr. Sampson:


DR. PLINY SAMPSON:

DEAR SIR--Will you be kind enough to send my trunk by express to No. 312
Bleecker Street? I have taken a room there, and that will be my home for
the present. I have obtained a position in a wholesale house on Reade
Street, and hope I may give satisfaction. Will you remember me with best
wishes to all the boys? I don't expect to have so easy or pleasant a
time as I had at school, but I hope to get on, and some time--perhaps in
the summer--to make you a short visit.

Yours truly, RODNEY ROPES.


CHAPTER IX.

THE FIRST DAY AT WORK.


A little before half past nine Rodney paused in front of a large five
story building on Reade Street occupied by Otis Goodnow.

He entered and found the first floor occupied by quite a large number of
clerks and salesmen, and well filled with goods.

"Well, young fellow, what can I do for you?" asked a dapper looking
clerk.

"I would like to see Mr. Goodnow."

"He's reading his letters. He won't see you."

Rodney was provoked.

"Do you decide who is to see him?" he asked.

"You're impudent, young feller."

"Am I? Perhaps you will allow Mr. Goodnow to see me, as long as he told
me to call here this morning."

"That's a different thing," returned the other in a different tone. "If
you're sure about that you can go to the office in the back part of the
room."

Rodney followed directions and found himself at the entrance of a room
which had been partitioned off for the use of the head of the firm.

Mr. Goodnow was seated at a desk with his back to him, and was employed
in opening letters. Without turning round he said, "Sit down and I will
attend to you in a few minutes."

Rodney seated himself on a chair near the door. In about ten minutes Mr.
Goodnow turned around.

"Who is it?" he asked.

"Perhaps you remember telling me to call at half past nine. You saw me
at the Newsboys' Lodging House."

"Ah, yes, I remember. I promised my friend Mulgrave that I would give
you a place. What can you do? Are you a good writer?"

"Shall I give you a specimen of my handwriting?"

"Yes; sit down at that desk."

It was a desk adjoining his own.

Rodney seated himself and wrote in a firm, clear, neat hand:

"I will endeavor to give satisfaction, if you are kind enough to give me
a place in your establishment."

Then he passed over the paper to the merchant.

"Ah, very good!" said Mr. Goodnow approvingly. "You won't be expected
to do any writing yet but I like to take into my store those who are
qualified for promotion."

He rang a little bell on his desk.

A boy about two years older than Rodney answered the summons.

"Send Mr. James here," said the merchant.

Mr. James, a sandy complexioned man, partially bald, made his
appearance.

"Mr. James," said the merchant, "I have taken this boy into my employ.
I don't know if one is needed, but it is at the request of a friend. You
can send him on errands, or employ him in any other way."

"Very well, sir. I can find something for him to do today at any rate,
as young Johnson hasn't shown up."

"Very well. Whats your name, my lad?"

"Rodney Ropes."

"Make a note of his name, Mr. James, and enter it in the books. You may
go with Mr. James, and put yourself at his disposal."

Rodney followed the subordinate, who was the head of one of the
departments, to the second floor. Here Mr. James had a desk.

"Wait a minute," he said, "and I will give you a memorandum of places to
call at."

In five minutes a memorandum containing a list of three places was given
to Rodney, with brief instructions as to what he was to do at each. They
were places not far away, and fortunately Rodney had a general idea as
to where they were.

In his search for positions he had made a study of the lower part of the
city which now stood him in good stead.

As he walked towards the door he attracted the attention of the young
clerk with whom he had just spoken.

"Well, did you see Mr. Goodnow?" asked the young man, stroking a sickly
looking mustache.

"Yes."

"Has he taken you into the firm?"

"Not yet, but he has given me a place."

The clerk whistled.

"So you are one of us?" he said.

"Yes," answered Rodney with a smile.

"Then you ought to know the rules of the house."

"You can tell me later on, but now I am going out on an errand."

In about an hour Rodney returned. He had been detained at two of the
places where he called.

"Do you remember what I said?" asked the young clerk as he passed.

"Yes."

"The first rule of the establishment is for a new hand to treat ME on
his first day."

"That's pretty good for you," said Rodney, laughing; "I shall have to
wait till my pay is raised."

About the middle of the afternoon, as Rodney was helping to unpack a
crate of goods, the older boy whom he had already seen in the office
below, walked up to him and said, "Is your name Ropes?"

"Yes."

"You are wanted in Mr. Goodnow's office."

Rodney went down stairs, feeling a little nervous. Had he done wrong,
and was he to be reprimanded?

He could think of nothing deserving censure. So far as he knew he had
attended faithfully to all the duties required of him.

As he entered the office, he saw that Mr. Goodnow had a visitor, whose
face looked familiar to him. He recalled it immediately as the face of
the English gentleman who had visited the Lodging House the day previous
with his employer.

"So I find you at work?" he said, offering his hand with a smile.

"Yes, sir," answered Rodney gratefully, "thanks to you."

"How do you think you will like it?"

"Very much, sir. It is so much better than going around the street with
nothing to do."

"I hope you will try to give satisfaction to my friend, Mr. Goodnow."

"I shall try to do so, sir."

"You mustn't expect to rise to be head salesman in a year. Festina
lente, as the Latin poet has it."

"I shall be satisfied with hastening slowly, sir."

"What! you understand Latin?"

"Pretty well, sir."

"Upon my word, I didn't expect to find a boy in the News boys' Lodging
House with classical attainments. Perhaps you know something of Greek
also!" he said doubtfully.

In reply Rodney repeated the first line of the Iliad.

"Astonishing!" exclaimed Mr. Mulgrave, putting up his eyeglass, and
surveying Rodney as if he were a curious specimen. "You don't happen to
know anything of Sanscrit, do you?"

"No, sir; I confess my ignorance."

"I apprehend you won't require it in my friend Goodnow's establishment."

"If I do, I will learn it," said Rodney, rather enjoying the joke.

"If I write a book about America, I shall certainly put in a paragraph
about a learned office boy. I think you are entitled to something for
your knowledge of Greek and Latin--say five dollars apiece," and Mr.
Mulgrave drew from his pocket two gold pieces and handed them to Rodney.

"Thank you very much, sir," said Rodney. "I shall find this money very
useful, as I have taken a room, and am setting up housekeeping."

"Then you have left the Lodging House?"

"Yes, sir; I only spent one night there."

"You are right. It is no doubt a great blessing to the needy street
boys, but you belong to a different class."

"It is very fortunate I went there last evening, or I should not have
met you and Mr. Goodnow."

"I am glad to have been the means of doing you a service," said the
Englishman kindly, shaking hands with Rodney, who bowed and went back to
his work.

"I am not sure but you are taking too much notice of that boy,
Mulgrave," said the merchant.

"No fear! He is not a common boy. You won't regret employing him."

"I hope not."

Then they talked of other matters, for Mr. Mulgrave was to start on his
return to England the following day.

At five o'clock Rodney's day was over, and he went back to Bleecker
Street. He found Mike already there, working hard to get his hands
clean, soiled as they were by the stains of blacking.

"Did you have a good day, Mike?" asked Rodney.

"Yes; I made a dollar and ten cents. Here's a quarter towards the rent."

"All right! I see you are prompt in money matters."

"I try to be. Do you know, Rodney, I worked better for feelin' that I
had a room of my own to go to after I got through. I hope I'll soon be
able to get into a different business."

"I hope so, too."

Two days later Rodney's trunk arrived. In the evening he opened it.
He took out a dark mixed suit about half worn, and said, "Try that on,
Mike."

Mike did so. It fitted as if it were made for him.

"You can have it, Mike," said Rodney.

"You don't mean it?" exclaimed Mike, delighted.

"Yes, I do. I have plenty of others."

Rodney supplemented his gift by a present of underclothing, and on the
following Sunday the two boys went to Central Park in the afternoon,
Mike so transformed that some of his street friends passed him without
recognition, much to Mike's delight.


CHAPTER X.


MIKE PUTS ON A UNIFORM.


A wonderful change came over Mike Flynn. Until he met Rodney he seemed
quite destitute of ambition. The ragged and dirty suit which he wore as
bootblack were the best he had. His face and hands generally bore the
marks of his business, and as long as he made enough to buy three meals
a day, two taken at the Lodging House, with something over for lodging,
and an occasional visit to a cheap theater, he was satisfied.

He was fifteen, and had never given a thought to what he would do when
he was older. But after meeting Rodney, and especially after taking
a room with him, he looked at life with different eyes. He began to
understand that his business, though honorable because honest, was not
a desirable one. He felt, too, that he ought to change it out of regard
for Rodney, who was now his close companion.

"If I had ten dollars ahead," he said one day, "I'd give up blackin'
boots."

"What else would you do?"

"I'd be a telegraph boy. That's more respectable than blackin' boots,
and it 'ould be cleaner."

"That is true. Do you need money to join?"

"I would get paid once in two weeks, and I'd have to live till I got my
first salary."

"I guess I can see you through, Mike."

"No; you need all your money, Rodney. I'll wait and see if I can't save
it myself."

This, however, would have taken a long time, if Mike had not been
favored by circumstances. He was standing near the ladies' entrance to
the Astor House one day, when casting his eyes downward he espied a
neat pocketbook of Russia leather. He picked it up, and from the feeling
judged that it must be well filled.

Now I must admit that it did occur to Mike that he could divert to his
own use the contents without detection, as no one had seen him pick it
up. But Mike was by instinct an honest boy, and he decided that this
would not be right. He thrust it into his pocket, however, as he had no
objection to receiving a reward if one was offered.

While he was standing near the entrance, a tall lady, dressed in brown
silk and wearing glasses, walked up from the direction of Broadway. She
began to peer about like one who was looking for something.

"I guess its hers," thought Mike.

"Are you looking for anything, ma'am?" he asked.

She turned and glanced at Mike.

"I think I must have dropped my pocketbook," she said. "I had it in my
hand when I left the hotel, but I had something on my mind and I think
I must have dropped it without noticing. Won't you help me look for it,
for I am short sighted?"

"Is this it?" asked Mike, producing the pocketbook.

"Oh yes!" exclaimed the lady joyfully. "Where did you find it?"

"Just here," answered Mike, indicating a place on the sidewalk.

"I suppose there is a good deal of money in it?" said Mike, with
pardonable curiosity.

"Then you didn't open it?"

"No, ma'am, I didn't have a chance. I just found it."

"There may be forty or fifty dollars, but it isn't on that account I
should have regretted losing it. It contained a receipt for a thousand
dollars which I am to use in a law suit. That is very important for it
will defeat a dishonest claim for money that I have already paid."

"Then I'm glad I found it."

"You are an honest boy. You seem to be a poor boy also."

"That's true, ma'am. If I was rich I wouldn't black boots for a livin'."

"Dear me, you are one of the young street Arabs I've read about," and
the lady looked curiously at Mike through her glasses.

"I expect I am."

"And I suppose you haven't much money."

"My bank account is very low, ma'am."

"I've read a book about a boy named 'Ragged Dick.' I think he was a
bootblack, too. Do you know him?"

"He's my cousin, ma'am," answered Mike promptly.

It will be observed that I don't represent Mike as possessed of all the
virtues.

"Dear me, how interesting. I bought the book for my little nephew. Now I
can tell him I have seen 'Ragged Dick's' cousin. Where is Dick now?"

"He's reformed, ma'am."

"Reformed?"

"Yes, from blackin' boots. He's in better business now."

"If I should give you some of the money in this pocketbook, you wouldn't
spend it on drinking and gambling, would you?"

"No, ma'am. I'd reform like my cousin, Ragged Dick."

"You look like a good truthful boy. Here are ten dollars for you."

"Oh, thank you, ma'am! you're a gentleman," said Mike overjoyed. "No, I
don't mean that but I hope you'll soon get a handsome husband."

"My young friend, I don't care to marry, though I appreciate your good
wishes. I am an old maid from principle. I am an officer of the Female
Suffrage Association."

"Is it a good payin' office, ma'am?" asked Mike, visibly impressed.

"No, but it is a position of responsibility. Please tell me your name
that I may make a note of it."

"My name is Michael Flynn."

"I see. You are of Celtic extraction."

"I don't know, ma'am. I never heard that I was. It isn't anything bad,
is it?"

"Not at all. I have some Celtic blood in my own veins. If you ever come
to Boston you can inquire for Miss Pauline Peabody."

"Thank you, ma'am," said Mike, who thought the lady rather a "queer
lot."

"Now I must call upon my lawyer, and leave the receipt which I came so
near losing."

"Well, I'm in luck," thought Mike. "I'll go home and dress up, and apply
for a position as telegraph boy."

When Rodney came home at supper time he found Mike, dressed in his
Sunday suit.

"What's up now, Mike?" he asked. "Have you retired from business?"

"Yes, from the bootblack business. Tomorrow I shall be a telegraph boy."

"That is good. You haven't saved up ten dollars, have you?"

"I saved up two, and a lady gave me ten dollars for findin' her
pocketbook."

"That's fine, Mike."

There chanced to be a special demand for telegraph boys at that time,
and Mike, who was a sharp lad, on passing the necessary examination, was
at once set to work.

He was immensely fond of his blue uniform when he first put it on, and
felt that he had risen in the social scale. True, his earnings did not
average as much, but he was content with smaller pay, since the duties
were more agreeable.

In the evenings under Rodney's instruction he devoted an hour and
sometimes two to the task of making up the deficiencies in his early
education. These were extensive, but Mike was naturally a smart boy, and
after a while began to improve rapidly.

So three months passed. Rodney stood well in with Mr. Goodnow, and
was promoted to stock clerk. The discipline which he had revived as
a student stood him in good stead, and enabled him to make more rapid
advancement than some who had been longer in the employ of the firm. In
particular he was promoted over the head of Jasper Redwood, a boy two
years older than himself, who was the nephew of an old employee who had
been for fifteen years in the house.

Jasper's jealousy was aroused, and he conceived a great dislike for
Rodney, of which Rodney was only partially aware.

For this dislike there was really no cause. Rodney stood in his way only
because Jasper neglected his duties, and failed to inspire confidence.
He was a boy who liked to spend money and found his salary insufficient,
though he lived with his uncle and paid but two dollars a week for his
board.

"Uncle James," he said one day, "when do you think I will get a raise?"

"You might get one now if it were not for the new boy."

"You mean Ropes."

"Yes, he has just been promoted to a place which I hoped to get for
you."

"It is mean," grumbled Jasper. "I have been here longer than he."

"True, but he seems to be Mr. Goodnow's pet. It was an unlucky day for
you when he got a place in the establishment."

"Did you ask Mr. Goodnow to promote me?"

"Yes, but he said he had decided to give Archer's place to Ropes."

Archer was a young clerk who was obliged, on account of pulmonary
weakness, to leave New York and go to Southern California.

"How much does Ropes get now?"

"Seven dollars a week."

"And I only get five, and I am two years older. They ought to have more
regard for you, Uncle James, or I, as your nephew, would get promoted."

"I will see what we can do about it."

"I wish Ropes would get into some scrape and get discharged."

It was a new idea, but Jasper dwelt upon it, and out of it grew trouble
for Rodney.


CHAPTER XI.


MISSING GOODS.


James Redwood was summoned one morning to the counting room of his
employer.

"Mr. Redwood," said the merchant "I have reason to think that one of my
clerks is dishonest."

"Who, sir?"

"That is what I want you to find out."

"What reason have you for suspecting any one?"

"Some ladies' cloaks and some dress patterns are missing."

"Are you sure they were not sold?"

"Yes: the record of sales has been examined, and they are not included."

"That is strange, Mr. Goodnow," said Redwood thoughtfully. "I hope I am
not under suspicion."

"Oh, not at all."

"The losses seem to have taken place in my department."

"True, but that doesn't involve you."

"What do you want me to do?"

"Watch those under you. Let nothing in your manner, however, suggest
that you are suspicious. I don't want you to put any one on his guard."

"All right, sir. I will be guided by your instructions. Have you any
idea how long this has been going on?"

"Only a few weeks."

Mr. Redwood turned to go back to his room, but Mr. Goodnow called him
back.

"I needn't suggest to you," he said, "that you keep this to yourself.
Don't let any clerk into the secret."

"Very well, sir."

James Redwood, however, did not keep his promise. After supper he called
back Jasper as he was about putting on his hat to go out, and said,
"Jasper, I wish to speak with you for five minutes."

"Won't it do tomorrow morning? I have an engagement."

"Put it off, then. This is a matter of importance."

"Very well, sir," and Jasper, albeit reluctantly, laid down his hat and
sat down.

"Jasper," said his uncle, "there's a thief in our establishment."

Jasper started, and his sallow complexion turned yellower than usual.

"What do you mean, uncle?" he asked nervously.

"What I say. Some articles are missing that have not been sold."

"Such as what?"

"Ladies' cloaks and dress patterns."

"Who told you?" asked Jasper in a low tone.

"Mr. Goodnow."

"What the boss?"

"Certainly."

"How should he know?"

"I didn't inquire, and if I had he probably wouldn't have told me. The
main thing is that he does know."

"He may not be sure."

"He is not a man to speak unless he feels pretty sure."

"I don't see how any one could steal the articles without being
detected."

"It seems they are detected."

"Did--did Mr. Goodnow mention any names?"

"No. He wants to watch and find out the thief. I wish you to help me,
though I am acting against instructions. Mr. Goodnow asked me to take
no one into my confidence. You will see, therefore, that it will be
necessary for you to say nothing."

"I won't breathe a word," said Jasper, who seemed to feel more at ease.

"Now that I have told you so much, can you suggest any person who would
be likely to commit the theft?"

Jasper remained silent for a moment, then with a smile of malicious
satisfaction said, "Yes, I can suggest a person."

"Who is it?"

"The new boy, Rodney Ropes."

James Redwood shook his head.

"I can't believe that it is he. I am not in love with the young fellow,
who seems to stand in the way of your advancement but he seems straight
enough, and I don't think it at all likely that he should be the guilty
person."

"Yes, Uncle James, he SEEMS straight but you know that still waters run
deep."

"Have you seen anything that would indicate guilt on his part?"

"I have noticed this, that, he is very well dressed for a boy of his
small salary, and seems always to have money to spend."

"That will count for something. Still he might have some outide means.
Have you noticed anything else?"

Jasper hesitated.

"I noticed one evening when he left the store that he had a sizable
parcel under his arm."

"And you think it might have contained some article stolen from the
stock?"

"That's just what I think now. Nothing of the kind occurred to me at
that time, for I didn't know any articles were missing."

"That seems important. When was it that you noticed this?"

"One day last week," answered Jasper hesitatingly.

"Can you remember the day?"

"No."

"Couldn't you fix it some way?"

"No. You see, I didn't attach any particular importance to it at the
time, and probably it would not have occurred to me again, but for your
mentioning that articles were missing."

"There may be something in what you say," said his uncle thoughtfully.
"I will take special notice of young Ropes after this."

"So will I."

"Don't let him observe that he is watched. It would defeat our chances
of detecting the thief."

"I'll be careful. Do you want to say anything more, uncle?"

"No. By the way, where were you going this evening?"

"I was going to meet a friend, and perhaps go to the theater. You
couldn't lend me a dollar, could you, Uncle James?"

"Yes, I could, but you are not quite able to pay for your own pleasures.
It costs all my salary to live, and its going to be worse next year, for
I shall have to pay a higher rent."

"When I have my pay raised, I can get along better."

"If Ropes loses his place, you will probably step into it."

"Then I hope he'll go, and that soon."

When Jasper passed through the front door and stood on the sidewalk, he
breathed a sigh of relief.

"So, they are on to us," he said to himself. "But how was it found
out? That's what I'd like to know. I have been very careful. I must see
Carton at once."

A short walk took him to a billiard room not far from Broadway. A young
man of twenty five, with a slight mustache, and a thin, dark face, was
selecting a cue.

"Ah, Jasper!" he said. "Come at last. Let us have a game of pool."

"Not just yet. Come outide. I want to speak to you."

Jasper looked serious, and Philip Carton, observing it, made no
remonstrance, but taking his hat, followed him out.

"Well, what is it?" he asked.

"Something serious. It is discovered at the store that goods are
missing."

"You don't mean it? Are we suspected?"

"No one is suspected--yet."

"But how do you know?"

"My uncle spoke to me about it this evening--just after supper."

"He doesn't think you are in it."

"No."

"How did he find out?"

"Through the boss. Goodnow spoke to him about it today."

"But how should Goodnow know anything about it?"

"That no one can tell but himself. He asked Uncle James to watch the
clerks, and see if he could fasten the theft on any of them."

"That is pleasant for us. It is well we are informed so that we can be
on our guard. I am afraid our game is up."

"For the present at any rate we must suspend operations. Now, have you
some money for me?"

"Well, a little."

"A little? Why there are two cloaks and a silk dress pattern to be
accounted for."

"True, but I have to be very careful. I have to submit to a big discount
for the parties I sell to undoubtedly suspect that the articles are
stolen."

"Wouldn't it be better to pawn them?"

"It would be more dangerous. Besides you know how liberal pawnbrokers
are. I'll tell you what would be better. If I had a sufficient number of
articles to warrant it, I could take them on to Boston or Philadelphia,
and there would be less risk selling them there."

"That is true. I wish we had thought of that before. Now we shall have
to give up the business for a time. How much money have you got for me?"

"Seven dollars."

"Seven dollars!" exclaimed Jasper in disgust. "Why, that is ridiculous.
The articles must have been worth at retail a hundred dollars."

"Perhaps so, but I only got fourteen for them. If you think you can do
any better you may sell them yourself next time."

"I thought I should assuredly get fifteen dollars out of it," said
Jasper, looking deeply disappointed. "I had a use for the money too."

"Very likely. So had I."

"Well, I suppose I must make it do. Listen and I will tell you how I
think I can turn this thing to my advantage."

"Go ahead!"


CHAPTER XII.


WHAT WAS FOUND IN RODNEY'S ROOM.


"There is a boy who stands between me and promotion," continued Jasper,
speaking in a low tone.

"The boy you mentioned the other day?"

"Yes, Rodney Ropes. Mr. Goodnow got him from I don't know where, and has
taken a ridiculous fancy to him. He has been put over my head and his
pay raised, though I have been in the store longer than he. My idea is
to connect him with the thefts and get him discharged."

"Do you mean that we are to make him a confederate?"

"No," answered Jasper impatiently. "He would be just the fellow to peach
and get us all into trouble."

"Then what do you mean?"

"To direct suspicion towards him. We won't do it immediately, but within
a week or two. It would do me good to have him turned out of the store."

Jasper proceeded to explain his idea more fully, and his companion
pronounced it very clever.

Meanwhile Rodney, not suspecting the conspiracy to deprive him of his
place and his good name, worked zealously, encouraged by his promotion,
and resolved to make a place for himself which should insure him a
permanent connection with the firm.

Ten days passed, and Mr. Redwood again received a summons from the
office.

Entering, he found Mr. Goodnow with a letter in his hand.

"Well, Mr. Redwood," he began, "have you got any clew to the party who
has stolen our goods?"

"No, sir."

"Has any thing been taken since I spoke with you on the subject?"

"Not that I am aware of."

"Has any one of the clerks attracted your attention by suspicious
conduct?"

"No, sir," answered Redwood, puzzled.

"Humph! Cast your eye over this letter."

James Redwood took the letter, which was written in a fine hand, and
read as follow:


MR. GOODNOW:

DEAR SIR,--I don't know whether you are aware that articles have been
taken from your stock, say, ladies' cloaks and silk dress patterns,
and disposed of outside. Tenney had come to Georgetown from Newburyport,
Massachusetts, in the early part of 1800.

Just across from it, the large yellow mansion was the home of Commodore
Cassin, built by him, I think, in the early 1800's. In 1893 Mr. and
Mrs.
Beverley Randolph Mason, of Virginia, opened here their school, Gunston
Hall, named, of course, for Mr. Mason's ancestral home, which continued
in Washington as a flourishing boarding school for girls for fifty years.
After that, this building housed the Epiphany School, an Episcopal
institution.

The property along 30th Street here was all owned at one time by the
Matthews family. Henry Cooksey Matthews came to Georgetown some
years before 1820.

He had been born in 1797 on the farm near Dentsville, in Charles
County, Maryland, where his forbears had lived for four generations.

He married his cousin, Lucinda Stoddert Haw, whose home, you remember,
was on Gay (N) Street, and they built the large house on the southeast
corner of Washington (30th) and West (P) Streets.

Mr.

Matthews and his wife were devoted members of Christ Church and named their
son for one of its rectors, the Reverend Charles McIlvaine, who
later became Bishop of Ohio.

Mr.

Matthews used to play the flute in the orchestra in Christ Church.

Mr. Charles M. Matthews also married his cousin, who was a daughter
of Thomas Corcoran, junior, and niece of W. W. Corcoran. Mr. Matthews,
until his death, managed the estate of Mr.

Corcoran. He built his home on the southern part of his father's lot
at the northeast corner of Washington (30th) and Beall (O) Streets.

Back in the eighties Miss Charlotte and Miss Margaret Lee came
from Virginia and opened The West Washington School for Girls,
sponsored by several of the gentlemen of Georgetown, in the old
home of Henry C.

Matthews.

There, in the last year of its existence, I learned the beginnings
of the three R's.

Nearby, at number 3014 P Street, in the fifties and sixties, William
R.

Abbott conducted a well-known school for boys. At that time it
was only a one-story building. Mr. Abbott was the son of John
Abbott, whose home was on Bridge (M) Street.

The Abbotts lived in the house on the west next door to the school. In
later years it was occupied by the Lyons, Hartleys, and Parris
families.

In one of these houses was the school for boys founded by Dr.

David Wiley and continued for twenty more years by Dr.

James McVean.

There is a fine row of houses just beyond here where have lived,
at various times, the Magruders, the Kenyons, the Yarnalls, and,
long ago, in the early 1800's, Colonel Fowler, who came from Baltimore
and whose wife was a sister of Dr.

Riley's wife, made his home at number 3030 West (P) Street.

For many years this house was used as the rectory of Christ Church.

There lived Dr. Norwood and his large family of daughters, all of whom
left their impression on the City of Richmond in after years. Also,
Dr.

Walter Williams, and Dr. Albert Rhett Stuart, of South Carolina, who was
for twenty-five years rector of Christ Church.

The end house was the Morton's home for a great many years.
Four unmarried sisters lived there long, long after their parents had
gone.

But parental influence was strong in those days, for one of them in
her late seventies was still "engaged" to the love of her youth,
disapproved of by her father.

Once a week she met him and had lunch with him down town. He came sometimes
to Sunday dinners, swathed in his long, black cape.

During the fall great droves of cattle and flocks of sheep from
western Virginia were driven through the streets and gathered at
Drovers' Rest, two miles west of town.

Some days many thousands filled West (P) Street from morn to eve, and,
occasionally, a wild steer ran amuck and then there was great
excitement.

Also, large flocks of turkeys, hundreds of them, were driven up
from lower Maryland and passed through the streets to pens on the
outskirts of town, where one could go and pick out his own bird.

Across the street at number 3019 is the house Mr.

Linthicum built in 1826. Thomas Corcoran, junior, made it his home from
then until 1856, when it was bought by John T.

Cochrane for his sister, Mrs. James A.

Magruder, who brought up there her three nieces and one nephew.

Two of the nieces, Miss Mary Zeller and Mrs.

Whelan, lived on there all their lives.

Miss Mary used to tell me many tales of old-time days and ways.

The old house remained entirely unchanged until about twelve years ago,
when it was bought and done over inside.

It had a lovely stairway and dignified, square rooms.

The row of three quaint little brick houses here seem to be an
unknown quantity to even some of the oldest inhabitants and nearest
neighbors.

In number 3021, long ago, lived Horatio Berry, the brother of Philip
Taylor Berry.

In number 3025, the quaint locks on the doors all have on them a small,
round brass seal, bearing the coat-of-arms of Great Britain, the
lion and the unicorn rampant, also the name "Carpenter & Co

.", and in the cellar are crossbeams hewn by hand.

Next we come to a pair of cottages, changed from their pristine loveliness--now
the "Mary Margaret Home," for old ladies.

The one at 3033 P Street in my girlhood was the home of Mrs. James D.

Patton, the former Jennie Coyle.

She gave me piano lessons for four years, but she gave me much more! She
formed a group of girls into a King's Daughters' Circle, "The
Patient Workers," which met at her house on Saturday mornings when
we sewed and made articles which we sold at a Fair in the Spring.

The proceeds were divided between the Children's Country Home and the
Children's Hospital.

There is still a brass plate in the hospital bearing the name, "The
Patient Workers" for a bed we named.

The two big houses on the northeast corner of West (P) Street and Congress
(31st) Street were built by Joseph H. Libbey, a well-to-do lumber
merchant.

They continued to be in his family for a long time. The one on the
east now is the Catholic Home for Aged Ladies. In front of it is the
largest and most beautiful elm tree in Georgetown.

The two houses at 1516 and 1518 Congress (31st) Street, Mr.

Libbey built about 1850 as wedding gifts for his two daughters,
Martha, Mrs.

Benjamin Miller, becoming the owner of number 1516.

It is still owned by her descendants.

Number 1518 has changed hands several times. It was where Richard V.

Oulahan, the well-known newspaper correspondent, lived until his
death several years ago.

At that time it was said of him: "He gathered news like a gentleman and
wrote it like a scholar."

Back in the eighties, a party was given at number 1518 one night
for the young niece of two maiden ladies whose home it then was.

The guests were about sixteen and seventeen years old, and the boys
had all just arrived at the age where their most treasured possessions
were their brand new derby hats.

When the party broke up and the guests trooped upstairs to get their
wraps, the young gentlemen found, on entering their dressing room,
that on one of the beds reposed the crowns of all their derbies,
while on the other, neatly laid out, were all the brims.

The culprit was never caught.

Only the other day one of the long-ago guests was told by the offender
that he had been the originator of the diabolic idea.

If you look west along the next block of West (P) Street, you notice
how different are the north and south sides.

Along the south side are houses of an absolutely different period.
All those on the north side were built in the seventies or later, including
the Presbyterian Church, except the one on the corner of Congress
(31st) Street, which was the residence of General Otho Holland
Williams, a Revolutionary officer, who was in the same company with
General Lingan.

His house has, of course, been completely changed and made into two
houses. It was never beautiful, but it was a dignified old mansion, with
high steps leading up to a quaint doorway.

Across Congress (31st) Street, at number 3108 West (P) Street, the house
with the high steps going up sideways was built by Judge Morsell
about 1800.

For a while, the Barnards lived there.

Then the Marquis de Podestad, Minister from Spain to this country,
made it his residence.

After the Civil War, General George C.

Thomas resided there. Next door is where the Shoemakers have lived for
many years.

The house with the nice, old hipped roof was at one time owned by
a Captain Brown.

In the eighties and nineties the Misses Dorsey of Virginia had here a
school for girls called "Olney Institute." Afterwards, Reverend Parke
P.

Flournoy, once a chaplain in the Confederate Army, lived here up
into his nineties with his family.

Still a little farther on, and incorporated with the old Tenney
house, now owned by Mrs.

Stephen Bonsal, is where Miss Jennie Gardiner had a school for
little children about the same time as the Dorseys' school.

For some time before the Civil War it was the home of the Reverend
Mr.

Simpson, whose wife was Miss Stephenson from near Winchester.

Her father, whose home was Kenilworth, near there, made her a present
of the house.

Following the Civil War, it was for a long time the home of William
H. Tenney, who had a prosperous flour mill.

Just across the street from it, the imposing looking yellow house with the
mansard roof is the one that Elinor Glyn bought and "did over," and
then never lived in, as she decided to go back to England to her mother,
who was in delicate health.

Later it was the residence of Mrs. Isabella Greenway, Representative in
Congress from Arizona.

A block from here just above Q Street on what is now dignified by
the name of 32nd, but will always remain to old Georgetonians,
Valley Street, lived a very interesting character, still remembered
by some people in Georgetown as "The crazy man of Valley Street."

Among other shabby houses, one which was quite different in appearance
and stood a little back from the street, with a tree in its tiny
patch of a yard, was where he lived.

It looked as if it had a story--and it had.

It was told me not long ago by an old friend.

I call him a friend, for whenever I went to the institution where
he was a doorkeeper, I went back in memory to the years when he was
our postman.

In those days your postman was your friend.

You thought over what your Christmas gift to him would be as much as a
member of your family.

Not like it is nowadays, when he drops your letters through a slit
in the door.

You don't know his name, you don't know what he looks like, you don't
even know whether he is white or colored.

This is the story of "the crazy man of Valley Street." During the
Civil War, Captain Chandler was in command of a United States
vessel cruising in the Chesapeake Bay searching ships carrying
contraband.

He was accused of making a traitorous remark and dismissed from the
service.

His family was living at the Union Hotel, but they left and went to New
York to live.

He took his savings and built for himself the little house on Valley
Street. Its interior was made to resemble exactly the cabin of a ship.

My friend told me that his first encounter with the old gentleman
was one Monday morning about nine-thirty when, having been changed
to this new route, he stopped to open the gate to deliver a letter.

It was locked.

He knocked. At last a window was thrown up and the old man's head
emerged.

He said the captain looked very much like the pictures of General Robert
E. Lee.

Seeing it was the postman with a letter, he said he would open the
gate, so he pulled a rope--and presto!

open it flew.

He said he never opened it until ten o'clock in the morning and
wanted to know if his mail could be delivered after that, which the
carrier obligingly offered to do, by changing his route somewhat.

After that, for years, Mr.

Postman was a friend to the old man, though he never really entered
the house. Each month a check for twenty dollars would come from a
nephew in Chicago, which the postman would take to Mr.

Berry with a note from the captain, asking to have it cashed, and specifying
the number of dollar bills, fifty-cent pieces, quarters, dimes, nickels,
and pennies.

A little colored boy who lived nearby was commissioned occasionally
to purchase necessary food, but the old man himself never went out
except after dark.

Finally, one day when the little boy came to do the errands, he
could get no answer to his knock, so he got a man to lift him up
where he could peer over the high board fence at the side and look
into an open window.

Through it he saw the old gentleman, sprawled out in a big chair,
immovable.

They broke into the house and found that he was paralyzed. He could not
speak, but shook his head when they said they wanted to call help from
the police.

He was laid on a mattress on the floor, and before long, all his
troubles were over.

His nephew came from Chicago, bought a lot in Rock Creek Cemetery and had
the old gentleman decently buried.

But not long after, his son in New York, reading of it in the paper,
came down and had his father reinterred in the family lot in Oak
Hill.

So, in death, the old gentleman was accorded the honor of two
funerals.

[Illustration: _Courtesy Frick Art Reference Library_.

WASHINGTON BOWIE]

Chapter XIV

_Stoddert (Q) Street_

Coming east from Valley (32nd) Street is the lovely old house which
the Seviers bought in 1890.

It has never had a name.

It was built by Washington Bowie, another of the shipping barons.

His wife was Margaret Johns before becoming Mrs.

Bowie. This whole block was his estate and was entered in his day through
the double iron gates on West (P) Street.

The carriages passed up and around a circle of box to the path,
bordered with box leading to the porch with its lovely doorway.

The doors opening into the hall that runs right through are of solid
mahogany with big old brass locks.

In the dining room is an especially beautiful white wood mantel, carved
with a scene of sheep and shepherds.

The tradition is that L'Enfant planned the garden, and also left his
spectacles lying on the piano.

In 1805 the place was bought by William Nicolls of Maryland, whose wife
was Margaret Smith, a descendant of Captain John Smith.

They had two daughters, Roberta, who married William Frederick Hanewinckel
of Richmond, and Jennie, who married Colonel Hollingsworth.

The Hanewinckels used to come back to the old home sometimes in the
summer, even to the grandchildren, and the descendants still love
the old place and consider it their ancestral home, for they had
it longer than any other family.

Colonel Hollingsworth was the superintendent of Mount Vernon before Colonel
Dodge. I remember Colonel Hollingsworth well, a tall, fine-looking old
gentleman, with a long, white beard.

Of course, in those days we went to Mount Vernon by way of the river,
on the steamer _W. W. Corcoran_.

It is still, I think, by far the most pleasant way to approach the
dignified old mansion, and Captain Hollingsworth would often be on
the boat and talk with us.

I've never forgotten the dear old-fashioned nosegay he picked and
gave me from Mrs.

Washington's garden. Mrs.

Hollingsworth was a tiny little old lady. I can see her now with her
snow-white hair and her big, black bonnet. Poor soul, it was a terrible
trial to her when the place had to be sold after her husband's
death.

[Illustration: THE SEVIER HOUSE (BUILT BY WASHINGTON BOWIE)]
It was put up for auction in 1890, and Mr. and Mrs.

John Sevier, who happened to be visiting Mr. and Mrs. Henry Dodge in
Georgetown at that time, though they spent a great deal of their
time in Paris, heard of the sale and bought the house on the spot.

Mr. Sevier was a descendant of the famous Tennesseean of that same name.
Later they added the wings extending far out on each side, which are
really two charming little houses.

The old garden is still full of wonderful box, and besides, there are
lots and lots of lovely roses, the pride of their stately mistress.

Mrs.

Sevier told me of being at a spa in Germany one summer when she was
young, with Mr.

Sevier. When they asked for the first floor apartment instead
of theirs on the second, they were told by the proprietor that it was
engaged for "some Englishman; he did not know whom."

It turned out to be the then Prince of Wales, Edward VII. The prince,
on seeing her, asked to be presented.

She was very beautiful then, tall and fair.

She met him three times, in the garden or at the spring.

When he was leaving, he asked to say good-bye. She, unthinkingly,
stood on the step above him, (a terrible _faux pas_, she learned
afterwards), gave him some roses, and he presented her with a bouquet
surrounded by lace paper; it was the custom, always, on leaving a
place.

When my father built his house in 1884 on the southwest corner of
Stoddert (Q) Street and Congress (31st) Street, it was in part of
the orchard of the old Bowie place.

Some of the pear trees were still there.

Today there are six houses on the lot where his house stood with
its big gables and its many porches, surrounded by a fine lawn in
which he took great pride.

This house caused a good deal of comment at the time of its building
from the fact that it had a bathroom on every floor, one being,
of course, a "powder room."

But to have a bathroom in the basement for the servants in those
days was unheard of.

It was just as good as the others, a tin-lined tub, of course,
would be horrible to the present generation!

The house was always brimming over with people, young and old, for
occasions both grave and gay.

One very grave one happened about two years after we moved there,
and another "first" in Georgetown was there--the first trained nurse
in Georgetown.

Early in the month of May diphtheria seized the eldest daughter, then
about fifteen. Two days later, another succumbed, a beautiful
little girl of five.

There was no anti-toxin in those days.

In four days little Eleanor Hope was dead.

Two days later a little cousin visiting there, was taken, and two
days later still, the three remaining well children were sent out
one afternoon for a drive with Grandpa in the Dayton-wagon, an
old-time version of the present-day station wagon.

We thought it was kind of strange to go to drive in the rain, but
it wasn't really raining hard, so we stopped where the Cathedral
Close is now and picked bluets and violets.

When we got home we were told we had a new little brother!

Wildly excited, we rushed upstairs and assaulted the door of mother's
room.

It was opened by old Aunt Catherine, the colored mid-wife, who had
been told not to admit anyone, but mother called us and in we went.

An hour or so later I was the fourth victim of diphtheria!

I still have vivid memories of it all, and of Miss Freese, the
trained nurse.

[Illustration: _Courtesy Bolling-Fowler_.

THE GEORGE T. DUNLOP HOUSE]
She wore a uniform of blue and white striped cotton, long to the
floor, but, strange to say, her hair was short, unusual for those
days.

I can still see the animals she cut out of paper--elephants, horses,
and cows.

Dear Aunt Ellen and Auntie helped with the nursing, and father even
stayed home some days to help!

These were some of the grave days, now to come to the gay.

I remember the big reception for father's and mother's silver wedding
anniversary, when I and my two chums, I in red, one in white, and
one in a blue dress, stood back behind this fine couple, thinking
we were so wonderful!

My best friend lived right across the street, and we rigged up a
line from my window to hers on which we sent little notes by pulling
the line around.

"But it is one of the few things open to me. I can become a newsboy
without recommendations. Even your business would be closed to me if it
were known that I was suspected of theft."

"Thats so," said Mike, scratching his head in perplexity.

"Then would you recommend my becoming a newsboy?"

"I don't know. You couldn't make more'n fifty or sixty cent a day."

"That will be better than nothing."

"And I can pay the rent, or most of it, as I'll be doin' better than
you."

"We will wait and see how much I make."

So Rodney swallowed his pride, and procuring a supply of afternoon
papers set about selling them. He knew that it was an honest business,
and there was no disgrace in following it.

But one day he was subjected to keen mortification. Jasper Redwood and
a friend--it was Philip Carton, his confederate--were walking along
Broadway, and their glances fell on Rodney.

"I say, Jasper," said the elder of the two, "isn't that the boy who was
in the same store with you?"

Jasper looked, and his eyes lighted up with malicious satisfaction.

"Oho!" he said. "Well, this is rich!"

"Give me a paper, boy," he said, pretending not to recognize Rodney at
first. "Why, it's Ropes."

"Yes," answered Rodney, his cheek flushing. "You see what I am reduced
to. What paper will you buy?"

"The Mail and Express."

"Here it is."

"Can't you get another place?" asked Jasper curiously.

"I might if I could get a recommendation, but probably Mr. Goodnow
wouldn't give me one."

"No, I guess not."

"So I must take what I can get."

"Do you make much selling papers?"

"Very little."

"You can't make as much as you did in the store?"

"Not much more than half as much."

"Do you live in the same place?"

"Yes, for the present."

"Oh, by the way, Ropes, I've got your old place," said Jasper in
exultation.

"I thought you would get it," answered Rodney, not without a pang.

"Come into the store some day, Ropes. It will seem like old times."

"I shall not enter the store till I am able to clear myself of the
charge made against me."

"Then probably you will stay away a long time."

"I am afraid so."

"Well, ta, ta! Come along, Philip."

As Rodney followed with his eye the figure of his complacent successor
he felt that his fate was indeed a hard one.


CHAPTER XV.


A RICH FIND.


As Jasper and his companion moved away, Carton said, "I'm sorry for that
poor duffer, Jasper."

"Why should you be sorry?" asked Jasper, frowning.

"Because he has lost a good place and good prospects, and all for no
fault of his own."

"You are getting sentimental, Philip," sneered Jasper.

"No, but I am showing a little humanity. He has lost all this through
you----"

"Through us, you mean."

"Well, through us. We have made him the scapegoat for our sins."

"Oh well, he is making a living."

"A pretty poor one. I don't think you would like to be reduced to
selling papers."

"His case and mine are different."

"I begin to think also that we have made a mistake in getting him
discharged so soon."

"We can't take anything more."

"Why not?"

"Because there will be no one to lay the blame upon. He is out of the
store."

"That is true. I didn't think of that. But I invited him to come around
and call. If he should, and something else should be missing it would be
laid to him."

"I don't believe he will call. I am terribly hard up, and our source of
income has failed us. Haven't you got a dollar or two to spare?"

"No," answered Jasper coldly. "I only get seven dollars a week."

"But you have nearly all that. You only have to hand in two dollars a
week to your uncle."

"Look here, Philip Carton, I hope you don't expect to live off me. I
have all I can do to take care of myself."

Carton looked at Jasper in anger and mortification.

"I begin to understand how good a friend you are," he said.

"I am not fool enough to pinch myself to keep you," said Jasper bluntly.
"You are a man of twenty five and I am only a boy. You ought to be able
to take care of yourself."

"Just give me a dollar, or lend it Jasper, and I will risk it at play.
I may rise from the table with a hundred. If I do I will pay you
handsomely for the loan."

"I couldn't do it, Mr. Carton. I have only two dollars in my pocket, and
I have none to spare."

"Humph! what is that?"

Philip Carton's eyes were fixed upon the sidewalk. There was a flimsy
piece of paper fluttering about impelled by the wind. He stooped and
picked it up.

"It is a five dollar bill," he exclaimed in exultation. "My luck has
come back."

Jasper changed his tone at once. Now Philip was the better off of the
two.

"That is luck!" he said. "Shall we go into Delmonico's, and have an
ice?"

"If it is at your expense, yes."

"That wouldn't be fair. You have more money than I."

"Yes, and I mean to keep it myself. You have set me the example."

"Come, Philip, you are not angry at my refusing you a loan?"

"No; I think you were sensible. I shall follow your example. I will bid
you good night. I seem to be in luck, and will try my fortune at the
gaming table."

"I will go with you."

"No; I would prefer to go alone."

"That fellow is unreasonable," muttered Jasper, as he strode off,
discontented. "Did he expect I would divide my salary with him?"

Philip Carton, after he parted company with Jasper, walked back to where
Rodney was still selling papers.

"Give me a paper," he said.

"Which will you have?"

"I am not particular. Give me the first that comes handy. Ah, the
Evening Sun will do."

He took the paper and put a quarter into Rodney's hand.

As he was walking away Rodney called out, "Stop, here's your change,"

"Never mind," said Philip with a wave of the hand.

"Thank you," said Rodney gratefully, for twenty five cents was no trifle
to him at this time.

"That ought to bring me luck," soliloquized Philip Carton as he walked
on. "It isn't often I do a good deed. It was all the money I had besides
the five dollar bill, and I am sure the news boy will make better use of
it than I would."

"That was the young man that was walking with Jasper," reflected Rodney.
"Well, he is certainly a better fellow than he. Thanks to this quarter,
I shall have made eighty cents today, and still have half a dozen
papers. That is encouraging."

Several days passed that could not be considered lucky. Rodney's average
profits were only about fifty cent a day, and that was barely sufficient
to buy his meals. It left him nothing to put towards paying room rent.

He began to consider whether he would not be compelled to pawn some
article from his wardrobe, for he was well supplied with clothing, when
he had a stroke of luck.

On Fifteenth Street, by the side of Tiffany's great jewelry store, he
picked up a square box neatly done up in thin paper. Opening it, he was
dazzled by the gleam of diamonds.

The contents were a diamond necklace and pin, which, even to Rodney's
inexperienced eyes, seemed to be of great value.

"Some one must have dropped them in coming from the jewelry store," he
reflected. "Who can it be?"

He had not far to seek. There was a card inside on which was engraved:


MRS. ELIZA HARVEY,

with an address on Fifth Avenue.


Passing through to Fifth Avenue Rodney began to scan the numbers on
the nearest houses. He judged that Mrs. Harvey must live considerably
farther up the Avenue, in the direction of Central Park.

"I will go there at once," Rodney decided. "No doubt Mrs. Harvey is very
much distressed by her loss. I shall carry her good news."

The house he found to be between Fortieth and Fiftieth Street. Ascending
the steps he rang the bell. The door was opened by a man servant.

"Does Mrs. Harvey live here?" asked Rodney.

"What do you want with her, young man?" demanded the servant in a tone
of importance.

"That I will tell her."

"What's your name?"

"I can give you my name, but she won't recognize it."

"Then you don't know her."

"No."

"If it's money you want, she don't give to beggars."

"You are impudent," said Rodney hotly. "If you don't give my message you
will get into trouble."

The servant opened his eyes. He seemed somewhat impressed by Rodney's
confident tone.

"Mrs. Harvey doesn't live here," he said.

"Is she in the house?"

"Well, yes, she's visiting here."

"Then why do you waste your time?" said Rodney impatiently. He forgot
for the time that he was no longer being educated at an expensive
boarding school, and spoke in the tone he would have used before his
circumstances had changed.

"I'll go and ask if she'll see you," said the flunky unwillingly.

Five minutes later a pleasant looking woman of middle age descended the
staircase.

"Are you the boy that wished to see me?" she asked.

"Yes, if you are Mrs. Harvey."

"I am. But come in! Thomas, why didn't you invite this young gentleman
into the parlor?"

Thomas opened his eyes wide. So the boy whom he had treated so
cavalierly was a young gentleman.

He privately put down Mrs. Harvey in his own mind as eccentric.

"Excuse me, ma'am," he said. "I didn't know as he was parlor company."

"Well, he is," said Mrs. Harvey with a cordial smile that won Rodney's
heart.

"Follow me!" said the lady.

Rodney followed her into a handsome apartment and at a signal seated
himself on a sofa.

"Now," she said, "I am ready to listen to your message."

"Have you lost anything?" asked Rodney abruptly.

"Oh, have you found it?" exclaimed Mrs. Harvey, clasping her hands.

"That depends on what you have lost," answered Rodney, who felt that it
was necessary to be cautious.

"Certainly, you are quite right. I have lost a box containing jewelry
bought this morning at Tiffany's."

"What were the articles?"

"A diamond necklace and pin. They are intended as a present for my
daughter who is to be married. Tell me quick have you found them?"

"Is this the box?" asked Rodney.

"Oh yes, yes! How delightful to recover it. I thought I should never see
it again. Where did you find it?"

"On Fifteenth Street beside Tiffany's store."

"And you brought it directly to me?"

"Yes, madam."

"Have you any idea of the value of the articles?"

"Perhaps they may be worth five hundred dollars."

"They are worth over a thousand. Are you poor?"

"Yes, madam. I am trying to make a living by selling papers, but find it
hard work."

"But you don't look like a newsboy."

"Till a short time since I thought myself moderately rich."

"That is strange. Tell me your story."


CHAPTER XVI.


A SURPRISING TURN OF FORTUNE.


Rodney told his story frankly. Mrs. Harvey was very sympathetic by
nature, and she listened with the deepest interest, and latterly with
indignation when Rodney spoke of his dismissal from Mr. Goodnow's store.

"You have been treated shamefully," she said warmly.

"I think Mr. Goodnow really believes me guilty," rejoined Rodney.

"A dishonest boy would hardly have returned a valuable box of jewelry."

"Still Mr. Goodnow didn't know that I would do it."

"I see you are disposed to apologize for your late employer."

"I do not forget that he treated me kindly till this last occurrence."

"Your consideration does you credit. So you have really been reduced to
earn your living as a newsboy?"

"Yes, madam."

"I must think what I can do for you. I might give you money, but when
that was gone you would be no better off."

"I would much rather have help in getting a place."

Mrs. Harvey leaned her head on her hand and looked thoughtful.

"You are right," she said. "Let me think."

Rodney waited, hoping that the lady would be able to think of something
to his advantage.

Finally she spoke.

"I think you said you understood Latin and Greek?"

"I have studied both languages and French also. I should have been ready
to enter college next summer."

"Then perhaps I shall be able to do something for you. I live in
Philadelphia, but I have a brother living in West Fifty Eighth Street.
He has one little boy, Arthur, now nine years of age. Arthur is quite
precocious, but his health is delicate, and my brother has thought of
getting a private instructor for him. Do you like young children?"

"Very much. I always wished that I had a little brother."

"Then I think you would suit my brother better as a tutor for Arthur
than a young man. Being a boy yourself, you would be not only tutor but
companion."

"I should like such a position very much."

"Then wait here a moment, and I will write you a letter of
introduction."

She went up stairs, but soon returned.

She put a small perfumed billet into Rodney's hands. It was directed to
John Sargent with an address on West Fifty Eighth Street.

"Call this evening," she said, "about half past seven o'clock. My
brother will be through dinner, and will not have gone out at that
hour."

"Thank you," said Rodney gratefully.

"Here is another envelope which you can open at your leisure. I cannot
part from you without thanking you once more for returning my jewelry."

"You have thanked me in a very practical way, Mrs. Harvey."

"I hope my letter may lead to pleasant results for you. If you ever come
to Philadelphia call upon me at No. 1492 Walnut Street."

"Thank you."

As Rodney left the house he felt that his ill fortune had turned,
and that a new prospect was opened up before him. He stepped into the
Windsor Hotel, and opened the envelope last given him. It contained five
five dollar bills.

To one of them was pinned a scrap of paper containing these words: "I
hope this money will be useful to you. It is less than the reward I
should have offered for the recovery of the jewels."

Under the circumstances Rodney felt that he need not scruple to use the
money. He knew that he had rendered Mrs. Harvey a great service, and
that she could well afford to pay him the sum which the envelopes
contained.

He began to be sensible that he was hungry, not having eaten for some
time. He went into a restaurant on Sixth Avenue, and ordered a sirloin
steak. It was some time since he had indulged in anything beyond a
common steak, and he greatly enjoyed the more luxurious meal. He
didn't go back to selling papers, for he felt that it would hardly be
consistent with the position of a classical teacher--the post for which
he was about to apply.

Half past seven found him at the door of Mr. John Sargent. The house was
of brown stone, high stoop, and four stories in height. It was such a
house as only a rich man could occupy.

He was ushered into the parlor and presently Mr. Sargent came in from
the dining room.

"Are you Mr. Ropes?" he asked, looking at Rodney's card.

It is not usual for newsboys to carry cards, but Rodney had some left
over from his more prosperous days.

"Yes, sir. I bring you a note of introduction from Mrs. Harvey."

"Ah yes, my sister. Let me see it."

The note was of some length. That is, it covered three pages of note
paper. Mr. Sargent read it attentively.

"My sister recommends you as tutor for my little son, Arthur," he said,
as he folded up the letter.

"Yes, sir; she suggested that I might perhaps suit you in that
capacity."

"She also says that you found and restored to her a valuable box of
jewelry which she was careless enough to drop near Tiffany's."

"Yes, sir."

"I have a good deal of confidence in my sister's good judgment. She
evidently regards you very favorably."

"I am glad of that sir,"

"Will you tell me something of your qualifications? Arthur is about to
commence Latin. He is not old enough for Greek."

"I could teach either, sir."

"And of course you are well up in English branches?"

"I think I am."

"My sister hints that you are poor, and obliged to earn your own living.
How, then, have you been able to secure so good an education?"

"I have only been poor for a short time. My father left me fifty
thousand dollars, but it was lost by my guardian."

"Who was your guardian?"

"Mr. Benjamin Fielding."

"I knew him well. I don't think he was an unprincipled man, but he was
certainly imprudent, and was led into acts that were reprehensible. Did
he lose all your money for you?"

"Yes, sir."

"What did you do?"

"Left the boarding school where I was being educated, and came to this
city."

"Did you obtain any employment?"

"Yes, sir; I have been employed for a short time by Otis Goodnow, a
merchant of Reade Street."

"And why did you leave?"

"Because Mr. Goodnow missed some articles from his stock, and I was
charged with taking them."

Rodney was fearful of the effect of his frank confession upon Mr.
Sargent, but the latter soon reassured him.

"Your honesty in restoring my sister's jewelry is sufficient proof that
the charge was unfounded. I shall not let it influence me."

"Thank you, sir."

"Now as to the position of teacher, though very young, I don't see why
you should not fill it satisfactorily. I will call Arthur."

He went to the door and called "Arthur."

A delicate looking boy with a sweet, intelligent face, came running into
the room.

"Do you want me, papa?"

"Yes, Arthur. I have a new friend for you. Will you shake hands with
him?"

Arthur, who was not a shy boy, went up at once to Rodney and offered his
hand.

"I am glad to see you," he said.

Rodney smiled. He was quite taken with the young boy.

"What's your name?" the latter asked.

"Rodney Ropes."

"Are you going to stay and make us a visit?"

Mr. Sargent answered this question.

"Would you like to have Rodney stay?" he asked.

"Oh yes."

"How would you like to have him give you lessons in Latin and other
studies?"

"I should like it. I am sure he wouldn't be cross. Are you a teacher,
Rodney?"

"I will be your teacher if you are willing to have me."

"Yes, I should like it. And will you go to walk with me in Central
Park?"

"Yes."

"Then, papa, you may as well engage him. I was afraid you would get a
tiresome old man for my teacher."

"That settles it, Rodney," said Mr. Sargent, smiling. "Now, Arthur, run
out and I will speak further with Rodney about you."

"All right, papa."

"As Arthur seems to like you, I will give you a trial. As he suggested,
I should like to have you become his companion as well as teacher.
You will come here at nine o'clock in the morning, and stay till four,
taking lunch with your pupil. About the compensation, will you tell me
what will be satisfactory to you?"

"I prefer to leave that to you, sir."

"Then we will say fifteen dollars a week--today is Thursday. Will you
present yourself here next Monday morning?"

"Yes, sir."

"If you would like an advance of salary, you need only say so."

"Thank you, sir, but I am fairly provided with money for the present."

"Then nothing more need be said. As I am to meet a gentleman at the
Union League Club tonight, I will bid you good evening, and expect to
see you on Monday."

Rodney rose and Mr. Sargent accompanied him to the door, shaking hands
with him courteously by way of farewell.

Rodney emerged into the street in a state of joyous excitement. Twenty
five dollars in his pocket, and fifteen dollars a week! He could hardly
credit his good fortune.


CHAPTER XVII.


JASPER'S PERPLEXITY.


Mike Flynn was overjoyed to hear of Rodney's good fortune.

"Fifteen dollars a week!" he repeated. "Why you will be rich."

"Not exactly that, Mike, but it will make me comfortable. By the way,
as I have so much more than you, it will only be fair for me to pay the
whole rent."

"No, Rodney, you mustn't do that."

"I shall insist upon it, Mike. You would do the same in my place."

"Yes I would."

"So you can't object to my doing it."

"You are very kind to me, Rodney," said Mike, who had the warm heart of
his race. "It isn't every boy brought up like you who would be willing
to room with a bootblack."

"But you are not a bootblack now. You are a telegraph boy."

"There are plenty that mind me when I blacked boots down in front of the
Astor House."

"You are just as good a boy for all that. How much did you make last
week?"

"Four dollars salary, and a dollar and a half in extra tips."

"Hereafter you must save your rent money for clothes. We must have you
looking respectable."

"Won't you adopt me, Rodney?" asked Mike with a laughing face.

"That's a good idea. Perhaps I will. In that case you must obey all
my orders. In the first place, what are you most in want in the way of
clothing?"

"I haven't got but two shirts."

"That is hardly enough for a gentleman of your social position. Anything
else."

"I'm short on collars and socks."

"Then we'll go out shopping. I'll buy you a supply of each."

"But you haven't begun to work yet."

"No, but Mrs. Harvey made me a present of twenty five dollars. We'll go
to some of the big stores on Sixth Avenue where we can get furnishing
goods cheap."

Rodney carried out his purpose, and at the cost of four dollars supplied
his room mate with all he needed for the present.

"See what it is to be rich, Mike," he said. "It seems odd for me to be
buying clothes for my adopted son."

"You're in luck, Rodney, and so am I. I hope some time I can do you a
favor."

"Perhaps you can, Mike. If I should get sick, you might take my place as
tutor."

"You must know an awful lot, Rodney," said Mike, regarding his companion
with new respect.

"Thank you for the compliment, Mike. I hope Mr. Sargent will have the
same opinion."

The next day it is needless to say that Rodney did not resume the
business of newsboy. He was very glad to give it up. He dressed with
unusual care and took a walk down town.

As he passed Reade Street by chance Jasper was coming around the
corner. His face lighted up first with pleasure at seeing Rodney, for
it gratified his mean nature to triumph over the boy whom he had ousted
from his position, and next with surprise at his unusually neat and
well dressed appearance. Rodney looked far from needing help. He might
readily have been taken for a boy of aristocratic lineage.

"Hallo!" said Jasper, surveying Rodney curiously.

"How are you this morning, Jasper?" returned Rodney quietly.

"Why ain't you selling papers?"

"I don't like the business."

"But you've got to make a living."

"Quite true."

"Are you going to black boots?"

"Why should I? Is it a desirable business?"

"How should I know?" asked Jasper, coloring.

"I didn't know but you might have had some experience at it. I haven't."

"Do you mean to insult me?" demanded Jasper hotly.

"I never insult anybody. I will only say that you are as likely to take
up the business as I."

"I've got a place."

"How do you know but I have?"

"Because you were selling papers yesterday and are walking the street
today."

"That is true. But I have a place engaged for all that. I shall go to
work on Monday."

Jasper pricked up his ears.

"Where is it?" he asked.

"I don't care to tell at present."

"Is it true? Have you got a place?"

"Yes."

"I don't see how you could. Mr. Goodnow wouldn't give you a
recommendation."

"There is no reason why he should not."

"What, after your taking cloaks and dress patterns from the store?"

"I did nothing of the kind. Sooner or later Mr. Goodnow will find out
his mistake. Probably the real thief is still in his employ."

Jasper turned pale and regarded Rodney searchingly, but there was
nothing in his manner or expression to indicate that his remark had been
personal. He thought it best to turn the conversation.

"How much pay do you get--four dollars?"

"More than that."

"You don't get as much as you did at our store?"

"Yes; I get more."

Now it was Jasper's turn to show surprise. He did not know whether
to believe Rodney or not, but there was something in his face which
commanded belief.

"How much do you get?" he asked.

"You would not believe me if I told you."

"Try me," returned Jasper, whose curiosity was aroused.

"I am to get fifteen dollars a week."

Jasper would not have looked more surprised if Rodney had informed him
that he was to become a Cabinet minister.

"You're joking!" he ejaculated.

"Not at all."

"How could you have the face to ask such a price. Did you pass yourself
off as an experienced salesman?"

"No."

"I don't understand it at all, that is, if you are telling the truth."

"I have told you the truth, Jasper. I have no object in deceiving you.
The salary was fixed by my employer."

"Who did you say it was?"

"I didn't say."

Jasper's cunning scheme was defeated. He felt disturbed to hear of
Rodney's good fortune, but he had a shot in reserve.

"I don't think you will keep your place long," he said in a malicious
tone.

"Why not?"

"Your employer will hear under what circumstances you left our store,
and then of course he will discharge you."

"You will be sorry for that won't you?" asked Rodney pointedly.

"Why of course I don't want you to have bad luck."

"Thank you. You are very considerate."

"Suppose you lose your place, shall you go back to selling papers?"

"I hope to find something better to do."

"Where are you going now?"

"To get some lunch."

"So am I. Suppose we go together."

"Very well, providing you will lunch with me."

"I don't want to impose upon you."

"You won't. We may not meet again for some time, and we shall have this
meal to remind us of each other."

They went to a well known restaurant on Park Row. Rodney ordered a
liberal dinner for himself, and Jasper followed his example nothing
loath. He was always ready to dine at the expense of others, but even as
he ate he could not help wondering at the strange chance that had made
him the guest of a boy who was selling papers the day before.

He had nearly finished eating when a disturbing thought occurred to him.
Suppose Rodney didn't have money enough to settle the bill, and threw it
upon him.

When Rodney took the checks and walked up to the cashier's desk he
followed him with some anxiety. But his companion quietly took out a
five dollar bill, from his pocket and tendered it to the cashier. The
latter gave him back the right change and the two boys went out into the
street.

"You seem to have plenty of money," said Jasper.

"There are very few who would admit having that," smiled Rodney.

"I don't see why you sold papers if you have five dollar bills in your
pocket."

"I don't want to be idle."

"May I tell my uncle and Mr. Goodnow that you have got a place?"

"If you like."

"Well, good by, I must be hurrying back to the store."

Rodney smiled. He rather enjoyed Jasper's surprise and perplexity.


CHAPTER XVIII.


RODNEY'S SECRET IS DISCOVERED.


Jasper lost no time in acquainting his uncle with Rodney's extraordinary
good fortune. James Redwood was surprised, but not all together
incredulous.

"I don't understand it," he said, "but Ropes appears to be a boy of
truth. Perhaps he may have exaggerated the amount of his salary."

"I hardly think so, uncle. He gave me a tip top dinner down on Park
Row."

"He may have been in funds from selling the articles taken from the
store."

"That's so!" assented Jasper, who had the best possible reason for
knowing that it was not so.

"I wish the boy well," said his uncle. "He always treated me
respectfully, and I never had anything against him except the loss of
stock, and it is not certain that he is the thief."

"I guess there isn't any doubt about that."

"Yet, believing him to be a thief, you did not hesitate to accept a
dinner from him."

"I didn't want to hurt his feelings," replied Jasper, rather sheepishly.

"Do you know what sort of a place he has got, or with what house?"

"No; he wouldn't tell me."

"He thought perhaps you would inform the new firm of the circumstances
under which he left us. I don't blame him, but I am surprised that he
should have been engaged without a recommendation."

"Shall you tell Mr. Goodnow?"

"Not unless he asks about Ropes. I don't want to interfere with the boy
in any way."

In the store, as has already been stated, Jasper succeeded to Rodney's
place, and in consequence his pay was raised to seven dollars a week.
Still it was not equal to what it had been when he was receiving
additional money from the sale of the articles stolen by Philip Carton
and himself.

The way in which they had operated was this: Philip would come in and
buy a cloak or a dress pattern from Jasper, and the young salesman would
pack up two or three instead of one. There was a drawback to the profit
in those cases, as Carton would be obliged to sell both at a reduced
price. Still they had made a considerable sum from these transactions,
though not nearly as much as Mr. Goodnow had lost.

After the discovery of the theft and the discharge of Rodney, the two
confederates felt that it would be imprudent to do any more in that
line. This suspension entailed heavier loss on Carton than on Jasper.
The latter had a fixed income and a home at his uncle's house, while
Philip had no regular income, though he occasionally secured a little
temporary employment.

In the meantime Rodney had commenced his tutorship. His young pupil
became very fond of him, and being a studious boy, made rapid progress
in his lessons.

Mr. Sargent felt that his experiment, rash as it might be considered,
vindicated his wisdom by its success. At the end of a month he
voluntarily raised Rodney's salary to twenty dollars a week.

"I am afraid you are overpaying me, Mr. Sargent," said Rodney.

"That's my lookout. Good service is worth a good salary, and I am
perfectly satisfied with you."

"Thank you, sir. I prize that even more than the higher salary."

Only a portion of Rodney's time was spent in teaching. In the afternoon
he and his charge went on little excursions, generally to Central Park.

One holiday, about four months after the commencement of Rodney's
engagement, he was walking in the Park when he fell in with Jasper.
Jasper's attention was at once drawn to the little boy, whose dress and
general appearance indicated that he belonged to a wealthy family. This
excited Jasper's curiosity.

"How are you, Rodney?" said Jasper adroitly. "It is a good while since I
met you."

"Yes."

"Who is the little boy with you?"

"His name is Arthur Sargent."

Rodney gave this information unwillingly, for he saw that his secret was
likely to be discovered.

"How do you do, Arthur?" asked Jasper, with unwonted affability, for he
did not care for children.

"Pretty well," answered Arthur politely.

"Have you known Rodney long?"

"Why, he is my teacher," answered Arthur in some surprise.

Jasper's eyes gleamed with sudden intelligence. So this was Rodney's
secret, and this was the position for which he was so well paid.

Rodney bit his lip in vexation, but made no remark.

"Does he ever punish you for not getting your lessons?" asked Jasper
without much tact.

"Of course not," answered Arthur indignantly.

"Arthur always does get his lessons," said Rodney. "I suppose you have a
holiday from work today, Jasper."

"Yes; I am glad to get away now and then."

"I must bid you good morning now."

"Won't you let me call on you? Where do you live, Arthur?"

The boy gave the number of his house.

Jasper asked Arthur, thinking rightly that he would be more likely to
get an answer from him than from Rodney. He walked away triumphantly,
feeling that he had made a discovery that might prove of advantage to
him.

"Is that a friend of yours, Rodney?" asked little Arthur.

"I have known him for some time."

"I don't like him very much."

"Why?" asked Rodney with some curiosity.

"I don't know," answered the little boy slowly. "I can't like
everybody."

"Quite true, Arthur. Jasper is not a special friend of mine, and I am
not particular about your liking him. I hope you like me."

"You know I do, Rodney," and he gave Rodney's hand an assuring pressure.

Ten minutes after he left Rodney, Jasper fell in with Carton. The
intimacy between them had perceptibly fallen off. It had grown out of
business considerations.

Now that it was no longer safe to abstract articles from the store,
Jasper felt that he had no more use for his late confederate. When they
met he treated him with marked coldness.

On this particular day Carton was looking quite shabby. In fact, his
best suit was in pawn, and he had fallen back on one half worn and
soiled.

"Hello!" exclaimed Jasper, and was about to pass on with a cool nod.

"Stop!" said Philip, looking offended.

"I am in a hurry," returned Jasper. "I can't stop today."

"You are in a hurry, and on a holiday?"

"Yes; I am to meet a friend near the lake."

"I'll go along with you."

Jasper had to submit though with an ill grace.

"Wouldn't another day do?"

"No; the fact is, Jasper, I am in trouble,"

"You usually are," sneered Jasper.

"That is so. I have been out of luck lately."

"I am sorry, but I can't help it as I see."

"How much money do you think I have in my pocket?"

"I don't know, I am sure. I am not good at guessing conundrums."

"Just ten cents."

"That isn't much," said Jasper, indifferently.

"Let me have a dollar, thats a good fellow!"

"You seem to think I am made of money," said Jasper sharply. "I haven't
got much more myself."

"Then you might have. You get a good salary."

"Only seven dollars."

"You are able to keep most of it for yourself."

"Suppose I am? You seem to know a good deal of my affairs."

"Haven't you any pity for an old friend?"

"Yes, I'll give you all the pity you want, but when it comes to money
it's a different matter. Here you are, a man of twenty six, ten years
older than me, and yet you expect me to help support you."

"You didn't use to talk to me like that."

"Well, I do now. You didn't use to try to get money out of me."

"Look here, Jasper! I am poor, but I don't want you to talk to me as you
are doing."

"Indeed!" sneered Jasper.

"And I won't have it," said Carton firmly. "Listen to me, and I will
propose a plan that will help us both."

"What is it?"

"You can easily secrete articles, if you are cautious, without
attracting notice, and I will dispose of them and share the money with
you."

Jasper shook his head.

"I wouldn't dare to do it," he said. "Somebody might spy on me."

"Not if you are careful."

"If it were found out I would be bounced like Ropes."

"What is he doing? Have you seen him lately?"

"He is getting on finely. He is earning fifteen dollars a week."

"You don't mean it?"

"Yes I do."

"What firm is he working for?"

"For none at all. He is tutor to a young kid."

"I didn't know he was scholar enough."

"Oh yes, he knows Greek and Latin and a lot of other stuff."

"Who is the boy?"

"I don't feel at liberty to tell. I don't think he would care to have
you know."

"I'll tell you what you can do. Borrow five dollars of him for me."

"I don't know about that. If I were to borrow it would be for myself."

"You can do as you please. If you don't do something for me I will write
to Mr. Goodnow that you are the thief who stole the cloaks and dress
patterns."

"You wouldn't do that?" exclaimed Jasper in consternation.

"Wouldn't I? I am desperate enough to do anything."

After a little further conference Jasper agreed to do what was asked of
him. He did not dare to refuse.


CHAPTER XIX.


JASPER'S REVENGE


Rodney was considerably surprised one evening to receive a call from
Jasper in his room. He was alone, as Mike had been detailed about a
week ago for night duty. The room looked more attractive than formerly.
Rodney had bought a writing desk, which stood in the corner, and had put
up three pictures, which, though cheap, were attractive.

"Good evening, Jasper," he said. "It is quite friendly of you to call."

"I hadn't anything else on hand this evening, and thought I would come
round see how you were getting along."

"Take a seat and make yourself at home."

"Do you object to cigarettes?" asked Jasper, producing one from a case
in his pocket.

"I object to smoking them myself, but I don't want to dictate to my
friends."

"You look quite comfortable here," continued Jasper in a patronizing
tone.

"We try to be comfortable, though our room is not luxurious."

"Who do you mean by 'we'? Have you a room mate?"

"Yes. Mike Flynn rooms with me."

"Who is he--a newsboy?"

"No. He is a telegraph boy."

"You don't seem to very particular," said Jasper, shrugging his
shoulders.

"I am very particular."

"Yet you room with an Irish telegraph boy."

"He is a nice boy of good habit, and a devoted friend. What could I want
more?"

"Oh, well, you have a right to consult your own taste."

"You have a nice home, no doubt."

"I live with my uncle. Yes, he has a good house, but I am not so
independent as if I had a room outide."

"How are things going on at the store?"

"About the same as usual. Why don't you come in some day?"

"For two reasons; I am occupied during the day, and I don't want to go
where I am considered a thief."

"I wish I was getting your income. It is hard to get along on seven
dollars a week."

"Still you have a nice home, and I suppose you have most of your salary
to yourself."

"Yes, but there isn't much margin in seven dollars. My uncle expects
me to buy my own clothes. You were lucky to get out of the store. Old
Goodnow ought to give me ten dollars."

"Don't let him hear you speak of him as OLD Goodnow, Jasper."

"Oh, I'm smart enough for that. I mean to keep on the right side of the
old chap. What sort of a man are you working for?"

"Mr. Sargent is a fine man."

"He isn't mean certainly. I should like to be in your shoes."

"If I hear of any similar position shall I mention your name?" asked
Rodney, smiling.

"No; I could not take care of a kid. I hate them."

"Still Arthur is a nice boy."

"You are welcome to him. What do you have to teach?"

"He is studying Latin and French, besides English branches."

"I know about as much of Latin and French as a cow. I couldn't be a
teacher. I say, Rodney," and Jasper cleared his throat, "I want you to
do me a favor."

"What is it?"

"I want you to lend me ten dollars."

Rodney was not mean, but he knew very well that a loan to Jasper would
be a permanent one. Had Jasper been his friend even this consideration
would not have inspired a refusal, but he knew very well that Jasper had
not a particle of regard for him.

"I don't think I can oblige you, Jasper," he said.

"Why not? You get fifteen dollars a week."

"My expenses are considerable. Besides I am helping Mike, whose salary
is very small. I pay the whole of the rent and I have paid for some
clothes for him."

"You are spending your money very foolishly," said Jasper frowning.

"Would I spend it any less foolishly if I should lend you ten dollars?"

"There is some difference between Mike Flynn and me. I am a gentleman."

"So is Mike."

"A queer sort of gentleman! He is only a poor telegraph boy."

"Still he is a gentleman."

"I should think you might have money enough for both of us."

"I might but I want to save something from my salary. I don't know how
long I shall be earning as much. I might lose my place."

"So you might."

"And I could hardly expect to get another where the pay would be as
good."

"I would pay you on installment--a dollar a week," urged Jasper.

"I don't see how you could, as you say your pay is too small for you
now."

"Oh, well, I could manage."

"I am afraid I can't oblige you, Jasper," said Rodney in a decided tone.

"I didn't think you were so miserly," answered Jasper in vexation.

"You may call it so, if you like. You must remember that I am not
situated like you. You have your uncle to fall back upon in case you
lose your position, but I have no one. I have to hustle for myself."

"Oh, you needn't make any more excuses. I suppose ten dollars is rather
a large sum to lend. Can you lend me five?"

"I am sorry, but I must refuse you."

Jasper rose from the chair on which he had been sitting.

"Then I may as well go," he said. "I am disappointed in you, Ropes. I
thought you were a good, whole souled fellow, and not a miser."

"You must think of me as you please, Jasper. I feel that I have a right
to regulate my own affairs."

"All I have to say is this, if you lose your place as you may very soon,
don't come round to the store and expect to be taken back."

"I won't," answered Rodney, smiling. "I wouldn't go back at any rate
unless the charge of theft was withdrawn."

"That will never be!"

"Let it be so, as long as I am innocent."

Jasper left the room abruptly, not even having the politeness to bid
Rodney good evening.

Rodney felt that he was quite justified in refusing to lend Jasper
money. Had he been in need he would have obliged him, though he had no
reason to look upon him as a friend.

No one who knew Rodney could regard him as mean or miserly. Could he
have read Jasper's thoughts as he left the house he would have felt even
less regret at disappointing him.

About two days afterward when Rodney went up to meet his pupil, Mr.
Sargent handed him a letter.

"Here is something that concerns you, Rodney," he said. "It doesn't
appear to be from a friend of yours."

With some curiosity Rodney took the letter and read it.

It ran thus:


Mr. JOHN SARGENT:

DEAR SIR--I think it my duty to write and tell you something about
your son's tutor--something that will surprise and shock you. Before
he entered your house he was employed by a firm on Reade Street. He was
quite a favorite with his employer, Mr. Otis Goodnow, who promoted him
in a short time. All at once it was found that articles were missing
from the stock. Of course it was evident that some one of the clerks was
dishonest. A watch was set, and finally it was found that Rodney Ropes
had taken the articles, and one--a lady's cloak--was found in his room
by a detective. He was discharged at once without a recommendation.

For a time he lived by selling papers, but at last he managed to get
into your house. I am sure you won't regard him as fit to educate
your little son, though I have no doubt he is a good scholar. But his
character is bad--I don't think he ought to have concealed this from you
out of friendship for you, and because I think it is my duty, I take the
liberty of writing. If you doubt this I will refer to Mr. Goodnow,
or Mr. James Redwood, who had charge of the room in which Ropes was
employed. Yours very respectfully,
                                        A FRIEND.


"You knew all this before, Mr. Sargent," said Rodney, as he handed back
the letter.

"Yes. Have you any idea who wrote it?"

"I feel quite sure that it was a boy about two years older than myself,
Jasper Redwood."

"Is he related to the man of the same name whom he mentions?"

"Yes, he is his nephew."

"Has he any particular reason for disliking you, Rodney?"

"Yes, sir. He came round to my room Wednesday evening, and asked me to
lend him ten dollars."

"I presume you refused."

"Yes, sir. He is not in need. He succeeded to my place, and he has a
home at the house of his uncle."

"He appears to be a very mean boy. Anonymous letters are always
cowardly, and generally malicious. This seems to be no exception to the
general rule."

"I hope it won't affect your feelings towards me, Mr. Sargent."

"Don't trouble yourself about that Rodney. I am not so easily prejudiced
against one of whom I have a good opinion."

"I suppose this is Jasper's revenge," thought Rodney.


CHAPTER XX.


RODNEY LOSES HIS PUPIL.


Jasper had little doubt that his letter would lead to Rodney's loss of
position. It was certainly a mean thing to plot another's downfall,
but Jasper was quite capable of it. Had he secured the loan he asked he
would have been willing to leave Rodney alone, but it would only have
been the first of a series of similar applications.

It was several days before Jasper had an opportunity of learning whether
his malicious plan had succeeded or not. On Sunday forenoon he met
Rodney on Fifth Avenue just as the church services were over. He crossed
the street and accosted the boy he had tried to injure.

"Good morning, Ropes," he said, examining Rodney's face curiously to see
whether it indicated trouble of any kind.

"Good morning!" responded Rodney coolly.

"How are you getting along in your place?"

"Very well, thank you."

"Shall I find you at your pupil's house if I call there some afternoon?"

"Yes, unless I am out walking with Arthur."

"I wonder whether he's bluffing," thought Jasper. "I daresay he wouldn't
tell me if he had been discharged. He takes it pretty coolly."

"How long do you think your engagement will last?" he asked.

"I don't know. I never had a talk with Mr. Sargent on that point."

"Do you still give satisfaction?"

Rodney penetrated Jasper's motives for asking all these questions, and
was amused.

"I presume if I fail to satisfy Mr. Sargent he will tell me so."

"It would be a nice thing if you could stay there three or four years."

"Yes: but I don't anticipate it. When Arthur get a little older he will
be sent to school."

"What will you do then?"

"I haven't got so far as that."

"I can't get anything out of him," said Jasper to himself. "I shouldn't
be a bit surprised if he were already discharged."

They had now reached Madison Square, and Jasper left Rodney.

The latter looked after him with a smile.

"I think I have puzzled Jasper," he said to himself. "He was anxious to
know how his scheme had worked. He will have to wait a little longer."

"If Mr. Sargent keeps Ropes after my letter he must be a fool," Jasper
decided. "I wonder if Ropes handles the mail. He might have suppressed
the letter."

But Rodney was not familiar with his handwriting, and would have no
reason to suspect that the particular letter contained anything likely
to injure him in the eyes of Mr. Sargent.

Later in his walk Jasper met Philip Carton. His former friend was
sitting on a bench in Madison Square. He called out to Jasper as he
passed.

"Come here, Jasper, I want to talk with you."

Jasper looked at him in a manner far from friendly.

"I am in a hurry," he said.

"What hurry can you be in? Come and sit down here. I MUST speak to you."

Jasper did not like his tone, but it impressed him, and he did not dare
to refuse.

He seated himself beside Philip, but looked at him askance. Carton was
undeniably shabby. He had the look of a man who was going down hill and
that rapidly.

"I shall be late for dinner," grumbled Jasper.

"I wish I had any dinner to look forward to," said Carton. "Do you see
this money?" and he produced a nickel from his pocket.

"What is there remarkable about it?"

"It is the last money I have. It won't buy me a dinner."

"I am sorry, but it is none of my business," said Jasper coolly. "You
are old enough to attend to your own affairs."

"And I once thought you were my friend," murmured Philip bitterly.

"Yes, we were friends in a way."

"Now you are up and I am down--Jasper, I want a dollar."

"I dare say you do. Plenty want that."

"I want it from you."

"I can't spare it."

"You can spare it better than you can spare your situation."

"What do you mean by that?" asked Jasper, growing nervous.

"I'll tell you what I mean. How long do you think you would stay in
the store if Mr. Goodnow knew that you were concerned in the theft from
which he has suffered?"

"Was I the only one?"

"No; I am equally guilty."

"I am glad you acknowledge it. You see you had better keep quiet for
your own sake."

"If I keep quiet I shall starve."

"Do you want to go to prison?"

"I shouldn't mind so much if you went along, too."

"Are you crazy, Philip Carton?"

"No, I am not, but I am beginning to get sensible. If I go to prison I
shall at least have enough to eat, and now I haven't."

"What do you mean by all this foolish talk?"

"I mean that if you won't give me any money I will go to the store and
tell Mr. Goodnow something that will surprise him."

Jasper was getting thoroughly frightened.

"Come, Philip." he said, "listen to reason. You know how poor I am."

"No doubt. I know you have a good home and enough to eat."

"I only get seven dollars a week."

"And I get nothing."

"I have already been trying to help you. I went to Ropes the other day,
and asked him to lend me five dollars. I meant it for you."

"Did he give it to you?"

"He wouldn't give me a cent. He is mean and miserly!"

"I don't know. He knows very well that you are no friend of his, though
he doesn't know how much harm you have done him."

"He's rolling in money. However, I've put a spoke in his wheel, I hope."

"How?"

"I wrote an anonymous letter to Mr. Sargent telling him that Ropes was
discharged from the store on suspicion of theft."

"You are a precious scamp, Jasper."

"What do you mean?"

"You are not content with getting Ropes discharged for something which
you yourself did----"

"And you too."

"And I too. I accept the amendment. Not content with that, you try to
get him discharged from his present position."

"Then he might have lent me the money," said Jasper sullenly.

"It wouldn't have been a loan. It would have been a gift. But no matter
about that. I want a dollar."

"I can't give it to you."

"Then I shall call at the store tomorrow morning and tell Mr. Goodnow
about the stolen goods."

Finding that Carton was in earnest Jasper finally, but with great
reluctance, drew out a dollar and handed it to his companion.

"There, I hope that will satisfy you," he said spitefully.

"It will--for the present."

"I wish he'd get run over or something," thought Jasper. "He seems to
expect me to support him, and that on seven dollars a week."

Fortunately for Jasper, Philip Carton obtained employment the next day
which lasted for some time, and as he was paid ten dollars a week he was
not under the necessity of troubling his old confederate for loans.

Now and then Jasper and Rodney met, but there were no cordial relations
between them. Jasper could not forgive Rodney for refusing to lend him
money, and Rodney was not likely to forget the anonymous letter by which
Jasper had tried to injure him.

So three months passed. One day Mr. Sargent arrived at home before it
was time for Rodney to leave.

"I am glad to see you, Rodney," said his employer. "I have some news for
you which I am afraid will not be entirely satisfactory to you."

"What is it, sir?"

"For the last three years I have been wishing to go to Europe with my
wife and Arthur. The plan has been delayed, because I could not make
satisfactory business arrangements. Now, however, that difficulty has
been overcome, and I propose to sail in about two weeks."

"I hope you'll enjoy your trip, sir."

"Thank you. Of course it will terminate, for a time at least your
engagement to teach Arthur."

"I shall be sorry for that, sir, but I am not selfish enough to want you
to stay at home on that account."

"I thought you would feel that way. I wish I could procure you another
position before I go, but that is uncertain. I shall, however, pay you a
month's salary in advance in lieu of a notice."

"That is very liberal, sir."

"I think it only just. I have been very well pleased with your attention
to Arthur, and I know he has profited by your instructions as well
as enjoyed your companionship. I hope you have been able to save
something."

"Yes, sir, I have something in the Union Dime Savings Bank."

"That's well. You will remain with me one week longer, but the last week
Arthur will need for preparations."

Two weeks later Rodney stood on the pier and watched the stately Etruria
steam out into the river. Arthur and his father were on deck, and the
little boy waved his handkerchief to his tutor as long as he could see
him.

Rodney turned away sadly.

"I have lost a good situation," he soliloquized. "When shall I get
another?"


CHAPTER XXI.


CONTINUED ILL LUCK.


Rodney set himself to work searching for a new situation. But
wherever he called he found Some one ahead of him. At length he saw an
advertisement for an entry clerk in a wholesale house in Church Street.
He applied and had the good fortune to please the superintendent.

"Where have you worked before?" he asked.

"At Otis Goodnow's, on Reade Street."

"How much were you paid there?"

"Seven dollars a week."

"Very well, we will start you on that salary, and see if you earn it."

Rodney was surprised and relieved to find that he was not asked for a
recommendation from Mr. Goodnow, knowing that he could not obtain one.
He went to work on a Monday morning, and found his duties congenial and
satisfactory.

Seven dollars a week was small, compared with what he had received as a
tutor, but he had about two hundred and fifty dollars in the Union Dime
Savings Bank and drew three dollars from this fund every week in order
that he might still assist Mike, whose earnings were small.

One of his new acquaintances in the store was James Hicks, a boy about a
year older than himself.

"Didn't you use to work at Otis Goodnow's?" asked James one day when
they were going to lunch.

"Yes."

"I know a boy employed there. He is older than either of us."

"Who is it?"

"Jasper Redwood. Of course you know him."

"Yes," answered Rodney with a presentiment of evil.

He felt that it would be dangerous to have Jasper know of his present
position, but did not venture to give a hint of this to James.

His fears were not groundless. Only the day after James met Jasper on
the street.

"Anything new?" asked Jasper.

"Yes; we've got one of your old friends in our store."

"Who is it?"

"Rodney Ropes."

Jasper stopped short, and whistled. He was excessively surprised, as he
supposed Rodney still to be Arthur Sargent's tutor.

"You don't mean it?" he ejaculated.

"Why not? Is there anything so strange about it?"

"Yes. Did Ropes bring a recommendation from Mr. Goodnow?"

"I suppose so. I don't know."

"If he did, it's forged."

"Why should it be?"

"Goodnow wouldn't give him a recommendation."

"Why wouldn't he?"

"Because he discharged Ropes. Do you want to know why?"

"Yes."

"For stealing articles from the store."

It was the turn of James Hicks to be surprised.

"I can't believe it," he said.

"Its true. Just mention the matter to Ropes, and you'll see he won't
deny it."

"I think there must be some mistake about it. Rodney doesn't look like a
fellow that would steal."

"Oh, you can't tell from appearances--Rogues are always plausible."

"Still mistakes are sometimes made. I'd trust Rodney Ropes sooner than
any boy I know."

"You don't know him as well as I do."

"You don't like him?" said James shrewdly.

"No I don't. I can't like a thief."

"You talk as if you had a grudge against him."

"Nothing but his being a thief. Well, what are you going to do about
it?"

"About what?"

"What I have just told you."

"I don't feel that I have any call to do anything."

"You ought to tell your employer."

"I am no telltale," said James scornfully.

"Then you will let him stay in the store, knowing him to be a thief?"

"I don't know him to be a thief. If he steals anything it will probably
be found out."

Jasper urged James to give information about Rodney, but he steadily
refused.

"I leave others to do such dirty work," he said, "and I don't think any
better of you, let me tell you, for your eagerness to turn the boy out
of his position."

"You are a queer boy."

"Think so if you like," retorted Hicks. "I might give my opinion of
you."

At this point Jasper thought it best to let the conversation drop. He
was much pleased to learn that Rodney had lost his fine position as
tutor, and was now in a place from which he might more easily be ousted.

As he could not prevail upon James Hicks to betray Rodney he decided to
write an anonymous letter to the firm that employed him.

The result was that the next afternoon Rodney was summoned to the
office.

"Sit down Ropes," said the superintendent. "For what store did you work
before you came into our house?"

"Otis Goodnow's."

"Under what circumstances did you leave?"

"I was accused of theft."

"You did not mention this matter when you applied for a situation here."

"No, sir. I ought perhaps to have done so, but I presumed in that case
you would not have given me a place."

"You are right he would not."

"Nor would I have applied had the charge been a true one. Articles were
certainly missing from Mr. Goodnow's stock, but in accusing me they did
me a great injustice."

"How long since you left Mr. Goodnow's?"

"Four months."

"What have you been doing since?"

"I was acting as tutor to the son of Mr. Sargent, of West Fifty Eighth
Street."

"A well known citizen. Then you are a scholar?"

"Yes, sir, I am nearly prepared for college."

"Of course he did not know you were suspected of dishonesty."

"On the contrary he did know it. I told him, and later he received an
anonymous letter, notifying him of the fact."

"We also have received an anonymous letter. Here it is. Do you recognize
the hand writing?"

"Yes," answered Rodney after examining the letter. "It was written by
Jasper Redwood."

"Who is he?"

"A boy employed by Mr. Goodnow. For some reason he seems to have a spite
against me."

"I admit that it is pretty small business to write an anonymous letter
calculated to injure another. Still we shall have to take notice of
this."

"Yes, sir, I suppose so."

"I shall have to bring it to the notice of the firm. What they may do I
don't know. If the matter was to be decided by me I would let you stay."

"Thank you, sir," said Rodney gratefully.

"But I am not Mr. Hall. You can go now and I will see you again."

Rodney left the office fully persuaded that his engagement would
speedily terminate. He was right; the next day he was sent for again.

"I am sorry to tell you, Ropes," said the superintendent kindly "that
Mr. Hall insists upon your being discharged. He is a nervous man and
rather suspicious. I spoke in your favor but I could not turn him."

"At any rate I am grateful to you for your friendly effort."

The superintendent hesitated a moment, and then said: "Will this
discharge seriously embarrass you? Are you short of money?"

"No, sir. I was very liberally paid by Mr. Sargent, and I saved money.
I have enough in the savings bank to last me several months, should I be
idle so long."

"I am glad of it. I hope you will remember, my boy, that this is none of
my doing. I would gladly retain you. I will say one thing more, should
Jasper Redwood ever apply for a situation here, his name will not be
considered."

So Rodney found himself again without a position. It seemed hard in view
of his innocence, but he had confidence to believe that something would
turn up for him as before. At any rate he had enough money to live on
for some time.

When Mike Flynn learned the circumstances of his discharge he was very
angry.

"I'd like to meet Jasper Redwood," he said, his eyes flashing. "If I
didn't give him a laying out then my name isn't Mike Flynn."

"I think he will get his desert some time, Mickey, without any help from
you or me."

"Should hope he will. And what'll you do now, Rodney?"

"I don't know. Sometimes I think it would be well to go to some other
city, Boston or Philadelphia, where Jasper can't get on my track."

"Should hope you won't do it. I can't get along widout you."

"I will stay here for a few weeks, Mike, and see if anything turns up."

"I might get you in as a telegraph boy."

"That wouldn't suit me. It doesn't pay enough."

Rodney began to hunt for a situation again, but four weeks passed and
brought him no success. One afternoon about four o'clock he was walking
up Broadway when, feeling tired, he stepped into the Continental Hotel
at the corner of Twentieth Street.

He took a seat at some distance back from the door, and in a desultory
way began to look about him. All at once he started in surprise, for
in a man sitting in one of the front row of chairs he recognized Louis
Wheeler, the railroad thief who had stolen his box of jewelry.

Wheeler was conversing with a man with a large flapping sombrero, and
whose dress and general appearance indicated that he was a Westerner.

Rodney left his seat and going forward sat down in the chair behind
Wheeler. He suspected that the Western man was in danger of being
victimized.


CHAPTER XXII.


AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE TURNS UP.


In his new position Rodney could easily hear the conversation which took
place between the Western man and his old railroad acquaintance.

"I am quite a man of leisure," said Wheeler, "and it will give me great
pleasure to go about with you and show you our city."

"You are very obliging."

"Oh, don't mention it. I shall really be glad to have my time occupied.
You see I am a man of means--my father left me a fortune--and so I am
not engaged in any business."

"You are in luck. I was brought up on a farm in Vermont, and had to
borrow money to take me to Montana four years ago."

"I hope you prospered in your new home?"

"I did. I picked up twenty five thousand dollars at the mines, and
doubled it by investment in lots in Helena."

"Very neat, indeed. I inherited a fortune from my father--a hundred and
twenty five thousand dollars--but I never made a cent myself. I don't
know whether I am smart enough."

"Come out to Montana and I'll put you in a way of making some money."

"Really, now, that suggestion strikes me favorably. I believe I will
follow your advice. When shall you return to your Western home?"

"In about a fortnight I think."

"You must go to the theater tonight. There is a good play on at the
Madison Square."

"I don't mind. When can I get ticket?"

"I'll go and secure some. It is only a few blocks away."

"Do so. How much are the tickets?"

"A dollar and a half or two dollars each."

"Here are five dollars, if it won't trouble you too much."

"My dear friend, I meant to pay for the tickets. However, I will pay
next time. If you will remain here I will be back in twenty minutes."

Louis Wheeler left the hotel with the five dollars tucked away in his
vest pocket.

He had no sooner disappeared than Rodney went forward and occupied his
seat.

"Excuse me, sir," he said to the miner, "but do you know much of the man
who has just left you?"

"I only met him here. He seems a good natured fellow. What of him?"

"He said he was a man of independent means."

"Isn't he?"

"He is a thief and an adventurer."

The miner was instantly on the alert.

"How do you know this?" he asked.

"Because he stole a box of jewelry from me in the cars some months ago."

"Did you get it again?"

"Yes; he left the train, but I followed him up and reclaimed the
jewelry."

"Was it of much value?"

"They were family jewels, and were worth over a thousand dollars."

"Do you think he wants to bunco me?"

"I have no doubt of it."

"I have given him money to buy theater tickets. Do you think he will
come back?"

"Yes. He wouldn't be satisfied with that small sum."

"Tell me about your adventure with him."

"I will do it later. The theater is so near that he might come back and
surprise us together. I think he would recognize me."

"Do you advise me to go to the theater?"

"Yes, but be on your guard."

"Where can I see you again?"

"Are you staying at this hotel?"

"Yes. Here is my card."

Rodney read this name on the card:


JEFFERSON PETTRIGREW.


"I wish you were going to the theater with us."

"It wouldn't do. Mr. Wheeler would remember me."

"Then come round and breakfast with me tomorrow--at eight o'clock,
sharp."

"I will, sir. Now I will take a back seat, and leave you to receive your
friend."

"Don't call him my friend. He seems to be a mean scoundrel."

"Don't let him suspect anything from your manner."

"I won't. I want to see him expose his plans." Five minutes afterwards
Louis Wheeler entered the hotel.

"I've got the tickets," he said, "but I had to buy them of a speculator,
and they cost me more than I expected."

"How much?"

"Two and a half apiece. So there is no change coming back to you."

"Never mind! As long as you had enough money to pay for them it is all
right."

As a matter of fact Wheeler bought the tickets at the box office at one
dollar and fifty cent each, which left him a profit of two dollars.
When he saw how easily the Western man took it he regretted not having
represented that the tickets cost three dollars each.

However, he decided that there would be other ways of plundering his new
acquaintance. He took his seat again next to the miner.

"It is not very late," he said. "Would you like a run out to Central
Park or to Grant's Tomb?"

"Not today. I feel rather tired. By the way, you did not mention your
name."

"I haven't a card with me, but my name is Louis Wheeler."

"Where do you live, Mr. Wheeler?"

"I am staying with an aunt on Fifth Avenue, but I think of taking board
at the Windsor Hotel. It is a very high toned house, and quite a number
of my friends board there."

"Is it an expensive hotel?"

"Oh, yes, but my income is large and----"

"I understand. Now, Mr. Wheeler, I must excuse myself, as I feel tired.
Come at half past seven and we can start for the theater together."

"Very well."

Wheeler rose reluctantly, for he had intended to secure a dinner from
his new acquaintance, but he was wise enough to take the hint.

After he left the room Rodney again joined Mr. Pettigrew.

"He didn't give me back any change," said the Western man. "He said he
bought the tickets of a speculator at two dollars and a half each."

"Then he made two dollars out of you."

"I suppose that is the beginning. Well, that doesn't worry me. But I
should like to know how he expects to get more money out of me. I don't
understand the ways of this gentry."

"Nor I very well. If you are on your guard I think you won't be in any
danger."

"I will remember what you say. You seem young to act as adviser to a man
like me. Are you in business?"

"At present I am out of work, but I have money enough to last me three
months."

"Are you, like my new acquaintance, possessed of independent means?"

"Not now, but I was six months ago."

"How did you lose your money?"

"I did not lose it. My guardian lost it for me."

"What is your name?"

"Rodney Ropes."

"You've had some pretty bad luck. Come up to my room and tell me about
it."

"I shall be glad to do so, sir."

Mr. Pettigrew called for his key and led the way up to a plain room on
the third floor.

"Come in," he said. "The room is small, but I guess it will hold us
both. Now go ahead with your story."

In a short time Rodney had told his story in full to his new
acquaintance, encouraged to do so by his sympathetic manner. Mr.
Pettigrew was quite indignant, when told of Jasper's mean and
treacherous conduct.

"That boy Jasper is a snake in the grass," he said. "I'd like to give
him a good thrashing."

"There isn't any love lost between us, Mr. Pettigrew, but I think it
will turn out right in the end. Still I find it hard to get a place in
New York with him circulating stories about me."

"Then why do you stay in New York?"

"I have thought it might be better to go to Philadelphia or Boston."

"I can tell you of a better place than either."

"What is that?"

"Montana."

"Do you really think it would be wise for me to go there?"

"Think? I haven't a doubt about it."

"I have money enough to get there, but not much more. I should soon have
to find work, or I might get stranded."

"Come back with me, and I'll see you through. I'll make a bargain with
you. Go round with me here, and I'll pay your fare out to Montana."

"If you are really in earnest I will do so, and thank you for the
offer."

"Jefferson Pettigrew means what he says. I'll see you through, Rodney."

"But I may be interfering with your other friend, Louis Wheeler."

"I shall soon be through with him. You needn't worry yourself about
that."

Mr. Pettigrew insisted upon Rodney's taking supper with him. Fifteen
minutes after Rodney left him Mr. Wheeler made his appearance.


CHAPTER XXIII.


MR. WHEELER HAS A SET BACK.


Louis Wheeler had not seen Rodney in the hotel office, and probably
would not have recognized him if he had, as Rodney was quite differently
dressed from the time of their first meeting. He had no reason to
suppose, therefore, that Mr. Pettigrew had been enlightened as to his
real character.

It was therefore with his usual confidence that he accosted his
acquaintance from Montana after supper.

"It is time to go to the theater, Mr. Pettigrew," he said.

Jefferson Pettigrew scanned his new acquaintance with interest. He
had never before met a man of his type and he looked upon him as a
curiosity.

He was shrewd, however, and did not propose to let Wheeler know that he
understood his character. He resolved for the present to play the part
of the bluff and unsuspecting country visitor.

"You are very kind, Mr. Wheeler," he said, "to take so much trouble for
a stranger."

"My dear sir," said Wheeler effusively, "I wouldn't do it for many
persons, but I have taken a fancy to you."

"You don't mean so?" said Pettigrew, appearing pleased?

"Yes, I do, on my honor."

"But I don't see why you should. You are a polished city gentleman and I
am an ignorant miner from Montana."

Louis Wheeler looked complacent when he was referred to as a polished
city gentleman.

"You do yourself injustice, my dear Pettigrew," he said in a patronizing
manner. "You do indeed. You may not be polished, but you are certainly
smart, as you have shown by accumulating a fortune."

"But I am not as rich as you."

"Perhaps not, but if I should lose my money, I could not make another
fortune, while I am sure you could. Don't you think it would be a good
plan for us to start a business together in New York?"

"Would you really be willing to go into business with me?"

Jefferson Pettigrew asked this question with so much apparent sincerity
that Wheeler was completely deceived.

"I've got him dead!" he soliloquized complacently.

He hooked his arm affectionately in the Montana miner's and said,
"My dear friend, I have never met a man with whom I would rather
be associated in business than with you. How much capital could you
contribute?"

"I will think it over, Mr. Wheeler. By the way what business do you
propose that we shall go into?"

"I will think it over and report to you."

By this time they had reached the theater. The play soon commenced. Mr.
Pettigrew enjoyed it highly, for he had not had much opportunity at the
West of attending a high class theatrical performance.

When the play ended, Louis Wheeler said, "Suppose we go to Delmonico's
and have a little refreshment."

"Very well."

They adjourned to the well known restaurant, and Mr. Pettigrew ordered
an ice and some cakes, but his companion made a hearty supper. When the
bill came, Louis Wheeler let it lie on the table, but Mr. Pettigrew did
not appear to see it.

"I wonder if he expects me to pay for it," Wheeler asked himself
anxiously.

"Thank you for this pleasant little supper," said Pettigrew
mischievously. "Delmonico's is certainly a fine place."

Wheeler changed color. He glanced at the check. It was for two dollars
and seventy five cents, and this represented a larger sum than he
possessed.

He took the check and led the way to the cashier's desk. Then he
examined his pockets.

"By Jove," he said, "I left my wallet in my other coat. May I borrow
five dollars till tomorrow?"

Jefferson Pettigrew eyed him shrewdly. "Never mind," he said, "I will
pay the check."

"I am very much ashamed of having put you to this expense."

"If that is all you have to be ashamed of Mr. Wheeler," said the miner
pointedly, "you can rest easy."

"What do you mean?" stammered Wheeler.

"Wait till we get into the street, and I will tell you."

They went out at the Broadway entrance, and then Mr. Pettigrew turned to
his new acquaintance.

"I think I will bid you good night and good by at the same time, Mr.
Wheeler," he said.

"My dear sir, I hoped you won't misjudge me on account of my
unfortunately leaving my money at home."

"I only wish to tell you that I have not been taken in by your plausible
statement, Mr. Wheeler, if that is really your name. Before we started
for the theater I had gauged you and taken your measure."

"Sir, I hope you don't mean to insult me!" blustered Wheeler.

"Not at all. You have been mistaken in me, but I am not mistaken in you.
I judge you to be a gentlemanly adventurer, ready to take advantage of
any who have money and are foolish enough to be gulled by your tricks.
You are welcome to the profit you made out of the theater tickets, also
to the little supper to which you have done so much justice. I must
request you, now, however, to devote yourself to some one else, as I do
not care to meet you again."

Louis Wheeler slunk away, deciding that he had made a great mistake in
setting down his Montana acquaintance as an easy victim.

"I didn't think he'd get on to my little game so quick," he reflected.
"He's sharper than he looks."

Rodney took breakfast with Mr. Pettigrew the next morning. When
breakfast was over, the Montana man said:

"I'm going to make a proposal to you, Rodney. How much pay did you get
at your last place?"

"Seven dollars a week."

"I'll pay you that and give you your meals. In return I want you to keep
me company and go about with me."

"I shall not be apt to refuse such an offer as that, Mr. Pettigrew, but
are you sure you prefer me to Mr. Wheeler?" laughed Rodney.

"Wheeler be--blessed!" returned the miner.

"How long are you going to stay in New York?"

"About two weeks. Then I shall go back to Montana and take you with me."

"Thank you. There is nothing I should like better."

Two days later, as the two were walking along Broadway, they met Mr.
Wheeler. The latter instantly recognized his friend from Montana, and
scrutinized closely his young companion.

Rodney's face looked strangely familiar to him, but somehow he could not
recollect when or under what circumstances he had met him. He did not,
however, like to give up his intended victim, but had the effrontery to
address the man from Montana.

"I hope you are well, Mr. Pettigrew."

"Thank you, I am very well."

"I hope you are enjoying yourself. I should be glad to show you the
sights. Have you been to Grants Tomb?"

"Not yet."

"I should like to take you there."

"Thank you, but I have a competent guide."

"Won't you introduce me to the young gentleman?"

"I don't require any introduction to you, Mr. Wheeler," said Rodney.

"Where have I met you before?" asked Wheeler abruptly.

"In the cars. I had a box of jewelry with me," answered Rodney
significantly.

Louis Wheeler changed color. Now he remembered Rodney, and he was
satisfied that he owed to him the coolness with which the Western man
had treated him.

"I remember you had," he said spitefully, "but I don't know how you came
by it."

"It isn't necessary that you should know. I remember I had considerable
difficulty in getting it out of your hands."

"Mr. Pettigrew," said Wheeler angrily, "I feel interested in you, and
I want to warn you against the boy who is with you. He is a dangerous
companion."

"I dare say you are right," said Pettigrew in a quizzical tone. "I shall
look after him sharply, and I thank you for your kind and considerate
warning. I don't care to take up any more of your valuable time. Rodney,
let us be going."

"It must have been the kid that exposed me," muttered Wheeler, as he
watched the two go down the street. "I will get even with him some time.
That man would have been good for a thousand dollars to me if I had not
been interfered with."

"You have been warned against me, Mr. Pettigrew," said Rodney, laughing.
"Mr. Wheeler has really been very unkind in interfering with my plans."

"I shan't borrow any trouble, or lie awake nights thinking about it,
Rodney. I don't care to see or think of that rascal again."

The week passed, and the arrangement between Mr. Pettigrew and Rodney
continued to their mutual satisfaction. One morning, when Rodney came to
the Continental as usual, his new friend said: "I received a letter last
evening from my old home in Vermont."

"I hope it contained good news."

"On the contrary it contained bad news. My parents are dead, but I have
an old uncle and aunt living. When I left Burton he was comfortably
fixed, with a small farm of his own, and two thousand dollars in bank.
Now I hear that he is in trouble. He has lost money, and a knavish
neighbor has threatened to foreclose a mortgage on the farm and turn out
the old people to die or go to the poorhouse."

If you have a moment to spare this evening I pray you to come and
tell me how your brother's family are after this dreadful alarm.

[A]
[Footnote A: The destruction of Mr. J. Corcoran's dwelling by fire.]
As we know, it was of no avail, for he seems to have remained "fancy
free" until he met and married Louise Morris.

About 1828 Mrs.

Decatur became a convert to the Roman Catholic Church through her close
acquaintance with the Carroll family, it is thought.

The latter part of her life was spent in a frame house on the brow
of a hill about one hundred yards from Georgetown College, which
she rented from Miss Hobbs.

Here she died about 1860.

Among the souvenirs of the college is the portrait of Commodore
Decatur by Gilbert Stuart, his ivory chess-board and men, and his
jeweled toothpick box.

The grave of Mrs.

Decatur was discovered some time ago in the cemetery of Georgetown
College. It had been overgrown and neglected and forgotten.

So had this part of Georgetown, until Admiral and Mrs.

Spencer Wood bought 2808 and brought it back to its pristine glory.

This house was built by John Stoddert Haw, nephew of Benjamin Stoddert,
one of the founders of Christ Church, of which many of his descendants
are still pillars.

When the Woods lived here, there was at the back of the house a
very lovely, unusual green garden, which gave a feeling of restfulness
not always produced by a riot of glorious colors, opening off a
paved area under a wide porch, like so many houses used to have.

The old house at 2806 is now the home of Mr. and Mrs. John Walker.
He is the curator of the National Gallery of Art. Thomas Beall of
George sold the land to John M.

Gannt in 1804, who may have built this lovely house.
It was purchased by Elisha Williams in 1810; also owned by Thomas Robertson
and Thomas Clarke in the first decade of the nineteenth century. In the
1920's it was the home of Mrs.

Hare Lippincott.

Across the street, at number 2723, a good many years ago, was where Thomas
Harrison and his sister lived for a long time. Miss Virginia kept a
little school for several years and her brother was a translator at
the Naval Observatory until he was well up in his eighties.

When he was over ninety he used to go out calling on Sunday afternoons,
as spry as could be, and with his cheeks as rosy as pippins.

They were a couple much beloved and typical of old-time days.

Chapter XI

_The Three Philanthropists_

George Town produced three eminent philanthropists: one whose
benefactions were solely to Georgetown; a second, who became the
greatest benefactor the City of Washington has ever had, and
inaugurated the tremendous gifts to schools and colleges that have
since become the fashion among men of great wealth; the third started
his gifts at home, then crossed the ocean and made enormous
contributions to the largest city in the world.

The first one, Edward Magruder Linthicum, had a hardware store on
the northwest corner of High (Wisconsin) Avenue and Bridge (M)
Street, the business hub then, as now, of Georgetown.

He was a trustee of the Methodist Church and member of the Town
Council.

He built the home at number 3019 P Street, which has such a beautiful
doorway, and lived there until in 1846 he moved up on the Heights
to The Oaks, for which he paid $11,000.

William A. Gordon, in his book _Old Houses in Georgetown Heights_, says
of him:

Mr. Linthicum was a prominent and prosperous merchant of the highest
type, a man of great civic activities, and deeply interested in everything
which tended to beautify the community. In his will by a legacy of
$50,000 he provided for the endowment of a school for the free education
of white boys of Georgetown in useful learning and in the spirit
and practice of Christian virtue being, as he expressed it, convinced
that knowledge and piety constitute the only assurance of happiness
and healthful progress to the human race and devoutly recognizing
the solemn duty to society which develops in its members, and
entertaining a serious desire to contribute in some manner to the
permanent welfare of the community, amongst whom my life has been
spent.

As a commentary on the length to which partisan feeling went in the
years succeeding the War Between the States, it may be stated that
efforts to have the Linthicum Institute incorporated by Congress
were prevented by Charles Sumner, Senator from Massachusetts, for
the reason that the benefits were confined to white youths.

[Illustration: EDWARD MAGRUDER LINTHICUM]
The Linthicum Institute began its career in the lower floor of one
side of the Curtis school building on P Street, opposite Saint
John's Church.

The name in large gold letters used to be there.

The present building was erected about 1890 on the south side of O
Street near 31st, the school occupying the lower floor, and Linthicum
Hall, considered by the belles of the nineties to have the "best
floor 'par excellence' for dancing anywhere," being the upper
portion.

I have been told it was the first night school in the District of
Columbia.

Mr. Linthicum was a very imposing looking gentleman, was married, but
had no children. He and his wife adopted a daughter, Kate, who became
Mrs.

Dent, and I think it was in honor of her or her son that the little
street called Dent Place, just below R and between 30th and 31st
Streets was named when that part of Georgetown, then nicknamed
"Cooke Park" was developed.

[Illustration: WILLIAM WILSON CORCORAN]
William Wilson Corcoran, the third son of Thomas Corcoran, was born
in George Town on December 27, 1798, in his father's home on Bridge
(M) Street.

He attended Mr.

Kirk's school, later Reverend Addison Belt's, in between, having been
for a while a day scholar at Georgetown College.

Contrary to his father's wishes for him to complete a classical
education, at the age of seventeen he went into a dry goods store
belonging to his brothers, James and Thomas.

Two years later they established him in a small store of his own on the
northwest corner of High (Wisconsin Avenue) and First (N) Streets.

Again, two years later they all purchased a two-story brick house
on the corner of Bridge (M) and Congress (31st) Streets and commenced
a wholesale auction and commission business.

In the depression of 1823, when very many firms went to the wall,
they too had to give up and settled with all their creditors for
fifty cents on the dollar.

I think the aftermath of this story (which is the reason I have given it
in detail) is most encouraging to this generation, struggling in
the grip of the present depression, for the young man of twenty-five,
after giving up four or five years to taking care of the business
of his father, who was growing old, finally became connected with
the Bank of Columbia, and in 1837 began a brokerage business in
Washington in a little store 10 x 16 feet on Pennsylvania Avenue
near 15th Street.

He was so successful that he eventually took into partnership George
W.

Riggs, also of Georgetown, and changed the name to Corcoran and
Riggs.

In 1845 this firm purchased the old United States Bank on the corner of
15th Street and New York Avenue. And so the Riggs National Bank,
today one of the strongest banks in the United States, was born. A little
later George W.

Riggs retired and Elisha, his brother, was made a junior partner.

In 1847 Mr.

Corcoran sent to all people to whom he had been able to pay only
50% in his failure of 1823, the full amount due them, with interest,
amounting to about forty-six thousand dollars, to their great
surprise, as evidenced by letters I have read from them to him.

Of all his great benefactions, this seems to me to have been the very
finest thing he ever did.

He must have been a man of very remarkable personality, witness his
going to Europe, the first of the very, very many trips he made in
his life, on one day's notice, and against much discouragement,
persuading Thomas Baring of the great London banking firm of Baring
Brothers, to assist him in a sale of five millions of government
bonds.

At that time the firm of Corcoran and Riggs took, on its own account,
nearly all the loans made by the United States.

On his return to New York he was greeted by everyone with enthusiasm, as
this was the first sale of American securities abroad since
1837--eleven years.

In April, 1854, Mr.

Corcoran withdrew from the firm, thinking he had made enough money,
and spent the rest of his long life of ninety years--forty-five
years more--spending his money in a manner unknown before that time.

Apropos of his money-making faculty, I have often been told by my aunt
how her father, Henry Dunlop, when a boy, was walking along the street
with young Corcoran, just his own age, when Henry, whose family
was rather well-off in those days, seeing a penny lying on the pavement,
kicked it ahead of him in his stride, as boys will do, but young
Corcoran, stooping down, put it in his pocket saying, "Henry, you
will never be a rich man."

That prophecy came true, for Henry spent his life in farming, and
you know what that means!

Among Mr. Corcoran's very first benefactions were gifts to the town
of his birth.

First of all a fund of $10,000 to be spent for firewood, etc.,
for the poor.

It was left to the town authorities, but was administered by the Benevolent
Society.

In 1849 he gave beautiful Oak Hill Cemetery, lying along the northern
limit of the town.

To me no other cemetery that I have ever seen in this country or
abroad has the same natural beauty of slopes and trees--in the
spring bedecked like a bride in flowering white shrubs; in the fall
its towering oak trees aflame with shades of crimson.

I suppose what impressed on him the need of a cemetery for Georgetown
so deeply was the death of his beloved wife in 1840.

It had been a very romantic marriage.

She was Louise Morris, the daughter of Commodore Charles Morris.

Mr. Corcoran met his wife when she was sixteen and he was thirty-six.

On the 23rd of December, 1835, they eloped, accompanied by Mr. Corcoran's
sister-in-law, Mrs.

James Corcoran, who later became the second wife of John Marbury,
senior, and to the day of her death was greatly beloved by Mr.

Corcoran.

When she was lying in her coffin on 14th Street, he came there and
although somewhat lamed by paralysis and nearly ninety years of
age, he insisted upon climbing the long flight of stairs to the
room where she lay, saying over and over as he toiled up the many
steps: "I must see Harriet once more!"

I suppose in his mind he was living over the great event in his
life when she helped to secure for him the only love of his life.

And so pitifully short a time he had her, for only five years
afterwards, when she was twenty-one, she died of tuberculosis.

In those short years she had had three children, Harriet Louise,
Louise Morris, and Charles Morris.

Of these the middle child, Louise, was the only one to grow up.

Although Commodore Morris had greatly disapproved of his daughter's
marriage, which was very natural as at that time he was one of the
most eminent officers of the United States Navy, and Mr.

Corcoran had not then entered on the career which eventually made him
the most distinguished private citizen of the capital of the nation,
he grew to greatly admire and respect his son-in-law.

For there are preserved in _A Grandfather's Legacy_, a collection of
letters received by Mr.

Corcoran, and compiled by him before his death, several letters
from Charles Morris, showing the deepest trust and affection.

I suppose there was never a daughter more beloved and petted than Louise
Morris Corcoran.

Her father seemed to expend on her all the affection of his great
big heart, and she seems to have been a very lovely character.

When she was about ten years old she fell overboard from a vessel
and was only saved from drowning by the quickness and skill of
Gurdon B.

Smith.

Among these letters are several in regard to this incident, for Mr. Corcoran,
in his gratitude for this merciful deliverance, sent through an
agent, $1,000 to Mr.

Smith, an artisan, who was very grateful and considered he had
received a fortune.

But, not satisfied with that, Mr.

Corcoran secured an appointment as lighthouse keeper for Mr.

Smith at a point not far from his home, a life position with a good
salary, but Mr.

Smith refused it as he seemed perfectly satisfied with his
circumstances.

Mr.

Corcoran's money doubled and trebled and quadrupled, and the following
letter shows how his judgment was sought on political as well as
financial questions:

My dear Sir:
I wish you would come to my house about 8 this evening and tell me,
in five words, what are the best reasons to be given to friends of
the administration for not passing the sub-treasury bill at present.

Yours, D. WEBSTER.

He had a close friendship with Edward Everett, senator from
Massachusetts, who was frequently his guest.

He and ex-President Fillmore traveled abroad together. The letters he
received from many of the great of the earth make very interesting
reading.

By the middle of the nineteenth century this Georgetown boy of
rather modest parentage was living in a very fine house in Washington,
in great elegance, entertaining everyone of any importance who came
to the capital.

There is on record now a letter from a gentleman in England, bringing
to his attention the coming of the new Minister and his wife from
Great Britain, Lord and Lady Napier.

Although, as he had said "he knows he will receive a great deal of
attention, yet he wishes Mr.

Corcoran, particularly to honor them."

He was consulted by presidents for his opinion on financial matters.

Baron Humboldt, the great German geographer, kept up a correspondence
with him to the day of his death.

After a brilliant girlhood, Louise Corcoran had married the Honorable
George Eustis of New Orleans, representative in Congress.

When the Civil War came and shattered all existing social ties, Mr.

Eustis, of course, took the Southern side, as did Mr.

Corcoran. Mr. Eustis, who had been appointed Confederate Secretary of
Legation at the same time that the Honorable John Slidell was
appointed Minister to France, after being held a prisoner in Maine,
went over to France, where he was joined by his wife.

Neither ever returned to this country.

They made their home there, their three children were born there,
they died there, were finally brought back and buried in Oak Hill
under the beautiful little Doric temple Mr.

Corcoran had erected for his first Louise.

Those three grandchildren then became his pride and joy.

But more and more he absorbed himself in his benefactions. It is impossible
to tell all of them.

Beginning with his gift of Oak Hill to Georgetown in 1849, in 1850
a loan to the Roman Catholic Church there which, like all of his
loans, he eventually turned into gifts; in 1851 he gave an organ
to the Lunatic Asylum in Staunton, Virginia, saying he knew of
nothing better than to give music to those whose souls were so
troubled.

About this time he gave the lot for the Washington City Orphan
Asylum, and a little later the one for the Y.

M. C. A. For many years he had been collecting painting and sculpture,
both on his trips to Europe and from the various persons who wrote to
him soliciting his patronage. These were at first kept in his own
house, but then he decided to build a gallery and give them to the
City of Washington, so he erected the building on Pennsylvania
Avenue at the corner of 17th Street, directly opposite the State,
War and Navy Building.

It was just nearing completion when the Civil War began and was taken
over by the United States Government as an annex to the War Department,
so that it was not until 1869 that it was opened as the Corcoran
Gallery of Art.

In 1897 the collection was moved to the beautiful new building lower
down on 17th Street and was formally opened on February 22nd by a
brilliant reception at which were President and Mrs.

Cleveland and all of their Cabinet.

Above the doorway of the old building, in the stone, is still seen
a carved medallion with W.

W. C. intertwined.

Just about that time, also, Mr.

Corcoran began to build another of his beneficent gifts to the city.

His beloved daughter had died, and the city and the country was
filled with ladies who had been made penniless by the cruel fratricidal
war.

In 1871 he turned over to the trustees the Louise Home on Massachusetts
Avenue, between 15th and 16th Streets, as a home for gentlewomen,
the only requirements being enough money to furnish their own clothes
and their burial expenses, even lots in Oak Hill were reserved for
them after the Louise Home failed to suffice.

It was very natural that for a long time its clientele was largely
made up of Southerners, as there were very, very many more of them
impoverished at that time, and also Mr.

Corcoran was himself in sympathy with the Confederates.

It is said he saved his house from confiscation by renting it to
the French Minister.

Many, very many, were the letters he received thanking him for the
help he had sent to widows and orphans of soldiers of the South.

He founded homes of that kind in Charleston, South Carolina, and
in other places, besides rendering assistance most tactfully in
many private cases.

I hope you've prospered."

"Well, uncle, I've brought myself back well and hearty, and I've got a
few hundred dollars."

"I'm glad to hear it, Jefferson. You're better off than when you went
away."

"Yes, uncle. I couldn't be much worse off. Then I hadn't a cent that I
could call my own. But how are you and Aunt Nancy?"

"We're gettin' old, Jefferson, and misfortune has come to us. Squire
Sheldon has got a mortgage on the farm and it's likely we'll be turned
out. You've come just in time to see it."

"Is it so bad as that, Uncle Cyrus? Why, when I went away you were
prosperous."

"Yes, Jefferson, I owned the farm clear, and I had money in the bank,
but now the money's gone and there's a twelve hundred dollar mortgage on
the old place," and the old man sighed.

"But how did it come about uncle? You and Aunt Nancy haven't lived
extravagantly, have you? Aunt Nancy, you haven't run up a big bill at
the milliner's and dressmaker's?"

"You was always for jokin', Jefferson," said the old lady, smiling
faintly; "but that is not the way our losses came."

"How then?"

"You see I indorsed notes for Sam Sherman over at Canton, and he failed,
and I had to pay, then I bought some wild cat minin' stock on Sam's
recommendation, and that went down to nothin'. So between the two I lost
about three thousand dollars. I've been a fool, Jefferson, and it would
have been money in my pocket if I'd had a guardeen."

"So you mortgaged the place to Squire Sheldon, uncle?"

"Yes; I had to. I was obliged to meet my notes."

"But surely the squire will extend the mortgage."

"No, he won't. I've asked him. He says he must call in the money, and so
the old place will have to be sold, and Nancy and I must turn out in our
old age."

Again the old man sighed, and tears came into Nancy Hooper's eyes.

"There'll be something left, won't there, Uncle Cyrus?"

"Yes, the place should bring six hundred dollars over and above the
mortgage. That's little enough, for it's worth three thousand."

"So it is, Uncle Cyrus. But what can you do with six hundred dollars? It
won't support you and Aunt Nancy?"

"I thought mebbe, Jefferson, I could hire a small house and you could
board with us, so that we could still have a home together."

"I'll think it over, uncle, if there is no other way. But are you sure
Squire Sheldon won't give you more time?"

"No, Jefferson. I surmise he wants the place himself. There's talk of a
railroad from Sherborn, and that'll raise the price of land right around
here. It'll probably go right through the farm just south of the three
acre lot."

"I see, Uncle Cyrus. You ought to have the benefit of the rise in
value."

"Yes, Jefferson, it would probably rise enough to pay off the mortgage,
but its no use thinkin' of it. The old farm has got to go."

"I don't know about that, Uncle Cyrus."

"Why, Jefferson, you haven't money enough to lift the mortgage!" said
the old man, with faint hope.

"If I haven't I may get it for you. Tell me just how much money is
required."

"Thirteen hundred dollars, includin' interest."

"Perhaps you have heard that I have a boy with me--a boy from New York,
named Rodney Ropes. He has money, and perhaps I might get him to advance
the sum you want."

"Oh, Jefferson, if you only could!" exclaimed Aunt Nancy, clasping her
thin hands. "It would make us very happy."

"I'll see Rodney tonight and come over tomorrow morning and tell you
what he says. On account of the railroad I shall tell him that it is a
good investment. I suppose you will be willing to mortgage the farm to
him for the same money that he pays to lift the present mortgage?"

"Yes, Jefferson, I'll be willin' and glad. It'll lift a great burden
from my shoulders. I've been worryin' at the sorrow I've brought upon
poor Nancy, for she had nothing to do with my foolish actions. I was old
enough to know better, Jefferson, and I'm ashamed of what I did."

"Well, Uncle Cyrus, I'll do what I can for you. Now let us forget all
about your troubles and talk over the village news. You know I've been
away for four years, and I haven't had any stiddy correspondence, so a
good deal must have happened that I don't know anything about. I hear
Frank Dobson has prospered?"

"Yes, Frank's pretty forehanded. He's got a good economical wife, and
they've laid away five or six hundred dollars in the savings bank."

"I am glad of it. Frank is a good fellow. If it hadn't been for him I
couldn't have gone to Montana. When he lent me the money everybody said
he'd lose it, but I was bound to pay it if I had to live on one meal a
day. He was the only man in town who believed in me at that time."

"You was a littless shif'less, Jefferson. You can't blame people. I
wasn't quite sure myself how you'd get along."

"No doubt you are right, Uncle Cyrus. It did me good to leave town. I
didn't drink, but I had no ambition. When a man goes to a new country
it's apt to make a new man of him. That was the case with me."

"Are you goin' back again, Jefferson?"

"Yes, uncle. I'm going to stay round here long enough to fix up your
affairs and get you out of your trouble. Then I'll go back to the West.
I have a little mining interest there and I can make more money there
than I can here."

"If you can get me out of my trouble, Jefferson, I'll never forget it.
Nancy and I have been so worried that we couldn't sleep nights, but now
I'm beginnin' to be a little more cheerful."

Jefferson Pettigrew spent another hour at his uncle's house, and then
went back to the tavern, where he found Rodney waiting for him. He
explained briefly the part he wished his boy friend to take in his plan
for relieving his uncle.

"I shall be receiving credit to which I am not entitled," said Rodney.
"Still, if it will oblige you I am willing to play the part of the boy
capitalist."

The next morning after breakfast the two friends walked over to the
house of Cyrus Hooper. Aunt Nancy came to the door and gave them a
cordial welcome.

"Cyrus is over at the barn, Jefferson," she said. "I'll ring the bell
and he'll come in."

"No, Aunt Nancy, I'll go out and let him know I am here."

Presently Cyrus Hooper came in, accompanied by Jefferson.

"Uncle Cyrus," said the miner, "let me introduce you to my friend Rodney
Ropes, of New York."

"I'm glad to see you," said Cyrus heartily. "I'm glad to see any friend
of Jefferson's."

"Thank you, sir. I am pleased to meet you."

"Jefferson says you are goin' to Montany with him."

"I hope to do so. I am sure I shall enjoy myself in his company."

"How far is Montany, Jefferson?"

"It is over two thousand miles away, Uncle Cyrus."

"It must be almost at the end of the world. I don't see how you can feel
at home so far away from Vermont."

Jefferson smiled.

"I can content myself wherever I can make a good living," he said.
"Wouldn't you like to go out and make me a visit?"

"No, Jefferson, I should feel that it was temptin' Providence to go so
far at my age."

"You never were very far from Burton, Uncle Cyrus?"

"I went to Montpelier once," answered the old man with evident pride.
"It is a nice sizable place. I stopped at the tavern, and had a good
time."

It was the only journey the old man had ever made, and he would never
forget it.

"Uncle Cyrus," said Jefferson, "this is the young man who I thought
might advance you money on a new mortgage. Suppose we invite him to go
over the farm, and take a look at it so as to see what he thinks of the
investment."

"Sartain, Jefferson, sartain! I do hope Mr. Ropes you'll look favorable
on the investment. It is Jefferson's idea, but it would be doin' me a
great favor."

"Mr. Pettigrew will explain the advantages of the farm as we go along,"
said Rodney.

So they walked from field to field, Jefferson expatiating to his young
friend upon the merits of the investment, Rodney asking questions now
and then to carry out his part of the shrewd and careful boy capitalist.

When they had made a tour of the farm Jefferson said: "Well, Rodney,
what do you think of the investment?"

"I am satisfied with it," answered Rodney. "Mr. Hooper, I will advance
you the money on the conditions mentioned by my friend, Mr. Pettigrew."

Tears of joy came into the eyes of Cyrus Hooper and his worn face showed
relief.

"I am very grateful, young man," he said. "I will see that you don't
regret your kindness."

"When will Squire Sheldon be over to settle matters, Uncle Cyrus?" asked
Jefferson.

"He is comin' this afternoon at two o'clock."

"Then Rodney and I will be over to take part in the business."


CHAPTER XXVII.


THE FAILURE OF SQUIRE SHELDON'S PLOT.


On the morning of the same day Squire Sheldon sat in his study when the
servant came in and brought a card.

"It's a gentleman thats come to see you, sir," she said.

Lemuel Sheldon's eye brightened when he saw the name, for it was that of
a railroad man who was interested in the proposed road from Sherborn.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Caldwell," he said cordially, rising to
receive his guest. "What is the prospect as regards the railroad?"

"I look upon it as a certainty," answered Enoch Caldwell, a grave,
portly man of fifty.

"And it is sure to pass through our town?"

"Yes, I look upon that as definitely decided."

"The next question is as to the route it will take," went on the squire.
"Upon that point I should like to offer a few suggestions."

"I shall be glad to receive them. In fact, I may say that my report will
probably be accepted, and I shall be glad to consult you."

"Thank you. I appreciate the compliment you pay me, and, though I say
it, I don't think you could find any one more thoroughly conversant with
the lay of the land and the most advisable route to follow. If you will
put on your hat we will go out together and I will give you my views."

"I shall be glad to do so."

The two gentlemen took a leisurely walk through the village, going by
Cyrus Hooper's house on the way.

"In my view," said the squire, "the road should go directly through this
farm a little to the north of the house."

The squire proceeded to explain his reasons for the route he
recommended.

"To whom does the farm belong?" asked Caldwell, with a shrewd glance at
the squire.

"To an old man named Cyrus Hooper."

"Ahem! Perhaps he would be opposed to the road passing so near his
house."

"I apprehend that he will not have to be consulted," said the squire
with a crafty smile.

"Why not?"

"Because I hold a mortgage on the farm which I propose to foreclose this
afternoon."

"I see. So that you will be considerably benefited by the road."

"Yes, to a moderate extent."

"But if a different course should be selected, how then?"

"If the road goes through the farm I would be willing to give a quarter
of the damages awarded to me to--you understand?"

"I think I do. After all it seems the most natural route."

"I think there can be no doubt on that point. Of course the corporation
will be willing to pay a reasonable sum for land taken."

"I think I can promise that, as I shall have an important voice in the
matter."

"I see you are a thorough business man," said the squire. "I hold that
it is always best to pursue a liberal policy."

"Quite so. You have no doubt of obtaining the farm?"

"Not the slightest."

"But suppose the present owner meets the mortgage?"

"He can't. He is a poor man, and he has no moneyed friends. I confess
I was a little afraid that a nephew of his just returned from Montana
might be able to help him, but I learn that he has only brought home
five hundred dollars while the mortgage, including interest, calls for
thirteen hundred."

"Then you appear to be safe. When did you say the matter would be
settled?"

"This afternoon at two o'clock. You had better stay over and take supper
with me. I shall be prepared to talk with you at that time."

"Very well."

From a window of the farmhouse Cyrus Hooper saw Squire Sheldon and his
guest walking by the farm, and noticed the interest which they seemed to
feel in it. But for the assurance which he had received of help to pay
the mortgage he would have felt despondent, for he guessed the subject
of their conversation. As it was, he felt an excusable satisfaction in
the certain defeat of the squire's hopes of gain.

"It seems that the more a man has the more he wants, Jefferson," he said
to his nephew. "The squire is a rich man--the richest man in Burton--but
he wants to take from me the little property that I have."

"It's the way of the world, Uncle Cyrus. In this case the squire is safe
to be disappointed, thanks to my young friend, Rodney."

"Its lucky for me, Jefferson, that you came home just the time you did.
If you had come a week later it would have been too late."

"Then you don't think the squire would have relented?"

"I know he wouldn't. I went over a short time since and had a talk with
him on the subject. I found he was sot on gettin' the farm into his own
hands."

"If he were willing to pay a fair value it wouldn't be so bad."

"He wasn't. He wanted to get it as cheap as he could."

"I wonder," said Jefferson Pettigrew reflectively, "whether I shall be
as hard and selfish if ever I get rich."

"I don't believe you will, Jefferson. I don't believe you will. It
doesn't run in the blood."

"I hope not Uncle Cyrus. How long have you known the squire?"

"Forty years, Jefferson. He is about ten years younger than I am. I was
a young man when he was a boy."

"And you attend the same church?"

"Yes."

"And still he is willing to take advantage of you and reduce you to
poverty. I don't see much religion in that."

"When a man's interest is concerned religion has to stand to one side
with some people."

It was in a pleasant frame of mind that Squire Sheldon left his house
and walked over to the farmhouse which he hoped to own. He had decided
to offer eighteen hundred dollars for the farm, which would be five
hundred over and above the face of the mortgage with the interest added.

This of itelf would give him an excellent profit, but he expected also,
as we know, to drive a stiff bargain with the new railroad company, for
such land as they would require to use.

"Stay here till I come back, Mr. Caldwell," he said. "I apprehend it
won't take me long to get through my business."

Squire Sheldon knocked at the door of the farmhouse, which was opened to
him by Nancy Hooper.

"Walk in, squire," she said.

"Is your husband at home, Mrs. Hooper?"

"Yes; he is waiting for you."

Mrs. Hooper led the way into the sitting room, where her husband was
sitting in a rocking chair.

"Good afternoon, Mr. Hooper," said the squire. "I hope I see you well."

"As well as I expect to be. I'm gettin' to be an old man."

"We must all grow old," said the squire vaguely.

"And sometimes a man's latter years are his most sorrowful years."

"That means that he can't pay the mortgage," thought Squire Sheldon.

"Well, ahem! Yes, it does sometimes happen so," he said aloud.

"Still if a man's friends stand by him, that brings him some comfort."

"I suppose you know what I've come about, Mr. Hooper," said the squire,
anxious to bring his business to a conclusion.

"I suppose it's about the mortgage."

"Yes, its about the mortgage."

"Will you be willing to extend it another year?"

"I thought," said the squire, frowning, "I had given you to understand
that I cannot do this. You owe me a large sum in accrued interest."

"But if I make shift to pay this?"

"I should say the same. It may as well come first as last. You can't
hold the place, and there is no chance of your being better off by
waiting."

"I understand that the new railroad might go through my farm. That would
put me on my feet."

"There is no certainty that the road will ever be built. Even if it
were, it would not be likely to cross your farm."

"I see, Squire Sheldon, you are bound to have the place."

"There is no need to put it that way, Mr. Hooper. I lent you money
on mortgage. You can't pay the mortgage, and of course I foreclose.
However, I will buy the farm and allow you eighteen hundred dollars for
it. That will give you five hundred dollars over and above the money you
owe me."

"The farm is worth three thousand dollars."

"Nonsense, Mr. Hooper. Still if you get an offer of that sum TODAY I
will advise you to sell."

"I certainly won't take eighteen hundred."

"You won't? Then I shall foreclose, and you may have to take less."

"Then there is only one thing to do."

"As you say, there is only one thing to do."

"And that is, to pay off the mortgage and clear the farm."

"You can't do it!" exclaimed the squire uneasily.

Cyrus Hooper's only answer was to call "Jefferson."

Jefferson Pettigrew entered the room, followed by Rodney.

"What does this mean?" asked the squire.

"It means, Squire Sheldon," said Mr. Pettigrew, "that you won't turn
my uncle out of his farm this time. My young friend, Rodney Ropes, has
advanced Uncle Cyrus money enough to pay off the mortgage."

"I won't take a check," said the squire hastily.

"You would have to if we insisted upon it, but I have the money here in
bills. Give me a release and surrender the mortgage, and you shall have
your money."

It was with a crestfallen look that Squire Sheldon left the farmhouse,
though his pockets were full of money.

"It's all up," he said to his friend Caldwell in a hollow voice. "They
have paid the mortgage."

After all the railway did cross the farm, and Uncle Cyrus was paid two
thousand dollars for the right of way, much to the disappointment of
his disinterested friend Lemuel Sheldon, who felt that this sum ought to
have gone into his own pocket.


CHAPTER XXVIII.


A MINISTER'S GOOD FORTUNE.


"I have another call to make, Rodney," said Mr. Pettigrew, as they were
on their way back to the hotel, "and I want you to go with me."

"I shall be glad to accompany you anywhere, Mr. Pettigrew."

"You remember I told you of the old minister whose church I attended as
a boy. He has never received but four hundred dollars a year, yet he
has managed to rear a family, but has been obliged to use the strictest
economy."

"Yes, I remember."

"I am going to call on him, and I shall take the opportunity to make
him a handsome present. It will surprise him, and I think it will be the
first present of any size that he has received in his pastorate of over
forty years.

"There he lives!" continued Jefferson, pointing out a very modest
cottage on the left hand side of the road.

It needed painting badly, but it looked quite as well as the minister
who came to the door in a ragged dressing gown. He was venerable
looking, for his hair was quite white, though he was only sixty five
years old. But worldly cares which had come upon him from the difficulty
of getting along on his scanty salary had whitened his hair and deepened
the wrinkles on his kindly face.

"I am glad to see you, Jefferson," he said, his face lighting up with
pleasure. "I heard you were in town and I hoped you wouldn't fail to
call upon me."

"I was sure to call, for you were always a good friend to me as well as
many others."

"I always looked upon you as one of my boys, Jefferson. I hear that you
have been doing well."

"Yes, Mr. Canfield. I have done better than I have let people know."

"Have you been to see your uncle? Poor man, he is in trouble."

"He is no longer in trouble. The mortgage is paid off, and as far as
Squire Sheldon is concerned he is independent."

"Indeed, that is good news," said the old minister with beaming face.
"You must surely have done well if you could furnish money enough to
clear the farm. It was over a thousand dollars, wasn't it?"

"Yes, thirteen hundred. My young friend, Rodney Ropes, and myself
managed it between us."

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Ropes. Come in both of you. Mrs. Canfield
will be glad to welcome you."

They followed him into the sitting room, the floor of which was
covered by an old and faded carpet. The furniture was of the plainest
description. But it looked pleasant and homelike, and the papers and
books that were scattered about made it more attractive to a visitor
than many showy city drawing rooms.

"And how are all your children, Mr. Canfield?" asked Jefferson.

"Maria is married to a worthy young man in the next town. Benjamin is
employed in a book store, and Austin wants to go to college, but I don't
see any way to send him, poor boy!" and the minister sighed softly.

"Does it cost much to keep a boy in college?"

"Not so much as might be supposed. There are beneficiary funds for
deserving students, and then there is teaching to eke out a poor young
man's income, so that I don't think it would cost over a hundred and
fifty dollars a year."

"That isn't a large sum."

"Not in itelf, but you know, Jefferson, my salary is only four hundred
dollars a year. It would take nearly half my income, so I think Austin
will have to give up his hopes of going to college and follow in his
brother's steps."

"How old is Austin now?"

"He is eighteen."

"Is he ready for college?"

"Yes, he could enter at the next commencement but for the financial
problem."

"I never had any taste for college, or study, as you know, Mr. Canfield.
It is different with my friend Rodney, who is a Latin and Greek
scholar."

The minister regarded Rodney with new interest.

"Do you think of going to college, Mr. Ropes?" he asked.

"Not at present. I am going back to Montana with Mr. Pettigrew. Perhaps
he and I will both go to college next year."

"Excuse me," said Jefferson Pettigrew. "Latin and Greek ain't in my
line. I should make a good deal better miner than minister."

"It is not desirable that all should become ministers or go to college,"
said Mr. Canfield. "I suspect from what I know of you, Jefferson, that
you judge yourself correctly. How long shall you stay in Burton?"

"I expect to go away tomorrow."

"Your visit is a brief one."

"Yes, I intended to stay longer, but I begin to be homesick after the
West."

"Do you expect to make your permanent home there?"

"I can't tell as to that. For the present I can do better there than
here."

The conversation lasted for some time. Then Jefferson Pettigrew rose to
go.

"Won't you call again, Jefferson?" asked the minister hospitably.

"I shall not have time, but before I go I want to make you a small
present," and he put into the hands of the astonished minister four fifty
dollar bills.

"Two hundred dollars!" ejaculated the minister. "Why, I heard you only
brought home a few hundred."

"I prefer to leave that impression. To you I will say that I am worth a
great deal more than that."

"But you mustn't give me so much. I am sure you are too generous for
your own interest. Why, it's munificent, princely."

"Don't be troubled about me. I can spare it. Send your boy to college,
and next year I will send you another sum equally large."

"How can I thank you, Jefferson?" said Mr. Canfield, the tears coming
into his eyes. "Never in forty years have I had such a gift."

"Not even from Squire Sheldon?"

"The squire is not in the habit of bestowing gifts, but he pays a large
parish tax. May I--am I at liberty to say from whom I received this
liberal donation?"

"Please don't! You can say that you have had a gift from a friend."

"You have made me very happy, Jefferson. Your own conscience will reward
you."

Jefferson Pettigrew changed the subject, for it embarrassed him to be
thanked.

"That pays me for hard work and privation," he said to Rodney as they
walked back to the tavern. "After all there is a great pleasure in
making others happy."

"Squire Sheldon hadn't found that out."

"And he never will."

On the way they met the gentleman of whom they had been speaking. He
bowed stiffly, for he could not feel cordial to those whom had snatched
from him the house for which he had been scheming so long.

"Squire Sheldon," said Jefferson, "you were kind enough to invite
Rodney and myself to supper some evening. I am sorry to say that we must
decline, as we leave Burton tomorrow."

"Use your own pleasure, Mr. Pettigrew," said the squire coldly.

"It doesn't seem to disappoint the squire very much," remarked
Jefferson, laughing, when the great man of the village had passed on.

"It certainly is no disappointment to me."

"Nor to me. The little time I have left I can use more pleasantly than
in going to see the squire. I have promised to supper at my uncle's
tonight--that is, I have promised for both of us."

Returning to New York, Jefferson and Rodney set about getting ready for
their Western journey. Rodney gave some of his wardrobe to Mike Flynn,
and bought some plain suits suitable for his new home.

While walking on Broadway the day before the one fixed for his departure
he fell in with Jasper Redwood.

"Have you got a place yet Ropes?" asked Jasper.

"I am not looking for any."

"How is that?" asked Jasper in some surprise.

"I am going to leave the city."

"That is a good idea. All cannot succeed in the city. You may find a
chance to work on a farm in the country."

"I didn't say I was going to the country."

"Where are you going, then?"

"To Montana."

"Isn't that a good way off?"

"Yes."

"What are you going to do there?"

"I may go to mining."

"But how can you afford to go so far?"

"Really, Jasper, you show considerable curiosity about my affairs. I
have money enough to buy my ticket, and I think I can find work when I
get out there."

"It seems to me a crazy idea."

"It might be--for you."

"And why for me?" asked Jasper suspiciously.

"Because you might not be willing to rough it as I am prepared to do."

"I guess you are right. I have always been used to living like a
gentleman."

"I hope you will always be able to do so. Now I must bid you good by, as
I am busy getting ready for my journey."

Jasper looked after Rodney, not without perplexity.

"I can't make out that boy," he said. "So he is going to be a common
miner! Well, that may suit him, but it wouldn't suit me. There is no
chance now of his interfering with me, so I am glad he is going to leave
the city."


CHAPTER XXIX.


A MINING TOWN IN MONTANA.


The scene changes.

Three weeks later among the miners who were sitting on the narrow
veranda of the "Miners' Rest" in Oreville in Montana we recognize two
familiar faces and figures--those of Jefferson Pettigrew and Rodney
Ropes. Both were roughly clad, and if Jasper could have seen Rodney he
would have turned up his nose in scorn, for Rodney had all the look of a
common miner.

It was in Oreville that Mr. Pettigrew had a valuable mining property, on
which he employed quite a number of men who preferred certain wages to a
compensation depending on the fluctuations of fortune. Rodney was among
those employed, but although he was well paid he could not get to like
the work. Of this, however, he said nothing to Mr. Pettigrew whose
company he enjoyed, and whom he held in high esteem.

On the evening in question Jefferson rose from his seat and signed to
Rodney to follow him.

"Well, Rodney, how do you like Montana?" he asked.

"Well enough to be glad I came here," answered Rodney.

"Still you are not partial to the work of a miner!"

"I can think of other things I would prefer to do."

"How would you like keeping a hotel?"

"Is there any hotel in search of a manager?" asked Rodney smiling.

"I will explain. Yesterday I bought the 'Miners' Rest.'"

"What--the hotel where we board?"

"Exactly. I found that Mr. Bailey, who has made a comfortable sum of
money, wants to leave Montana and go East and I bought the hotel."

"So that hereafter I shall board with you?"

"Not exactly. I propose to put you in charge, and pay you a salary. I
can oversee, and give you instructions. How will that suit you?"

"So you think I am competent, Mr. Pettigrew?"

"Yes, I think so. There is a good man cook, and two waiters. The cook
will also order supplies and act as steward under you."

"What then will be my duties?"

"You will act as clerk and cashier, and pay the bills. You will have to
look after all the details of management. If there is anything you don't
understand you will have me to back you up, and advise you. What do you
say?"

"That I shall like it much better than mining. My only doubt is as to
whether I shall suit you."

"It is true that it takes a smart man to run a hotel, but I think we can
do it between us. Now what will you consider a fair salary?"

"I leave that to you, Mr. Pettigrew."

"Then we will call it a hundred and fifty dollars a month and board."

"But, Mr. Pettigrew," said Rodney in surprise, "how can I possibly earn
that much?"

"You know we charge big prices, and have about fifty steady boarders.
I expect to make considerable money after deducting all the expenses of
management."

"My friend Jasper would be very much surprised if he could know the
salary I am to receive. In the store I was only paid seven dollars a
week."

"The duties were different. Almost any boy could discharge the duties of
an entry clerk while it takes peculiar qualities to run a hotel."

"I was certainly very fortunate to fall in with you, Mr. Pettigrew."

"I expect it will turn out fortunate for me too, Rodney."

"When do you want me to start in?"

"Next Monday morning. It is now Thursday evening. Mr. Bailey will turn
over the hotel to me on Saturday night. You needn't go to the mines
tomorrow, but may remain in the hotel, and he will instruct you in the
details of management."

"That will be quite a help to me, and I am at present quite ignorant on
the subject."

Rodney looked forward with pleasure to his new employment. He had good
executive talent, though thus far he had had no occasion to exercise it.
It was with unusual interest that he set about qualifying himself for
his new position.

"Young man," said the veteran landlord, "I think you'll do. I thought
at first that Jefferson was foolish to put a young boy in my place, but
you've got a head on your shoulders, you have! I guess you'll fill the
bill."

"I hope to do so, Mr. Bailey."

"Jefferson tells me that you understand Latin and Greek?"

"I know something of them."

"Thats what prejudiced me against you. I hired a college boy once as a
clerk and he was the worst failure I ever came across. He seemed to have
all kinds of sense except common sense. I reckon he was a smart scholar,
and he could have made out the bills for the boarders in Latin or Greek
if it had been necessary, but he was that soft that any one could cheat
him. Things got so mixed up in the department that I had to turn him
adrift in a couple of weeks. I surmised you might be the same sort of a
chap. If you were it would be a bad lookout for Jefferson."

In Oreville Mr. Pettigrew was so well known that nearly everyone called
him by his first name. Mr. Pettigrew did not care about this as he had
no false pride or artificial dignity.

"Do you consider this hotel a good property, Mr. Bailey?"

"I'll tell you this much. I started here four years ago, and I've
made fifty thousand dollars which I shall take back with me to New
Hampshire."

"That certainly is satisfactory."

"I shouldn't wonder if you could improve upon it."

"How does it happen that you sell out such a valuable property, Mr.
Bailey? Are you tired of making money?"

"No, but I must tell you that there's a girl waiting for me at home, an
old schoolmate, who will become Mrs. Bailey as soon as possible after
I get back. If she would come out here I wouldn't sell, but she has a
mother that she wouldn't leave, and so I must go to her."

"That is a good reason, Mr. Bailey."

"Besides with fifty thousand dollars I can live as well as I want to
in New Hampshire, and hold up my head with the best. You will follow my
example some day."

"It will be a long day first, Mr. Bailey, for I am only sixteen."

On Monday morning the old landlord started for his Eastern home and
Rodney took his place. It took him some little time to become familiar
with all the details of hotel management, but he spared no pains to
insure success. He had some trouble at first with the cook who presumed
upon his position and Rodney's supposed ignorance to run things as he
chose.

Rodney complained to Mr. Pettigrew.

"I think I can fix things, Rodney," he said. "There's a man working for
me who used to be cook in a restaurant in New York. I found out about
him quietly, for I wanted to be prepared for emergencies. The next time
Gordon act contrary and threatens to leave, tell him he can do as he
pleases. Then report to me."

The next day there came another conflict of authority.

"If you don't like the way I manage you can get somebody else," said
the cook triumphantly. "Perhaps you'd like to cook the dinner yourself.
You're nothing but a boy, and I don't see what Jefferson was thinking of
to put you in charge."

"That is his business, Mr. Gordon."

"I advise you not to interfere with me, for I won't stand it."

"Why didn't you talk in this way to Mr. Bailey?"

"That's neither here nor there. He wasn't a boy for one thing."

"Then you propose to have your own way, Mr. Gordon?"

"Yes, I do."

"Very well, then you can leave me at the end of this week."

"What!" exclaimed the cook in profound astonishment. "Are you going
crazy?"

"No, I know what I am about."

"Perhaps you intend to cook yourself."

"No, I don't. That would close up the hotel."

"Look here, young feller, you're gettin' too independent! I've a great
mind to leave you tonight."

"You can do so if you want to," said Rodney indifferently.

"Then I will!" retorted Gordon angrily, bringing down his fist upon the
table in vigorous emphasis.

Oreville was fifty miles from Helena, and that was the nearest point, as
he supposed, where a new cook could be obtained.

After supper Rodney told Jefferson Pettigrew what had happened.

"Have I done right?" he asked.

"Yes; we can't have any insubordination here. There can't be two heads
of one establishment. Send Gordon to me."

The cook with a defiant look answered the summons.

"I understand you want to leave, Gordon," said Jefferson Pettigrew.

"That depends. I ain't goin' to have no boy dictatin' to me."

"Then you insist upon having your own way without interference."

"Yes, I do."

"Very well, I accept your resignation. Do you wish to wait till the end
of the week, or to leave tonight?"

"I want to give it up tonight."

"Very well, go to Rodney and he will pay you what is due you."

"Are you goin' to get along without a cook?" inquired Gordon in
surprise.

"No."

"What are you going to do, then?"

"I shall employ Parker in your place."

"What does he know about cookin'?"

"He ran a restaurant in New York for five years, the first part of the
time having charge of the cooking. We shan't suffer even if you do leave
us."

"I think I will stay," said Gordon in a submissive tone.

"It is too late. You have discharged yourself. You can't stay here on
any terms."

Gordon left Oreville the next day a sorely disappointed man, for he had
received more liberal pay than he was likely to command elsewhere. The
young landlord had triumphed.


CHAPTER XXX.


THE MYSTERIOUS ROBBERY.


At the end of a month Jefferson Pettigrew said: "I've been looking over
the books, Rodney, and I find the business is better than I expected.
How much did I agree to pay you?"

"A hundred and fifty dollars a month, but if you think that it is too
much----"

"Too much? Why I am going to advance you to two hundred and fifty."

"You can't be in earnest, Mr. Pettigrew?"

"I am entirely so."

"That is at the rate of three thousand dollars a year!"

"Yes, but you are earning it."

"You know I am only a boy."

"That doesn't make any difference as long as you understand your
business."

"I am very grateful to you, Mr. Pettigrew. My, I can save two hundred
dollars a month."

"Do so, and I will find you a paying investment for the money."

"What would Jasper say to my luck?" thought Rodney.

Three months passed without any incident worth recording. One afternoon
a tall man wearing a high hat and a Prince Albert coat with a paste
diamond of large size in his shirt bosom entered the public room of the
Miners' Rest and walking up to the bar prepared to register his name.
As he stood with his pen in his hand Rodney recognized him not without
amazement.

It was Louis Wheeler--the railroad thief, whom he had last seen in New
York.

As for Wheeler he had not taken any notice of the young clerk, not
suspecting that it was an old acquaintance who was familiar with his
real character.

"Have you just arrived in Montana, Mr. Wheeler?" asked Rodney quietly.

As Rodney had not had an opportunity to examine his signature in the
register Wheeler looked up in quiet surprise.

"Do you know me?" he asked.

"Yes; don't you know me?"

"I'll be blowed if it isn't the kid," ejaculated Wheeler.

"As I run this hotel, I don't care to be called a kid."

"All right Mr.----"

"Ropes."

"Mr. Ropes, you are the most extraordinary boy I ever met."

"Am I?"

"Who would have thought of your turning up as a Montana landlord."

"I wouldn't have thought of it myself four months ago. But what brings
you out here?"

"Business," answered Wheeler in an important tone.

"Are you going to become a miner?"

"I may buy a mine if I find one to suit me."

"I am glad you seem to be prospering."

"Can you give me a good room?"

"Yes, but I must ask a week's advance payment."

"How much?"

"Twenty five dollars."

"All right. Here's the money."

Louis Wheeler pulled out a well filled wallet and handed over two ten
dollar bills and a five.

"Is that satisfactory?" he asked.

"Quite so. You seem better provided with money than when I saw you
last."

"True. I was then in temporary difficulty. But I made a good turn in
stocks and I am on my feet again."

Rodney did not believe a word of this, but as long as Wheeler was able
to pay his board he had no good excuse for refusing him accommodation.

"That rascal here!" exclaimed Jefferson, when Rodney informed him of
Wheeler's arrival. "Well, thats beat all! What has brought him out
here?"

"Business, he says."

"It may be the same kind of business that he had with me. He will bear
watching."

"I agree with you, Mr. Pettigrew."

Louis Wheeler laid himself out to be social and agreeable, and made
himself quite popular with the other boarders at the hotel. As Jefferson
and Rodney said nothing about him, he was taken at his own valuation,
and it was reported that he was a heavy capitalist from Chicago who had
come to Montana to buy a mine. This theory received confirmation both
from his speech and actions.

On the following day he went about in Oreville and examined the mines.
He expressed his opinion freely in regard to what he saw, and priced one
that was for sale at fifty thousand dollars.

"I like this mine," he said, "but I don't know enough about it to make
an offer. If it comes up to my expectations I will try it."

"He must have been robbing a bank," observed Jefferson Pettigrew.

Nothing could exceed the cool assurance with which Wheeler greeted
Jefferson and recalled their meeting in New York.

"You misjudged me then, Mr. Pettigrew," he said. "I believe upon my soul
you looked upon me as an adventurer--a confidence man."

"You are not far from the truth, Mr. Wheeler," answered Jefferson
bluntly.

"Well, I forgive you. Our acquaintance was brief and you judged from
superficial impressions."

"Perhaps so, Mr. Wheeler. Have you ever been West before?"

"No."

"When you came to Oreville had you any idea that I was here?"

"No; if I had probably I should not have struck the town, as I knew that
you didn't have a favorable opinion of me."

"I can't make out much of that fellow, Rodney," said Jefferson. "I can't
understand his object in coming here."

"He says he wants to buy a mine."

"That's all a pretext. He hasn't money enough to buy a mine or a tenth
part of it."

"He seems to have money."

"Yes; he may have a few hundred dollars, but mark my words, he hasn't
the slightest intention of buying a mine."

"He has some object in view."

"No doubt! What it is is what I want to find out."

There was another way in which Louis Wheeler made himself popular among
the miners of Oreville. He had a violin with him, and in the evening he
seated himself on the veranda and played popular tunes.

He had only a smattering in the way of musical training, but the airs he
played took better than classical music would have done. Even Jefferson
Pettigrew enjoyed listening to "Home, Sweet Home" and "The Last Rose of
Summer," while the miners were captivated by merry dance tunes, which
served to enliven them after a long day's work at the mines.

One day there was a sensation. A man named John O'Donnell came down
stairs from his room looking pale and agitated.

"Boys," he said, "I have been robbed."

Instantly all eyes were turned upon him.

"Of what have you been robbed, O'Donnell?" asked Jefferson.

"Of two hundred dollars in gold. I was going to send it home to my wife
in Connecticut next week."

"When did you miss it?"

"Just now."

"Where did you keep it?"

"In a box under my bed."

"When do you think it was taken?"

"Last night."

"What makes you think so?"

"I am a sound sleeper, and last night you know was very dark. I awoke
with a start, and seemed to hear footsteps. FRAU BEERMANN. It's as false
as anything can be, and you speak about problems which you have
never understood.

BEERMANN. Pardon me! I ought to know best what is becoming for me.

FRAU LUND.

There's no one in the world I dislike as much as a preacher.

But if a person wants to be one ... then, according to the gospel he ought
to live on bread and water.

It doesn't go well with champagne and lobster.

BEERMANN. Do the Scriptures command that we must be poor to be
honorable?

FRAU LUND.

No, Beermann, but if I still remember, they speak of a camel and a
needle.

BOLLAND. The ladies evidently are not acquainted with the purposes
of our new society.

I am sure they would subscribe to every one of the principles which
are incorporated in our By-laws.

FRAU LUND. I certainly would not.

BOLLAND [feeling in his side pocket]. At least read our "Appeal to the
Public."
FRAU LUND [refusing]. No, thank you.

BOLLAND. Every woman will rejoice when she reads it.

FRAU LUND. Do you think so? How exceedingly amusing your societies are!
So, cards and bowling no longer offer sufficient entertainment.

You have to moralize.

HAUSER.

I can't help thinking of the notorious starvation freak at the circus
who gets his meals on the sly everyday.

DR. WASNER. Of course, every conviction can be made ridiculous once it's
regarded as insincere. You shouldn't accuse without proof.

HAUSER. Herr Professor, politeness requires that each individual be
regarded as the exception--but not an entire club.

BOLLAND.

It is a pity, indeed, that a great movement like ours is disposed
of by a few trifling remarks.

That embitters our task of curing the nation of social diseases.

FRAU LUND. Where did you get your Doctor's license to cure?

DR. WASNER. It's sad enough that the cure is left to only a few of
us.

HAUSER. Well, I'll remain a patient. You'll need a few anyway to keep up
your business.

BEERMANN. I consider all this a very cheap kind of humor.

I used to joke about these matters myself, but if you will only
look upon this problem from a serious point of view, when your eyes
are opened to the ...

FRAU BEERMANN. ... Your newly acquired ways of talking are quite
unbearable.

BEERMANN. Please, don't make a scene.

FRAU BEERMANN.

We have been married for twenty-six years; have been very fortunate with
our own children. Why worry about other people?

BEERMANN. You are not logical, my love. The mere fact that I brought
up my children properly is all the more reason for my joining this
movement. ...

FRAU BEERMANN. You didn't lose much sleep about their education.

BEERMANN. Evidently I didn't neglect anything.

FRAU LUND.

I'm afraid you pride yourselves on a degree of willpower you never
exercised.

BEERMANN. Never exercised?

My dear Frau Lund, what do you know about the temptations which
confront us men.

What does a woman know about them?

FRAU LUND.

The only thing we women don't know about is the manner in which these
temptations terminate.

BEERMANN. Our movement intends to do away with these very deceptions.
We want to protect the traditions of the home which women treasure.

FRAU LUND. No. We, women also treasure modesty. We dislike to see men
pretend to have better morals than they actually have.

BEERMANN. Seriously, Frau Lund.

Public immorality must hurt you more.

FRAU LUND. You arc mistaken. It requires a genuine manly feeling to
sympathize with misery.

DR. WASNER. Misery and vice are different problems.

FRAU LUND. They're not. And that is why we will never agree.

FRAU BEERMANN. All the more reason why my husband should not set
himself up as an example. He knows nothing of worry or care.

BEERMANN. We can never subscribe to Frau Lund's principles.

FRAU LUND. No principles, please!

BOLLAND. Out of sheer opposition you will say that you hold different
ones from us.

FRAU LUND. No.

I will say that I hold none at all.

BOLLAND. and WASNER [together]. But, gnadige Frau!

FRAU LUND. I can't help it. I lost them some place on my journey through
life. I have learned that all your principles have loop holes through
which people can conveniently slip out and take their friends along
with them.

So I had my choice of either surrendering them or dishonestly
preaching them to others.

DR. WASNER. Real principles of life are never given up.

HAUSER [with sarcasm]. Cheers from the gallery!

BOLLAND. Principles of morality are the laws of nature--they are
her dictates.

FRAU LUND. Is that the reason you have started your Society for the
Suppression of Vice?

Do you imagine your by-laws are stronger than the laws of nature?

DR. WASNER.

May I make just one remark?

BEERMANN. What is it?

DR. WASNER [stroking his beard]. In summing up the matter we can come to
this decision: women have a beautiful privilege. Certain facts in life
remain a closed book to them. We, men, unfortunately have to come
into contact with them.

HAUSER. Did you say UNFORTUNATELY?

DR. WASNER. Please don't interrupt. I maintain "unfortunately"!

For the last four years, I have been persistently following obscene
literature, and to-day I have gotten together a collection of it, which
I dare say is pretty complete. So I am speaking of matters about
which I am thoroughly informed.

[With importance.] The degree of vulgarity our people have reached is
incredible.

FRAU LUND. And you have been the "persistent collector" of this vulgarity?

DR. WASNER. Let me assure you that I took upon myself this task with
loathing.

HAUSER. Herr Professor, in all my life I have never met a man who for
four years voluntarily did something which was loathsome to him.

DR. WASNER. You have no business to make such a remark.

HAUSER.

Have you derived no satisfaction from it at all?

DR.

WASNER. Satisfaction--if you mean the satisfaction of participating
in the uplift of our people.

FRAU LUND. Uplift? Our reformers capitalize our national lack of
good taste.

Good proof of that are the moral works of art which you patronize.

DR. WASNER.

The matter we are discussing is more serious than reforming bad taste.

FRAU LUND. There is nothing more serious.

DR. WASNER [knowingly].

If you but knew, Frau Lund!

FRAU LUND. I don't have to call and see your collection.

Frankly, to me, the most obscene picture in your gallery could not be more
disgusting than the talk you carry on in your meetings.

BEERMANN. Oh! Oh!

FRAU LUND.

The nudity of the human body is not disgusting. It is the nudity of your
mind.

No vice is as repulsive as that virtue of yours which loudly uncovers
itself in public--in market places.
Vice has at least the shame to hide itself.

BEERMANN [to Bolland]. Can you understand her?

BOLLAND. I must admit, I can't.

DR.

WASNER. Gnadige Frau stated that vice hides itself. But in spite of that
it exists.

BOLLAND. Yes, she admitted that it exists.

DR. WASNER. Shall we tolerate it merely because it crawls into dark
nooks and corners?

FRAU LUND. You reformers!

Let more sunshine into this world and vice will not find so many
dark corners and nooks to hide in.

BOLLAND. You would not be as opposed to us if you had a son who would
be exposed to the temptations of our great cities.

FRAU LUND. I would be ashamed of myself if for personal reasons I
became narrow-minded.

BEERMANN. But just stop to think! Picture a healthy young man in his prime
falling into the hands of one of these abominable creatures!

FRAU LUND.

I could picture something worse than that.

BEERMANN. Still worse?

FRAU LUND. For instance, if he should, with all the credulity of youth,
enter into the work of your society.

BOLLAND. Well! Well!

BEERMANN.

You don't seem to take anything seriously to-day.

FRAU LUND.

Very seriously; this young man perhaps does reach the stage where he
sincerely pities your so-called abominable creature. Then he has really
advanced in his morality. Let the pity impress itself deeply upon him
and your abominable creature has preached better to him than all
your high-sounding phrases.

BOLLAND.

I am simply dumbfounded.

DR. WASNER. Then you even believe that our society exerts a bad
influence?

FRAU LUND [very positively]. Yes.

BOLLAND [with irony]. Fancy! University Professors, philanthropists and
a general who are with us in this work--they are, of course, the
ones who are likely to corrupt the morals of the younger generation.

Frau Lund, no doubt, would like to send our young men to the good
Ladies of the Pavement.

DR. WASNER. In what way is our influence bad?

FRAU LUND [with warmth]. The young man who joins your society does it only
to ape you and to advance his own ends and vainglory. He forever deprives
himself of understanding the meaning of life and of becoming helpful
to those who suffer.

BOLLAND. Well what do you think of such statements?

FRAU BEERMANN. They are splendid. I would be very thankful if my boy would
embody the ideals of Frau Lund.

BEERMANN. Lena, I simply forbid you to say such things.

FRAU BEERMANN. Really?

BEERMANN. Everybody knows that Frau Lund is a radical, but I don't want
you to fall into that habit.

FRAU BEERMANN. I don't acquire new habits as rapidly as you.

HAUSER [to Beermann]. Don't get excited.

A politician must give everyone an opportunity to express his views.

DR. WASNER.

I teach young people and I heartily wish they'd continue to seek their
ideals among high minded men and not in the dark city streets.

BOLLAND. Right! And not in the dark city streets.

FRAU LUND.

Nor there, Herr Kommerzienrat, where the veil of shame is rudely
torn from inborn sensitiveness and it is shorn of every secret
charm.

DR. WASNER. Correct! We do want to deprive it of its charm.

FRAU LUND.

You succeed in doing that; no tenderness can survive the brutal
frankness of your meetings.

DR. WASNER.

It is not a national German trait to sugar-coat sin.

FRAU LUND. Why do you confound all lack of refinement with the national
character?

DR. WASNER. Because it is good German to call a spade a spade.

BEERMANN [getting up]. Why argue to no purpose? Let's start our game
of skat.

BOLLAND.

Because it appears to be a conflict of two different philosophies.

BEERMANN [rises, goes to card table, opens a drawer, takes out a deck
of cards and opens them]. It's always the same old story.
Never start anything with women! They must have the last word.
[Sits down at card table. Bolland gets up and sits beside him.]
FRAU LUND [laughing]. Spoken again like a typical reformer.
DR. WASNER [rising]. I don't want to continue this argument, but
if by any chance you have gained the impression that I regard this
matter from a prejudiced view point, I will cheerfully admit it. I
do.

BEERMANN [calling]. Oh, do come on, Herr Professor.
DR. WASNER [turning to card table]. I'm coming. [To others.] I admit
with pride that I am prejudiced. For me there exists only one
question: How can I best serve my fatherland?
BOLLAND. Herr Professor!
DR. WASNER [turning to table]. Just a moment. ... [To others.] Let
the sturdy qualities of our people be conserved. That stand is
unassailable. Then I will be sure that my efforts have at least
...

BEERMANN [loudly]. But, my dear Wasner!
WASNER [not dismayed, continuing]. ... at least a national
scope.

HAUSER. Wouldn't you rather play skat, professor?
WASNER [going over to card table]. There remains only one thing for
me to say. If I have used sharp words, I want to apologize.
[Takes a seat.] 
BEERMANN. You deal, Professor.
DR. WASNER [shuffling the cards and talking at the same time]. For
me there exists but one ideal. That which Tacitus described as it
once prevailed among the old Teutons. Quamquam severa illic matrimonia
nec ullam morum partem magis laudaveris. [He lets Bolland cut and
then deals.] The most praiseworthy trait of the Teutons was the
strictness of their marriage customs. Nam prope soli Barbarorum
singulis uxoribus contenti sunt. They were almost the only barbarians
to content themselves with a single wife.
BEERMANN [loudly]. Tournee!

BOLLAND. I'll go you!
BEERMANN. Twenty!

BOLLAND. I'll better that!
BEERMANN. Take it! Gras-Solo!

[They play.]
[Hauser, Frau Lund, Frau Beermann remain sitting at right.]
FRAU LUND. At last the Fatherland is saved.
FRAU BEERMANN. It's the only occupation for which nature intended
them. They should not tinker with national problems.
HAUSER. Have patience. Political ambition dies out after the first
defeat.

FRAU BEERMANN. ... which I hope will happen.
HAUSER. That's as certain as fate. Else he never would have been
nominated.
BEERMANN [calling from the card table]. I have pretty sharp
hearing!
HAUSER. A very fine acquisition, Beermann, when you grow old.
BOLLAND [throwing a card on the table]. Fifty-nine and four make
sixty-three! The rest you can take.
(They throw down their cards; Bolland collects them and shuffles.)

WASNER [half turning to Hauser], And then there is the celebrated
passage, "Ergo septa pudicitia agunt, nullis ... spectaculorum
illecebris corruptae." 
BEERMANN. I have six cards.
BOLLAND. The bottom one belongs to the Professor.
WASNER [as before, continuing]. So the wife lived surrounded by
tenderness and care ... and so forth, "Literarum secreta. ..."
Secret communications were not tolerated by either husband or
wife.
BEERMANN. Please drop that Tacitus. It's your chance to lead.
...

WASNER. I pass. ...

HOLLAND. So do I.
BOLLAND [loudly and enthusiastically]. That's the way to get at
them! Trumps! And trumps again.
WASNER [murmuring]. "Paucissima adulteria in tam numerosa gente.
..." [Gradually lapses into silence and then continues to play with
energy.]
FRAU LUND [with a glance towards the card table]. Why do we take
our principles so seriously. ... It's really ridiculous how our
every opinion soon turns into religious beliefs.
WASNER. The matter is dead serious.
FRAU LUND. Who will think of it to-morrow?
HAUSER [nodding towards card table]. Not they, of course. But there
are cleverer people. The so-called thinking public in Germany must
have some national problem to solve. It finds some such, readily
enough in order to play with it. Meanwhile they take no notice that
the party in power [Footnote: Men with the brass buttons.] are
lining their pockets.
FRAU LUND. Haven't they always been doing that?
HAUSER. Yes, but not with such. ease. Here and there they were
rapped over the knuckles. But nowadays they could cart away the
entire capitol.

FRAU LUND. There's not so much left to-day.
HAUSER. A couple of pieces anyhow to take along as keepsakes.
FRAU LUND. In my days I saw one reform after another on the bargain
counter; but we women remain mere spectators while ideals come and
go; we can not realize how much they mean to men.
HAUSER. My dear Frau Lund, if a real reform should effectively rise
among us some day, then you women will have to lend a helping hand.
With those [nodding towards card-table] kindergarten heroes nothing
can be accomplished.
FRAU BEERMANN. What influence can we exert so long as men organize
their societies for the protection of women's virtue!
HAUSER. These henpecked gentlemen always nominate themselves
chastity's guardians.
FRAU BEERMANN. They are of importance only when they can get some
one to listen. I'd like to go to their meetings and tell them
that.
HAUSER. Their meetings--bosh! Their sort only couple their nonsense
with a few self-evident generalities which no one would really
oppose. No, first of all they must be educated and that you women
alone can accomplish.
FRAU LUND. You say that as if we had any influence on public
opinion.

HAUSER.He had supposed when they came that they were in search of employment,
but they had not applied for work and only seemed actuated by curiosity.
What could be their object in stopping him now he could not understand.

It would have been natural to suppose they wanted money, but they had
not asked for any as yet. He had about fifty dollars in his pocketbook
and he would gladly have given them this if it would have insured his
release. But not a word had been said about money.

They kept on their journey. Montana is a mountainous State, and they
were now in the hilly regions. They kept on for perhaps half an hour,
gradually getting upon higher ground, until they reached a precipitous
hill composed largely of rock.

Here the two men stopped as if they had reached their journey's end.

One of them advanced to the side of the hill and unlocked a thick wooden
door which at first had failed to attract Rodney's attention. The door
swung open, revealing a dark passage, cut partly through stone and
partly through earth. Inside on the floor was a bell of good size.

One of the men lifted the bell and rang it loudly.

"What does that mean?" thought Rodney, who felt more curious than
apprehensive.

He soon learned.

A curious looking negro, stunted in growth, for he was no taller than a
boy of ten, came out from the interior and stood at the entrance of the
cave, if such it was. His face was large and hideous, there was a hump
on his back, and his legs were not a match, one being shorter than the
other, so that as he walked, his motion was a curious one. He bent a
scrutinizing glance on Rodney.

"Well, Caesar, is dinner ready?" asked one of the men.

"No, massa, not yet."

"Let it be ready then as soon as possible. But first lead the way. We
are coming in."

He started ahead, leading the horse, for the entrance was high enough to
admit the passage of the animal.

"Push on!" said the other, signing to Rodney to precede him.

Rodney did so, knowing remonstrance to be useless. His curiosity was
excited. He wondered how long the passage was and whither it led.

The way was dark, but here and there in niches was a kerosene lamp that
faintly relieved the otherwise intense blackness.

"I have read about such places," thought Rodney, "but I never expected
to get into one. The wonder is, that they should bring me here. I can't
understand their object."

Rodney followed his guide for perhaps two hundred and fifty feet when
they emerged into a large chamber of irregular shape, lighted by four
large lamps set on a square wooden table. There were two rude cots in
one corner, and it was here apparently that his guides made their home.

There was a large cooking stove in one part of the room, and an
appetizing odor showed that Caesar had the dinner under way.

Rodney looked about him in curiosity. He could not decide whether the
cave was natural or artificial. Probably it was a natural cave which had
been enlarged by the hand of man.

"Now hurry up the dinner, Caesar," said one of the guides. "We are all
hungry."

"Yes, massa," responded the obedient black.

Rodney felt hungry also, and hoped that he would have a share of the
dinner. Later he trusted to find out the object of his new acquaintances
in kidnaping him.

Dinner was soon ready. It was simple, but Rodney thoroughly enjoyed it.

During the meal silence prevailed. After it his new acquaintances
produced pipes and began to smoke. They offered Rodney a cigarette, but
he declined it.

"I don't smoke," he said.

"Are you a Sunday school kid?" asked one in a sneering tone.

"Well, perhaps so."

"How long have you lived at Oreville?"

"About four months."

"Who is the head of the settlement there?"

"Jefferson Pettigrew."

"He is the moneyed man, is he?"

"Yes."

"Is he a friend of yours?"

"He is my best friend," answered Rodney warmly.

"He thinks a good deal of you, then?"

"I think he does."

"Where have you been--on a journey?"

"Yes, to the town of Babcock."

"Did he send you?"

"Yes."

"What interest has he there?"

"He is chief owner of a mine there."

"Humph! I suppose you would like to know why we brought you here."

"I would very much."

"We propose to hold you for ransom."

"But why should you? I am only a poor boy."

"You are the friend of Jefferson Pettigrew. He is a rich man. If he
wants you back he must pay a round sum."

It was all out now! These men were emulating a class of outlaws to be
found in large numbers in Italy and Sicily, and were trading upon human
sympathy and levying a tax upon human friendship.


CHAPTER XXXIII.


UNDERGROUND.


Rodney realized his position. The alternative was not a pleasant one.
Either he must remain in the power of these men, or cost his friend Mr.
Pettigrew a large sum as ransom. There was little hope of changing the
determination of his captors, but he resolved to try what he could do.

"Mr. Pettigrew is under no obligations to pay money out for me," he
said. "I am not related to him, and have not yet known him six months."

"That makes no difference. You are his friend, and he likes you."

"That is the very reason why I should not wish him to lose money on my
account."

"Oh, very well! It will be bad for you is he doesn't come to your help."

"Why? What do you propose to do to me?" asked Rodney boldly.

"Better not ask!" was the significant reply.

"But I want to know. I want to realize my position."

"The least that will happen to you is imprisonment in this cave for a
term of years."

"I don't think I should like it but you would get tired of standing
guard over me."

"We might, and in that case there is the other thing."

"What other thing?"

"If we get tired of keeping you here, we shall make short work with
you."

"Would you murder me?" asked Rodney, horror struck, as he might well be,
for death seems terrible to a boy just on the threshold of life.

"We might be obliged to do so."

Rodney looked in the faces of his captors, and he saw nothing to
encourage him. They looked like desperate men, who would stick at
nothing to carry out their designs.

"I don't see why you should get hold of me," he said. "If you had
captured Mr. Pettigrew himself you would stand a better chance of making
it pay."

"There is no chance of capturing Pettigrew. If there were we would
prefer him to you. A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."

"How much ransom do you propose to ask?"

This Rodney said, thinking that if it were a thousand dollars he might
be able to make it good to his friend Jefferson. But he was destined to
be disappointed.

"Five thousand dollars," answered the chief speaker.

"Five thousand dollars!" ejaculated Rodney in dismay. "Five thousand
dollars for a boy like me!"

"That is the sum we want."

"If it were one thousand I think you might get it."

"One thousand!" repeated the other scornfully. "That wouldn't half pay
us."

"Then suppose you call it two thousand?"

"It won't do."

"Then I suppose I must make up my mind to remain a prisoner."

"Five thousand dollars wouldn't be much to a rich man like Pettigrew.
We have inquired, and found out that he is worth at least a hundred
thousand dollars. Five thousand is only a twentieth part of this sum."

"You can do as you please, but you had better ask a reasonable amount if
you expect to get it."

"We don't want advice. We shall manage things in our own way."

Convinced that further discussion would be unavailing, Rodney relapsed
into silence, but now his captors proceeded to unfold their plans.

One of them procured a bottle of ink, some paper and a pen, and set them
on the table.

"Come up here, boy, and write to Mr. Pettigrew," he said in a tone of
authority.

"What shall I write?"

"Tell him that you are a prisoner, and that you will not be released
unless he pays five thousand dollars."

"I don't want to write that. It will be the same as asking him to pay it
for me."

"That is what we mean him to understand."

"I won't write it."

Rodney knew his danger, but he looked resolutely into the eyes of the
men who held his life in their hands. His voice did not waver, for he
was a manly and courageous boy.

"The boy's got grit!" said one of the men to the other.

"Yes, but it won't save him. Boy, are you going to write what I told
you?"

"No."

"Are you not afraid that we will kill you?"

"You have power to do it."

"Don't you want to live?"

"Yes. Life is sweet to a boy of sixteen."

"Then why don't you write?"

"Because I think it would be taking a mean advantage of Mr. Pettigrew."

"You are a fool. Roderick, what shall we do with him?"

"Tell him simply to write that he is in our hands."

"Well thought of. Boy, will you do that?"

"Yes."

Rodney gave his consent for he was anxious that Mr. Pettigrew should
know what had prevented him from coming home when he was expected.

"Very well, write! You will know what to say."

Rodney drew the paper to him, and wrote as follows:


DEAR MR. PETTIGREW,

On my way home I was stopped by two men who have confined me in a cave,
and won't let me go unless a sum of money is paid for my ransom. I don't
know what to do. You will know better than I. RODNEY ROPES.


His chief captor took the note and read it aloud.

"That will do," he said. "Now he will believe us when we say that you
are in our hands."

He signed to Rodney to rise from the table and took his place. Drawing a
pile of paper to him, he penned the following note:


Rodney Ropes is in our hands. He wants his liberty and we want money.
Send us five thousand dollars, or arrange a meeting at which it can be
delivered to us, and he shall go free. Otherwise his death be on your
hands. HIS CAPTORS.


Rodney noticed that this missive was written in a handsome business
hand.

"You write a handsome hand," he said.

"I ought to," was the reply. "I was once bookkeeper in a large business
house."

"And what--" here Rodney hesitated.

"What made me an outlaw you mean to ask?"

"Yes."

"My nature, I suppose. I wasn't cut out for sober, humdrum life."

"Don't you think you would have been happier?"

"No preaching, kid! I had enough of that when I used to go to church in
my old home in Missouri. Here, Caesar!"

"Yes, massa."

"You know Oreville?"

"Yes, massa."

"Go over there and take this letter with you. Ask for Jefferson
Pettigrew, and mind you don't tell him where we live. Only if he asks
about me and my pal say we are desperate men, have each killed a round
dozen of fellows that stood in our way and will stick at nothing."

"All right, massa," said Caesar with an appreciative grin. "How shall I
go, massa?"

"You can take the kid's horse. Ride to within a mile of Oreville, then
tether the horse where he won't easily be found, and walk over to the
mines. Do you understand?"

"Yes, massa."

"He won't probably give you any money, but he may give you a letter.
Bring it safely to me."

Caesar nodded and vanished.

For an hour the two men smoked their pipes and chatted. Then they rose,
and the elder said: "We are going out, kid, for a couple of hours. Are
you afraid to stay alone?"

"Why should I be?"

"That's the way to talk. I won't caution you not to escape, for it would
take a smarter lad then you to do it. If you are tired you can lie down
on the bed and rest."

"All right!"

"I am sorry we haven't got the morning paper for you to look over," said
his captor with a smile. "The carrier didn't leave it this morning."

"I can get along without it. I don't feel much like reading."

"You needn't feel worried. You'll be out of this tomorrow if Jefferson
Pettigrew is as much your friend as you think he is."

"The only thing that troubles me is the big price you charge at your
hotel."

"Good! The kid has a good wit of his own. After all, we wouldn't
mind keeping you with us. It might pay you better than working for
Pettigrew."

"I hope you'll excuse my saying it, but I don't like the business."

"You may change your mind. At your age we wouldn't either of us like the
sort of life we are leading. Come, John."

The two men went out but did not allow Rodney to accompany them to the
place of exit.

Left to himself, Rodney could think soberly of his plight. He could not
foresee whether his captivity would be brief or prolonged.

After a time the spirit of curiosity seized him. He felt tempted
to explore the cavern in which he was confined. He took a lamp, and
followed in a direction opposite to that taken by his captors.

The cave he found was divided into several irregularly shaped chambers.
He walked slowly, holding up the lamp to examine the walls of the
cavern. In one passage he stopped short, for something attracted his
attention--something the sight of which made his heart beat quicker and
filled him with excitement.


CHAPTER XXXIV.


RODNEY'S DISCOVERY.


There was a good reason for Rodney's excitement. The walls of the
subterranean passage revealed distinct and rich indications of gold.
There was a time, and that not long before, when they would have
revealed nothing to Rodney, but since his residence at Oreville he had
more than once visited the mines and made himself familiar with surface
indications of mineral deposit.

He stopped short and scanned attentively the walls of the passage.

"If I am not mistaken," he said to himself, "this will make one of the
richest mines in Montana. But after all what good will it do me? Here am
I a prisoner, unable to leave the cave, or communicate with my friends.
If Mr. Pettigrew knew what I do he would feel justified in paying the
ransom these men want."

Rodney wondered how these rich deposits had failed to attract the
attention of his captors, but he soon settled upon the conclusion that
they had no knowledge of mines or mining, and were ignorant of the
riches that were almost in their grasp.

"Shall I enlighten them?" he asked himself.

It was a question which he could not immediately answer. He resolved to
be guided by circumstances.

In order not to excite suspicion he retraced his steps to the apartment
used by his captors as a common sitting room--carefully fixing in his
mind the location of the gold ore.

We must now follow the messenger who had gone to Oreville with a letter
from Rodney's captors.

As instructed, he left his horse, or rather Rodney's, tethered at some
distance from the settlement and proceeded on foot to the Miners' Rest.
His strange appearance excited attention and curiosity. Both these
feelings would have been magnified had it been known on what errand he
came.

"Where can I find Mr. Jefferson Pettigrew?" he asked of a man whom he
saw on the veranda.

"At the Griffin Mine," answered the other, removing the pipe from his
mouth.

"Where is that?"

"Over yonder. Are you a miner?"

"No. I know nothing about mines."

"Then why do you want to see Jefferson? I thought you might want a
chance to work in the mine."

"No; I have other business with him--business of importance," added the
black dwarf emphatically.

"If that is the case I'll take you to him. I am always glad to be of
service to Jefferson."

"Thank you. He will thank you, too."

The man walked along with a long, swinging gait which made it difficult
for Caesar to keep up with him.

"So you have business with Jefferson?" said the man with the pipe, whose
curiosity had been excited.

"Yes."

"Of what sort?"

"I will tell him," answered Caesar shortly.

"So its private, is it?"

"Yes. If he wants to tell you he will."

"That's fair. Well, come along! Am I walking too fast for you?"

"Your legs are much longer than mine."

"That's so. You are a little shrimp. I declare."

A walk of twenty minutes brought them to the Griffin Mine. Jefferson
Pettigrew was standing near, giving directions to a party of miners.

"Jefferson," said the man with the pipe, "here's a chap that wants to
see you on business of importance. That is, he says it is."

Jefferson Pettigrew wheeled round and looked at Caesar.

"Well," he said, "what is it?"

"I have a letter for you, massa."

"Give it to me."

Jefferson took the letter and cast his eye over it. As he read it his
countenance changed and became stern and severe.

"Do you know what is in this letter?" he asked.

"Yes."

"Come with me."

He led Caesar to a place out of earshot.

"What fiend's game is this?" he demanded sternly.

"I can't tell you, massa; I'm not in it."

"Who are those men that have written to me?"

"I don't know their right names. I calls 'em Massa John and Massa Dick."

"It seems they have trapped a boy friend of mine, Rodney Ropes. Did you
see him?"

"Yes; I gave him a good dinner."

"That is well. If they should harm a hair of his head I wouldn't
rest till I had called them to account. Where have they got the boy
concealed?"

"I couldn't tell you, massa."

"You mean, you won't tell me."

"Yes. It would be as much as my life is worth."

"Humph, well! I suppose you must be faithful to your employer. Do you
know that these men want me to pay five thousand dollars for the return
of the boy?"

"Yes, I heard them talking about it."

"That is a new kind of rascality. Do they expect you to bring back an
answer?"

"Yes, massa."

"I must think. What will they do to the boy if I don't give them the
money?"

"They might kill him."

"If they do--but I must have time to think the matter over. Are you
expected to go back this afternoon?"

"Yes."

"Can you get back? It must be a good distance."

"I can get back."

"Stay here. I will consult some of my friends and see if I can raise the
money."

"Very well, massa." One of those whom Jefferson called into consultation
was the person who had guided Caesar to the Griffin Mine.

Quickly the proprietor of the Miners' Rest unfolded the situation.

"Now," he said, "I want two of you to follow this misshapen dwarf, and
find out where he comes from. I want to get hold of the scoundrels who
sent him to me."

"I will be one," said the man with the pipe.

"Very well, Fred."

"And I will go with Fred," said a long limbed fellow who had been a
Kansas cowboy.

"I accept you, Otto. Go armed, and don't lose sight of him."

"Shall you send the money?"

"Not I. I will send a letter that will encourage them to hope for it. I
want to gain time."

"Any instructions, Jefferson?"

"Only this, if you see these men, capture or kill them."

"All right."


CHAPTER XXXV.


A BLOODY CONFLICT.


This was the letter that was handed to Caesar:


I have received your note. I must have time to think, and time perhaps
to get hold of the gold. Don't harm a hair of the boy's head. If so, I
will hunt you to death.

JEFFERSON PETTIGREW.


P.S.--Meet me tomorrow morning at the rocky gorge at the foot of Black
Mountain. Ten o'clock.


Caesar took the letter, and bent his steps in the direction of the place
where he had tethered his horse. He did not observe that he was
followed by two men, who carefully kept him in sight, without attracting
attention to themselves.

When Caesar reached the place where he had tethered the horse, he was
grievously disappointed at not finding him. One of the miners in
roaming about had come upon the animal, and knowing him to be Jefferson
Pettigrew's property, untied him and rode him back to Oreville.

The dwarf threw up his hands in dismay.

"The horse is gone!" he said in his deep bass voice, "and now I must
walk back, ten long miles, and get a flogging at the end for losing
time. It's hard luck," he groaned.

The loss was fortunate for Fred and Otto who would otherwise have found
it hard to keep up with the dwarf.

Caesar breathed a deep sigh, and then started on his wearisome journey.
Had the ground been even it would have troubled him less, but there was
a steep upward grade, and his short legs were soon weary. Not so with
his pursuers, both of whom were long limbed and athletic.

We will go back now to the cave and the captors of Rodney. They waited
long and impatiently for the return of their messenger. Having no
knowledge of the loss of the horse, they could not understand what
detained Caesar.

"Do you think the rascal has played us false?" said Roderick.

"He would be afraid to."

"This man Pettigrew might try to bribe him. It would be cheaper than to
pay five thousand dollars."

"He wouldn't dare. He knows what would happen to him," said John grimly.

"Then why should he be so long?"

"That I can't tell."

"Suppose we go out to meet him. I begin to feel anxious lest we have
trusted him too far."

"I am with you!"

The two outlaws took the path which led to Oreville, and walked two
miles before they discovered Caesar coming towards them at a slow and
melancholy gait.

"There he is, and on foot! What does it mean?"

"He will tell us."

"Here now, you black imp! where is the horse?" demanded Roderick.

"I done lost him, massa."

"Lost him? You'll get a flogging for this, unless you bring good news.
Did you see Jefferson Pettigrew?"

"Yes, massa."

"Did he give you any money?"

"No; he gave me this letter."

Roderick snatched it from his hand, and showed it to John.

"It seems satisfactory," he said. "Now how did you lose the horse?"

Caesar told him.

"You didn't fasten him tight."

"Beg your pardon, massa, but I took good care of that."

"Well, he's gone; was probably stolen. That is unfortunate; however you
may not have been to blame."

Luckily for Caesar the letter which he brought was considered
satisfactory, and this palliated his fault in losing the horse.

The country was so uneven that the two outlaws did not observe that they
were followed, until they came to the entrance of the cave. Then, before
opening the door, John looked round and caught sight of Fred and Otto
eying them from a little distance.

He instantly took alarm.

"Look," he said, "we are followed. Look behind you!"

His brother turned and came to the same conclusion.

"Caesar," said Roderick, "did you ever see those men before?"

"No, massa."

"They must have followed you from Oreville. Hello, you two!" he added
striding towards the miners. "What do you want here?"

Fred and Otto had accomplished their object in ascertaining the place
where Rodney was confined, and no longer cared for concealment.

"None of your business!" retorted Fred independently. "The place is as
free to us as to you."

"Are you spies?"

"I don't intend to answer any of your questions."

"Clear out of here!" commanded Roderick in a tone of authority.

"Suppose we don't?"

Roderick was a man of quick temper, and had never been in the habit of
curbing it. He was provoked by the independent tone of the speaker, and
without pausing to think of the imprudence of his actions, he raised his
rifle and pointing at Fred shot him in the left arm.

The two miners were both armed, and were not slow in accepting the
challenge. Simultaneously they raised their rifles and fired at the two
men. The result was that both fell seriously wounded and Caesar set up a
howl of dismay, not so much for his masters as from alarm for himself.

Fred and Otto came forward, and stood looking down upon the outlaws, who
were in the agonies of death.

"It was our lives or theirs," said Fred coolly, for he had been long
enough in Montana to become used to scenes of bloodshed.

"Yes," answered Otto. "I think these two men are the notorious Dixon
brothers who are credited with a large number of murders. The country
will be well rid of them."

Roderick turned his glazing eyes upon the tall miner. "I wish I had
killed you," he muttered.

"No doubt you do. It wouldn't have been your first murder."

"Don't kill me, massa!" pleaded Caesar in tones of piteous entreaty.

"I don't know," answered Fred. "That depends on yourself. If you obey us
strictly we will spare you."

"Try me, massa!"

"You black hound!" said Roderick hoarsely. "If I were not disabled I'd
kill you myself."

Here was a new danger for poor Caesar, for he knew Roderick's fierce
temper.

"Don't let him kill me!" he exclaimed, affrighted.

"He shall do you no harm. Will you obey me?"

"Tell me what you want, massa."

"Is the boy these men captured inside?"

"Yes, massa."

"Open the cave, then. We want him."

"Don't do it," said Roderick, but Caesar saw at a glance that his old
master, of whom he stood in wholesome fear, was unable to harm him, and
he proceeded to unlock the door.

"Go and call the boy!" said Fred.

Caesar disappeared within the cavern, and soon emerged with Rodney
following him.

"Are you unhurt?" asked Fred anxiously.

"Yes, and overjoyed to see you. How came you here?"

"We followed the nigger from Oreville."

What happened afterwards Rodney did not need to inquire, for the two
outstretched figures, stiffening in death, revealed it to him.

"They are the Dixon brothers, are they not?" asked Fred, turning to
Caesar.

"Yes, massa."

"Then we are entitled to a thousand dollars each for their capture. I
have never before shed blood, but I don't regret ending the career of
these scoundrels."

Half an hour later the two outlaws were dead and Rodney and his friends
were on their way back to Oreville.


CHAPTER XXXVI.


THE RODNEY MINE.


Rodney was received by Jefferson Pettigrew with open arms.

"Welcome home, boy!" he said. "I was very much worried about you."

"I was rather uneasy about myself," returned Rodney.

"Well, it's all over, and all's well that ends well. You are free and
there has been no money paid out. Fred and Otto have done a good thing
in ridding the world of the notorious Dixon brothers. They will be
well paid, for I understand there is a standing reward of one thousand
dollars for each of them dead or alive. I don't know but you ought
to have a share of this, for it was through you that the outlaws were
trapped."

"No, Mr. Pettigrew, they are welcome to the reward. If I am not mistaken
I shall make a good deal more out of it than they."

"What do you mean?"

Upon this Rodney told the story of what he had seen in the cavern.

"When I said I, I meant we, Mr. Pettigrew. I think if the gold there is
as plentiful as I think it is we shall do well to commence working it."

"It is yours, Rodney, by right of first discovery."

"I prefer that you should share it with me."

"We will go over tomorrow and make an examination. Was there any one
else who seemed to have a claim to the cave except the Dixons?"

"No. The negro, Caesar, will still be there, perhaps."

"We can easily get rid of him."

The next day the two friends went over to the cavern. Caesar was still
there, but he had an unsettled, restless look, and seemed undecided what
to do.

"What are you going to do, Caesar?" asked Pettigrew. "Are you going to
stay here?"

"I don't know, massa. I don't want to lib here. I'm afraid I'll see the
ghostes of my old massas. But I haven't got no money."

"If you had money where would you go?"

"I'd go to Chicago. I used to be a whitewasher, and I reckon I'd get
work at my old trade."

"That's where you are sensible, Caesar. This is no place for you. Now
I'll tell you what I'll do. I'll give you a hundred dollars, and you can
go where you like. But I shall want you to go away at once."

"I'll go right off, massa," said Caesar, overjoyed. "I don't want to
come here no more."

"Have you got anything belonging to you in the cave?"

"No, massa, only a little kit of clothes."

"Take them and go."

In fifteen minutes Caesar had bidden farewell to his home, and Rodney
and Jefferson were left in sole possession of the cavern.

"Now, Mr. Pettigrew, come and let me show you what I saw. I hope I have
made no mistake."

Rodney led the way to the narrow passage already described. By the light
of a lantern Mr. Pettigrew examined the walls. For five minutes not a
word was said.

"Well, what do you think of it?" asked Rodney anxiously.

"Only this: that you have hit upon the richest gold deposits in Montana.
Here is a mining prospect that will make us both rich."

"I am glad I was not mistaken," said Rodney simply.

"Your capture by the Dixon brothers will prove to have been the luckiest
event in your life. I shall lose no time in taking possession in our
joint name."

There was great excitement when the discovery of the gold deposit was
made known. In connection with the killing of the outlaws, it was noised
far and wide. The consequence was that there was an influx of mining
men, and within a week Rodney and Jefferson were offered a hundred
thousand dollars for a half interest in the mine by a Chicago syndicate.

"Say a hundred and fifty thousand, and we accept the offer," said
Jefferson Pettigrew.

After a little haggling this offer was accepted, and Rodney found
himself the possessor of seventy five thousand dollars in cash.

"It was fortunate for me when I fell in with you, Mr. Pettigrew," he
said.

"And no less fortunate for me, Rodney. This mine will bring us in a rich
sum for our share, besides the cash we already have in hand."

"If you don't object, Mr. Pettigrew, I should like to go to New York and
continue my education. You can look after my interest here, and I shall
be willing to pay you anything you like for doing so."

"There won't be any trouble about that, Rodney. I don't blame you for
wanting to obtain an education. It isn't in my line. You can come out
once a year, and see what progress we are making. The mine will be
called the Rodney Mine after you."

The Miners' Rest was sold to the steward, as Mr. Pettigrew was too busy
to attend to it, and in a week Rodney was on his way to New York.


CHAPTER XXXVII.


CONCLUSION.


Otis Goodnow arrived at his place of business a little earlier than
usual, and set himself to looking over his mail. Among other letters was
one written on paper bearing the name of the Fifth Avenue Hotel. He came
to this after a time and read it.

It ran thus:


DEAR SIR:

I was once in your employ, though you may not remember my name. I was in
the department of Mr. Redwood, and there I became acquainted with Jasper
Redwood, his nephew. I was discharged, it is needless to recall why. I
had saved nothing, and of course I was greatly embarrassed. I could not
readily obtain another place, and in order to secure money to pay living
expenses I entered into an arrangement with Jasper Redwood to sell me
articles, putting in more than I paid for. These I was enabled to sell
at a profit to smaller stores. This was not as profitable as it might
have been to me, as I was obliged to pay Jasper a commission for
his agency. Well, after a time it was ascertained that articles were
missing, and search was made for the thief. Through a cunningly devised
scheme of Jasper's the theft was ascribed to Rodney Ropes, a younger
clerk, and he was discharged. Ropes was a fine young fellow, and I have
always been sorry that he got into trouble through our agency, but there
seemed no help for it. It must rest on him or us. He protested
his innocence, but was not believed. I wish to say now that he was
absolutely innocent, and only Jasper and myself were to blame. If you
doubt my statement I will call today, and you may confront me with
Jasper. I desire that justice should be done.
                                            PHILIP CARTON.


"Call Mr. Redwood," said the merchant, summoning a boy.

In five minutes Mr. Redwood entered the office of his employer.

"You sent for me, sir?"

"Yes, Mr. Redwood; cast your eye over this letter."

James Redwood read the letter, and his face showed the agitation he
felt.

"I don't know anything about this, Mr. Goodnow," he said at last.

"It ought to be inquired into."

"I agree with you. If my nephew is guilty I want to know it."

"We will wait till the writer of this letter calls. Do you remember
him?"

"Yes, sir; he was discharged for intemperance."

At twelve o'clock Philip Carton made his appearance, and asked to be
conducted to Mr. Goodnow's private office.

"You are the writer of this letter?" asked the merchant.

"Yes sir."

"And you stand by the statement it contains?"

"Yes, sir."

"Why, at this late day, have you made a confession?"

"Because I wish to do justice to Rodney Ropes, who has been unjustly
accused, and also because I have been meanly treated by Jasper Redwood,
who has thrown me over now that he has no further use for me."

"Are you willing to repeat your statement before him?"

"I wish to do so."

"Call Jasper Redwood, Sherman," said the merchant, addressing himself to
Sherman White, a boy recently taken into his employ.

Jasper entered the office, rather surprised at the summons. When he saw
his accomplice, he changed color, and looked confused.

"Jasper," said the merchant, "read this letter and tell me what you have
to say in reply."

Jasper ran his eye over the letter, while his color came and went.

"Well?"

"It's a lie," said Jasper hoarsely.

"Do you still insist that the articles taken from my stock were taken by
Rodney Ropes?"

"Yes, sir."

"What do you say, Mr. Carton?"

"Not one was taken by Rodney Ropes. Jasper and I are responsible for
them all."

"What proof can you bring?"

"Mr. James Redwood will recall the purchase I made at the time of the
thefts. He will recall that I always purchased of Jasper."

"That is true," said Mr. Redwood in a troubled voice.

"Do you confess, Jasper Redwood?"

"No, sir."

"If you will tell the truth, I will see that no harm comes to you. I
want to clear this matter up."

Jasper thought the matter over. He saw that the game was up--and decided
rapidly that confession was the best policy.

"Very well, sir, if I must I will do so, but that man put me up to it."

"You did not need any putting up to it. I wish young Ropes were here,
that I might clear him."

As if in answer to the wish a bronzed and manly figure appeared at the
office door. It was Rodney, but taller and more robust than when he left
the store nearly a year before.

"Rodney Ropes!" ejaculated Jasper in great surprise.

"Yes, Jasper, I came here to see you, and beg you to free me from the
false charge which was brought against me when I was discharged from
this store. I didn't find you in your usual places, and was directed
here."

"Ropes," said Mr. Goodnow, "your innocence has been established. This
man," indicating Philip Carton, "has confessed that it was he and Jasper
who stole the missing articles."

"I am thankful that my character has been cleared."

"I am ready to take you back into my employ."

"Thank you, sir, but I have now no need of a position. I shall be glad
if you will retain Jasper."

"You are very generous to one who has done so much to injure you."

"Indirectly he put me in the way of making a fortune. If you will retain
him, Mr. Goodnow, I will guarantee to make up any losses you may incur
from him."

"How is this? Are you able to make this guarantee?"

"I am worth seventy five thousand dollars in money, besides being owner
of a large mining property in Montana."

"This is truly wonderful! And you have accumulated all this since you
left my store?"

"Yes, sir."

One time, after there was an accident at the Little Falls (Chain) Bridge,
he crawled under a large beam and prized it up by the strength of his
back, saving the life of the man pinned underneath.

Chapter VII
_Along Bridge (M) Street_

The bridge over Rock Creek at Bridge (M) Street, was built in 1788,
and one night when a storm of wind and rain was raging, gave way
while a stage-coach was passing over it.

The coach was precipitated into the water but only the driver and the
horses were drowned. Ever afterwards it was said that on stormy nights
the ghost of the driver haunted the spot.

Peter Casanave had a stone house near the bridge and close by was
the house of the French's.

Mrs. French had been Arianna Scott, sister of Mrs. Robert Peter.
"Shall you stay in the city long, Ropes?" asked the merchant.

"About a week."

"Come and dine with me on Tuesday evening."

"Thank you, sir."


Later in the day Rodney sought out his old room mate Mike Flynn. He
found Mike in a bad case. He had a bad cold, but did not dare to give up
work, because he wouldn't be able to meet his bills. He was still in the
employ of the District Telegraph Company.

"Give the company notice, Mike," said Rodney. "Henceforth I will take
care of you. You can look upon me as your rich uncle," he added with a
smile.

"I will be your servant, Rodney."

"Not a bit of it. You will be my friend. But you must obey me
implicitly. I am going to send you to school, and give you a chance
to learn something. Next week I shall return to Dr. Sampson's boarding
school and you will go with me as my friend and room mate."

"But, Rodney, you will be ashamed of me. I am awfully shabby."

"You won't be long. You shall be as well dressed as I am."

A week later the two boys reached the school. It would have been hard
for any of Mike's old friends to recognize him in the handsomely dressed
boy who accompanied Rodney.

"Really, Mike, you are quite good looking, now that you are well
dressed," said Rodney.

"Oh, go away with you, Rodney? It's fooling me you are!"

"Not a bit of it. Now I want you to improve your time and learn as fast
as you can."

"I will, Rodney."

A year later Rodney left school, but he kept Mike there two years
longer. There had been a great change in the telegraph boy, who was
quick to learn. He expects, when he leaves school, to join Rodney in
Montana.

I will not attempt to estimate Rodney's present wealth, but he is
already prominent in financial circles in his adopted State. Philip
Carton is prospering, and is respected by his new friends, who know
nothing of his earlier life.

As I write, Rodney has received a letter from his old guardian, Benjamin
Fielding. The letter came from Montreal.

"My dear Rodney," he wrote. "I have worked hard to redeem the past, and
restore to you your fortune. I have just succeeded, and send you the
amount with interest. I thought ...

BOLLAND. You didn't. If you had you'd play differently.

BEERMANN [speaking to Frau Lund, while dealing]. How far have you
gotten with your moralizing? Have we agreed yet--[Laughing.] Yes;
yes; these women folks!

WASNER [arranging cards in his hand].I do not need it, and you do. Five years from now, if you can spare the
money you may send it to me. Till then use it without interest. I am
worth much more than the sum my father intrusted to you for me."

This offer was gratefully accepted, and Mr. Fielding is now in New York,
where he is likely to experience a return of his former prosperity.

As for Rodney, his trials are over. They made a man of him, and proved a
blessing in disguise.