Produced by Bryan Ness and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book was
produced from scanned images of public domain material
from the Google Print project.)


The South and
the National Government


By
The Honorable William Howard Taft
President-elect of the United States


An Address
Delivered at the Dinner of the North Carolina Society
of New York, at the Hotel Astor, December 7, 1908


%Introduction%


The speech of the President-Elect at the recent annual banquet of the
North Carolina Society, New York, found a warm response in the hearts of
the Northern people, who have not failed to sympathize deeply with their
Southern fellow citizens during their long years of affliction.

The orator expresses our feelings with rare felicity, and so keenly did
his sentiments touch our hearts, it was resolved to publish his address
and send it to our fellow citizens of the South as the messenger of
peace and perfect reunion from their Northern countrymen.

Our Southern friends will note that no phase of the present unfortunate
situation is neglected by Mr. Taft; all are dealt with in a clear and
masterly manner. The North, as well as the South is enlightened as to
their respective duties toward bringing about the desirable return of
the South to its normal condition politically, so that American citizens
in all sections of our common country will again belong to both of the
great political parties, thus proving to the world that both parties
command the allegiance of good citizens in all parts of the country who
are desirous only for what they believe to be best for the good of the
nation as a whole.

The future President of our common country, North, South, East, and
West, who appeals to us, is a man of large heart, warm sympathies, and
cool brain, of sound judgment and lofty purpose, who has at heart as one
of the greatest possible triumphs of his administration the restoration
of normal political conditions in the South. Under his wise and
sympathetic leadership the writer is sanguine of success--certain of it
if the influential people of all sections give him the support he so
richly deserves in this truly patriotic mission.

ANDREW CARNEGIE.


%The Solid South%

ADDRESS BY MR. WALTER H. PAGE

IN INTRODUCING THE HONORABLE WILLIAM H. TAFT


At the Dinner of the North Carolina Society of
New York, at the Hotel Astor. December 7, 1908


Here, if nowhere else, we leave political parties and preferences alone.
But here, as everywhere else, we are patriotic men; and we North
Carolinians have as our background a community that from the first
showed a singularly independent temper. A freedom of opinion is our
heritage. We once drove a Colonial Governor who disputed our freedom of
political action to the safer shelter of the Colony of New York; and
throughout our history we have shown a sort of passion for independent
action, in spite of occasional eclipses; and that same temper shows
itself now. On the long field yonder we shall decide our bet. The Hare
is to run on the one side of the hedge and I on the other, and so
all you have to do is to stop at one end of the hedge, and then
when the Hare arrives on the other side at the same point, you must
call out, 'I am here already.'"

They soon came to the field, and the Hedgehog stationed himself at one
end of the hedge, and his Wife at the other end; and as soon
as they had taken their places the Hare arrived. "Are you ready to
start?" asked the Hare. "Yes," answered the Hedgehog, and each took
his place. "Off once, off twice, three times and off!" cried the Hare,
and ran up the field like a whirlwind; while the Hedgehog took three
steps and then returned to his place.

The Hare soon arrived at his goal, as he ran all the way at top speed,
but before he could reach it, the Hedgehog's Wife on the other side
called out, "I am here already!" The Hare was thunderstruck to hear this
said, for he thought it really was his opponent, since there was no
difference in the voices of the Hedgehog and his Wife.

"This will not do!" thought the Hare to himself; but presently he called
out, "Once, twice, and off again;" and away he went as fast as
possible, leaving the Hedgehog quietly sitting in her place. "I am here
before you," cried Mr. Hedgehog, as soon as the Hare approached. "What!
again?" exclaimed the Hare in a rage; and added, "Will you dare another
trial!" "Oh! as many as you like; do not be afraid on my account," said
Mr.

Hedgehog, courteously.

So the Hare then ran backwards and forwards three-and-seventy times,
but each time the Hedgehogs had the advantage of him, for either Mr.
or Mrs.
shouted before he could reach the goal, "Here I am already!"
The four-and-seventieth time the Hare was unable to run any more.
In the middle of the course he stopped and dropped down quite
exhausted, and there he lay motionless for some time. But the
Hedgehog took the louis d'or which he had won, and went composedly
home with his Wife.Where-ever
one party by long power breeds intolerance, the other falls into
contempt. And what constructive influence have the Southern States in
our larger political life? From some of them, where parties have fallen
low, we have seen men go to one national convention as a mere unthinking
personal following of a candidate even then clad in garments of twofold
defeat; and to the conventions of the other party we have sometimes seen
office-holding shepherds with their crooks drive their mottled flocks to
market. We are tired of this political inefficiency, this long
isolation, and these continued scandals; and we are tired of the
conditions that produce them. If parties are to be instruments of
civilized government, the conditions that produce such scandals must
cease. We must have in the South a Democratic party of tolerance and a
Republican party of character; and neither party must be ranged on lines
of race.

We aspire to a higher part in the Republic than can be played by men of
closed minds or of unthinking habits or by organized ignorance. We
aspire again to a share in the constructive work of the government in
these stirring days of great tasks at home and growing influence abroad.

I am leaving party politics severely alone, but I am speaking to a
national and patriotic theme. A Republican Administration or a
Democratic Administration is a passing incident in our national history.
Parties themselves shift and wane. And any party's supremacy is of
little moment in comparison with the isolation of a large part of the
Union from its proper political influence.

The manhood and the energy and the ambition of Southern men now find
effective political expression through neither party. The South,
therefore, neither contributes to the Nation's political thought and
influence nor receives stimulation from the Nation's thought and
influence. Its real patriotism counts for nothing--is smothered dumb
under party systems that have become crimes against the character and
the intelligence of the people. The South gives nothing and receives
nothing from the increasing national political achievement of every
decade. Politically it is yet a province; and we are tired of this
barren seclusion. Men who prefer complaint to achievement may regard
this as treason: let them make the most of it. We prefer a higher
station in the Union than New Hampshire and Vermont and Pennsylvania and
Arkansas hold.

."[30]
Apparently Signorelli retained his health and energy up to the end of
his long life, for only the year before his death he had accepted fresh
appointments in Cortona, and, in addition to his old offices, was
filling those of Priore of the Fraternity of S.And
that spirit is not dead yet.

If it cannot regain its old-time influence through one party, it will
regain it through another.

We are the descendants of men who fashioned parties in their beginning;
and, if need be, we can refashion them. For the aim of government is not
to preserve parties but to give range to free individual action in a
democracy. And it is in this spirit of national aspiration that we
welcome our distinguished guest of honor--a man now placed above
parties, and too just to regard the Republic by sections, our best
equipped citizen for the highest office in the world.

TO THE PRESIDENT-ELECT: _May his administration mark the return of
Southern character and sincerity to its old-time part in the
constructive work of government and the end forever of political
isolation from the achievements and the glory of the Union!_


%The South and the National
Government%

ADDRESS BY
THE HONORABLE WILLIAM HOWARD TAFT

PRESIDENT-ELECT OF THE UNITED STATES

North Carolina presents an admirable type of the present conditions in
the South. It offers, therefore, a suitable subject for the discussion
planned for this evening, and I count it a privilege to be present to
hear it. One, in any degree responsible for the government and welfare
of the whole country at this time in her history, must take an especial
interest in the trend of public opinion and the conditions, material and
political, of the South.

The laws of the United States have equal operation from the Canadian
border to the Gulf of Mexico. Congress has representatives from every
part of the country, including the South, whose votes are recorded upon
national legislation. Railroads do not break bulk between North and
South. Interstate commerce goes on unvexed between the one and the
other. The Post-office department distributes its mail with impartiality
on each side of Mason's and Dixon's Line. Prosperity in the North is
accompanied by prosperity in the South, and a halt in the one means a
halt in the other. Northern people meet Southern people, and find them
friendly and charming and full of graceful and grateful companionship.

What is it that sets the South apart and takes from the Southern people
the responsibilities which the members of a republic ought to share in
respect to the conduct of the National Government? Why is it that what
is done at Washington seems to be the work of the North and the West,
and not of the South? Should this state of affairs continue? These are
the questions that force themselves on those of us concerned with the
Government and who are most anxious to have a solid, united country, of
whose will the course of the Government shall be an intelligent
interpretation and expression.

We can answer these questions as the historian would, and we can explain
the situation as it is; but I don't think we can justify or excuse a
continuance of it. Looking back into the past, of course, the
explanation of the difference between the South and the other two
sections was in the institution of slavery. It is of no purpose to point
out that early in the history of the country the North was as
responsible for bringing slaves here as the South. We are not concerned
with whose fault it was that there was such an institution as slavery.
Nor are we concerned with the probability that, had the Northerners been
interested in slaves, they would have viewed the institution exactly as
the Southerners viewed it and would have fought to defend it because as
sacred as the institution of private property itself. It is sufficient
to say, as I think we all now realize, that the institution of slavery
was a bad thing and that it is a good thing to have got rid of it. It
doesn't help in the slightest degree in the present day to stir up the
embers of the controversy of the past by attempting to fix blame on one
part of the country or the other, in respect to an institution which has
gone, and happily gone, on the one hand, or in respect to the
consequences of that institution which we still have with us, on the
other. These consequences we are to recognize as a condition and a fact,
and a problem for solution rather than as an occasion for crimination or
recrimination.

Over the question of the extension of slavery the Civil War came, and
that contest developed a heroism on both sides, in the people from the
North and the people from the South, that evokes the admiration of all
Americans for American courage, self-sacrifice, and patriotism. But when
slavery was abolished by the war the excision of the cancer left a wound
that must necessarily be a long time in healing. Nearly 5,000,000 slaves
were freed; but 5 per cent. of them could read or write; a much smaller
percentage were skilled laborers. They were but as children in meeting
the stern responsibilities of life as free men. As such they had to be
absorbed into and adjusted to our civilization. It was a radical change,
full of discouragement and obstacles. Their rights were declared by the
war Amendments, the Thirteenth, Fourteenth and Fifteenth. The one
established their freedom; the second their citizenship and their rights
to pursue happiness and hold property; and the third their right not to
be discriminated against in their political privileges on account of
their color or previous condition of servitude.

I am not going to rehearse the painful history of reconstruction, or
what followed it. I come at once to the present condition of things,
stated from a constitutional and political standpoint. And that is this:
That in all the Southern States it is possible, by election laws
prescribing proper qualifications for the suffrage, which square with
the Fifteenth Amendment and which shall be equally administered as
between the black and white races, to prevent entirely the possibility
of a domination of Southern state, county, or municipal governments by
an ignorant electorate, white or black. It is further true that the
sooner such laws, when adopted, are applied with exact equality and
justice to the two races, the better for the moral tone of state and
community concerned. Negroes should be given an opportunity equally with
whites, by education and thrift, to meet the requirements of eligibility
which the State Legislatures in their wisdom shall lay down in order to
secure the safe exercise of the electoral franchise. The Negro should
ask nothing other than an equal chance to qualify himself for the
franchise, and when that is granted by law, and not denied by executive
discrimination, he has nothing to complain of.

The proposal to repeal the Fifteenth Amendment is utterly impracticable
and should be relegated to the limbo of forgotten issues. It is very
certain that any party founded on the proposition would utterly fail in
a national canvass. What we are considering is something practical,
something that means attainable progress. It seems to me to follow,
therefore, that there is, or ought to be, a common ground upon which we
can all stand in respect to the race question in the South, and its
political bearing, that takes away any justification for maintaining the
continued solidity of the South to prevent the so-called Negro
domination. The fear that in some way or other a social equality between
the races shall be enforced by law or brought about by political
measures really has no foundation except in the imagination of those who
fear such a result. The Federal Government has nothing to do with social
equality. The war amendments do not declare in favor of social equality.
All that the law or Constitution attempt to secure is equality of
opportunity before the law and in the pursuit of happiness, and in the
enjoyment of life, liberty, and property. Social equality is something
that grows out of voluntary concessions by the individuals forming
society.

With the elimination of the race question, can we say that there are
removed all the reasons why the people of the South are reluctant to
give up their political solidarity and divide themselves on party lines
in accordance with their economic and political views? No. There are
other reasons, perhaps only reasons of sentiment, but with the Southern
people, who are a high-strung, sensitive, and outspoken people,
considerations of sentiment are frequently quite as strong as those of
some political or economic character. In the first place it is now
nearly forty years since the South acquired its political solidarity,
and the intensity of feeling by which it was maintained, and the
ostracism and social proscription imposed on those white Southerners who
did not sympathize with the necessity for such solidarity, could not but
make lasting impression and create a permanent bias that would naturally
outlast the reason for its original existence. The trials of the
reconstruction period, the heat of the political controversies with the
Republican party, all naturally, during the forty years, implanted so
deep a feeling in the Southern Democratic breast that a mere change of
the conditions under which this feeling was engendered could not at once
remove it. The Southern people are a homogeneous people; they preserve
their traditions; they are of the purest American stock; and the faith
of the father is handed down to the son, even after the cause of it has
ceased, almost as a sacred legacy.

Again, for a long time succeeding the war, the South continued poor. Its
development was much slower than that of the rest of the country.
Prosperity seemed to be Northern prosperity, not Southern. And, in such
a time, the trials of life of the present only accentuated the greater
trials of the past, and reminiscences of the dreadful sufferings and
privations of the war were present on every hand, and feelings that the
controversy had given rise to, remained with an intensity that hardly
seemed to be dimmed by passing time.

"Good morning, Cat," said the little boy. "Miaouw!" answered the
cat.

"Come and take a walk with us, Cat," said the little girl. So they all
went down the road together.

Pretty soon they met a rooster.

"Good morning, Rooster," said the little girl. "Cock-a-doodle-doo!"
answered the rooster.

"Come and take a walk with us, Rooster," said the little boy.

So they all went down the road together.

Pretty soon they met a duck.

"Good morning, Duck," said the little boy. "Quack, quack!" answered the
duck.

"Come and take a walk with us, Duck," said the little girl.

So they all went down the road talking merrily with one another.

Pretty soon they saw a little pinky-white pig with a funny little curly
tail.

[Illustration: "'GOOD MORNING, DUCK, COME AND TAKE A WALK WITH US.'"]

"Good morning, Pig," said the little girl.

"Grunt, grunt!" answered the pig.

"Come and take a walk with us, Pig," said the little boy.

So they all went down the road together.

Pretty soon they came to a pasture.

In the pasture was a nice, old, red cow.

"Good morning, Cow," said the little boy. "Moo, moo!" answered the
cow.

"Come and take a walk with us," said the little girl.

But the cow shook her head; she couldn't open the pasture bars.

"We will let down the bars for you, Cow," said the little boy and the
little girl.

So they let down the bars, and the dog, and the cat, and the rooster, and
the duck, and the little white pig with the curly tail, and the little
boy, and the little girl, all went in to see the cow.

The little girl climbed on the cow's back, and the little boy climbed
on the cow's back, and the dog jumped on the cow's back, and the cat
jumped on the cow's neck, and the rooster flew up on the cow's head, and
the little white pig with the curly tail, and the duck, walked
behind the cow, and they all went down the road together just as happy
as they could be.

[Illustration: "'GOOD MORNING, PIG, COME AND TAKE A WALK WITH US.'"]

Pretty soon they met a carriage with two women in it.

"Mercy on me!" said the two women. "What's this!"
"This is a fine, good show," answered the little girl.

"Well, I should think it was!" said the two women. "It is a beautiful
show."
"Thank you," said the little boy.
"Good-by," said the two women.

"Good-by," said the little girl.
So the cow, carrying the little boy, and the little girl, and the
dog, and the cat, and the rooster, with the little white pig with
the curly tail, and the duck, walking along behind, all went down
the road together.
Pretty soon they met a wagon with three men in it.
"Well! Well! Well!" said the three men. "Just look! What's all
this?"
"This is a fine, good show," said the little boy, bowing very
politely.

"Indeed it is!" said the three men. "It's great!"
"Thank you," said the little boy, "I am pleased that you like it."
"Good-by," said the little girl.
So the cow, carrying the little girl, and the little boy, and the
dog, and the cat, and the rooster, with the little white pig with
the curly tail, and the duck, walking behind, all went down the
road together.

[Illustration: THE FINE, GOOD SHOW.]
Pretty soon they came to a store. The Store Man stood out in front
of his store.
"Good morning, Mr. Store Man," said the little boy, "I have a little
silver piece in my pocket."
"Good morning!" said the Store Man. "What can I do for you?"
"We want to buy some things for our Show," said the little boy.
"I'm glad of that!" said the Store Man.
So the little boy jumped down, and the little girl jumped down, and
the dog jumped down, and the cat jumped down, and the rooster flew
down.
"We want to buy a little corn for our cow and our pig," said the
little boy.
"And we want to buy a little wheat for our rooster and our duck,"
said the little girl.
"And we want to buy a little meat for our dog," said the little
boy.
"And we want to buy a little milk for our cat," said the little
girl.
"And we want to buy some great, long sticks of candy for us!" said
the little boy and the little girl together. "I hope you have some."
The Store Man took the money and brought out all the things.
[Illustration: "THE STORE MAN BROUGHT OUT ALL THE THINGS."]
The cow and the little white pig with the curly tail ate the corn;
the rooster and the duck ate the wheat; the dog ate the meat, and
the cat drank the milk, and the little girl and the little boy ate
the great, long sticks of candy.
"Good-by, Mr. Store Man," said the little girl.
"Good-by, Mr. Store Man," said the little boy.Some Southerners who have given expression to their thoughts seem to
think that the only solution of the Negro question is his migration to
Africa, but to me such a proposition is utterly fatuous. The Negro is
essential to the South in order that it may have proper labor. An
attempt of Negroes to migrate from one state to another not many years
ago led to open violence at white instigation to prevent it. More than
this, the Negroes have now reached 9,000,000 in number. Their ancestors
were brought here against their will. They have no country but this.
They know no flag but ours. They wish to live under it, and are willing
to die for it. They are Americans. They are part of our people and are
entitled to our every effort to make them worthy of their
responsibilities as free men and as citizens.

The success of the experiments which have been made with them on a large
scale in giving them the benefit of thorough primary and industrial
education, justifies and requires the extension of this system as far as
possible to reach them all.

The proposition to increase the supply of labor in the South by
emigration from Europe, it seems to me, instead of being inimical to the
cause of the Negro, will aid him. As the industries of the South
continue to grow in the marvelous ratio already shown, the demand for
labor must increase. The presence of the Southern community of white
European labor from the southern part of Europe will have, I am hopeful,
the same effect that it has had upon Negro labor on the Isthmus of
Panama. It has introduced a spirit of emulation or competition, so that
to-day the tropical Negroes of the West Indies do much better work for
us in the canal construction since we brought over Spanish, Italian, and
Greek laborers.

Ultimately, of course, the burden of Negro education must fall on the
Southern people and on Southern property owners. Private charity and
munificence, except by way of furnishing an example and a model, can do
comparatively little in this direction. It may take some time to hasten
the movement for the most generous public appropriations for the
education of the Negro, but the truth that in the uplifting of the Negro
lies the welfare of the South is forcing itself on the far-sighted of
the Southern leaders. Primary and industrial education for the masses,
higher education for the leaders of the Negro race, for their
professional men, their clergymen, their physicians, their lawyers, and
their teachers, will make up a system under which their improvement,
which statistics show to have been most noteworthy in the last forty
years, will continue at the same rate.

On the whole, then, the best public opinion of the North and the best
public opinion of the South seem to be coming together in respect to all
the economic and political questions growing out of present race
conditions.

The attitude of the candidate and the platform of the Democratic Party
in the last election made this campaign a most favorable one to bring
home to the Southern people for serious consideration the query why they
should still adhere to political solidity in the South. It may be that
four years hence the candidate and platform of the Democratic Party will
more approve themselves to the South and to the intelligent men of the
South. Under these conditions there may seem to be a retrograde step,
and the South continue solid, but I venture to think that the movement
now begun will grow, slowly at first, but ultimately so as to extend
the practical political arena for the discussion of party issues into
all the Southern States.

The recent election has made it probable that I shall become more or
less responsible for the policy of the next Presidential Administration,
and I improve this opportunity to say that nothing would give me greater
pride, because nothing would give me more claim to the gratitude of my
fellow-citizens, than if I could so direct that policy in respect to the
Southern States as to convince its intelligent citizens of the desire of
the Administration to aid them in working out satisfactorily the serious
problems before them and of bringing them and their Northern
fellow-citizens closer and closer in sympathy and point of view. During
the last decade, in common with all lovers of our country, I have
watched with delight and thanksgiving the bond of union between the two
sections grow firmer. I pray that it may be given to me to strengthen
this movement, to obliterate all sectional lines, and leave nothing of
difference between the North and the South, save a friendly emulation
for the benefit of our common country.