Was there one person to whom he told the truth before he went? Did the
girl behind the counter hear the manner in which the engagement was
broken? Ah, none of us will ever know that! But, although I could not,
without the highest impropriety, have spoken to any of the old ladies
about this business, unless they had chosen to speak to me--and somehow
I feel that after the abrupt close of it not even Mrs. Gregory
St. Michael would have been likely to touch on the subject with an
outsider--there was nothing whatever to forbid my indulging in a
skirmish with Eliza La Heu; therefore I lunched at the Exchange on my
last day.

"To the mountains?" she said, in reply to my information about my plans
of travel.

"Doctor Beaugarcon says nothing else can so quickly restore me."

"Stay there for the rhododendrons, then," she bade me. "No sight more
beautiful in all the South."

"Town seems deserted," I pursued. "Everybody gone."

"Oh, not everybody!"

"All the interesting people."

"Thank you."

"I meant, interesting to you."

I saw her decide not to be angry; and her decision changed and saved our
conversation from the trashy, bantering tone which it was taking, and
brought it to a pass most unexpected to both of us.

She gave me a charming and friendly smile. "Well, you, at any rate, are
going away. And I am really sorry for that."

Her eyes rested upon me with perfect frankness. I was not in love with
Eliza La Heu, but nearer to love than I had ever been then, and it would
have been easy, very easy, to let one's self go straight onward into
love. There are for a man more ways of falling into that state than
romancers would have us to believe, and one of them is by an assent
of the will at a certain given moment, which the heart promptly
follows--just as a man in a moment decides he will espouse a cause, and
soon finds himself hotly fighting for it body and soul. I could have
gone out of that Exchange completely in love with Eliza La Heu; but my
will did not give its assent, and I saw John Mayrant not as a rival, but
as one whose happiness I greatly desired.

"Thank you," I said, "for telling me you are sorry I am going. And
now, may I treat you more than ever as a friend, and tell you of a
circumstance which Kings Port does not know?"

It put her on her guard. "Don't be indiscreet," she laughed.

"Isn't timely indiscretion discretion?"

"And don't be clever," she said. "Tell me what you have to say--if
you're quite sure you'll not be sorry."

There can, I think, be little doubt that the greater part of the work
generally ascribed to D'Enrico is really by Giacomo Ferro, and the
uncertainty as to what figures are actually by D'Enrico himself
makes it very difficult to form a just opinion about his genius."If I'm
outrageous to share this secret with you," I concluded, "I can only say
that I couldn't stand the unfairness any longer."

"He jumped straight in?" said Eliza.

"Oh, straight!"

"Of course," she murmured.

"And just after declaring that he wouldn't."

"Of course," she murmured again. "And the current took them right away?"

"Instantly."

"Was he very tired when you got to him?"

I answered this question and a number of others, backward and forward,
until she had led me to cover the whole incident about twice-and-a-half
times. Then she had a silence, and after this a reflection.

"How well they managed it!"

"Managed what?"

"The accepted version."

"Oh, yes, indeed!"

"And you and I will not spoil it for them," she declared.

As I took my final leave of her she put a flower in my buttonhole. My
reflection was then, and is now, that if she already knew the truth from
John himself, how well she managed it!

So that same night I took the lugubrious train which bore me with the
grossest deliberation to the mountains; and among the mountains and
their waterfalls I stayed and saw the rhododendrons, and was preparing
to journey home when the invitation came from John and Eliza.

I have already said that of this wedding no word was in the papers.
Kings Port by the war lost all material things, but not the others,
among which precious privacy remains to her; and, O Kings Port, may
you never lose your grasp of that treasure! May you never know the land
where the reporter blooms, where if any joy or grief befall you, the
public press rings your doorbell and demands the particulars, and if you
deny it the particulars, it makes them up and says something scurrilous
about you into the bargain. Therefore nothing was printed, morning
or evening, about John and Eliza. Nor was the wedding service held in
church to the accompaniment of nodding bonnets and gaping stragglers. No
eye not tender with regard and emotion looked on while John took Eliza
to his wedded wife, to live together after God's ordinance in the holy
state of matrimony.

In Royal Street, not many steps from South Place, there stands a quiet
house a little back, upon whose face sorrow has struck many blows, but
made no deep wounds yet; no scorch from the fires of war is visible,
and the rending of the earthquake does not show too plainly; but there
hangs about the house a gravity that comes from seeing and suffering
much, and a sweetness from having sheltered many generations of smiles
and tears. The long linked chain of births and deaths here has not been
broken and scattered, and the grandchildren look out of the same windows
from which the grandsires gazed, whose faces now in picture frames still
watch serenely the sad present from their happy past. Therefore the
rooms lie in still depths of association, and from the walls, the
stairs, the furniture, flows the benign influence of undispersed
memories; it sheds its tempered radiance upon the old miniatures, and
upon every fresh flower that comes in from the garden; it seems to pass
through the open doors to and fro like a tranquil blessing; it is beyond
joy and pain, because time has distilled it from both of these; it
is the assembled essence of kinship and blood unity, enriched by each
succeeding brood that is born, is married, is fruitful in its turn, and
dies remembered; only the balm of faith is stronger to sustain and heal;
for that comes from heaven, while it is earth that gives us this; and
the sacred cup of it which our native land once held is almost empty.

Amid this influence John and Eliza were made one, and the faces of
the older generations grew soft beneath it, and pensive eyes became
lustrous, and into pale cheeks the rosy tint came like an echo faintly
back for a short hour. They made so little sound in their quiet
happiness of congratulation that it might have been a dream; and they
were so few that the house with the sense of its memories was not lost
with the movement and crowding, but seemed still to preside over the
whole, and send down its benediction.

When it was my turn to shake the hands of bride and groom, John asked:--

"What did your friend do with your advice?"

And I replied. "He has taken it."

"Perhaps not that," John returned, "but you must have helped him to see
his way."

When the bride came to cut the cake, she called me to her and fulfilled
her promise.

"You have always liked my baking," she said.

"Then you made it after all," I answered.

"I would not have been married without doing so," she declared sweetly.

When the time came for them to go away, they were surrounded with
affectionate God-speeds; but Miss Josephine St. Michael waited to be
the last, standing a little apart, her severe and chiselled face turned
aside, and seeming to watch a mocking-bird that was perched in his cage
at a window halfway up the stairs.

"He is usually not so silent," Miss Josephine said to me. "I suppose we
are too many visitors for him."

Then I saw that the old lady, beneath her severity, was deeply moved;
and almost at once John and Eliza came down the stairs. Miss Josephine
took each of them to her heart, but she did not trust herself to speak;
and a single tear rolled down her face, as the boy and girl continued to
the hall-door. There Daddy Ben stood, and John's gay good-by to him
was the last word that I heard the bridegroom say. While we all stood
silently watching them as they drove away from the tall iron gate, the
mocking-bird on the staircase broke into melodious ripples of song.


XXIII: Poor Aunt Carola!

And now here goes my language back into the small-clothes that it wore
at the beginning of all, when I told you something of that colonial
society, the Selected Salic Scions, dear to the heart of my Aunt. It
were beyond my compass to approach this august body of men and women
with the respect that is its due, did I attire myself in that modern
garment which, in the phrase of the vulgar, is denoted pants.

You will scarce have forgot, I must suppose, the importance set by my
Aunt Carola upon the establishing of the Scions in new territories,
wherever such persons as were both qualified by their descent and in
themselves worthy, should be found; and you will remember that I
was bidden by her to look in South Carolina for members of the Bombo
connection which she was inclined to suspect existed in that state. My
neglect to make this inquiry for my kind Aunt now smote me sharply when
all seemed too late. John Mayrant had spoken of Kill-devil Bombo, the
very personage through whom lay Aunt Carola's claim to kingly lineage,
and I had let John Mayrant go away upon his honeymoon without ever
questioning him upon this subject. As I looked back upon the ease
with which I might have settled the matter, and forward to my return
empty-handed to the generous relative to whom I owed this agreeable
experience of travel, I felt guilty indeed. The work is larger, comprising
some twenty or so more terra-cotta figures-- making about sixty in
all--and ten horses, all rather larger than life, but the first impression
soon wears off and the arrangement is then felt to be artificial
as compared with Tabachetti's.Consequently, I was able, on
reaching home, to meet Aunt Carola with some sort of countenance, and to
assure her that I expected presently to be furnished with authentic and
valuable particulars.

I now learned that the Selected Salic Scions had greatly increased in
numbers during my short absence. It appeared that the origin of the
whole movement had sprung from a needy but ingenious youth in some
manufacturing town of New England. This lad had a cousin, who had
amassed from nothing a noble fortune by inventing one day a speedy
and convenient fashion of opening beer bottles; and this cousin's
achievement had set him to looking about him. He soon discovered that in
our great republic everywhere there were living hundreds and thousands
of men and women who were utterly unaware that they were descended from
kings. Borrowing a little money to float him, he set up The American
Almanach de Gotha and began (for the minimum sum of fifty dollars
a pedigree) to reveal to these eager people the chain of links that
connected them with royalty. Thus, in a period of time the brevity of
which is incredible, this young man passed from complete indigence to
a wife and four automobiles, or an automobile and four wives--I don't
remember which he had the four of. There was so much royal blood about
that it had spilled into several rival organizations, each bitterly
warring with the other; but my Aunt assured me that her society was the
only one that any respectable person belonged to.

I am minded to announce a rule of discreet conduct: Never read aloud
any letter that you have not first read to yourself. Had I observed this
rule--but listen:--

