Produced by Ketaki Chhabra and Wendy Crockett.


CAPTAIN JANUARY

By

LAURA E. RICHARDS

_Author of_

"Melody," "Marie," "Rosin, the Beau," "The Hildegarde-Margaret
Series," "Three Minute Stories," "Five Minute Stories," etc.


CONTENTS

CHAPTER

   I. Star Bright
  II. The Story
 III. Introducing Imogen and Bob
  IV. The Visit
   V. Captain January's Star
  VI. The Signal


CHAPTER I.

STAR BRIGHT


The Captain had sold all his lobsters. They had been particularly
fine ones, and had gone off "like hot cakes," everyone who passed
by the wharf stopping to buy one or two. Now the red dory was empty,
and the Captain had washed her out with his usual scrupulous care,
and was making preparations for his homeward voyage, when he was
hailed by a cheery voice from the street.

"Hillo, January!" said the voice. "Is that you? How goes it?" and
the owner of the voice, a sturdy man in a blue coat with brass
buttons, came down the wharf and greeted the Captain with a hearty
shake of the hand.

"How goes it?" he repeated. "I haven't seen ye for a dog's age."

"I'm hearty, Cap'n Nazro!" replied Captain January. "Hearty, that's
what I am, an' hopin' you're the same."

"That's right!" said the first speaker. "'Tain't often we set eyes
on you, you stick so close to your light. And the little gal, she's
well, I expect? She looks a picture, when I take a squint at her
through the glass sometimes. Never misses running out and shaking
her apron when we go by!"

"Cap'n Nazro," said January, speaking with emphasis, "if there is
a pictur in this world, o' health, and pootiness, and goodness, it's
that child. It's that little un, sir. Not to be beat in this country,
nor yet any other 'cordin' as I've voyaged."

"Nice little gal!" said Captain Nazro, assenting. "Mighty nice little
gal! Ain't it time she was going to school, January? My wife and I
were speaking about it only the other day. Seems as if she'd oughter
be round with other children now, and learning what they do. Mis Nazro
would be real pleased to have her stop with us a spell, and go to
school with our gals. What do you say?" He spoke very heartily, but
looked doubtfully at the old man, as if hardly expecting a favourable
answer.

Captain January shook his head emphatically, "You're real kind, Cap'n
Nazro!" he said; "real kind, you and Mis Nazro both are! and she
makin' the little un's frocks and pinafores, as is a great help. But
I can't feel to let her out o' my sight, nohow; and as for school,
she ain't the kind to bear it, nor yet I couldn't for her. She's
learnin'!" he added, proudly. "Learnin' well! I'll bet there ain't
no gal in your school knows more nor that little un does. Won'erful,
the way she walks ahead!"

"Get the school readers, hey! and teach her yourself do you?" queried
Captain Nazro.

"No, sir!" replied the old man; "I don't have no school readers. The
child learns out o' the two best books in the world,--the Bible, and
William Shakespeare's book; them's all the books she ever seed--_saw_,
I should say."

"William Shak--" began Captain Nazro; and then he broke off in sheer
amazement, and said, simply, "Well, I'm blowed!"

"The minister giv 'em to me," said Captain January. "I reckon he
knows. There's a dictionary, too," he added, rather sadly; "but I
can't make her take to that, nohow, though there's a power o' fine
words in it."

Then, as the other man remained silent and openmouthed, he said: "But
I must be goin', Cap'n Nazro, sir! The little un'll be lookin' for
me. Good day, sir, and thank ye kindly, all the same as if it was
to be, which it ain't!" And with a friendly gesture, the old man
stepped into his red dory, and rowed away with long, sturdy strokes.

Captain Nazro gazed after him meditatively, took out his pipe and
looked at it, then gazed again. "January's cracked," he said;
"that's what's the matter with him. He's a good man, and a good
lighthouse-keeper, and he's been an able seaman in his day, none
better; but he's cracked!"

There is an island off a certain part of the coast of Maine,--a little
rocky island, heaped and tumbled together as if Dame Nature had shaken
down a heap of stones at random from her apron, when she had finished
making the larger islands which lie between it and the mainland. At
one end, the shoreward end, there is a tiny cove, and a bit of
silver-sand beach, with a green meadow beyond it, and a single great
pine; but all the rest is rocks, rocks. At the farther end the rocks
are piled high, like a castle wall, making a brave barrier against
the Atlantic waves; and on top of this cairn rises the lighthouse,
rugged and sturdy as the rocks themselves, but painted white, and
with its windows shining like great, smooth diamonds. This is Light
Island; and it was in this direction that Captain January's red dory
was headed when he took his leave of his brother-captain, and rowed
away from the wharf. But we expressed also our fear lest the very
excellence of this magazine should be fatal to its success.
It was too good--that is to say, too refined and of too lofty a class,
both in its art and in its poetry--to be sufficiently popular to
pay even the printer's bill.
The name, too, was against it, being somewhat unintelligible to the
thoughtless, and conveying to the considerate a notion of something
very juvenile. Those fears were not unfounded, for it was suspended
for a short time; but other journals after a while discovered
and proclaimed the merit that was scattered profusely over the
pages of _The Germ_, and, thus encouraged, the enterprise has been
resumed, with a change of name which we must regard as an improvement.
_Art and Poetry_ precisely describes its character. It is wholly
devoted to them, and it aims at originality in both.

It is seeking out for itself new paths, in a spirit of earnestness,
and with an undoubted ability which must lead to a new era. The
writers may err somewhat at first, show themselves too defiant
of prescriptive rules, and mistake extravagance for originality; but
this fault (inherent in youth when, conscious of its powers, it
first sets up for itself) will after a while work its own cure, and
with experience will come soberer action. But we cannot
contemplate this young and rising school in art and literature
without the most ardent anticipations of something great to grow
from it, something new and worthy of our age, and we bid them God speed
upon the path they have adventured.

But our more immediate purpose here is with the poetry, of which
about one-half of each number is composed. It is all beautiful,
must of it of extraordinary merit, and equal to anything that any
of our known poets could write, save Tennyson, of whom the strains
sometimes remind us, although they are not imitations in any sense
of the word.

[The Reviewer next proceeds to quote, with a few words of comment,
Christina Rossetti's "Sweet Death," John Tupper's "Viola and Olivia,"
Orchard's "Whit-Sunday Morn," and (later on) Dante Rossetti's "Pax
Vobis."]
Almost one half of the April number is occupied with a "Dialogue on
Art," the composition of an Artist whose works are well known to the
public. It was written during a period of ill health, which forbad
the use of the brush, and, taking his pen, he has given to the world
his thoughts upon art in a paper which the _Edinburgh Review_ in its
best days might have been proud to possess.

Sure we are that not one of our readers will regret the length at
which we have noticed this work

.

* * * * * * *
The short and unpretending critique which I add from "Bell's Weekly
Messenger" was written, I believe, either by or at the instance
of Mr. Bellamy, a gentleman who acted as secretary to the National
Club.
His son addressed me as editor of "The Germ," in terms of great
ardour, and through the son I on one occasion saw the father as
well.

_Art and Poetry._ Nos. I., II., and III. London, Dickinson and
Co.

The present numbers are the commencement of a very useful
publication, conducted principally by artists, the design of which
is to "express thoughts towards Nature." We see much to commend in
its pages, which are also nicely illustrated in the mediaeval style
of art and in outline.Her hair floated like a cloud of pale gold about
her shoulders; her eyes were blue, not light and keen, like the old
man's, but of that soft, deep, shadowy blue that poets love to call
violet. Wonderful eyes, shaded by long, curved lashes of deepest
black, which fell on the soft, rose-and-ivory tinted cheek, as the
child carefully picked her way down, holding up her long dress from
her little feet. It was the dress which so astonished Captain January.
Instead of the pink calico frock and blue checked pinafore, to which
his eyes were accustomed, the little figure was clad in a robe of
dark green velvet with a long train, which spread out on the staircase
behind her, very much like the train of a peacock. The body, made
for a grown woman, hung back loosely from her shoulders, but she had
tied a scarf of gold tissue under her arms and round her waist, while
from the long hanging sleeves her arms shone round and white as
sculptured ivory. A strange sight, this, for a lighthouse tower on
the coast of Maine! but so fair a one, that the old mariner could
not take his eyes from it.

"Might be Juliet!" he muttered to himself. "Juliet, when she was a
little un. 'Her beauty hangs upon the cheek o' Night,'--only it ain't,
so to say, exactly night,--'like a rich jewel in a nigger's ear.'
No! that ain't right. 'Nigger' ain't right, 'Ethiop's ear, 'that's
it! Though I should judge they were much the same thing, and they
more frekently wear 'em in their noses, them as I've seen in their
own country."

As he thus soliloquised, the little maiden reached the bottom of the
stairs in safety, and dropping the folds of the velvet about her,
made a quaint little courtesy, and said, "Here I am, Daddy Captain!
how do you like me, please?"

"Star Bright," replied Captain January, gazing fixedly at her, as
he slowly drew his pipe from his pocket and lighted it. "I like you
amazin'. _A_-mazin' I like you, my dear! but it is what you might
call surprisin', to leave a little maid in a blue pinafore, and to
come back and find a princess in gold and velvet. Yes, Pigeon Pie,
you might call it surprisin', and yet not be stretchin' a p'int."

"Am I _really_ like a princess?" said the child, clapping her hands,
and laughing with pleasure. "Have you ever seen a princess, Daddy
Captain, and did she look like me?"

"I seed--I _saw_--one, once," replied the Captain, gravely, puffing
at his pipe. "In Africky it was, when I was fust mate to an Indiaman.
And she wa'n't like you, Peach Blossom, no more than Hyperion to a
Satyr, and that kind o' thing. She had on a short petticut, comin'
half-way down to her knees, and a necklace, and a ring through her
nose. And--"

"Where were her other clothes?" asked the child.

"Wal--maybe she kem off in a hurry and forgot 'em!" said the Captain,
charitably. "Anyhow, not speakin' her language, I didn't ask her.
And she was as black as the ace of spades, and shinin' all over with
butter."

"Oh, _that_ kind of princess!" said Star, loftily. "I didn't mean
that kind, Daddy. I meant the kind who live in fretted palaces, with
music in th' enamelled stones, you know, and wore clothes like these
every day."

"Wal, Honey, I never saw one of that kind, till now!" said the
Captain, meekly. "And I'm sorry I hain't--I mean I _ain't_--got no
fretted palace for my princess to live in. This is a poor place for
golden lasses and velvet trains."

"It _isn't_!" cried the child, her face flashing into sudden anger,
and stamping her foot. "You sha'n't call it a poor place, Daddy! It's
wicked of you. And I wouldn't live in a palace if there were _fifty_
of them all set in a row. So there now!" She folded her arms and
looked defiantly at the old man, who returned her gaze placidly, and
continued to puff at his pipe, until he was seized in a penitent
embrace, hugged, and kissed, and scolded, and wept over, all at once.

The brief tempest over, the child seated herself comfortably on his
knee, and said, "Now, Daddy, I want a story."

"Story before supper?" asked the Captain, meekly, looking at the
saucepan, which was fairly lifting its lid in its eagerness to be
attended to. A fresh access of remorseful hugging followed.

"You poor darling!" said Star; "I forgot all about supper. And it's
stewed kidneys, too! But oh! my dress!" and she glanced down at her
velvet splendour. "I must go and take it off," she said, sadly.

"Not you, Honeysuckle," said the old man, rising and setting the child
down carefully in the chair. "Sit you there, and be a real princess,
and I will be your steward, and get supper this time. I like to see
you in your fine clothes, and 'twould be a shame to take 'em off so
soon."

She clapped her hands again, and settling herself cosily in the great
chair, arranged her train with a graceful sweep, and pushed back her
cloudy golden hair.

"Shall I really act princess?" she asked,--and without waiting for
an answer, she began to give orders in lofty tones, holding her head
high in the air, and pointing hither and thither with her tiny hands.
"Take up the golden chafing-dish, Grumio!" she cried. "The kidneys--I
mean the capons--are quite ready now. And the milk--no! the sack--is
in the silver flagon!" she pointed to an ancient blue jug which stood
on the dresser.

The obedient Captain hastened to take up the saucepan, and soon the
frugal supper was set out, and princess and steward were doing ample
justice to it.

"You didn't say 'Anon! anon! Madam' when I ordered you about," said
the Princess, thoughtfully. "You ought to, you know. Servants always
do in the book."

"Wal, I didn't think on't," the steward admitted. "I wa'n't brought
up to the business, you see, Princess. It always seemed to me a
foolish thing to say, anyhow: no disrespect to W. Shakespeare. The
hull of the word's 'anonymous,' I believe, and the dictionary says
_that_ means 'wanting a name.' So, altogether, Star Bright, I haven't
been able to make much sense out o' that answer."

"Oh, never mind!" said the Princess, tossing her head. "I don't like
the dictionary. It's a wretch!"

"So 'tis, so 'tis," assented the Captain, with servile alacrity. "Have
some more milk then, Sunshine."

"It isn't milk! it's sack," said the child, promptly, holding out
her small yellow mug with a royal air. "Are the capons good, Grumio?"

"They are, my lamb, they are," replied the Captain. "Oncommon good
they are, to be sure, and me not knowin' to this day what capons was.
A little more? Yes, Pigeon Pie, I _will_ take a little more, thank
ye kindly."

"I don't _think_, Grumio, that you ought to call me lambs and pigeon
pies just now," remarked the Princess, judiciously. "Do you think
it's respectful? they don't in Shakespeare, I'm sure."

"I won't do it again, Honey--I mean Madam;" said the Captain, bowing
with great humility. "I beg your honourable majesty's pardon, and
I won't never presume to--"

"Yes, you will!" cried the Princess, flinging herself across the table
at him, and nearly choking him with the sudden violence of her
embrace. "You shall call me pigeon pie, and anything else you like.
You shall call me rye porridge, though I hate it, and it's always
full of lumps. And don't ever look that way again; it _kills_ me!"

The Captain quietly removed the clinging arms, and kissed them, and
set the half-weeping child back in her place. "There, there, there!"
he said, soothingly. "What a little tempest it is!"

"Say 'delicate Ariel,'" sobbed Star. "You haven't said it to-day,
and you always say it when you love me."

"Cream Cheese from the dairy of Heaven," replied the Captain; "if
I always said it when I loved you, I should be sayin' it every minute
of time, as well you know. But you are my delicate Ariel, so you are,
and there ain't nothin' in the hull book as suits you better. So!"
and his supper ended, the good man turned his chair again to the fire,
and took the child, once more smiling, upon his knee.

"And now, Ariel, what have you been doin' all the time I was away?
Tell Daddy all about it."

Star pondered a moment, with her head on one side, and a finger hooked
confidentially through the Captain's buttonhole. "Well," she said,
"I've had a _very_ interesting time, Daddy Captain. First I cleaned
the lamps, of course, and filled and trimmed them. And then I played
Samson a good while; and--"

"And how might you play Samson?" inquired the Captain.

"With flies!" replied Star, promptly. "Heaps upon heaps, you know;
'With the jaw-bone of an ass have I slain a thousand men.' The flies
were the Philistines, and I took a clam-shell for the jaw-bone; it
did just as well. And I made a song out of it, to one of the tunes
you whistle: 'With the jaw-bone! with the jaw-bone! with the jaw-bone
of an ass!' It was very exciting."

"Must ha' been," said the Captain dryly. "Well, Honeysuckle, what
did you do then?"

"Oh, that took some time!" said the child. "And afterward I fished
a little, but I didn't catch anything, 'cept an old flounder, and
he winked at me, so I put him back. And then I thought a long
time--oh! a very long time, sitting like Patience on the doorstep.
And _suddenly_, Daddy Captain, I thought about those boxes of clothes,
and how you said they would be mine when I was big. And I measured
myself against the doorpost, and found that I _was very_ big. I
thought I must be almost as big as you, but I s'pose I'd forgotten
how big you were. So I went up, and opened one box, and I was just
putting the dress on when you came in. You knew where it came from,
of course, Daddy, the moment you saw it."

The Captain nodded gravely, and pulled his long moustaches.

"Do you suppose my poor mamma wore it often?" the child went on,
eagerly. "Do you think she looked like me when she wore it? Do I look
as she did when you saw her?"

"Wal," began the Captain, meditatively; but Star ran on without
waiting for an answer.

"Of course, though, she looked very different, because she was dead.
You are quite very positively sure my poor mamma was dead, Daddy
Captain?"

"She were," replied the Captain, with emphasis. "She were that, Pigeon
Pie! You couldn't find nobody deader, not if you'd sarched for a week.
Why, door nails, and Julius Caesar, and things o' that description,
would ha' been _lively_ compared with your poor ma when I see her.
Lively! that's what they'd ha' been."

The child nodded with an air of familiar interest, wholly untinged
with sadness. "I think," she said, laying her head against the old
man's shoulder, and curling one arm about his neck, "I think I should
like to hear about it again, please, Daddy. It's a long, long time
since you told me the whole of it."

"Much as a month, I should think it must be," assented the Captain.
"Why, Snowdrop, you know the story by heart, better'n I do, I believe.
'Pears to me I've told it reg'lar, once a month or so, ever since
you were old enough to understand it."

"Never mind!" said the Princess, with an imperious gesture. "That
makes no difference. I _want_ it now!"

"Wal, wal!" said the Captain, smoothing back the golden hair. "If
you _want_ it, why of course you must have it, Blossom! But first
I must light up, ye know. One star inside the old house, and the other
atop of it: that's what makes Light Island the lightest spot in the
natural world. Sit ye here, Star Bright, and play Princess till Daddy
comes back!"


CHAPTER II.

THE STORY


The lamps were lighted, and the long, level rays flashed their golden
warning over the murmuring darkness of the summer sea, giving cheer
to many hearts on inbound barque or schooner. Bright indeed was the
star on the top of the old lighthouse; but no less radiant was the
face of little Star, as she turned it eagerly towards Captain January,
and waited for the beginning of the well-known and well-loved story.

"Wal," said the Captain, when his pipe was refilled and drawing
bravely. "Let me see now! where shall I begin?"

"At the beginning!" said Star promptly.

"Jes' so!" assented the old man. "Ten years ago this--"

"No! No!!" cried the child. "_That_ isn't the beginning, Daddy! That's
almost half-way to the middle. 'When I was a young lad.' That's the
beginning."

"Bound to have it all, are ye, Honeysuckle?" said the obedient
Captain. "Wal! Wal! when I were a young lad, I was a wild un, ye see,
Treasure. My father, he 'prenticed me to a blacksmith, being big and
strong for my years; but I hadn't no heart for the work. All I cared
about was the sea, and boats, and sailors, and sea talk. I ran away
down to the wharf whenever I could get a chance, and left my work.
Why, even when I went to meetin', 'stead o' listenin', to the
minister, I was lookin' out the places about them as go down to the
sea in ships, ye know, and 'that leviathan whom Thou hast made,' and
all that. And there was Hiram, King of Tyre, and his ships! Lord!
how I used to think about them ships, and wonder how they was rigged,
and how many tons they were, and all about it. Yes! I was a wild un,
and no mistake; and after awhile I got so roused up--after my mother
died, it was, and my father married again--that I just run away, and
shipped aboard of a whaler, bound for the north seas. Wal, Honey,
'twould take me a week to tell ye about all my voyages. Long and short
of it, 'twas the life I was meant for, and I done well in it. Had
tumbles and toss-ups, here and there, same as everybody has in any
kind o' life; but I done well, and by the time I was forty year old
I was captain of the _Bonito_, East Indiaman, sailin' from New York
to Calcutta."

The Captain paused, and puffed gravely at his pipe for a few minutes.

"Well, Rosebud," he continued, presently, "you know what comes next.
The _Bonito_ was cast away, in a cyclone, on a desert island, and
all hands lost, except me and one other."

"Dear Daddy! poor Daddy!" cried the child, putting her little hands
up to the weather-beaten face, and drawing it down to hers. "Don't
talk about that dreadful part. Go on to the next!"

"No, I won't talk about it, Star Bright!" said the old man, very
gravely. "Fust place I can't, and second place it ain't fit for little
maids to hear of. But I lived on that island fifteen year,--five year
with my good mate Job Hotham, and ten year alone, after Job died.
When a ship kem by, after that, and took me off, I'd forgot most
everything, and was partly like the beasts that perish; but it kem
back to me. Slow, like, and by fits, as you may say; but it kem back,
all there was before, and maybe a good bit more!"

"Poor Daddy!" murmured the child again, pressing her soft cheek
against the white beard. "It's all over now! Don't think of it! I
am here, Daddy, loving you: loving you _all to pieces_, you know!"

The old man was silent for a few minutes, caressing the little white
hands which lay like twin snowflakes in his broad, brown palm. Then
he resumed, cheerfully:

"And so, Cream Cheese from the dairy of Heaven, I kem home. Your old
Daddy kem home, and landed on the same wharf he'd sailed from
twenty-five years before. Not direct, you understand, but takin'
steamer from New York, and so on. Wal, there wa'n't nobody that knew
me, or cared for me. Father was dead, and his wife; and their
children, as weren't born when I sailed from home, were growed up
and gone away. No, there wa'n't nobody. Wal, I tried for a spell to
settle down and live like other folks, but 'twa'n't no use. I was'nt
used to the life, and I couldn't stand it. For ten years I haven't
heard the sound of a human voice, and now they was buzz, buzzin' all
the time; it seemed as if there was a swarm of wasps round my ears
the everlastin' day. Buzz! buzz! and then clack! clack! like an
everlasting mill-clapper; and folks starin' at my brown face and white
hair, and askin' me foolish questions. I couldn't stand it, that was
all. I heard that a light-keeper was wanted here, and I asked for
the place, and got it. And that's all of the first part, Peach
Blossom."

The child drew a long breath, and her face glowed with eager
anticipation. "And _now_, Daddy Captain," she said, "_now_ you may
say, 'Ten years ago this fall!'"

"Ten years ago this fall," said the Captain meekly acquiescing, "on
the fourteenth day of September, as ever was, I looks out from the
tower, bein' a-fillin' of the lamps, and says I, 'There's a storm
comin'!' So I made all taut above and below, fastened the door, and
took my glass and went out on the rocks, to see how things looked.
Wal, they looked pooty bad. There had been a heavy sea on for a couple
o' days, and the clouds that was comin' up didn't look as if they
was goin' to smooth it down any. There was a kind o' brassy look over
every thin', and when the wind began to rise, it warn't with no
nat'ral sound, but a kind of screech to it, on'arthly like. Wal, thar!
the wind did rise, and it riz to stay. In half an hour it was blowin'
half a gale; in an hour it blew a gale, and as tough a one (barrin'
cyclones) as ever I see. 'T had like to ha' blow me off my pins, half
a dozen times. Then nat'rally the sea kem up; and 'twas all creation
on them rocks, now I tell ye. 'The sea, mountin' to the welkin's
cheek;' ye remember, Pigeon Pie?"

The child nodded eagerly. "Tempest!" she said, "Act I., Scene 2:
'Enter Prospero and Miranda.' Go on, Daddy!"

"Wal, my Lily Flower," continued the old man. "And the storm went
on. It roared, it bellowed, and it screeched: it thumped and it
kerwhalloped. The great seas would come bunt up agin the rocks, as
if they was bound to go right through to Jersey city, which they used
to say was the end of the world. Then they'd go scoopin' back, as
if they was callin' all their friends and neighbours to help; and
then, bang! they'd come at it agin. The spray was flyin' in great
white sheets, and whiles, it seemed as if the hull island was goin'
to be swallowed up then and thar. 'Tain't nothin' but a little heap
o' rocks anyhow, to face the hull Atlantic Ocean gone mad: and on
that heap o' rocks was Januarius Judkins, holdin' on for dear life,
and feelin' like a hoppergrass that had got lost in Niag'ry Falls."

"Don't say that name, Daddy!" interrupted the child. "You know I don't
like it. Say 'Captain January'!"

"I tell ye, Honeysuckle," said the old man, "I felt more like a
sea-cook than a cap'n _that_ night. A cap'n on a quarter-deck's a
good thing; but a cap'n on a p'int o' rock, out to sea in a northeast
gale, might just as well be a fo'c'sle hand and done with it. Wal,
as I was holdin' on thar, I seed a flash to windward, as wasn't
lightning; and next minute kem a sound as wasn't thunder nor yet wind
nor sea."

"The guns! the guns!" cried the child, in great excitement. "The guns
of my poor mamma's ship. And then you heard them again, Daddy?"

"Then I heard them agin!" the old man assented. "And agin! a flash,
and a boom! and then in a minute agin, a flash and a boom! 'Oh, Lord!'
says I. 'Take her by to the mainland, and put her ashore there!' I
says; 'cause there's a life-saving station thar, ye know, Blossom,
and there might be some chance for them as were in her. But the Lord
had His views, my dear, the Lord had His views! Amen! so be it! In
another minute there kem a break in the clouds, and thar she was,
comin' full head on, straight for Light Island. Oh! my little Star,
that was an awful thing to see. And I couldn't do nothin', you
understand. Not a livin' airthly thing could I do, 'cept hide my face
agin the rock I was clingin' to, and say, 'Dear Lord, take 'em easy!
It's Thy will as they should be took,' I says, 'and there ain't no
one to hender, if so be as they could. But take 'em easy, good Lord,
and take 'em suddin!'"

"And He did!" cried the child. "The good Lord did take 'em sudden,
didn't He, Daddy Captain?"

"He did, my child!" said the old man, solemnly. "They was all home,
them that was goin', in ten minutes from the time I saw the ship.
You know the Roarin' Bull, as sticks his horns out o' water just to
windward of us? the cruelest rock on the coast, he is, and the
treacherousest: and the ship struck him full and fair on the starboard
quarter, and in ten minutes she was kindlin' wood, as ye may say. The
Lord rest their souls as went down in her! Amen!"

"Amen!" said little Star, softly. But she added in an eager tone,
"And now, Daddy, you are coming to me!"

"Pooty soon, Jewel Bright!" said the old man, stroking the gold hair
tenderly. "I'm a-comin' to you pooty soon. 'Twas along about eight
bells when she struck, and none so dark, for the moon had risen. After
the ship had gone down, I strained my eyes through the driving spray,
to see whether anything was comin' ashore. Presently I seed somethin'
black, driftin' towards the rocks: and lo' ye, 'twas a boat bottom
side up, and all hands gone down. Wal! wal! the Lord knew what was
right: but it's wuss by a deal to _see_ them things than to be in
'em yourself, to my thinkin'. Wal, after a spell I looked agin, and
there was somethin' else a-driftin' looked like a spar, it did: and
somethin' was lashed to it. My heart! 'twas tossed about like a
egg-shell, up and down, and here and thar! 'Twas white, whatever was
lashed to it, and I couldn't take my eyes off'n it. 'It can't be
alive!' I says, 'whatever it is!' I says. 'But I'll get it, if it
takes a leg!' I says. For down in my heart, Jewel, I knew they
wouldn't ha' taken such care of anythin' _but_ what was alive, and
they perishin', but I didn't think it could live in such a sea long
enough to get ashore. Wal, I kep' my eyes on that spar, and I see
that 'twas comin' along by the south side. Then I ran, or crawled,
'cordin' as the wind allowed me, back to the shed, and got a boat-hook
and a coil o' rope; and then I clumb down as far as I dared, on the
south rocks. I scooched down under the lee of a p'int o' rock, and
made the rope fast round my waist, and the other end round the rock,
and then I waited for the spar to come along. 'Twas hard to make out
anythin', for the water was all a white, bilin' churn, and the spray
flyin' fit to blind you; but bimeby I co't sight of her comin'
swashin' along, now up on top of a big roarer, and then scootin' down
into the holler, and then up agin. I crep' out on the rocks, grippin'
'em for all I was wuth, with the boat-hook under my arm. The wind
screeched and clawed at me like a wildcat in a caniption fit, but
I hadn't been through those cyclones for nothin'. I lay down flat
and wriggled myself out to the edge, and thar I waited."

"And the waves were breaking over you all the time?" cried the child,
with eager inquiry.

"Wal, they was that, Honeysuckle!" said the Captain. "Bless ye, I
sh'd ha' been washed off like a log if 't hadn't ben for the rope.
But that held; 'twas a good one, and tied with a bowline, and it held.
Wal, I lay thar, and all to wunst I see her comin' by like a flash,
close to me. '_Now_!' says I, 'ef ther's any stuff in you, J. Judkins,
let's see it!' says I. And I chucks myself over the side o' the rock
and grabs her with the boat-hook, and hauls her in. 'All together,'
I says. '_Now_, my hearties! Yo heave _ho_!' and I hed her up, and
hauled her over the rocks and round under the lee of the p'int, before
I stopped to breathe. How did I do it? Don't ask me, Jewel Bright!
_I_ don't know how I did it. There's times when a man has strength
given to him, seemin'ly, over and above human strength. 'Twas like
as if the Lord ketched holt and helped me: maybe He did, seein' what
'twas I was doing. Maybe He did!" He paused a moment in thought, but
Star was impatient.

"Well, Daddy!" she cried. "And then you looked and found it was--go
on, Daddy dear!"

"I looked," continued the old man, "and I found it was a sail, that
had showed so white against the spar; a sail, wrapped tight round
somethin'. I cut the ropes, and pulled away the canvas and a tarpaulin
that was inside that; and thar I seed--"

"My poor mamma and me!" cried the child, joyously, clapping her hands.
"Oh, Daddy Captain, it _is_ so delightful when you come to this part!
And my poor mamma was dead? You are quite positively sure that she
was dead, Daddy?"

"She were, my lamb!" replied the Captain, gravely. "You needn't never
have no doubt about it. She had had a blow on the head, your poor
ma had, from one o' the bull's horns, likely; and I'll warrant she
never knowed anythin' after it, poor lady! She was wrapped in a great
fur cloak, the same as you have on your bed in winter, Blossom: and
lyin' all clost and warm in her cold arms, that held on still, though
the life was gone out of 'em, was"--the old man faltered, and brushed
his rough hand across his eyes--"was a--a little baby. Asleep, it
seemed to be, all curled up like a rose on its mother's breast, and
its pooty eyes tight shut. I loosed the poor arms--they was like a
stattoo's, so round and white and cold; and I took the child up in
my arms; and lo' ye! it opened its eyes and looked straight at me
and laughed."

"And it said, Daddy?" cried the delighted child, clapping her hands.
"Tell what it said!"

"It said ''Tar,'" the old man continued, in a hushed voice. "'Tar,'
it said as plain as I say it to you. 'And "Star" it is!' says I; for
'if ever a star shone on a dark night, it's you, my pooty,' I says.
'Praise the Lord,' I says. 'Amen, so be it.' Then I laid your poor
ma in a corner, under the lee of the big rock, where the spray
wouldn't fly over her, and I covered her with the sail; and then I
took the fur cloak, seein' the baby needed it and she didn't, and
wrapped it round the little un, and clumb back over the rocks, up
to the house. And so, Honeysuckle--"

"And so," cried the child, taking his two great hands and putting
them softly together, "so I came to be your little Star!"

"To be my little Star!" assented the old man, stooping to kiss the
golden head.

"Your light and your joy!" exclaimed the child, laughing with
pleasure.

"My light and my joy!" said the old man, solemnly. "A light from
heaven to shine in a dark place, and the Lord's message to a sinful
man."

He was silent for a little, looking earnestly into the child's radiant
face. Presently, "You've been happy, Star Bright?" he asked. "You
haven't missed nothin'?"

Star opened wide eyes of surprise at him. "Of course I've been happy!"
she said. "Why shouldn't I be?"

"You ain't--I mean you haven't mourned for your poor ma, have ye,
Jewel?" He was still looking curiously at her, and his look puzzled
her.

"No," she said after a pause. "Of course not. I never knew my poor
mamma. Why should I mourn for her? She is in heaven, and I am very
glad. You say heaven is much nicer than here, so it must be pleasanter
for my poor mamma; and I don't need her, because I have you, Daddy.
But go on, now, please, Daddy dear. 'Next day'--"

"Next day," resumed the obedient Captain, "the sky was bright and
clear, and only the heavy sea, and your poor ma, and you, Peach
Blossom, to tell what had happened, so far as I seed at fust. Bimeby,
when I went out to look, I found other things."

"My poor papa!" said Star, with an air of great satisfaction.

Maria Novella at Florence, where he finished a marble Madonna, begun
by his father, which is inside the door, near the chapel of the
Minerbetti. Going afterwards to Pisa, he made for the Spina a
half-length marble Madonna suckling the infant Jesus Christ, clothed
in delicate draperies.

In the year 1522 a marble ornament for this Madonna was made for M.

Jacopo Corbini, who had a much larger and finer one made for another
full-length marble Madonna of Nino, representing with great grace
the mother offering a rose to the child, who takes it in childish
fashion, and so prettily, that one may say that Nino had made some
steps to subduing the roughness of the stone, and endowing it with the
attributes of living flesh.
The figure is between a St John and a St Peter in marble, the head
of the latter being a portrait of Andrea. Nino also made two
marble statues for an altar of S. Caterina at Pisa--that is to say,
the Madonna and an angel in an Annunciation, executed, like his
other works, with such care that they may be considered as the best
productions of those times. On the base beneath this Madonna Nino
carved the following words: "On the first day of February 1370;"
and beneath the angel: "Nino, son of Andrea Pisano, made these figures."

He produced yet other works in that city and at Naples which it is
not necessary to mention here. Andrea died at the age of seventy-five,
in the year 1345, and was buried by Nino in S. Maria del Fiore with
the following epitaph:

"Ingenti Andreas jacet hie Pisanus in urna, Marmore qui potuit
spirantes ducere vultus Et simulacra Deum mediis imponere templis
Ex acre, ex auro, candenti et pulcro elephanto."

Buonamico Buffalmacco, Painter of Florence.

Buonamico di Cristofano, called Buffalmacco, painter of Florence,
who was a pupil of Andrea Tafi, celebrated for his jests by M.
Giovanni Boccaccio in his "Decameron," is well known to have been
the close companion of Bruno and Calandrino, painters, and themselves
facetious and pleasant men.

He possessed a very fair judgment in the art of painting, as may be
seen by his works, which are scattered throughout Tuscany. Franco
Sacchetti relates in his "Three Hundred Tales" (to begin with the
deeds of this artist while he was still young) that, while Buffalmacco
was a boy with Andrea, it was his master's custom, when the nights
were long, to rise to work before dawn and to call the boys.

This thing displeased Buonamico, who enjoyed a good sleep, and he
tried to devise a plan that should induce Andrea to leave off calling
them to work so much before daylight.

He soon found one, for in an ill-swept loft he happened to find
thirty great beetles or cockroaches.

With some thin needles and corks he fixed a small candle on the back
of each beetle, and when the hour came for Andrea to rise he lighted
the candles and put the beetles one by one through a hole leading
into Andrea's room.

When the master awoke, just about the hour when he was accustomed
to call Buffalmacco, and saw these lights he began to tremble with
fear, and to recommend himself to God, repeating his prayers and
psalms.

At length he put his head under the clothes and did not call
Buffalmacco that night, but remained trembling in that posture
until the day. The following morning when he arose he asked Buonamico
if he, like himself, had seen more than a thousand devils. Buonamico
said "No," because he had kept his eyes shut, and had wondered why he
had not been called.

  "What!" said Tafi; "I had
      something else to think of
    besides painting, and
      I am resolved to go and live
    in another house." The
    following night, although
    Buonamico only put three
    beetles into Tafi's chamber, yet the poor man did not sleep a jot,
owing to his fear of the past night and to those devils which he saw.

No sooner was day come than he left the house, declaring he would
never return to it, and it was long before they were able to induce
him to change his mind.

But Buonamico brought him the priest of the parish, who consoled
him as best he could. When Tafi and Buonamico were talking over the
matter afterwards, the latter said: "I have always heard tell that
the devils are the greatest enemies of God, and consequently they must
also be the chief adversaries of painters, because, besides the
fact that we always make them very ugly, We do nothing else but
represent saints on walls and tables, in order to render men more
devout or better in despite of the devils.

For this cause the devils are enraged with us, and as they have more
power at night than during the day, they come and play these pranks,
and will do worse if this practice of early rising is not entirely
abandoned."

With these words, and many others, Buffalmacco succeeded in settling
the matter, as the priest supported his arguments, so that Tafi
left off his early rising and the devils ceased to go through the
house at night with lights.

But not many months afterwards, when Tafi, induced by desire of gain,
and crushing every fear, began once more to rise and work at night
and to call Buffalmacco, the beetles also began to make their
rounds, so that the master was compelled by fear to give it up
entirely, being strongly advised to this by the priest.

When this thing became known through the city, it for a while prevented
other painters as well as Tafi from rising to work at night. When,
shortly afterwards, Buffalmacco himself became a fairly good master
he left Tafi, as the same Franco relates, and began to work by
himself, and he never lacked employment.

Accordingly he took a house to serve equally as a workshop and a
dwelling-house, next door to a worker of wool in easy circumstances,
who, being a raw simpleton, was called Goosehead. This man's wife
rose early every night, when Buffalmacco, who had worked up to that
time, was going to rest, and setting herself at her spinning wheel,
which she unfortunately placed over against Buffalmacco's bed, she
spent all the night in spinning thread.

Buonamico was unable to sleep a moment, and began to devise a means
whereby to rid himself of this nuisance.
It was not long before he perceived that, behind the brick wall
which separated him from Goosehead, was the fire of his objectionable
neighbour, and by means of a crack he could see everything that she
did at the fire. Accordingly he devised a new trick, and provided
himself with a long tube.

When he found that the wife of Goosehead was not at the fire, he every
now and again put through that hole in the wall into his neighbour's
pot as much salt as he wished. When Goosehead returned either to
dine or to sup he could, as a rule, neither eat nor drink or taste
either soup or meat, as everything was made bitter by too much salt.
For a little while he had patience, and only spoke of it or grumbled;
but when he found that words did not suffice, he frequently gave
blows to the poor woman, who was in despair, because she thought she
had been more than cautious in salting the dish. As her husband beat
her from time to time, she tried to excuse herself, which only increased
the anger of Goosehead, so that he began to strike her again, and
as she cried out at the top of her voice, the noise penetrated
the whole neighbourhood, and drew thither Buffalmacco among others.
When he heard of what Goosehead accused his wife and how she excused
herself, he said to Goosehead:
"Worthy friend, you should be reasonable; you complain that your morning
and evening dishes are too salt, but I only wonder that your wife
makes them so well as she does. I cannot understand how she is able to
keep going all day, considering that she is sitting up the whole
night over her spinning, and does not, I believe, sleep an hour. Let
her give up rising at midnight, and you will see, when she has enough
sleep, her brain will not wander, and she will not fall into such
serious mistakes." Then he turned to the other neighbours, and
succeeded so well in convincing them that he had found the true
explanation that they all told Goosehead that Buonamico was right,
and that he should follow this advice. Goosehead, believing what
he was told, ordered his wife not to rise so soon, and the dishes
were afterwards reasonably salted, except sometimes when the goodwife
had risen early, because then Buffalmacco had recourse to his remedy,
a fact which induced Goosehead to cause his wife to give up early
rising altogether.

One of the earliest works Buffalmacco did was the decoration of the
church of the nunnery of Faenza at Florence, where the citadel of
Prato now is. Here he represented scenes from the life of Christ,
among other things, everything in which is in good style, and he also
did there the massacre of the Innocents by Herod's order. Here he
displays with considerable vigour the expressions of the murderers as
well as of the other figures, because some nurses and mothers, who
are snatching the children from the hands of the murderers, are using
their hands, nails, teeth, and every bodily agent to help them as much
as possible, showing that their minds are not less full of rage and
fury than of grief. As the monastery is destroyed to-day, nothing
more of this work is to be seen than a coloured drawing in our book
of designs, which contains the sketch for this by Buonamico's
hand.
In executing this work for the nuns of Faenza, Buffalmacco, who
was as eccentric in his dress as his behaviour, did not always happen
to wear the hood and mantle customary in those times, and the nuns
who sometimes looked at him through the screen which he had caused
to be made, began to say to the custodian that they objected to
seeing him always in his doublet.

After he had reassured them, they remained quiescent for a while. At
length, as they always saw him attired after the same fashion,
they thought he must be the boy to mix the colours and accordingly
they induced the abbess to tell him that they should like to see the
master himself at work and not this other one always.

Buonamico, who always loved his joke, told them that so soon as the
master arrived he would let them know, although he was sensible of
the small amount of confidence which they placed in him.
Then he took a table and put another on the top of it, setting a water
jug on this, over the handle of which he put a hood and then covered
the rest of the pitcher in a civilian's mantle, fastening it firmly
about the tables.

After this he put a brush in the spout from which the water flows, and
there left it. When the nuns returned to see the work through an
opening where he had torn the canvas, they saw the supposed master
in his attire.

They believed that he was working there to the utmost of his power,
and would do much better than the mere boy had done, so they were
several days thinking of nothing else.

At last they were anxious to see what beautiful things the master had
made. Fifteen days had passed since Buonamico had set foot in the place,
and one night they went to see the paintings, thinking that the
master could no longer be there.

They were covered with confusion and blushes when one bolder than the
rest discovered the nature of the solemn master, who had not done
a stroke in the fortnight.

When they learned that Buonamico had treated them according to their
deserts, and that the works which he had made were excellent, they
recalled him and he returned with much laughter and joking to take
up the work, making them see that there is a difference between
men and dummies, and that works must not always be judged by the
clothes of those who produce them.

After a few days he finished one subject there, with which they
were very delighted since it appeared to them to be satisfactory
in all its parts, except that the figures in the flesh colouring
seemed to them to be rather too pale.

When Buonamico heard this and learning that the abbess had the best
vernaccia in Florence, which served for the sacrifice of the mass, he
told them that in order to remedy such a defect, nothing would be
serviceable except to temper the colours with a good vernaccia, for
if the cheeks and other flesh parts of the figures were touched with
this, they would become red and very freshly coloured.

When the good sisters heard this they believed it completely and
afterwards kept him supplied with the best vernaccia so long as the
work lasted, while he on his part made merry and thenceforward with
his ordinary colours rendered his figures more fresh and brilliant.

On the completion of this work Buffalmacco painted in the abbey of
Settimo some scenes from the life of St James in the chapel dedicated
to that saint which is in the cloister, on the vault of which he did
the four Patriarchs and the four Evangelists, among whom the attitude
of Luke is noteworthy for the natural way in which he is blowing
his pen to make the ink flow. In the subjects for the walls, which
are five, the figures are represented in fine attitudes and
everything is carried out with originality and judgment. In order
to make his flesh colouring easier to paint Buonamico used a ground
of _pavonazzo di sale_, as is seen in this work, which in the
course of time has caused a saltness by which the white and other
colours are corroded and consumed so that it is no marvel that the
work is damaged and destroyed, while many that were made long before
have been excellently preserved.

I formerly considered that the injury was caused by the damp, but
afterwards by an examination of his other works I have proved by
experience that it is not the damp, but this peculiar practice of
Buffalmacco which has caused them to be so damaged that it is not
possible to see the design or anything else, and where the flesh
colour should be there remains nothing but the _pavonazzo_.

This method of working should not be practised by anyone who desires
a long life for his paintings.

After the two pictures mentioned above, Buonamico did two others in
tempera for the monks of the Certosa at Florence, one of which is
in the place where the singing books for the choir rest, and the
other is below in the old chapels.

In the Badia at Florence he painted in fresco the chapel of the Gondi
and Bastari, beside the principal chapel, which was afterwards granted
to the family of the Boscoli, and still retains these paintings of
Buffalmacco. Here he did the Passion of Christ, with fine and
original expressions, showing in Christ, when He washes the
disciples' feet, the greatest humility and benignity, and cruelty
and fierceness in the Jews who lead Him to Herod.

But he displayed especial originality and facility in a Pilate whom he
painted in prison and in Judas, hung to a tree, from which we may
readily believe what is related of this pleasant painter, that when
he wished to be diligent and take pains, which rarely happened, he
was not inferior to any other artist of his time.

That this is true is proved by his works in fresco in Ognissanti,
where the cemetery now is, produced with such diligence and with
such precautions that the water which has rained upon them for
many years has not injured them or caused any harm except by
preventing a recognition of their excellence.

They are so well preserved because they were done simply upon fresh
lime. On the walls are the Nativity of Jesus Christ and the Adoration
of the Magi, that is to say, over the tomb of the Aliotti.

After these works Buonamico went to Bologna, where he painted in fresco
on the vaults of the chapel of the Bolognini in S. Petronio, but
did not finish them, for some reason unknown to me. It is said that
in the year 1302 he was summoned to Assisi, and in the chapel of St
Catherine in the church of S.
Francesco he painted the history of the former saint's life in fresco,
works which are very well preserved, and containing some figures
well worthy of praise. When he had completed the chapel and was
on his way through Arezzo, the bishop Guido, who had heard that
Buonamico was a pleasant man and a painter of talent, wished him to
stay in the city and paint for him the chapel in the Vescovado
containing the Baptism of Christ.

  Buonamico put his hand to the
   work and had already done a considerable part
   of it when a very strange adventure
   happened to him, related by Franco Sacchetti in his "Three Hundred
Tales."

The bishop possessed a baboon, the most mischievous and malignant creature
that ever was seen. This animal was one day standing on his perch
and watching Buonamico work, having lost thought of everything
else, and never taking his eyes off him as he mixed the colours,
managed the tools, broke the eggs to make the tempera, or did any
other thing, no matter what.

  One Saturday evening
   Buonamico left the
   work and this baboon;
   on Sunday
   morning, although he had a
   great log of wood
   attached to his legs, which
   the bishop made
   him carry so that
   he should not leap everywhere, notwithstanding this heavy weight,
leapt on to the scaffolding where Buonamico used to stand to work,
and there took up the phials and emptied them one by one, made the
mixtures, broke as many eggs as were there, and began to daub all
the figures with the brush, never resting until he had repainted
everything himself.

That done he made a fresh mixture of all the colours which were left
over, although they happened to be few, and then descended from the
scaffolding and departed. When Buonamico came back to his work on
Monday morning and saw his figures spoiled, his phials emptied and
everything upside down, he was filled with amazement and confusion.

After turning the matter over in his mind for some time he
concluded that some Aretine had done this from envy or for some other
reason. Accordingly he went to the bishop and told him what had
happened and what he suspected, at which the bishop was much troubled,
yet he encouraged Buonamico to go on with the work, and to
repaint the part which had been spoiled. He further pledged
himself to give the artist six armed men of his infantry, who should
stand with falchions to watch, when he was not working, and to cut to
pieces without mercy anyone who should come. Accordingly the figures
were repainted a second time, and one day while the soldiers were
on the watch they heard a curious rolling noise in the
church, and soon after the baboon appeared, jumped upon the seat,
made the mixtures in an instant, and set to work upon the saints
of Buonamico.

The guard then called the master, and showed him the criminal,
and when they saw him standing with them and watching the animal work,
they burst into laughter, and Buonamico himself, though grieved at
the damage, could not help laughing in the midst of his sorrow. At
length he dismissed the soldiers who had been on guard with their
falchions, and went to the bishop and said to him: "My lord, you
like my manner of painting, but your baboon prefers another."

I _must_ know, George! Find out for me, dear, please!"

As she spoke, she made a sign towards the boat, so earnest, so
imperative, that it caught Star's wandering gaze. Their eyes met,
and the little child in the pink calico frock, and the stately lady
in the India shawl, gazed at each other as if they saw nothing else
in the world. The gentleman looked from one to the other in amazement.

"Isabel!" he whispered, "the child looks like you. What can this
mean?"

But little Star, in the old black boat, cried, "Take me away, Bob!
take me home to my Daddy Captain! _Quick_! do you hear?"

"Jes' so" said Bob Peet. "Nat'rally!"


CHAPTER IV.

THE VISIT


A gray day! soft gray sky, like the breast of a dove; sheeny gray
sea, with gleams of steel running across; trailing skirts of mist
shutting off the mainland, leaving Light Island alone with the ocean;
the white tower gleaming spectral among the folding mists; the dark
pine-tree pointing a sombre finger to heaven; the wet, black rocks,
from which the tide had gone down, huddling together in fantastic
groups as if to hide their nakedness.

On the little beach two men were slowly pacing up and down, up and
down, one silent, the other talking earnestly. Old men, both, with
white, reverend hair: one slender and small, the other a son of Anak,
big and brawny,--Captain January and the minister.

It was the minister who had been speaking. But now he had done, and
they took a few turns in silence before the Captain spoke in reply.

"Minister," he said,--and his voice was strangely altered from the
gruff, hearty tone which had greeted his guest fifteen minutes before.
"Minister, I ain't a man that's used to hearin' much talk, and it
confuses my mind a bit. There's things inside my head that seems to
go round and round, sometimes, and put me out. Now, if it isn't askin'
too much, I'll git you to go over them p'ints again. Slow, like! slow,
Minister, bearin' in mind that I'm a slow man, and not used to it.
This--this lady, she come to your house yisterday, as ever was?"

"Yesterday," assented the minister; and his voice had a tender, almost
compassionate tone, as if he were speaking to a child.

"And a fine day it were!" said Captain January. "Wind steady, sou'west
by sou'. Fog in the mornin', and Bob Peet run the _Huntress_ aground
on the bank. I never liked fog, Minister! 'Give me a gale,' I'd say,
'or anythin' short of a cyclone,' I'd say, 'but don't give me fog!'
and see now, how it's come about! But it lifted, soon as the harm
were done. It lifted, and as fine a day as ever you see."

The minister looked at him in some alarm, but the old man's keen blue
eyes were clear and intelligent, and met his gaze openly.

"You're thinkin' I'm crazy, minister, or maybe drunk," he said,
quietly; "but I ain't neither one. I'm on'y takin' it by and large.
When a man has been fifteen year on a desert island, ye see, he learns
to take things by and large. But I never see good come of a fog yet.
Amen! so be it! And so Cap'n Nazro brought the lady to your house,
Minister?"

"Captain Nazro came with her," said the minister, "and also her
husband, Mr. Morton, and Robert Peet, the pilot. Mrs. Morton had seen
little Star in Peet's boat, and was greatly and painfully struck by
the child's likeness to a beloved sister of hers, who had, it was
supposed, perished at sea, with her husband and infant child, some
ten years ago."

"Ten year ago," repeated Captain January, passing his hand across
his weather-beaten face, which looked older, somehow, than it was
wont to do. "Ten year ago this September. 'He holdeth the waters in
the hollow of His hand.' Go on, Minister. The lady thought my little
Star, as the Lord dropped out of the hollow of His hand into my arms
ten year ago, had a look of her sister."

"She was so strongly impressed by it," the minister continued,
quietly, "that, failing to attract Peet's attention as he rowed away,
she sent for the captain, and begged him to give her all the
information he could about the child. What she heard moved her so
deeply that she became convinced of the child's identity with her
sister's lost infant. As soon as Peet returned after putting Star
ashore, she questioned him even more closely. He, good fellow, refused
to commit himself to anything which he fancied you might not like,
but he told her of my having performed the last rites over the mortal
remains of the child's parents, and Mr. Morton wisely counselled her
to go at once to me, instead of coming here, as she at first wished
to do. After my interview with her, I am bound to say--"

"Easy now, Minister!" interrupted Captain January. "I'm an old man,
though I never knowed it till this day. Easy with this part!"

"I am bound to say," continued the minister, laying his hand kindly
on his companion's arm, "that I think there is little doubt of Star's
being Mrs. Morton's niece."

"And what if she be?" exclaimed the old sailor, turning with a sudden
violence which made the gentle minister start back in alarm. "What
if she be? what have the lady done for her niece? Did she take her
out o' the sea, as raged like all the devils let loose, and death
itself a-hangin' round and fairly howlin' for that child? did she
stand on that rock, blind and deef and e'ena'most mazed with the
beatin' and roarin' and onearthly screechin' all round, and take that
child from its dead mother's breast, and vow to the Lord, as helped
in savin' it, to do as should be done by it? Has she prayed, and
worked, and sweat, and laid awake nights, for fear that child's
fingers should ache, this ten years past? Has she--" the old man's
voice, which had been ringing out like a trumpet, broke off suddenly.
The angry fire died out of his blue eyes, and he bowed his head
humbly. "I ask yer pardon, Minister!" he said, quietly, after a pause.
"I humbly ask yer pardon. I had forgotten the Lord, ye see, for all
I was talkin' about Him so glib. I was takin' my view, and forgettin'
that the Lord had His. _He_ takes things by and large, and nat'rally
He takes 'em larger than mortal man kin do. Amen! so be it!" He took
off his battered hat, and stood motionless for a few moments, with
bent head: nor was his the only silent prayer that went up from the
little gray beach to the gray heaven above.

"Well, Minister," he said, presently, in a calm and even cheerful
voice, "and so that bein' all clear to your mind, the lady have sent
you to take my--to take her niece--the little lady (and a lady she
were from her cradle) back to her. Is that the way it stands?"

"Oh, no! no indeed!" cried the kind old minister. "Mrs. Morton would
do nothing so cruel as that, Captain January. She is very
kind-hearted, and fully appreciates all that you have done for the
little girl. But she naturally wants to see the child, and to do
whatever is for her best advantage."

"For the child's advantage. That's it!" repeated Captain January.
"That's somethin' to hold on by. Go on, Minister!"

"So she begged me to come over alone," continued the minister, "to--to
prepare your mind, and give you time to think the matter well over.
And she and Mr. Morton were to follow in the course of an hour, in
Robert Peet's boat. He is a very singular fellow, that Peet!" added
the good man, shaking his head. "Do you think he is quite in his right
mind? He has taken the most inveterate dislike to Mr. and Mrs. Morton,
and positively refuses to speak to either of them. I could hardly
prevail upon him to bring them over here, and yet he fell into a
strange fury when I spoke of getting some one else to bring them.
He--he is quite safe, I suppose?"

"Wal, yes!" replied Captain January, with a half smile. "Bob's safe,
if anyone is. Old Bob! so he doosn't like them, eh?"

At that moment his eye caught something, and he said, in an altered
voice, "Here's Bob's boat coming now, Minister, and the lady and
gentleman in her."

"They must have come much more rapidly than I did," said the minister,
"and yet my boy rows well enough. Compose yourself, January! this
is a heavy blow for you, my good friend. Compose yourself! Things
are strangely ordered in this world. 'We see through a glass darkly'!"

"Not meanin' to set my betters right, Minister," said Captain January,
"I never seed as it made any difference whether a man seed or not,
darkly or howsumdever, so long as the Lord made _His_ views clear.
And He's makin' 'em!" he added. "He's makin' 'em, Minister! Amen!
so be it!" And quietly and courteously, ten minutes later, he was
bidding his visitors welcome to Light Island, as if it were a kingdom,
and he the crownless monarch of it. "It's a poor place, Lady!" he
said, with a certain stately humility, as he helped Mrs. Morton out
of the boat. "Good anchorage for a shipwrecked mariner like me, but
no place for ladies or--or them as belongs to ladies."

"O Captain January!" cried Mrs. Morton, who was a tall, fair woman,
with eyes like Star's own. "What shall I say to you? I must seem to
you so cruel, so heartless, to come and ask for the child whom you
have loved and cared for so long. For that is what I have come for!
I must speak frankly, now that I see your kind, honest face. I have
come to take my sister's child, for it is my duty to do so." She laid
both hands on the old man's arm, and looked up in his face with
pleading, tearful eyes.

But Captain January's face did not move as he answered, quietly, "It
is your duty, Lady. No question o' that, to my mind or any. But,"
he added, with a wistful look, "I'll ask ye to do it easy, Lady. It'll
be sudden like for the--for the young lady. And--she ain't used to
bein' took sudden, my ways bein' in a manner slow. You'll happen find
her a little quick, Lady, in her ways, she bein' used to a person
as was in a manner slow, and havin' to be quick for two, so to say.
But it's the sparkle o' gold, Lady, and a glint o' diamonds."

But the lady was weeping, and could not answer; so Captain January
turned to her husband, who met him with a warm grasp of the hand,
and a few hearty and kindly words.

"And now I'll leave ye with the minister for a minute, Lady and
Gentleman," the Captain said; "for Bob Peet is a-signallin' me as
if he'd sprung a leak below the water line, and all hands goin' to
the bottom."

Bob, who had withdrawn a few paces after beaching his boat, was indeed
making frantic demonstrations to attract the Captain's attention,
dancing and snapping his fingers, and contorting his features in
strange and hideous fashion.

"Well, Bob," said the old man, walking up to him, "what's up with
you, and why are ye h'istin' and lowerin' your jib in that onarthly
fashion?"

Bob Peet seized him by the arm, and led him away up the beach.
"Cap'n," he said, looking round to make sure that they were out of
hearing of the others, "I can't touch a lady--not seamanly! But 'f
you say the word--knock gen'l'm'n feller--middle o' next week. Say
the word, Cap'n! Good's a meal o' vittles t' me--h'ist him over
cliff!"


CHAPTER V.

In the church of the Servites, in the same city he painted in fresco,
also in conjunction with Bernardo, the chapel of the family of the
Cresci, and in S.

Pier Maggiore in a picture of considerable size, the Coronation of
the Virgin, and another picture in S. Romeo near the side door.

He and his brother Bernardo also painted in fresco together the façade
of S. Apollinare, with such diligence that the colours are bright and
beautiful and marvellously preserved to this day in that exposed place.
The governors of Pisa, moved by the renown of these works of Orcagna,
which were much admired, sent for him to do a part of the wall in
the Campo Santo of that city, as Giotto and Buffalmacco had previously
done.

Accordingly he put his hand to the work, and painted a Last Judgment,
with some fancies of his own, on the wall towards the Duomo, next
to the Passion of Christ made by Buffalmacco. In the first scene he
represented all ranks of temporal lords enjoying the pleasures of
this world, seating them in a flowery meadow under the shadow
of many orange trees, forming a most agreeable wood. Above the
branches are some cupids, who are flying round and over a number of
young women, evidently portraits of noble women and ladies of the
day, though they are not recognisable after this lapse of time.

The cupids are preparing to transfix the hearts of the ladies, near
whom are young men and lords listening to playing and singing and
watching the amorous dancing of men and maidens, delighting
in the sweetness of their loves.
Dear
Imogen! it was _so_ becoming to her. Well, so my poor mamma put it
on--_so_! and then she paced through the hall, and all the lords
turned round and said, 'Mark'st thou yon lady?' 'Cause she was so
beautiful, you know. _This_ is the way she paced!" and then the little
creature would fall to pacing up and down the room, dragging the
voluminous pink folds behind her, her head thrown back, and a look
of delighted pride lighting up her small face.

It was the funniest little place, this room of Star's, the queerest,
quaintest little elfin bower! It was built out from the south side
of the tower, almost like a swallow's nest, only a swallow's nest
has no window looking out on the blue sea. There was a little white
bed in a corner, and a neat chest of drawers, and a wash-stand, all
made by Captain January's skilful hands, and all shining and spotless.
The bare floor was shining too, and so was the little looking-glass
which hung upon the wall. And beside the looking-glass, and above
it, and in fact all over the walls, were trophies and wonders of all
kinds and descriptions. There was the starfish with ten legs, pinned
up in sprawling scarlet; and there, beside him, the king of all the
sea-urchins, resplendent with green and purple horns. And here were
ropes of shells, and branches of coral, and over the bed a great
shining star, made of the delicate gold-shells. That was Daddy's
present to her on her last birthday. Dear Daddy! There, sitting in
the corner, was Mrs. Neptune, the doll which Captain January had
carved out of a piece of fine wood that had drifted ashore after a
storm. Sir _John Heydon_, the Lieutenant of his Majesties Ordnance
(that generous and knowing gentleman and consummate souldier, both in
theory and practice) was the first that instructed me how to do
this, by means of a furnace, so made as to imitate the warmth of a
sitting hen. In which you may lay several eggs to hatch and by
breaking them at several ages, you may distinctly observe every hourly
mutation in them, if you please. The first will be, that on one
side you shall find a great resplendent clearness in the white.

After a while, a little spot of red matter, like blood will appear
in the midst of that clearness, fast'ned to the yolk, which will
have a motion of opening and shutting, so as sometimes you will
see it, and straight again it will vanish from your sight, and
indeed, at first it is so little that you cannot see it, but by the
motion of it; for at every pulse, as it opens you may see it, and
immediately again it shuts, in such sort as it is not to be discerned.
From this red speck, after a while, there will stream out a number
of little (almost imperceptible) red veins. At the end of some of which,
in time, there will be gathered together a knot of matter, which by
little and little will take the form of a head and you will, ere
long, begin to discern eyes and a beak in it. All this while the
first red spot of blood grows bigger and solider, till at length it
becomes {85} a fleshy substance, and, by its figure, may easily be
discern'd to be the heart; which as yet hath no other inclosure but
the substance of the egg. But by little and little, the rest of the
body of an animal is framed out of those red veins which stream out
all about from the heart. And in process of time, that body encloses
the heart within it by the chest, which grows over on both sides, and
in the end meets and closes itself fast together. After which this
little creature soon fills the shell, by converting into several parts
of itself all the substance of the egg; and then growing weary of so
strait a habitation, it breaks prison and comes out a perfectly
formed chicken."--Sir Kenelm Digby's _Treatise of Bodies_, Ch. xxiv.
p. 274. ed. 1669.

Could Sir Kenelm return to the scenes of this upper world, and
pay a visit to Mr. Cantelo's machine, his shade might say with
truthfulness, what Horace Smith's mummy answered to his questioner,--

"--We men of yore Were versed in all the knowledge you can mention."

The operations of the two machines appear to be precisely the same:
the only difference being the Sir Kenelm's was an experimental
one, made for the purpose of investigating the process of nature;
while Cantelo's, in accordance with "the spirit of the iron time,"
is a practical one, made for the purposes of utility and profit. Sir
Kenelm's Treatise appears to have been first published in the year
1644.

HENRY KERSLEY.

Corpus Christi Hall, Maidstone.

* * * * *
ETYMOLOGY OF THE WORD "PARLIAMENT."
It has been observed by a learned annotator on the _Commentaries of
Blackstone_, that, "no inconsiderable pains have been bestowed in
analysing the word 'Parliament;'" and after adducing several amusing
instances of the attempts that have been made (and those too by men
of the most recondite learning) to arrive at its true radical
properties, he concludes his remarks by observing that
"'Parliament' imported originally nothing more than a council
or conference, and that the termination '_ment_,' in parliament,
has no more signification than it has in _impeachment_, _engagement_,
_imprisonment_, _hereditament_, and ten thouand others of the same
nature."

  He admits, however, that the
    civilians have, in deriving testament from _testari mentem_,
imparted a greater significance to the termination "ment."

Amidst such diversity of opinion, I am emboldened to offer a solution
of the word "Parliament," which, from its novelty alone, if possessing
no better qualification, may perhaps recommend itself to the
consideration of your readers. In my humble judgment, all former
etymologists of the word appear to have stumbled _in limine_, for
I would suggest that its compounds are "_palam_" and "_mens_."
With the Romans there existed a law that in certain cases the verdict
of the jury might be given CLAM VEL PALAM, viz., _privily_ or
_openly_, or in other words, by _tablet_ or _ballot_, or by _voices_."'Courtesied when ye have, and kissed
      (The wild waves whist!)
    Foot it featly here and there.'

"Oh! foot it featly, and feat it footly, and dance and sing, and
tootle-ty ting!" cried the child, as she flitted like a golden cloud
about the room. Then, as she whirled round and faced the door, she
stopped short. Her arms fell by her side, and she stood as if
spellbound, looking at the lady who stood in the doorway.

The lady made no motion at first, but only gazed at her with loving
and tender eyes. She was a beautiful lady, and her eyes were soft
and blue, with a look of tears in them. But there was no answering
softness in the starry eyes of the child: only a wide, wild look of
wonder, of anger, perhaps of fear. Presently the lady, still silent,
raised both hands, and kissed them tenderly to the child; then laid
them on her breast, and then held them out to her with a gesture of
loving appeal.

"I don't know whether you are a spirit of health or a goblin damned,"
said Star; "but anyhow it isn't polite to come into people's houses
without knocking, _I_ think. I knowed you were a spirit when you
looked at me yesterday, if you _did_ have a red shawl on."

"How did you know that I was a spirit?" asked the lady softly. "Oh,
little Star, how did you know?"

"'Cause you looked like my poor mamma's picture," replied the child,
"that my poor papa had round his neck. Are you my mamma's spirit?"

The lady shook her head. "No, darling," she said, "I am no spirit.
But I have come to see you, little Star, and to tell you something.
Will you not let me come in, Sweetheart?"

Star blushed, and hung her head for a moment, remembering Captain
January's lessons on politeness and "quarter-deck manners." She
brought a chair at once, and in a more gracious tone said (mindful
of Willum Shakespeare's lords and ladies), "I pray you sit!"

The lady sat down, and taking the child's hand, drew her gently
towards her. "Were you playing fairy, dear?" she asked, smoothing
back the golden hair with loving touch.

Star nodded. "I was delicate Ariel," she said. "I was footing it
featly, you know, on these yellow sands. Sometimes I am Puck, and
sometimes Titania; but Daddy likes Ariel best, and so do I. Did you
ever play it?" she asked, looking up into the kindly face that bent
over her.

The lady smiled and shook her head. "No, dear child," she said, still
with that motherly touch of the hand on the fair head. "I never
thought of such a pretty play as that, but I was very happy as a child
playing with my--with my sister. I had a dear, dear sister, Star.
Would you like to hear about her?"

"Yes," said Star, with wondering eyes. "Was she a little girl?"

"Such a lovely little girl!" said the lady. "Her hair was dark, but
her eyes were like yours, Star, blue and soft. We played together
always as children, and we grew up together, two loving, happy girls.
Then my sister married: and by and by, dear, she had a little baby.
A sweet little girl baby, and she named it Isabel, after me."

"I was a little girl baby, too," said Star, "but I wasn't named
anything; I came so: just Star."

"Little Isabel had another name," said the lady. "Her other name was
Maynard, because that was her father's name. Her father was Hugh
Maynard. Have you ever seen or heard that name, my child?"

Star shook her head. "No!" she said; "my poor papa's name was H. M.
It was marked on his shirt and han'k'chief, Daddy says. And my poor
mamma's name was Helena, just like Helena in 'Midsummer Night's
Dream.'" The motherly hand trembled, and the lady's voice faltered
as she said, "Star, my dear sister's name was Helena, too. Is not
that strange, my little one?"

The child looked curiously at her. "Where is your dear sister?" she
asked. "Why do you cry when you say her name? is she naughty?"

"Listen, Star," said the lady, wiping the tears from her eyes, and
striving to speak composedly.

"My sister made a voyage to Europe, with her husband and her little
baby. They spent the summer travelling in beautiful countries; and
in the autumn, in September, Star, ten years ago this very
year,--think of it, my dear!--they sailed for home. They came in a
sailing-vessel, because the sea-voyage was thought good for your--for
my sister. And--and--the vessel was never heard from. There was a
terrible storm and many vessels were lost in it."

"Just like my poor mamma's ship," said the child. "Perhaps it was
the same storm. Do you think--why do you look at me so?" she cried,
breaking off suddenly.

But the lady put both arms round her and drew her close, close, while
her tears fell fast on the golden hair. "My darling!" she cried, "my
dear, dear little one! It _was_ the same storm; the same storm and
the same ship. Your poor mamma was my own sweet sister Helena, and
you are my niece, my little Isabel, my own, own little namesake. Will
you love me, darling? will you love your Aunt Isabel, and let her
care for you and cherish you as your sweet mother would have done?"

Star stood very still, neither returning nor repelling the lady's
caresses. She was pale, and her breath came short and quick, but
otherwise she showed no sign of agitation. Presently she put up her
hand and stroked the lady's cheek gently. "Why do you cry?" she asked,
quietly. "My poor mamma is in heaven. Don't you like her to be in
heaven? Daddy says it is much nicer than here, and he knows."

Mrs. Morton checked her tears, and smiled tenderly in the little
wondering face, "Dear child!" she said, "I do like to have her in
heaven, and I will not cry any more. But you have not told me whether
you will love me, Star. Will you try, dear? and will you let me call
you my little Isabel?"

"I will love you," replied the child, "if Daddy Captain loves you;
I will love you very much. But you must not call me that name, 'cause
I'm not _it_. I am just Star. _Does_ Daddy love you?" she asked; and
then, with a sudden note of anxiety in her voice, she exclaimed,
"Where is Daddy? Where is my Daddy Captain? Did you see him when you
came in?"

Her question was answered by the sound of voices outside; and the
next moment the minister appeared, followed by Mr. Morton and Captain
January. The old Captain hastened to place a chair for each of the
gentlemen by the fireside, and then took his stand against the wall
on the further side of the room. He held his weather-beaten cap in
his hand, and turned it slowly round and round, considering it
attentively. It might have been observed by one quick to notice
trifles, that he did not look at the child, though no slightest motion
of hers was lost upon him.

"George," said Mrs. Morton, joyously, to her husband, "here is our
little niece, dearest Helena's child. She is going to love me, she
says, and she will love you, too. Star, my darling, this is your Uncle
George. Will you not give him a kiss, and be his little girl as well
as mine? We have two little girls at home, and you shall be the
third."

Star went obediently to Mr. Morton, who kissed her warmly, and tried
to take her on his knee. "You are taller than our Grace," he said,
"but I don't believe you are as heavy, my dear. Grace is just your
age, and I am sure you will be great friends."

But Star slipped quietly from his arms, and, running to the Captain,
took one of his hands in both of hers and kissed it. "I am Daddy
Captain's little girl!" she said, looking round bravely at the
others. "Why do you talk as if I belonged to you?" Then seeing the
trouble in Mrs. Morton's face, she added, "I _will_ love you, truly
I will, and I will call you Aunt Isabel; but I cannot belong to
different people, 'cause I'm only just one. Just Captain January's
Star."

She looked up in the old man's face with shining eyes, but no tender,
confident look returned her glance. The brown hand trembled between
her two little white palms; the keen blue eyes were still bent fixedly
upon the old woollen cap, as if studying its texture; but it was in
a quiet and soothing tone that the Captain murmured:

"Easy, Jewel Bright! Easy, now! Helm steady, and stand by!"

There was a moment of troubled silence; and then the old minister,
clearing his throat, spoke in his gentle, tranquil voice. "My dear
child," he said, "a very strange thing has come to pass; but what
seems strange to us is doubtless clear and simple to the Infinite
Wisdom above us. You have been a faithful and loving child, little
Star, to your beloved guardian and friend here, and no father could
have cared for you more tenderly than he has done. But the tie of
blood is a strong one, my dear, and should not be lightly set aside.
This lady is your own near relation, the sister of your dear dead
mother. Through the merciful providence of God, she has been led to
you, and she feels it her duty to claim you, in the name of your
parents. We have considered the matter carefully, and we all feel
that it is right that you should hereafter make your home with her
and your uncle. This may be painful to you, my dear; but you are a
good and intelligent child, and you will understand that if we give
you pain now, it is to secure your future good and happiness."

He paused; and all eyes, save those keen blue ones which were studying
so carefully the texture of the battered woollen cap, turned anxiously
on the child. A deep flush passed over Star's face; then vanished,
leaving it deadly pale, a mask of ivory with eyes of flame. When she
spoke, it was in a low, suppressed voice, wholly unlike her own.

"You may kill me," said the child, "and take my body away, if you
like. I will not go while I am alive."

She turned her eyes from one to the other, as if watching for the
slightest motion to approach her.

Mrs. Morton, in great distress, spoke next. "My darling, it grieves
me to the heart to take you from your dear, kind Daddy. But think,
my Star; you are a child now, but you will soon be a woman. You cannot
grow up to womanhood in a place like this. You must be with your own
people, and have companions of your own age. My children will be like
your own sisters and brothers. My dear, if you could only know how
they will love you, how we shall all cherish and care for you!"

"When I am dead?" asked Star. "It will make no difference to me, your
love, for I shall be dead. I will not go alive."

"Oh, Captain January!" cried Mrs. Morton, turning to the old man with
clasped hands. "Speak to her! she will listen to you. Tell her--tell
her what you said to me. Tell her that it is right for her to go;
that you wish her to go!"

The old man's breathing was heavy and laboured, and for a moment it
seemed as if he strove in vain for utterance: but when he spoke, his
voice was still soothing and cheerful, though his whole great frame
was trembling like a withered leaf. "Star Bright," he said (and
between almost every word he paused to draw the short, heavy breath),
"I always told ye, ye 'member, that ye was the child of gentlefolks.
So bein', 'tis but right that you should have gentle raisin' by them
as is yer own flesh and blood. You've done your duty, and more than
your duty, by me. Now 'tis time ye did your duty by them as the Lord
has sent to ye. You'll have--my--my respeckful love and duty wherever
you go, my dear, and you growin' up to be a beautiful lady, as has
been a little wild lass. And you'll not forget the old Cap'n, well
I know, as will be very comf'table here--"

But here the child broke out with a wild, loud cry, which made all
the others start to their feet. "Do you want me to go?" she cried.
"Look at me, Daddy Captain! you _shall_ look at me!" She snatched
the cap from his hands and flung it into the fire, then faced him
with blazing eyes and quivering lip. "Do you want me to go? Are you
tired of me?"

Heavier and heavier grew that weight on Captain January's chest:
shorter and harder came his breath. His eyes met the child's for a
moment, then wavered and fell. "Why--honey--" he said, slowly,
"I--I'm an old man now--a very old man. And--and--an old man likes
quiet, ye see: and--I'd be quieter by myself, like; and--and so,
honey--I--I'd like ye to go."

"_You lie_!" cried the child; and her voice rang like a silver trumpet
in the startled ears of the listeners. "You lie to me, and you lie
to God: and you _know_ you lie!"

The next moment she had sprung on to the low window-sill, then turned
for an instant, with her little hands clenched in menace, and her
great eyes flashing fire that fell like a burning touch on every
heart. Her fantastic dress gleamed like a fiery cloud against the
gray outside: her hair fell like a glory about her vivid, shining
face. A moment she stood there, a vision, a flying star, trailing
angry light, never to be forgotten by those who saw; then, like a
flash, she vanished.

Captain January tottered to his old chair and sat down in it. "The
child is right, Lady and Gentleman!" he said. "I lied! I lied to my
God, and to the little child who loved me. May God and the child
forgive me!" And he hid his face in his hands, and silence fell for
a moment.

Then Mr. Morton, who had walked hastily to the window, and was doing
something with his handkerchief, beckoned to his wife. "Isabel," he
said, in a low tone, "I will not be a party to this. It's an atrocious
and vindictive outrage. I--I--you are not the woman I took you for,
if you say another word to that old angel. Let him have the child,
and send him one or two of your own into the bar--" but Isabel Morton,
laughing through her tears, laid her hand over her husband's lips
for a moment. Then going to the old man's chair, she knelt down by
it, and took his two hands in hers.

"Captain January!" she said, tenderly. "Dear, dear Captain January!
the lie is forgiven: I am very, very sure it is forgiven in heaven,
as it will be forgiven in the child's loving heart. And may God never
pardon me, if ever word or look of mine come again between you and
the child whom God gave you!"

The gray evening was closing in around the lighthouse tower. The
guests were gone, and Captain January sat alone beside the fire in
his old armchair. The window was still open, for the air was soft
and mild. The old man's hands were clasped upon his knee; his heart
was lifted as high as heaven, in silent prayer and praise.

In the lower church of S.
Francesco at Assisi he further painted in fresco some scenes from the
passion of Jesus Christ, with considerable skill and much vigour, and
in the chapel of S.

Maria degli Angeli of that church he executed in fresco a Christ
in glory, with the Virgin, who is interceding with Him for Christian
people, a work of considerable merit, but much smoked by the lamps
and candles which are always burning there in great quantity.

In truth, so far as one can judge, although Puccio adopted the style
and methods of his master Giotto, yet he did not make sufficient
use of them in his works, although, as some assert, he did not live
long, but sickened and died through working too much in fresco.

His hand may also be recognised in the chapel of St Martin in the
same church, in the history of the saint, done in fresco for the
Cardinal Gentile.

In the middle of a street called Portica may also be seen a Christ
at the Column, and a picture of Our Lady between St Catherine and
St Clare. His works are scattered about in many other places, such
as Bologna, where there is a picture of the passion of Christ in the
transept of the church, and scenes from the life of St Francis,
besides other things which I omit for the sake of brevity. But at
Assisi, where the majority of his works are, and where I believe he
helped Giotto to paint, I found that they consider him to be
a fellow-citizen, and there are some members of the family of the
Capanni in that city to this day. From this we may gather that he
was born in Florence, since he himself wrote that he was a pupil of
Giotto, but that he took his wife from Assisi, and had children
there, whose descendants still inhabit the town. But this matter is
of very slight importance, and it is enough to know that he was a
skilful master. Another pupil of Giotto, and a very skilful painter
was Ottaviano da Faenza, who painted many things in S. Giorgio at
Ferrara, a convent of the monks of Monte Oliveto. In Faenza, where
he lived and died, he painted in the tympanum above the door of S.
Francesco, Our Lady and St Peter and St Paul, and many other things
in his own country and at Bologna.

Another pupil was Pace di Faenza, who was often with his master, and
helped him in many things. At Bologna there are some scenes in fresco
by his hand on the outside front of S. Giovanni Decollato.

This Pace was a clever artist, especially in painting small figures,
as may be seen to-day in the church of S. Francesco at Forli, in
a tree of the cross and in a panel in tempera containing the life of
Christ, and four small subjects from the life of Our Lady, which
are all very well executed. It is said that he executed in fresco
for the chapel of St Anthony at Assisi, some scenes from the life
of that saint for a duke of Spoleto, who is buried there with a son.
These two princes had been killed while fighting in the suburbs
of Assisi, as may be seen by a long inscription on the sarcophagus
of their tomb. The old book of the company of painters records that
one Francesco, called "of Master Giotto," was another pupil of the
master, but I know nothing more about him.

Yet another pupil of Giotto was Guglielmo da Forli, who, besides
many other works, painted the chapel of the high altar for
S. Domenico at Forli, his native place. Other pupils were Pietro
Laureati, Simone Memmi of Siena, Stefano of Florence, and Pietro
Cavallini of Rome.
But as I intend to deal fully with these in their lives, I shall content
myself here with simply saying that they were pupils of Giotto.
That the master drew extremely well for his day may be seen on a number
of parchments containing some water colours, pen and ink drawings,
chiaroscuros with the lights in white, by his hand, in our book of
designs, which are truly marvellous when compared with those of the
masters who preceded him, and afford a good example of his style.

As has been said, Giotto was a very witty and pleasant person, very
ready in speech, many of his sayings being still fresh in the memory
of his fellow-citizens. Besides the one related by M. Giovanni
Boccaccio, several very good stories are told by Franco Sacchetti
in his "Three Hundred Tales." I give one in the author's own words,
because it contains many expressions and phrases characteristic of
the time.

So quietly, in the unbroken peace which love brightened into joy,
the winter passed.

At Christmas, they had, as usual, a visit from the faithful Bob, who
brought all his many pockets full of candy and oranges and all manner
of "truck," as he called it, for Missy Star. Also he brought a letter
and a box directed only to "Captain January's Star." The letter, which
the child opened with wondering eagerness, being the first she had
ever received, was from Mrs. Morton. It was full of tender and loving
words, wishes for Christmas cheer and New Year blessing, and with
it was a photograph of the beautiful face, with its soft and tender
eyes, which Star remembered so well. On the back was written, "For
Little Star, from Aunt Isabel." And the box? Why, that was quite as
wonderful in its way. For it contained a most beautiful pipe for the
Captain, of sweet brier-wood, mounted in silver; and oh! oh! such
a doll! Other children have seen such dolls, but Star never had; a
blue-eyed waxen beauty, with fringed lashes that opened and shut,
rose-leaf cheeks, and fabulous wealth of silky flaxen curls. Also
it had a blue velvet-frock, and its underclothing was a wonder to
behold; and the box was full of other frocks and garments.

Star took the doll in her arms with delighted awe, and seemed for
a few moments absorbed in her new treasure. Presently, however, a
shadow crossed her bright face. She glanced at Bob and the Captain,
and seeing that they were both engaged in busy talk, she quietly went
up to her own room, carrying the doll with her. Here she did a strange
thing. She crossed the room to the corner where Mrs. Neptune sat,
with her back rigid, protesting against circumstances, and set the
radiant stranger down beside her; then, with her hands clasped behind
her, and brows bent, she considered the pair long and attentively.
Truly they were a strange contrast: the delicate, glowing, velvet-clad
doll, and the battered old wooden image, with eyes of snail-shells
and hair of brown sea-moss. But when Star had finished her scrutiny,
she took the beautiful doll, and buried it deep under velvets and
satins at the very bottom of the great chest. Also has been sent off
on several negociations to France."
Goring went off to France on his own account; his father was at
that time Charles I.'

s ambassador at the court of France.

I should like to know the year in which a letter of Goring the son's,
printed by Mr. Bell in vol. i. p. 23., was written, if it can be
ascertained.

As printed, it is dated "Berwick, June 22." Is _Berwick_ right? Is there
a bath there? The letter is addressed to Sir Constantine Huygens, and
in it is this passage--

"I have now my lameness so much renewed that I cannot come to clear
myself; as soon as the bath has restored me to my strength, I shall
employ it in his Highness's service, if he please to let me return
into the same place of his favour that I thought myself happy in
before."
I should expect that this letter was written from France after Goring's
abrupt retreat into that country. It is stated that the letter comes
from Mr. Bentley's collection.

The Earl of Norwich was in Flanders in November 1569, and accompanied
the Dukes of York and Gloucester from Brussels to Breda. (Carte's
_Letters_, ii. 282.)
CH.

If the following account of the Goring family given by Banks (_Dormant
and Extinct Peerage_, vol. iii. p. 575.) is correct, it will
appear that the father and both his sons were styled at different
times. "Lord Goring," and that they may very easily be distinguished.

"George Goring, of Hurstpierpont, Sussex, the son of George Goring,
and Anne his wife, sister to Edward Lord Denny, afterwards Earl of
Norwich, was created Baron Goring in the fourth of Charles I., and
in the xx'th of the same reign advanced to the earldom of Norwich,
which had become extinct by the death of his maternal uncle
above-mentioned, S.P.M.
"He betrayed Portsmouth, of which he was governor, to the king, and
rendered him many other signal services.And you, Bob,--" the old man's steady voice faltered a
little, as he laid his hand on the other's arm,--"you'll do all you
can, well I know. For she'll take it hard, ye see. She has that depth
o' love in her little heart, and never nobody _to_ love 'cept me since
she were a baby, that she'll take it cruel hard. But the Lord'll have
her in mind! He'll have her in mind! and you'll stand by, Bob, and
bear a hand till the lady and gentleman come."

Bob Peet held out his honest brown hand, and the two men shook hands
with a certain solemnity; but before either of them could speak again,
Star came singing down the stairs, and summoned them both to play
at ball with oranges.

And so it came to pass that a little blue signal was hoisted at the
top of the white tower, and fluttered there bravely in sun and wind.
And every time the _Huntress_ went thundering by (which was twice
a week at this season instead of every day), Bob Peet looked out
anxiously from the wheel-house window, and seeing the little banner,
took cheer, and rubbed his hands and said, "Cap'n's all right so far!"

And Captain January, whenever there came the clutch and stab at his
heart, and the struggle for breath, which he had felt for the first
time that September day (but ah! how many times since, and with what
increasing persistence!) would creep to the stairway beside which
hung the signal lines, and lay his hand on them, and wait: then, when
the spasm passed, would pass his hand across his face and humbly say,
"Whenever it seems right, Lord! A step nearer! and Thou havin' the
child in mind," and so go cheerfully about his work again.

There were not many more steps to take. Spring came, and the little
meadow was green again. Robins and bluebirds fluttered above the great
pine-tree, and swallows built their nests under the eaves of the tower
itself. The child Star sang with the birds, and danced with the
dancing leaves, all unconscious of what was coming; but the old
Captain's steps grew slower and heavier, day by day, and the cheery
voice grew feeble, and lost its hearty ring, though never its
cheeriness. "I'll set here in the porch, Jewel Bright," he would say,
when the child begged him to come for a scramble on the rocks. "I
think I'll jest set here, where I can see ye an' hear to ye. I'm
gittin' lazy, Star Light; that's the truth. Yer old Daddy's gittin'
lazy, and it's comf'tabler settin' here in the sun, than scramblin'
round the rocks."

And Star would fling herself on his neck, and scold and caress him,
and then go off with a half-sense of disappointment to her play. Very,
very careful Captain January had to be, lest the child should suspect
that which he was determined to keep from her to the last. Sometimes
he half thought she must suspect, so tender was she in these days;
so thoughtful, so mindful of his lightest wish. But "'tis only the
woman growin' up in her," he decided; and looking back, he remembered
that she had not once broken his pipe (as she had been used to do
every three or four weeks, in her sudden rages) since last September.

At last there came a day when the Captain did not even go out to the
porch. It was a lovely May morning, bright and soft, with wreaths
of silvery fog floating up from the blue water, and much sweet sound
of singing birds and lapping waves in the air. Making some pretence
of work at his carpenter's bench, the old man sent Star out to loose
the cow and lead her to the water; and when she was gone, he tottered
to his old chair and sat down heavily. There was no pain now, only
a strange numbness, a creeping coldness, a ringing in the ears. If
it might "seem right" to let him wait till the _Huntress_ came by!
"It's nearly time," he said, half aloud. Without having been there,
I may venture to affirm that "Hell is _not_ paved with good
intentions, such things being _all lost or dropt on the way_ by
travellers who reach that bourne;" for, where "Hope never comes,"
"good intentions" cannot exist any more than they can be formed,
since to fulfil them were impossible.

The authentic and emphatical figure in the saying is, "The _road_
to hell is paved with good intentions;" and it was uttered by the
"stern old divine," whoever he might be, as a warning _not_ to let
"good intentions" miscarry for want of being realized at the time
and upon the spot. The moral, moreover, is manifestly this, that
people may be going to hell with "the best intentions in the world,"
substituting all the while _well-meaning_ for _well-doing_.

but already it was growing faint upon the old man's ears.

"Star Bright!" he called; and the dancing shape came flying, and stood
on tiptoe in the doorway. Steady, now, January! keep your voice
steady, if there is any will left in you. Keep your head turned a
little away, lest there be any change in your face, yet not turned
enough to make her wonder. "Star Bright," said Captain January, "it's
about--time--for the _Huntress_--to be along, isn't it?"

"Yes, Daddy," said the child; "she's just in sight now. Shall I go
down and wave to Bob as he goes by?"

"Yes, Honeysuckle," said the old man. "And--and wait to see if he
comes ashore. I think--likely--Bob'll come ashore to-day. He was goin'
to bring--somethin'--for me. Is there a squall comin' up, Jewel
Bright?"

"A squall, Daddy?" said the child, wondering. "Why, there isn't a
cloud in the sky."

"Jes' so!" said Captain January. "I--only jist asked. Good-bye, Star
Bright."

"Dear Daddy! Good-bye!" cried the child, and she sped away over the
rocks.

So dark! and not a cloud in the sky. If he might have looked once
more, with those fast-darkening eyes, at the little blessed face which
held all the world in it! if he could call her back now, and kiss
her once more, and hold her little hand--No! no! steady, January!
steady now, and stand by!

Quite dark now. But that does not matter. No need of light for what
is now to be done. Slowly the old man raises himself; feels for the
wall, creeps along beside it. Here is the line. Is there any strength
left in that benumbed arm? Yes! "For the child, dear Lord, and Thou
helpin' me, as ever has been!"

They finished the tomb in the space of four years, conducting the work
with great care, and they set it up in the chapel of the Sacrament
in the church of the Vescovado of Arezzo. Above the sarcophagus, which
rests on brackets carved in a really admirable manner, is stretched
the form of the bishop, in marble, while at the side are some
angels drawing curtains, done with considerable skill.

Twelve square panels contain scenes of the life and acts of the
bishop in an infinite number of small figures carved in half-relief.
Bend to your oar,
Bob Peet, and send your little black boat flying over the water as
she never flew before! and press on, friendly _Huntress_, to your
port, whence the winged message may speed on its way to the stately
lady with the tender eyes, who waits for tidings in her distant home.

For Captain January's last voyage is over, and he is already in the
haven where he would be.


  THE END.