Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


Flaming June

By Mrs George de Horne Vaizey
________________________________________________________________________
This book is a little different from most of the others from this
author.  The cast of the story are just a shade older than we are used
to in Vaizey books, and there is no one who is afflicted with a
disabling disease, such as the author herself suffered from.  I suppose
you could describe the setting as the upper-class Mayfair set.

The scene opens in the house of a tidy old spinster, living in a tidy
little seaside town, in a row of large houses of similar people, sharing
private access to a well-kept garden.  A rather stable existence.

There is also a nice young American girl, over in England as part of her
education, no doubt.  Her father has become very rich in America, but he
is the brother of the tidy old spinster, on whom, and to whose dismay,
he has imposed Cornelia's visit.  Cornelia is simply not used to the
standards of English behaviour, for instance chaperones, and not gadding
about with young men.  Cornelia has quite enough pocket-money to do as
she pleases.  But her aunt is proved right in the end, for among all
these nice well-brought-up people there is a baddy, which is revealed
only towards the end.  NH
________________________________________________________________________

FLAMING JUNE

BY MRS. GEORGE DE HORNE VAIZEY


CHAPTER ONE.

Somewhere on the West coast of England, about a hundred miles from the
metropolis, there stands a sleepy little town, which possesses no
special activity nor beauty to justify its existence.  People live in it
for reasons of their own.  The people who do _not_ live in it wonder for
_what_ reasons, but attain no better solution of the mystery than the
statement that the air is very fine.  "We have such bracing air!" says
the resident, as proudly as if that said air were his special invention
and property.  Certain West-country doctors affect Norton-on-Sea for
patients in need of restful change, and their melancholy advent
justifies the existence of the great hotel on the esplanade, and the row
of bath-chairs at the corner.  There are ten bath-chairs in all, and on
sunny days ten crumpled-looking old ladies can generally be seen sitting
inside their canopies, trundling slowly along the esplanade, accompanied
by a paid companion, dressed in black and looking sorry for herself.
Occasionally on Saturdays and Sundays a pretty daughter, or a tall son
takes the companion's place, but as sure as Monday arrives they
disappear into space.  One can imagine that one hears them bidding their
farewells--"So glad to see you getting on so well, mother dear!  I
positively _must_ rush back to town to attend to a hundred duties.  It's
a comfort to feel that you are so well placed.  Miss Biggs is a
treasure, and this air is so bracing!..."

The esplanade consists of four rows of lodging-houses and two hotels, in
front of which is a strip of grass, on which a band plays twice a week
during the summer months, and the school-children twice a day all the
year long.  The invalids in the hotel object to the children and make
unsuccessful attempts to banish them from their pitch, and the children
in their turn regard the invalids with frank disdain, and make audible
and uncomplimentary surmises as to the nature of their complaints as the
procession of chairs trundles by.

Oh, I think He would give us this creed:
'Praise God whatever betide you; Cast joy on the lives beside you; Better
the earth, by growing in worth, With love as the law to guide you.'

Now what were the answer of Jesus If we should ask Him to tell Of the
last great goal of the homing soul Where each of us hopes to
dwell?
Oh, I think it is this He would tell:
'The soul is the builder--then wake it; The mind is the kingdom--then
take it; And thought upon thought let Eden be wrought, For heaven will
be what you make it.'

AMERICA

I am the refuge of all the oppressed, I am the boast of the free,
I am the harbour where ships may rest Safely 'twixt sea and sea.

I hold up a torch to a darkened world, I lighten the path with its ray.
Let my hand keep steady And let me be ready For whatever comes my
way - Let me be ready.

Oh, better than fortresses, better than guns, Better than lance or spear,
Are the loyal hearts of my daughters and sons, Faithful and without
fear.
But my daughters and sons must understand THAT ATTILA DID NOT DIE.
And they must be ready, Their hands must be steady, If the hosts of hell
come nigh - They must be ready.
If Jesus were back on the earth with men, He would not preach to-day
Until He had made Him a scourge, and again He would drive the
defilers away.
He would throw down the tables of lust and greed And scatter the
changers' gold.
He would be ready, His hand would be steady, As it was in that
temple of old - He would be ready.
I am the cradle of God's new world, From me shall the new race rise,
And my glorious banner must float unfurled, Unsullied against the
skies.
My sons and daughters must be my strength, With courage to do and
to dare, With hearts that are ready, With hands that are steady,
And their slogan must be, PREPARE!Mr Photographer Sykes is a man of resource, and deserves the prosperity
which is the envy of his neighbours.  Mrs Sykes wears silk linings to
her skirts on Sundays, and rustles like the highest in the land.  She
had three new hats in one summer, and the fishmonger's wife knows for a
fact that not one of the number costs less than "twenty-five-six."

The High Street and the esplanade constitute the new Norton-on-Sea which
has sprung into being within the last ten years, but the real, original,
aristocratic Norton lies a couple of miles inland, and consists of a
wide, sloping street, lined with alternate shops and houses, branching
off from which are a number of sleepy roads, in which detached and semi-
detached villas hide themselves behind trees and hedges, and barricade
their windows with stiff, white curtains.  The one great longing
actuating the Norton householder seems to be to see nothing, and to be
seen by none.  "Is the house overlooked?" they ask the agent anxiously
on the occasion of the first application.  "Does it overlook any other
house?"

"There _is_ another house across the road, madam!" the agent is
sometimes regretfully obliged to admit, "but it has been very cleverly
planted out."

So it has! by means of a fir or an elm planted within a few yards of the
windows, and blocking out something more important than another villa,
but the Norton resident desires privacy above all things.  The sun and
the air have to creep in as best they may.

The more aristocratic the position of a family, the more secluded
becomes their position.  Fences are raised by an arrangement of lattice-
work on the top of boards; shrubs are planted thickly inside the hedges;
even the railings of the gates are backed by discreetly concealing
boards.  If there happens to be a rise in the road from which a passer-
by can catch a glimpse of white figures darting to and fro on the tennis
courts, the owner promptly throws up a bank, and plants on the top one
or two quickly growing limes.  It is so disagreeable to be overlooked!

At the date at which this history opens, there were several large places
in the neighbourhood of Norton, foremost among them were the Manor
House, occupied by the young squire, Geoffrey Greville, and Madame, his
mother; Green Arbour, owned by Admiral Perry, who had married the widow
of the late High Sheriff; and The Meads, the ofttime deserted seat of a
rich London banker.

With these exceptions, quite the most aristocratic dwellings were
situated in what was known as "The Park," though perhaps "The Crescent"
would have been the more appropriate name, for the twelve houses were
built on one side of a curving road, looking out on a charming stretch
of land, dipping down to a miniature lake, and rising again to a soft
green knoll, surmounted by a bank of trees.  The carefully-mowed grass
looked like softest velvet, and might be seen, but not touched, being
surrounded by tiny wire arches, and protected by wooden boards,
requesting visitors to keep to the paths, and not trespass on the
"verges."  Impressive title!  Visitors were likewise requested not to
touch the flowering shrubs; not to pick the flowers; not to throw
rubbish into the lake, or to inscribe their initials on the seats.
These rules being carefully observed, the twelve householders who paid
for the upkeep of these decorous gardens were free to enjoy such
relaxations as could be derived from gravel paths, and wooden benches.

The view from their windows the residents apparently did not wish to
enjoy, for they planted their trees and heightened their fences as
industriously as the owners of the fifty-pound villas in Hill Street.
Mrs Garnett, at Buona Vista, having a garden deficient in foliage, had
even erected a temporary trellis at the end of the lawn, and covered it
with creepers, rather than face the indignity of an open view.  It gave
her such a "feeling of publicity" to see the neighbours pass to and fro!

It was only the residents themselves who enjoyed the proud privilege of
pacing the Park unmolested, for at either entrance stood small eaved
lodges in which were housed the two gardeners and their wives.  To be
lodge-keeper to the Park was as great a guarantee of respectability in
Norton as to be vicar of the parish church itself.  Only middle-aged,
married, teetotal, childless churchmen could apply for the posts, and
among their scant ranks the most searching inquiries were instituted
before an appointment was finally arranged.  It is safe to affirm that
no working couples on earth were more clean, industrious, and alive to
their duty towards their betters, than the occupants of the North and
South Lodges of Norton Park!

All day long the two husbands mowed grass, clipped hedges, and swept up
gravel paths; all day long the wives scrubbed and dusted their
immaculate little houses, keeping a weather-eye on the door to see who
passed to and fro.  Their duty it was to pounce out on any stranger who
dared attempt to force an entrance through the hallowed portals, and
send them back discomfited.

"You can't come this way, madam!  This road is private!"

"Can't I just walk straight through on the path?  It is so much nearer
than going all the way round!"

"The park is private, madam; there is no thoroughfare."

Occasionally some child of sin would endeavour to prevaricate.

"I wish to pay a call!"

"Which house did you wish to go to, madam?"

"Er--Buona Vista!"

"Buona Vistas is away from home.  They won't be back till the end of the
month."

Foiled in her attempts the miscreant would have to retrace her steps, or
make her way round by the narrow lane by means of which the tradesmen
made their way to the back-doors of these secluded dwellings.

Perhaps the most unpromisingly decorous house in the Park was christened
"The Nook," with that appalling lack of humour which is nowhere
portrayed more strikingly than in the naming of suburban residences.  It
stood fair and square in the middle of the crescent; and from garret to
cellar there was not a nooky corner on which the eye could light.  Two
drawing-room windows flanked the front door on the left; two dining-room
windows on the right.  There was not even a gable or a dormer to break
the square solidity of the whole.  Fourteen windows in all, each
chastely shrouded in Nottingham lace curtains, looped back by yellow
silk bands, fastened, to a fraction of an inch, at the same height from
the sill, while Aspidistra plants, mounted on small tables, were
artfully placed so as to fill up the space necessarily left in the
centre.  They were handsome plants of venerable age, which Mason, the
parlourmaid, watered twice a week, sponging their leaves with milk
before she replaced them in their pots.

Shrill a song brim full of glee Of a great ship sunk at sea.
Tell with pleasure and with pride How a hundred children died.

Sing of orphan babes, whose cries Beat against unanswering skies;
Let a mother's mad despair Lend staccato to your air.

Sing of babes who drowned alone; Sing of headstones, marked 'Unknown';
Sing of homes made desolate Where the stricken mourners wait.

Sing of battered corpses tossed By the heedless waves, and lost.
Run, sweet children, sing and play; War declares a holiday.

THE UNDERTONE

When I was very young I used to feel the dark despairs of youth; Out of
my little griefs I would invent great tragedies and woes; Not only
for myself, but for all those I held most dear I would invent vast sorrows
in my melancholy moods of thought.
Yet down deep, deep in my heart there was an undertone of rapture.
It was like a voice from some other world calling softly to me, Saying
things joyful.

As I grew older, and Life offered bitter gall for me to drink, Forcing
it through clenched teeth when I refused to take it willingly;
When Pain prepared some special anguish for my heart to bear, And
all the things I longed for seemed to be wholly beyond my reach -
Yet down deep, deep in my heart there was an undertone of rapture.

  It was like a Voice, a Voice from some other world calling to me,
  Bringing glad tidings.
  
  Now when I look about me, and see the great injustices of men, See
  Idleness and Greed waited upon by luxury and mirth, See prosperous
Vice ride by in state, while footsore Virtue walks; Now when I hear
the cry of need rise up from lands of shameful wealth - Yet down
deep, deep in my heart there is an undertone of rapture.

  It is like a Voice--it is a Voice--calling to me and saying:
'Love rules triumphant.'

Now when each mile-post on the path of life seems marked by headstones,
And one by one dear faces that I loved are hid away from sight; Now
when in each familiar home I see a vacant chair, And in the throngs
once formed of friends I meet unrecognising eyes - Yet down deep,
deep in my heart there is an undertone of rapture.
It is the Voice, it is the Voice for ever saying unto me:
'Life is Eternal.' 

GYPSYING
Gypsying, gypsying, through the world together, Never mind the way
we go, never mind what port.Miss Briskett would have been surprised and
affronted to receive so unceremonious a reply to her invitation--

  "My dear Friend,--It will give me pleasure to take tea with you this
  afternoon, as you so kindly suggest.  I trust that the anxiety under
  which you are labouring may be of a temporary nature, and shall be
  thankful indeed if I can in any way assist to bring about its
  solution.--Most truly yours,--

  "Ellen Bean Ramsden."

"The best china, Mason, and a teapot for two!" was Miss Briskett's order
on receipt of this cordial response, and an hour later the two ladies
sat in conclave over a daintily-spread table in the drawing-room of The
Nook.

Miss Briskett was a tall, thin woman of fifty-eight or sixty, wearing a
white cap perched upon her grey hair, and an expression of frosty
propriety on her thin, pointed features.  Frosty is the adjective which
most accurately describes her appearance.  One felt a moral conviction
that she would suffer from chilblains in winter, that the long, thin
fingers must be cold to the touch, even on this bright May day; that the
tip of her nose was colder still, that she could not go to sleep at
night without a hot bottle to her feet.  She was addicted to grey
dresses, composed of stiff and shiny silk, and to grey bonnets
glittering with steely beads.  She creaked, as she moved, and her thin
figure was whale-boned into an unnatural rigidity.

Mrs Ramsden was, in appearance at least, a striking contrast to her
friend, being a dumpy little woman, in whose demeanour good-nature vied
with dignity.  She was dressed in black, and affected an upright feather
in front of her bonnets.  "To give me height, my dear!"

In looking at her one was irresistibly reminded of a pouter pigeon
strutting along on its short little legs, preening its sleek little head
to and fro above its protuberant breast.

"Read that!" said Miss Briskett, tragically, handing the thin sheet of
paper to her friend, and Mrs Ramsden put on her spectacles and read as
follows--

  "My dear Sister,--Business connected with mines makes it necessary for
  me to go out West for the next few months, and the question has arisen
  how to provide for Cornelia meantime.  I had various notions, but she
  prefers her own (she generally does!), and reckons she can't fill in
  this gap better than by running over to pay you a visit in the Old
  Country.  I can pick her up in the fall, and have a little trot round
  before returning.  She has friends sailing in the _Lucania_ on the
  15th, and intends crossing with them.  You will just have time to
  cable to put her off if you are dead, or otherwise incapacitated; but
  I take it you will be glad to have a look at my girl.  She's worth
  looking at!  I shall feel satisfied to know she is with you.  She
  might get up to mischief over here.

  "Looking forward to seeing you later on,--Your brother, Edward
  Briskett."

  "_P S_--Dear Aunt Soph, don't you worry to prepare!  I'll just chip
  in, and take you as you are.  We'll have some high old times!--Your
  niece, Cornelia."

Letter and eye-glasses fell together upon Mrs Ramsden's knee.  She
raised startled eyes, and blinked dumbly at her friend.

Miss Briskett wagged her head from side to side, and heaved a sepulchral
sigh.

The halcyon days of peace were over!


CHAPTER TWO.

"My dear," said Mrs Ramsden, solemnly, "this is indeed great news.  I
don't wonder that you feel unnerved!"

"I do, indeed.  The three o'clock post came in, and I was quite
surprised when Mary came in with the salver.  I was not expecting any
letters.  I have so few correspondents, and I am mostly in their debt, I
am afraid.  Still, of course, there are always the circulars.  I looked
for nothing more exciting, and then--_this_ arrived!  I really felt that
I could not sit alone and think it out by myself all day long.  I hope
you will forgive me for asking you to come over on such short notice."

"Indeed, I am flattered that you should wish to have me.  Do tell me all
about this brother.  He has lived abroad a long time, I think?  It is
the eldest, is it not?  The rich one--in America?"

"I believe he is rich for the moment.  Goodness knows how long it may
last," sighed Miss Briskett, dolefully.  "He speculates in mines, my
dear, and you know what _that_ means!  Half the time he is a pauper, and
the other half a millionaire, and so far as I can gather from his
letters he seems just as well satisfied one way as another.  He was
always a flighty, irresponsible creature, and I fear Cornelia has taken
after him."

"She is the only child?"

"Yes!  She had an English mother, I'm thankful to say; but poor Sybil
died at her birth, and Edward never married again.  He was devoted to
Sybil, and said he would never give another woman the charge of her
child.  Such nonsense!  As if any man on earth could look after a
growing girl, without a woman's help.  Instead of a wise, judicious
stepmother, she has been left to nurses and governesses, and from what I
can hear, has ruled _them_, instead of the other way about.  You can see
by the tone of her father's letter that he is absurdly prejudiced."

"That is natural, perhaps, with an only child, left to him in such
peculiarly sad circumstances.  We must not judge him hardly for that,"
said little Mrs Ramsden, kindly.  "Has the girl herself ever written to
you before, may I ask, or is this her first communication?"

Miss Briskett's back stiffened, and her thin lips set in a straight
line.

"She has addressed little notes to me from time to time; on birthdays,
and Christmases, and so on; but to tell you the truth, my dear, I have
not encouraged their continuance.  They were unduly familiar, and I
object to being addressed by abbreviations of my name.  Ideas as to what
is right and fitting seem to differ on different sides of the Atlantic!"

"They do, indeed.  I have always understood that young people are
brought into quite undue prominence in American households.  And their
manners, too!  One sees in that postscript--you don't mind my saying so,
just between ourselves--a--a _broadness_--"

"Quite so!  I feel it myself.  I am most grieved, about it.  Cornelia is
my niece, and Edward is the head of the family.  Her position as his
only child is one of importance, and I feel distressed that she is so
little qualified to adorn it.  She has been well educated, I believe;
has `graduated,' as they call it; but she has evidently none of our
English polish.  Quite in confidence, Mrs Ramsden, I feel that she may
be somewhat of a shock to the neighbourhood!"

"You think of receiving her, then?  Your brother leaves you the option
of refusing, and I should think things over very seriously before
incurring such a responsibility.  A three-months' visit!  I doubt you
could not stand the strain!  If you excused yourself on the ground of
health, no offence could possibly be taken."

But at that Miss Briskett protested strongly.

"Oh, my dear, I could not refuse!  Edward wishes to find a home for the
girl, and says he would be relieved to have her with me.  I could not
possibly refuse!  I think I may say that I have never yet shirked a
duty, distasteful though it might be, and I must not do so now.  I shall
cable to say that I will be pleased to receive Cornelia, when it suits
her to arrive."

Mrs Ramsden crumbled her seed-cake and wondered why--that being the
case--she had been summoned to give advice, but being a good-natured
soul, smiled assent, and deftly shifted the conversation to the
consideration of details.

"Well, dear, I only trust you may be rewarded.  Miss Cornelia is
fortunate to have such a home waiting to receive her.  What room do you
propose to dedicate to her use?"

Miss Briskett's face clouded, and she drew a long, despairing sigh.

"That's another thing I am troubled about.  I had the best spare room
done up only this spring.  The carpet had faded, and when I was renewing
it I took the opportunity to have in the painters and paperhangers.  It
is _all_ fresh, even the curtains and bed-hangings.  They have not once
been used."

Mrs Ramsden purred in sympathetic understanding.

"Poor dear!  When one has just made a room all fresh and clean, it is
_most_ trying to have it taken into use!  But why give her that room at
all, dear?  You have several others.  A young, unmarried girl should be
satisfied with a room at the back, or even on the third storey.  You
have a nice little guest room over your own bedroom, have you not?"

"No!"  Miss Briskett again manifested a noble determination to do her
duty.  "I should like Edward to feel, when he comes over, that I have
paid his daughter all due honour.  She must have the spare room, and if
she spills things over the new carpet, I must pray for grace to bear it.
She has been accustomed to a very luxurious style of living for the
last few years, and I daresay even my best room will not be as handsome
as her own apartment.  In the present state of Edward's finances, she
is, I suppose, a very great heiress."

Little Mrs Ramsden stared into her cup with a kindly thoughtfulness.

"I should keep that fact secret, if I were you," she said earnestly.
"Poor lassie! it's always a handicap to a girl to be received for what
she has, rather than what she is.  And there are two or three idle,
worthless young men hanging about, who might be only too glad to pick up
a rich wife.  I should simply announce that I was expecting a niece from
the United States of America, to pay me a visit of some months'
duration, and offer no enlightenment as to her circumstances.  You will
have enough responsibility as it is, without embarrassing
entanglements."

"Yes, indeed.  Thank you so much.  I feel sure that your advice is wise,
and I shall certainly follow it.  There's that soldier nephew of Mrs
Mott's, who is constantly running down on short visits.  I object
intensely to that dashing style!  He is just the type of man to run
after a girl for her money.  I shall take special care that they do not
meet.  One thing I am determined upon," said Miss Briskett, sternly,
"and that is that there shall be no love-making, nor philandering of any
kind under my roof.  I could not be troubled with such nonsense, nor
with the responsibility of it.  I am accustomed to a quiet, regular
life, and if Cornelia comes to me, she must conform to the regulations
of the household.  At my age I cannot be expected to alter my ways for
the sake of a girl."

"Certainly not.  She is a mere girl, I suppose!  How old may she be?"

Miss Briskett considered.

"She was born in the winter!  I distinctly remember coming in and seeing
the cable, and taking off my fur gloves to open it.--It was the year I
bought the dining-room carpet.  It was just down, I remember, and as we
drank the baby's health, the cork flew out of the bottle, and some of
the champagne was spilt, and there was a great fuss wiping it up--
Twenty-two years ago!  Who would have thought it could be so long?"

"Ah, it always pays to get a good thing while you are about it.  It
costs a great deal at the start, but you have such satisfaction
afterwards.  It's not a bit faded!"  Mrs Ramsden affirmed, alluding, be
it understood, to the Turkey carpet, and not to Miss Cornelia Briskett.
"Twenty-two.  Just a year younger than my Elma!  Elma will be glad to
have a companion."

"It is kind of you to say so.  Nothing would please me better than to
see Cornelia become intimate with your daughter.  Poor child, she has
not had the advantages of an English upbringing; but we must hope that
this visit will be productive of much good.  She could not have a better
example than Elma.  She is a type of a sweet, guileless, English girl."

"Ye-es!" asserted the sweet girl's mother, doubtfully; "but you know,
dear Miss Briskett, that at times even Elma..."  She shook her head,
sighed, and continued with a struggling smile: "We must remember--must
we not--that we have been young ourselves, and try not to be too hard on
little eccentricities!"

Mrs Ramsden spoke with feeling, for memory, though slumbering, was not
dead.  She had not always been a well-conducted widow lady, who
expressed herself with decorum, and wore black cashmere and bugles.
Thirty odd years ago she had been a plump little girl, with a lively
capacity for mischief.

On one occasion she had danced two-thirds of the programme at a ball
with an officer even more dashing than the objectionable nephew of Mrs
Mott, and in a corner of the conservatory had given him a flower from
her bouquet.  He had kissed the flower before pressing it in his pocket-
book, and had looked as if he would have liked to kiss something else
into the bargain. ...  After twenty-five years of life at Norton, it was
astonishing how vividly the prim little widow recalled the guilty thrill
of that moment!  My deal with the devil was all cleaned up, And
the last bill handed in.

She was going to bring me a child, And when in labour she cried
With love and fear I was wild - But now I wish she had died.

For the son she bore me was blind And crippled and weak and sore!
And his mother was left a wreck.
It was so she settled my score.

I said I must have my fling, And they knew the path I would go; Yet
no one told me a thing Of what I needed to know.
Folks talk too much of a soul From heavenly joys debarred - And not
enough of the babes unborn, By the sins of their fathers scarred.

DIVORCED

Thinking of one thing all day long, at night I fall asleep, brain
weary and heart sore; But only for a little while.

At three, Sometimes at two o'clock, I wake and lie, Staring out into
darkness; while my thoughts Begin the weary treadmill-toil again, From
that white marriage morning of our youth Down to this dreadful hour.

I see your face Lit with the lovelight of the honeymoon; I hear
your voice, that lingered on my name As if it loved each letter; and
I feel The clinging of your arms about my form, Your kisses on my
cheek--and long to break The anguish of such memories with tears, But
cannot weep; the fountain has run dry.

We were so young, so happy, and so full Of keen sweet joy of life. I had
no wish Outside your pleasure; and you loved me so That when I
sometimes felt a woman's need For more serene expression of man's
love (The need to rest in calm affection's bay And not sail ever
on the stormy main), Yet would I rouse myself to your desire; Meet
ardent kiss with kisses just as warm; So nothing I could give
should be denied.

And then our children came. Deep in my soul, From the first hour of
conscious motherhood, I knew I should conserve myself for this Most holy
office; knew God meant it so.
Yet even then, I held your wishes first; And by my double duties
lost the bloom And freshness of my beauty; and beheld A look of
disapproval in your eyes.

But with the coming of our precious child, The lover's smile, tinged
with the father's pride, Returned again; and helped to make me
strong; And life was very sweet for both of us.

Another, and another birth, and twice The little white hearse paused
beside our door And took away some portion of my youth With my
sweet babies.

At the first you seemed To suffer with me, standing very near; But when
I wept too long, you turned away.
And I was hurt, not realising then My grief was selfish.--Should she have new covers for the drawing-room?--Would you
advise slate-grey, or grey-slate for the new dress? ...  I hope you
brought the weight of your intellect to bear on the great problems, and
solved them to your mutual satisfaction!"

Mrs Ramsden seated herself on a deeply-cushioned arm-chair, and began
pulling off her tight kid gloves.  A touch of offence was visible in her
demeanour, and the feather in the front of her bonnet reared itself at
an aggressive angle.

"It is not in good taste, my dear, to talk in that tone to your mother.
Matters of domestic interest may not appeal to you in your present
irresponsible position, but they are not without their own importance.
The subject of to-day's discussion, however, was something quite
different.  You will be interested to hear that Miss Briskett is
expecting a young American niece to pay her a visit at an early date."

"How young?" inquired Elma, tentatively.  Her mother had a habit of
alluding to "girls" of thirty-five, which did not commend itself to her
youthful judgment.  She reserved her interest until assured on this
important point.

"About your own age or slightly younger.  The only daughter of Mr
Edward Briskett, the head of the family.  His business takes him away
from home for several months, and his daughter is anxious to avail
herself of the opportunity of visiting her aunt."

"Oh!" said Elma; no more and no less, but as she turned her pansy-like
eyes once more to the window, she grimaced expressively.  She was sorry
for the delusion of the American daughter who was willing to cross a
whole ocean for the privilege of beholding Miss Sophia Briskett!

"What is she like?" she asked presently.  "Did you hear anything about
her?"

Mrs Ramsden shook her head dolefully.

"I fear, dear--strictly between ourselves--that she is not precisely
what we should call a _nice_ girl!  The tone of her letter was decidedly
flippant.  Miss Briskett is hoping much from your influence.  You two
girls will naturally come a good deal into contact, and I hope you will
do your utmost to set her an example of ladylike demeanour."

Elma stared steadily through the window.  "_Flippant_" she repeated to
herself in a breathless whisper.  "_Flippant_!"  The pansy eyes widened.
She heaved a sigh of deep, incredulous delight.


CHAPTER THREE.

The _Lucania_ was due to arrive in the Mersey early on a Tuesday
forenoon, and Miss Briskett expected to welcome her niece on the evening
of the same day.  The best spare room was already swept and garnished,
and nothing remained but to take counsel with Heap the cook, and draw
out a menu of a dinner which could most successfully combat the strain
of waiting.  The spinster's own appetite, though sparse, was fastidious,
and Heap was a mistress of her art, so that between the two a dainty
little meal was arranged, while Mason, not to be outdone, endeavoured to
impart an extra polish to her already highly-burnished silver.  In the
seclusion of the pantry she hummed a joyful air.  "Praise the pigs! we
shall have something young in the house, at last," said she to herself.
"I don't mind the extra work, if she'll only make a bit of a stir!"

By six o'clock the dinner-table was laid, and Miss Briskett was sitting
in state, clad in her newest grey silk gown, though a reference to
Bradshaw made it seem improbable that the traveller could arrive before
seven o'clock.  At half-past six hot water was carried up to the
bedroom; ten minutes later Miss Briskett left her seat to move another
few yards nearer the window.  Streaks of colour showed in her cheeks,
her fingers clasped and unclasped in nervous fashion.  THE FAITH WE NEED

Too tall our structures, and too swift our pace; Not so we mount,
not so we gain the race.
Too loud the voice of commerce in the land; Not so truth speaks,
not so we understand.
Too vast our conquests, and too large our gains; Not so comes peace,
not so the soul attains.
But the need of the world is a faith that will live anywhere; In
the still dark depths of the woods, or out in the sun's full glare.
A faith that can hear God's voice, alike in the quiet glen, Or in
the roar of the street, and over the noises of men.It did not seem likely that Cornelia would be
specially pretty, her aunt prayed above all things that she was
unnoticeable--to be unnoticeable was regarded as the climax of elegance
in Norton society!--then with a sudden softening of expression found
herself hoping that there would be something of Edward in looks or
manner!  She was a lonely woman, living apart from her kin.  To have
someone of her own would be a new and delightful experience.  She felt
glad, actually _glad_ that Cornelia was coming!

Seven o'clock!  At any moment now a cab might appear bearing the
expected guest from the station.  Miss Briskett crossed the room to
alter the arrangement of a vase of flowers, and as she did so, the door
opened, and Mason entered carrying a telegram upon a silver salver.
Miss Briskett tore it open, and read the following message:--

  "Safe and sound.  Staying night in London with friends.  Sight-seeing
  to-morrow morning.  Be with you at five.  God save the Queen!--
  Cornelia."

Miss Briskett's lips tightened.  She folded the orange-coloured paper
and returned it to its envelope, cleared her throat and said coldly--

"Inform Heap that my niece will not arrive until to-morrow evening, and
be good enough to serve dinner at once."

