Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Sandra Brown and Distributed Proofreaders


HOME AGAIN

and

THE ELECT LADY


_(A Duplex Edition)_


By George MacDonald


HOME AGAIN.


CHAPTER I.


THE PARLOR.

In the dusk of the old-fashioned best room of a farm-house, in the faint
glow of the buried sun through the sods of his July grave, sat two
elderly persons, dimly visible, breathing the odor which roses unseen
sent through the twilight and open window. One of the two was scarcely
conscious of the odor, for she did not believe in roses; she believed
mainly in mahogany, linen, and hams; to the other it brought too much
sadness to be welcomed, for it seemed, like the sunlight, to issue from
the grave of his vanished youth. He was not by nature a sad man; he was
only one that had found the past more delightful than the present, and
had not left his first loves.

The twilight of his years had crept upon him and was deepening; and he
felt his youth slowly withering under their fallen leaves. With more
education, and perhaps more receptivity than most farmers, he had
married a woman he fervently loved, whose rarely truthful nature, to
which she had striven to keep true, had developed the delicate flower of
moral and social refinement; and her influence upon him had been of the
eternal sort. While many of their neighbors were vying with each other
in the effort to dress, and dwell, and live up to their notion of
_gentility_, Richard Colman and his wife had never troubled themselves
about fashion, but had sought to please each the taste of the other, and
cultivate their own. Perhaps now as he sat thus silent in the _dimmits_,
he was holding closer converse than he knew, or any of us can know, with
one who seemed to have vanished from all this side of things, except the
heart of her husband. That clung to what people would call _her memory_;
I prefer to call it _her_.

The rose-scented hush was torn by the strident, cicala-like shrilling of
a self-confident, self-satisfied female voice--

"Richard, that son of yours will come to no good! You may take my word
for it!"

Mr. Colman made no answer; the dusky, sweet-smelling waves of the
silence closed over its laceration.

"I am well aware my opinion is of no value in your eyes, Richard; but
that does not absolve me from the duty of stating it: if you allow him
to go on as he is doing now, Walter will never eat bread of his own
earning!"

"There are many who do, and yet don't come to much!" half thought, but
nowise said the father.

"What do you mean to make of him?" persisted Miss Hancock, the
half-sister of his wife, the _a_ in whose name Walter said ought to have
been an _e_.

"Whatever he is able to make himself. He must have the main hand in it,
whatever it be," answered Mr. Colman.

"It is time twice over he had set about something! You let him go on
dawdling and dawdling without even making up his mind whether or not he
ought to do anything! Take my word for it, Richard, you'll have him on
your hands till the day of your death!"

The father did not reply that he could wish nothing better, that the
threat was more than he could hope for. He did not want to provoke his
sister-in-law, and he knew there was a shadow of reason in what she
said, though even perfect reason could not have sweetened the mode in
which she said it. Nothing could make up for the total absence of
sympathy in her utterance of any modicum of truth she was capable of
uttering. She was a very dusty woman, and never more dusty than when she
fought against dust as in a warfare worthy of all a woman's
energies--one who, because she had not a spark of Mary in her, imagined
herself a Martha. She was true as steel to the interests of those in
whose life hers was involved, but only their dusty interests, not those
which make man worth God's trouble. She was a vessel of clay in an
outhouse of the temple, and took on her the airs--not of gold, for gold
has no airs--but the airs of clay imagining itself gold, and all the
golden vessels nothing but clay.

"I put it to you, Richard Colman," she went on, "whether good ever came
of reading poetry, and falling asleep under hay-stacks! He actually
writes poetry!--and we all know what that leads to!"

"Do we?" ventured her brother-in-law. "King David wrote poetry!"

"Richard, don't garble! I will not have you garble! You know what I mean
as well as I do myself! And you know as well as I do what comes of
writing poetry! That friend of Walter's who borrowed ten pounds of
you--did he ever pay you?"

"He did, Ann."

"You didn't tell _me_!"

"I did not want to disappoint you!" replied Richard, with a sarcasm she
did not feel.

"It was worth telling!" she returned.

"I did not think so. Everybody does not stick to a bank-note like a
snail to the wall! I returned him the money."

"Returned him the money!"

"Yes."

"Made him a present of _ten pounds_!"

"Why not?"

"Why then?"

"I had more reasons than one."

"And no call to explain them! It was just like you to throw away your
hard earnings upon a fellow that would never earn anything for himself!
As if one such wasn't enough to take all you'd got!"

"How could he send back the money if that had been the case! He proved
himself what I believed him, ready and willing to work! The money went
for a fellow's bread and cheese, and what better money's worth would you
have?"

"You may some day want the bread and cheese for yourself!"

"One stomach is as good as another!"

"It never was and never will be any use talking to some people!"
concluded sister Ann, in the same tone she began with, for she seldom
lost her temper--though no one would have much minded her losing it, it
was so little worth keeping. Rarely angry, she was always disagreeable.
The good that was in her had no flower, but bore its fruits, in the
shape of good food, clean linen, mended socks, and such like, without
any blossom of sweet intercourse to make life pleasant.

Aunt Ann would have been quite justified in looking on poetry with
contempt had it been what she imagined it. Like many others, she had
decided opinions concerning things of which her idea nowise corresponded
with the things themselves.


CHAPTER II.


THE ARBOR.

While the elders thus conversed in the dusky drawing-room, where the
smell of the old roses almost overpowered that of the new, another
couple sat in a little homely bower in the garden. It was Walter and his
rather distant cousin, Molly Wentworth, who for fifteen years had been
as brother and sister. Their fathers had been great friends, and when
Molly's died in India, and her mother speedily followed him, Richard
Colman took the little orphan, who was at the time with a nurse in
England, home to his house, much to the joy of his wife, who had often
longed for a daughter to perfect the family idea. The more motherly a
woman is, the nearer will the child of another satisfy the necessities
of her motherhood. Mrs. Colman could not have said which child she loved
best.

Over the still summer garden rested a weight of peace. It was a night to
the very mind of the fastidious, twilight-loving bat, flitting about,
coming and going, like a thought we can not help. Most of Walter's
thoughts came and went thus. He had not yet learned to think; he was
hardly more than a medium in which thought came and went. Yet when a
thought seemed worth anything, he always gave himself the credit of
it!--as if a man were author of his own thoughts any more than of his
own existence! A man can but live so with the life given him, that this
or that kind of thoughts shall call on him, and to this or that kind he
shall not be at home. Walter was only at that early stage of development
where a man is in love with what he calls his own thoughts.

Even in the dark of the summer-house one might have seen that he was
pale, and might have suspected him handsome. In the daylight his gray
eyes might almost seem the source of his paleness. His features were
well marked though delicate, and had a notable look of distinction. He
was above the middle height, and slenderly built; had a wide forehead,
and a small, pale mustache on an otherwise smooth face. His mouth was
the least interesting feature; it had great mobility, but when at rest,
little shape and no attraction. For this, however, his smile made
considerable amends.

The girl was dark, almost swarthy, with the clear, pure complexion, and
fine-grained skin, which more commonly accompany the hue. If at first
she gave the impression of delicacy, it soon changed into one of
compressed life, of latent power. Through the night, where she now sat,
her eyes were too dark to appear; they sank into it, and were as the
unseen soul of the dark; while her mouth, rather large and exquisitely
shaped, with the curve of a strong bow, seemed as often as she smiled to
make a pale window in the blackness. Her hair came rather low down the
steep of her forehead, and, with the strength of her chin, made her face
look rounder than seemed fitting.

They sat for a time as silent as the night that infolded them. They were
not lovers, though they loved each other, perhaps, more than either
knew. They were watching to see the moon rise at the head of the valley
on one of whose high sloping sides they sat.

The moon kept her tryst, and revealed a loveliness beyond what the day
had to show. She looked upon a wide valley, that gleamed with the
windings of a river. She brightened the river, and dimmed in the houses
and cottages the lights with which the opposite hill sparkled like a
celestial map. Lovelily she did her work in the heavens, her poor
mirror-work--all she was fit for now, affording fit room, atmosphere,
and medium to young imaginations, unable yet to spread their wings in
the sunlight, and believe what lies hid in the light of the workaday
world. Nor was what she showed the less true for what lay unshown in
shrouded antagonism. The vulgar cry for the real would bury in deepest
grave every eternal fact. It is the cry, "Not this man, but Barabbas!"
The day would reveal a river stained with loathsome refuse, and rich
gardens on hill-sides mantled in sooty smoke and evil-smelling vapors,
sent up from a valley where men, like gnomes, toiled and caused to toil
too eagerly. What would one think of a housekeeper so intent upon saving
that she could waste no time on beauty or cleanliness? How many who
would storm if they came home to an untidy house, feel no shadow of
uneasiness that they have all day been defiling the house of the Father,
nor at night lifted hand to cleanse it! Such men regard him as a fool,
whose joy a foul river can poison; yet, as soon as they have by
pollution gathered and saved their god, they make haste to depart from
the spot they have ruined! Oh, for an invasion of indignant ghosts, to
drive from the old places the generation that dishonors the ancient
Earth! The sun shows all their disfiguring, but the friendly night comes
at length to hide her disgrace; and that well hidden, slowly descends
the brooding moon to unveil her beauty.

For there was a _thriving_ town full of awful chimneys in the valley,
and the clouds that rose from it ascended above the Colmans' farm to the
great moor which stretched miles and miles beyond it. In the autumn sun
its low forest of heather burned purple; in the pale winter it lay white
under snow and frost; but through all the year winds would blow across
it the dull smell of the smoke from below. Had such a fume risen to the
earthly paradise, Dante would have imagined his purgatory sinking into
hell. On all this inferno the night had sunk like a foretaste of
cleansing death. The fires lay smoldering like poor, hopeless devils,
fain to sleep. The world was merged in a tidal wave from the ocean of
hope, and seemed to heave a restful sigh under its cooling renovation.


CHAPTER III.


A PENNYWORTH OF THINKING.

"A penny for your thought, Walter!" said the girl, after a long silence,
in which the night seemed at length to clasp her too close.

"Your penny, then! I was thinking how wild and sweet the dark wind would
be blowing up there among the ringing bells of the heather."

"You shall have the penny. I will pay you with your own coin. I keep all
the pennies I win of you. What do you do with those you win of me?"

"Oh, I don't know! I hurried through the shattered door of the convent.

When I reached the roofless house in which we had held the consultation
the night before, I threw of my gown and I put on the busby and
sabre which I had left there.

Then, a Hussar once more, I hurried onward to the grove which was
our rendezvous.

My brain was still reeling from the concussion of the powder, and I was
exhausted by the many emotions which had shaken me during that terrible
night.

It is like a dream, all that walk in the first dim grey light of
dawn, with the smouldering camp-fires around me and the buzz of the
waking army.

Bugles and drums in every direction were mustering the infantry,
for the explosion and the shouting had told their own tale.

I strode onward until, as I entered the little clump of cork oaks
behind the horse lines, I saw my twelve comrades waiting in a group,
their sabres at their sides.

They looked at me curiously as I approached.

Perhaps with my powder-blackened face and my blood-stained hands I
seemed a different Gerard to the young captain whom they had made
game of the night before.

"Good morning, gentlemen," said I. "I regret exceedingly if I have
kept you waiting, but I have not been master of my own time."

They said nothing, but they still scanned me with curious eyes.

I can see them now, standing in a line before me, tall men and short
men, stout men and thin men: Olivier, with his warlike moustache;
the thin, eager face of Pelletan; young Oudin, flushed by his first
duel; Mortier, with the sword-cut across his wrinkled brow.

I laid aside my busby and drew my sword.

"I have one favour to ask you, gentlemen," said I.

"Marshal Lannes has invited me to breakfast and I cannot keep him
waiting."

"What do you suggest?" asked Major Olivier.

"That you release me from my promise to give you five minutes each,
and that you will permit me to attack you all together."

I stood upon my guard as I spoke.

But their answer was truly beautiful and truly French.

With one impulse the twelve swords flew from their scabbards and were
raised in salute.

There they stood, the twelve of them, motionless, their heels together,
each with his sword upright before his face.

I staggered back from them. I looked from one to the other. For an
instant I could not believe my own eyes. They were paying me homage,
these, the men who had jeered me! Then I understood it all.
I saw the effect that I had made upon them and their desire to make
reparation.
When a man is weak he can steel himself against danger, but not against
emotion.

"Comrades," I cried, "comrades--!" but I could say no more.

Something seemed to take me by the throat and choke me. And then in
an instant Olivier's arms were round me, Pelletan had seized me by the
right hand, Mortier by the left, some were patting me on the
shoulder, some were clapping me on the back, on every side smiling
faces were looking into mine; and so it was that I knew that I had
won my footing in the Hussars of Conflans.

III. How the Brigadier Slew the Fox [*]

[*] This story, already published in The Green Flag, is included here so
that all of the Brigadier Gerard stories may appear together.

In all the great hosts of France there was only one officer toward whom
the English of Wellington's Army retained a deep, steady, and
unchangeable hatred.

There were plunderers among the French, and men of violence, gamblers,
duellists, and roues.

All these could be forgiven, for others of their kidney were to be
found among the ranks of the English.

But one officer of Massena's force had committed a crime which was
unspeakable, unheard of, abominable; only to be alluded to with
curses late in the evening, when a second bottle had loosened the
tongues of men.

The news of it was carried back to England, and country gentlemen who
knew little of the details of the war grew crimson with passion
when they heard of it, and yeomen of the shires raised freckled
fists to Heaven and swore.

And yet who should be the doer of this dreadful deed but our friend the
Brigadier, Etienne Gerard, of the Hussars of Conflans, gay-riding,
plume-tossing, debonair, the darling of the ladies and of the six brigades
of light cavalry.

But the strange part of it is that this gallant gentleman did this hateful
thing, and made himself the most unpopular man in the Peninsula, without
ever knowing that he had done a crime for which there is hardly a name
amid all the resources of our language. He died of old age, and never
once in that imperturbable self-confidence which adorned or disfigured
his character knew that so many thousand Englishmen would gladly have
hanged him with their own hands. On the contrary, he numbered this adventure
among those other exploits which he has given to the world, and
many a time he chuckled and hugged himself as he narrated it to the
eager circle who gathered round him in that humble cafe where,
between his dinner and his dominoes, he would tell, amid tears and
laughter, of that inconceivable Napoleonic past when France, like
an angel of wrath, rose up, splendid and terrible, before a cowering
continent.

Let us listen to him as he tells the story in his own way and from his own
point of view.

You must know, my friends, said he, that it was toward the end
of the year eighteen hundred and ten that I and Massena and the
others pushed Wellington backward until we had hoped to drive him
and his army into the Tagus.

But when we were still twenty-five miles from Lisbon we found that we were
betrayed, for what had this Englishman done but build an enormous
line of works and forts at a place called Torres Vedras, so that
even we were unable to get through them!

They lay across the whole Peninsula, and our army was so far from home
that we did not dare to risk a reverse, and we had already learned at
Busaco that it was no child's play to fight against these people. What
could we do, then, but sit down in front of these lines and blockade
them to the best of our power? There we remained for six months, amid
such anxieties that Massena said afterward that he had not one
hair which was not white upon his body.

For my own part, I did not worry much about our situation, but I
looked after our horses, who were in much need of rest and green
fodder.

For the rest, we drank the wine of the country and passed the time as
best we might. There was a lady at Santarem--but my lips are sealed.
It is the part of a gallant man to say nothing, though he may
indicate that he could say a great deal.

One day Massena sent for me, and I found him in his tent with a great
plan pinned upon the table. He looked at me in silence with that single
piercing eye of his, and I felt by his expression that the matter was
serious. He was nervous and ill at ease, but my bearing seemed to reassure
him. It is good to be in contact with brave men.

"Colonel Etienne Gerard," said he, "I have always heard that you are a
very gallant and enterprising officer."
It was not for me to confirm such a report, and yet it would be folly to
deny it, so I clinked my spurs together and saluted.

"You are also an excellent rider."
I admitted it.

"And the best swordsman in the six brigades of light cavalry."
Massena was famous for the accuracy of his information.

"Now," said he, "if you will look at this plan you will have no
difficulty in understanding what it is that I wish you to do. These are
the lines of Torres Vedras. You will perceive that they cover a vast
space, and you will realise that the English can only hold a position
here and there. Once through the lines you have twenty-five miles
of open country which lie between them and Lisbon. It is very important
to me to learn how Wellington's troops are distributed throughout that
space, and it is my wish that you should go and ascertain."
His words turned me cold.

"Sir," said I, "it is impossible that a colonel of light cavalry should
condescend to act as a spy."
He laughed and clapped me on the shoulder.

"You would not be a Hussar if you were not a hot-head," said he. "If
you will listen you will understand that I have not asked you to act as
a spy. What do you think of that horse?"
He had conducted me to the opening of his tent, and there was a chasseur
who led up and down a most admirable creature.

He was a dapple grey, not very tall, a little over fifteen hands
perhaps, but with the short head and splendid arch of the neck which
comes with the Arab blood.

His shoulders and haunches were so muscular, and yet his legs so
fine, that it thrilled me with joy just to gaze upon him.

A fine horse or a beautiful woman--I cannot look at them unmoved, even
now when seventy winters have chilled my blood. You can think how it
was in the year '10.

"This," said Massena, "is Voltigeur, the swiftest horse in our army.
What I desire is that you should start tonight, ride round the lines
upon the flank, make your way across the enemy's rear, and return upon
the other flank, bringing me news of his disposition. You will wear a
uniform, and will, therefore, if captured, be safe from the death
of a spy. It is probable that you will get through the lines unchallenged,
for the posts are very scattered.

Once through, in daylight you can outride anything which you meet, and
if you keep off the roads you may escape entirely unnoticed. If you have
not reported yourself by to-morrow night, I will understand that
you are taken, and I will offer them Colonel Petrie in exchange."

Ah, how my heart swelled with pride and joy as I sprang into the
saddle and galloped this grand horse up and down to show the Marshal
the mastery which I had of him!

He was magnificent--we were both magnificent, for Massena clapped his hands
and cried out in his delight.

It was not I, but he, who said that a gallant beast deserves a
gallant rider.

Then, when for the third time, with my panache flying and my dolman
streaming behind me, I thundered past him, I saw upon his hard old
face that he had no longer any doubt that he had chosen the man for
his purpose.

I drew my sabre, raised the hilt to my lips in salute, and galloped
on to my own quarters.

Already the news had spread that I had been chosen for a mission, and my
little rascals came swarming out of their tents to cheer me.

Ah!
it brings the tears to my old eyes when I think how proud they were
of their Colonel.

And I was proud of them also.

They deserved a dashing leader.

The night promised to be a stormy one, which was very much to my
liking.

It was my desire to keep my departure most secret, for it was evident
that if the English heard that I had been detached from the army
they would naturally conclude that something important was about
to happen.

My horse was taken, therefore, beyond the picket line, as if for watering,
and I followed and mounted him there.

I had a map, a compass, and a paper of instructions from the Marshal,
and with these in the bosom of my tunic and my sabre at my side I
set out upon my adventure.

A thin rain was falling and there was no moon, so you may imagine that
it was not very cheerful. But my heart was light at the thought of the
honour which had been done me and the glory which awaited me. This exploit
should be one more in that brilliant series which was to change my sabre
into a baton. Ah, how we dreamed, we foolish fellows, young, and drunk
with success! Could I have foreseen that night as I rode, the chosen
man of sixty thousand, that I should spend my life planting cabbages on
a hundred francs a month! Oh, my youth, my hopes, my comrades! But the
wheel turns and never stops. Forgive me, my friends, for an old man has
his weakness.

My route, then, lay across the face of the high ground of Torres
Vedras, then over a streamlet, past a farmhouse which had been
burned down and was now only a landmark, then through a forest of
young cork oaks, and so to the monastery of San Antonio, which
marked the left of the English position.

Here I turned south and rode quietly over the downs, for it was at this
point that Massena thought that it would be most easy for me to
find my way unobserved through the position.

I went very slowly, for it was so dark that I could not see my hand
in front of me.

In such cases I leave my bridle loose and let my horse pick its own
way.

Voltigeur went confidently forward, and I was very content to sit upon
his back and to peer about me, avoiding every light.

For three hours we advanced in this cautious way, until it seemed to
me that I must have left all danger behind me. I then pushed on more
briskly, for I wished to be in the rear of the whole army by daybreak.
There are many vineyards in these parts which in winter become open
plains, and a horseman finds few difficulties in his way.

But Massena had underrated the cunning of these English, for it appears
that there was not one line of defence but three, and it was the
third, which was the most formidable, through which I was at that
instant passing.

As I rode, elated at my own success, a lantern flashed suddenly before me,
and I saw the glint of polished gun-barrels and the gleam of a red
coat.

"Who goes there?"

cried a voice--such a voice! I swerved to the right and rode like a
madman, but a dozen squirts of fire came out of the darkness, and
the bullets whizzed all round my ears.

That was no new sound to me, my friends, though I will not talk
like a foolish conscript and say that I have ever liked it.

But at least it had never kept me from thinking clearly, and so I
knew that there was nothing for it but to gallop hard and try my
luck elsewhere.

I rode round the English picket, and then, as I heard nothing more of
them, I concluded rightly that I had at last come through their
defences.

For five miles I rode south, striking a tinder from time to time to look
at my pocket compass. And then in an instant--I feel the pang once more
as my memory brings back the moment--my horse, without a sob or staggers
fell stone-dead beneath me!

I had never known it, but one of the bullets from that infernal picket
had passed through his body. The gallant creature had never winced nor
weakened, but had gone while life was in him. One instant I was secure
on the swiftest, most graceful horse in Massena's army. The next
he lay upon his side, worth only the price of his hide, and I stood
there that most helpless, most ungainly of creatures, a dismounted
Hussar. What could I do with my boots, my spurs, my trailing sabre? I
was far inside the enemy's lines. How could I hope to get back again?

I am not ashamed to say that I, Etienne Gerard, sat upon my dead horse and
sank my face in my hands in my despair.

Already the first streaks were whitening the east.

In half an hour it would be light. That I should have won my way past
every obstacle and then at this last instant be left at the mercy of
my enemies, my mission ruined, and myself a prisoner--was it not
enough to break a soldier's heart?

But courage, my friends! We have these moments of weakness, the bravest
of us; but I have a spirit like a slip of steel, for the more you bend
it the higher it springs.

One spasm of despair, and then a brain of ice and a heart of fire. All
was not yet lost. I who had come through so many hazards would come
through this one also. I rose from my horse and considered what had
best be done.

And first of all it was certain that I could not get back. Long before
I could pass the lines it would be broad daylight. I must hide myself
for the day, and then devote the next night to my escape. I took the
saddle, holsters, and bridle from poor Voltigeur, and I concealed them
among some bushes, so that no one finding him could know that he was
a French horse. Then, leaving him lying there, I wandered on in
search of some place where I might be safe for the day. In every
direction I could see camp fires upon the sides of the hills, and
already figures had begun to move around them.

I must hide quickly, or I was lost.

But where was I to hide? It was a vineyard in which I found myself,
the poles of the vines still standing, but the plants gone. There was
no cover there. Besides, I should want some food and water before another
night had come.

I hurried wildly onward through the waning darkness, trusting that chance
would be my friend.

And I was not disappointed. Chance is a woman, my friends, and she
has her eye always upon a gallant Hussar.

Well, then, as I stumbled through the vineyard, something loomed in front
of me, and I came upon a great square house with another long, low
building upon one side of it.

Three roads met there, and it was easy to see that this was the posada,
or wine-shop.

There was no light in the windows, and everything was dark and
silent, but, of course, I knew that such comfortable quarters were
certainly occupied, and probably by someone of importance.

I have learned, however, that the nearer the danger may really be the
safer place, and so I was by no means inclined to trust myself away
from this shelter.
The low building was evidently the stable, and into this I crept, for
the door was unlatched.

The place was full of bullocks and sheep, gathered there, no doubt, to
be out of the clutches of marauders.

A ladder led to a loft, and up this I climbed and concealed myself
very snugly among some bales of hay upon the top. This loft had a
small open window, and I was able to look down upon the front of the
inn and also upon the road. There I crouched and waited to see
what would happen.

It was soon evident that I had not been mistaken when I had thought that
this might be the quarters of some person of importance. Shortly after
daybreak an English light dragoon arrived with a despatch, and from
then onward the place was in a turmoil, officers continually riding
up and away.

Always the same name was upon their lips: "Sir Stapleton--Sir Stapleton."

It was hard for me to lie there with a dry moustache and watch the great
flagons which were brought out by the landlord to these English officers.
But it amused me to look at their fresh-coloured, clean-shaven, careless
faces, and to wonder what they would think if they knew that so celebrated
a person was lying so near to them.

And then, as I lay and watched, I saw a sight which filled me with
surprise.

It is incredible the insolence of these English!

What do you suppose Milord Wellington had done when he found that Massena
had blockaded him and that he could not move his army? I might
give you many guesses.

You might say that he had raged, that he had despaired, that he had
brought his troops together and spoken to them about glory and the
fatherland before leading them to one last battle. No, Milord did none
of these things. But he sent a fleet ship to England to bring him a
number of fox-dogs; and he with his officers settled himself down to chase
the fox. It is true what I tell you. Behind the lines of Torres Vedras
these mad Englishmen made the fox chase three days in the week.

We had heard of it in the camp, and now I was myself to see that it was
true.

For, along the road which I have described, there came these very dogs,
thirty or forty of them, white and brown, each with its tail at
the same angle, like the bayonets of the Old Guard.

My faith, but it was a pretty sight! And behind and amidst them there
rode three men with peaked caps and red coats, whom I understood to be
the hunters. After them came many horsemen with uniforms of various
kinds, stringing along the roads in twos and threes, talking together
and laughing.

They did not seem to be going above a trot, and it appeared to me that it
must indeed be a slow fox which they hoped to catch. However, it was their
affair, not mine, and soon they had all passed my window and were out
of sight. I waited and I watched, ready for any chance which might
offer.

Presently an officer, in a blue uniform not unlike that of our
flying artillery, came cantering down the road--an elderly, stout
man he was, with grey side-whiskers.

He stopped and began to talk with an orderly officer of dragoons, who
waited outside the inn, and it was then that I learned the advantage
of the English which had been taught me. I could hear and understand
all that was said.

"Where is the meet?" said the officer, and I thought that he was hungering
for his bifstek. But the other answered him that it was near Altara, so
I saw that it was a place of which he spoke.

"You are late, Sir George," said the orderly.

"Yes, I had a court-martial. Has Sir Stapleton Cotton gone?"
At this moment a window opened, and a handsome young man in a very
splendid uniform looked out of it.

"Halloa, Murray!" said he. "These cursed papers keep me, but I will be at
your heels."
"Very good, Cotton. I am late already, so I will ride on."
"You might order my groom to bring round my horse," said the young General
at the window to the orderly below, while the other went on down the
road.

The orderly rode away to some outlying stable, and then in a few minutes
there came a smart English groom with a cockade in his hat, leading by
the bridle a horse--and, oh, my friends, you have never known the
perfection to which a horse can attain until you have seen a first-class
English hunter. He was superb: tall, broad, strong, and yet as graceful
and agile as a deer.

Coal black he was in colour, and his neck, and his shoulder, and his
quarters, and his fetlocks--how can I describe him all to you? The
sun shone upon him as on polished ebony, and he raised his hoofs in a
little playful dance so lightly and prettily, while he tossed his
mane and whinnied with impatience. Never have I seen such a mixture of
strength and beauty and grace. I had often wondered how the English
Hussars had managed to ride over the chasseurs of the Guards in the
affair at Astorga, but I wondered no longer when I saw the English
horses.

There was a ring for fastening bridles at the door of the inn, and the
groom tied the horse there while he entered the house. In an instant
I had seen the chance which Fate had brought to me. Were I in that saddle
I should be better off than when I started. Even Voltigeur could not
compare with this magnificent creature. To think is to act with me.
In one instant I was down the ladder and at the door of the stable.
The next I was out and the bridle was in my hand. I bounded into the
saddle.

Somebody, the master or the man, shouted wildly behind me. What
cared I for his shouts! I touched the horse with my spurs and he
bounded forward with such a spring that only a rider like myself
could have sat him.CHAPTER VI.


FROM HOME.

  Every morning, a man may say,
  Calls him up with a new birth-day;
  Every day is a little life,
  Sunny with love, stormy with strife;
  Every life is a little death,
  From which too soon he awakeneth--

--as Walter himself wrote, not then knowing half that the words meant.
As with the skirt of her mantle the dark wipes out the day, so with her
sleep the night makes a man fresh for the new day's journey. If it were
not for sleep, the world could not go on. To feel the mystery of day and
night, to gaze into the far receding spaces of their marvel, is more
than to know all the combinations of chemistry. A little wonder is worth
tons of knowledge. But to Walter the new day did not come as a call to
new life in the world of will and action, but only as the harbinger of a
bliss borne hitherward on the wind of the world. Was he not going forth
as a Titanic child to become a great man among great men! Who would be
strong among the weak! who would be great among the small! He did not
suspect in himself what Molly saw, or at least suspected in him. When a
man is hopeful, he feels strong, and can work. The thoughts come and the
pen runs. Were he always at his best, what might not a man do! But not
many can determine their moods; and none, be they poets or economists,
can any more secure the conditions of faculty than they can create the
faculty. When the mood changes and hope departs, and the inward
atmosphere is grown damp and dismal, there may be whose imagination will
yet respond to their call; but let some certain kind of illness come,
and every one must lose his power; his creature-condition will assert
itself; he is compelled to discover that we did not create ourselves,
neither live by ourselves.

Walter loved his father, but did not mind leaving him; he loved Molly,
but did not mind leaving her; and we can not blame him if he was glad to
escape from his aunt. If people are not lovable, it takes a saint to
love them, or at least one who is not afraid of them. Yet it was with a
sense of somewhat dreary though welcome liberty, that Walter found
himself, but for the young man his father had befriended, alone in
London. With his help he found an humble lodging not far from the
British Museum, to the neighborhood of which his love of books led him;
and for a time, feeling no necessity for immediate effort, he gave
himself to the study of certain departments of our literature not
hitherto within his easy reach. In the evening he would write, or
accompany his new friend to some lecture or amusement; and so the weeks
passed. To earn something seemed but a slowly approaching necessity, and
the weeks grew to months. He was never idle, for his tastes were strong,
and he had delight in his pen; but so sensitive was his social skin,
partly from the licking of his aunt's dry, feline tongue, that he shrunk
from submitting anything he wrote to Harold Sullivan, who, a man of
firmer and more world-capable stuff than he, would at least have shown
him how things which the author saw and judged from the inner side of
the web, must appear on the other side. There are few weavers of thought
capable of turning round the web and contemplating with unprejudiced
regard the side of it about to be offered to the world, so as to
perceive how it will look to eyes alien to its genesis.

It would be to repeat a story often told, to relate how he sent poem
after poem, now to this now to that periodical, with the same
result--that he never heard of them again. The verses over which he had
labored with delight, in the crimson glory they reflected on the heart
whence they issued, were nothing in any eyes to which he submitted them.
In truth, except for a good line here and there, they were by no means
on the outer side what they looked to him on the inner. He read them in
the light of the feeling in which he had written them; whoever else read
them had not this light to interpret them by, had no correspondent mood
ready to receive them. It was the business of the verse itself, by
witchery of sound and magic of phrase, to rouse receptive mood: of this
it was incapable. A course of reading in the first attempts of such as
rose after to well-merited distinction, might reveal not a few
things--among the rest, their frequent poverty. Much mere babbling often
issues before worthy speech begins. There was nothing in Walter's mind
to be put in form except a few of the vague lovely sensations belonging
to a poetic temperament. And as he grew more and more of a reader, his
inspiration came more and more from what he read, less and less from
knowledge of his own heart or the hearts of others. He had no revelation
to give. He had, like most of our preachers, set out to run before he
could walk, begun to cry aloud before he had any truth to utter; to
teach, or at least to interest others, before he was himself interested
in others. Now and then, indeed, especially when some fading joy of
childhood gleamed up, words would come unbidden, and he would throw off
a song destitute neither of feeling nor music; but this kind of thing he
scarcely valued, for it seemed to cost him nothing.

He comforted himself by concluding that his work was of a kind too
original to be at once recognized by dulled and sated editors; that he
must labor on and keep sending.

"Why do you not write something?" his friend would say; and he would
answer that his time was not come.

The friends he made were not many. Instinctively he shrunk from what was
coarse, feeling it destructive to every finer element. How could he
write of beauty, if, false to beauty, he had but for a moment turned to
the unclean? But he was not satisfied with himself: he had done nothing,
even in his own eyes, while the recognition of the world was lacking!

He was in no anxiety, for he did not imagine it of consequence to his
father whether he began a little sooner or a little later to earn. The
governor knew, he said to himself, that to earn ought not to be a man's
first object in life, even when necessity compelled him to make it first
in order of time, which was not the case with him! But he did not ask
himself whether he had substituted a better object. A greater man than
himself, he reflected--no less a man, indeed, than Milton--had never
earned a dinner till after he was thirty years of age! He did not
consider how and to what ends Milton had all the time been diligent. He
was no student yet of men's lives; he was interested almost only in
their imaginations, and not half fastidious enough as to whether those
imaginations ran upon the rails of truth or not. He was rapidly filling
his mind with the good and bad of the literature of his country, but he
had not yet gone far in distinguishing between the bad and the good in
it. Books were to him the geological deposits of the literary forces. He
pursued his acquaintance with them to nourish the literary faculty in
himself. They afforded him atmosphere and stimulant and store of matter.
He was in full training for the profession that cultivates literature
for and upon literature, and neither for nor upon truth.


CHAPTER VII.


A CHANGE.

A big stone fell suddenly into the smooth pool of Walter's conditions. A
letter from his father brought the news that the bank where he had
deposited his savings had proved but a swollen mushroom. He had lost
all.

"Indeed, my son," wrote the sorrowful Richard, "I do not see how with
honesty to send you a shilling more! If you have exhausted the proceeds
of my last check, and can not earn a sufficiency, come home. Thank God,
the land yet remains!--so long as I can pay the rent."

In the heart of Walter woke a new impulse. He drew himself up for combat
and endurance. I am afraid he did not feel much trouble for his father's
trouble, but he would have scorned adding to it. He wrote at once that
he must not think of him in the affair; he would do very well. It was
not a comforting letter exactly, but it showed courage, and his father
was glad.

He set himself to find employment in some one of the mechanical
departments of literature--the only region in which he could think to do
anything. When the architect comes to necessity, it is well if stones
are near, and the mason's hammer: if he be not the better mason that he
is an architect, alas for his architecture! Walter was nothing yet,
however, neither architect nor mason, when the stern hand of necessity
laid hold of him. But it is a fine thing for any man to be compelled to
work. It is the first divine decree, issuing from love and help. How
would it have been with Adam and Eve had they been left to plenty and
idleness, the voice of God no more heard in the cool of the day?

But the search for work was a difficult and disheartening task. He who
has encountered it, however, has had an experience whose value far more
than equals its unpleasantness. A man out of work needs the God that
cares for the sparrows, as much as the man whose heart is torn with
ingratitude, or crushed under a secret crime. Walter went hither and
thither, communicated his quest to each of his few acquaintances,
procured introductions, and even without any applied to some who might
have employment to bestow, putting so much pride in his pockets that,
had it been a solid, they must have bulged in unsightly fashion, and
walked till worn with weariness, giving good proof that he was no fool,
but had the right stuff in him. He neither yielded to false
fastidiousness, nor relaxed effort because of disappointment--not even
when disappointment became the very atmosphere of his consciousness. To
the father it would have been the worst of his loss to see his son
wiping the sweat and dust from the forehead his mother had been so
motherly proud of, and hear the heavy sigh with which he would sink in
the not too easy chair that was all his haven after the tossing of the
day's weary groundswell. He did not rise quite above self-pity; he
thought he was hardly dealt with; but so long as he did not respond to
the foolish and weakening sentiment by relaxation of effort, it could
not do him much harm; he would soon grow out of it, and learn to despise
it. What one man has borne, why should not another bear? Why should it
be unfit for him any more than the other? Certainly he who has never
borne has yet to bear. The new experience is awaiting every member of
the Dives clan. Walter wore out his shoes, and could not buy another
pair; his clothes grew shabby, and he must wear them: it was no small
part of his suffering, to have to show himself in a guise which made him
so unlike the Walter he felt. But he did not let his father know even a
small part of what he confronted.

He had never drawn close to his father; they had come to no spiritual
contact. Walter, the gentleman, saw in Richard the farmer. He knew him
an honorable man, and in a way honored him; but he would have been
dissatisfied with him in such society to which he considered himself
belonging. It is a sore thing for a father, when he has shoved his son
up a craggy steep, to see him walk away without looking behind. Walter
felt a difference between them.

He had to give up his lodgings. Sullivan took him into his, and shared
his bed with him--doing all he could in return for his father's
kindness.

Where now was Walter's poetry? Naturally, vanished. He was man enough to
work, but not man enough to continue a poet._ His_ poetry!--how could
such a jade stand the spur!

But to bestir himself was better than to make verses; and indeed of all
the labors for a livelihood in which a man may cultivate verse, that of
literature is the last he should choose. Compare the literary efforts of
Burns with the songs he wrote when home from his plow!

Walter's hope had begun to faint outright, when Sullivan came in one
evening as he lay on the floor, and told him that the editor of a new
periodical, whom he had met at a friend's house, would make a place for
him. The remuneration could suffice only to a grinding economy, but it
was bread!--more, it was work, and an opening to possibilities! Walter
felt himself equal to any endurance short of incapacitating hunger, and
gladly accepted the offer. His duty was the merest agglomeration; but
even in that he might show faculty, and who could tell what might
follow! It was wearisome but not arduous, and above all, it left him
time!


CHAPTER VIII.


AT WORK.

Walter found that compulsory employment, while taking from, his time for
genial labor, quickened his desire after it, increased his faculty for
it, and made him more careful of his precious hours of leisure. Life,
too, had now an interest greater than before; and almost as soon as
anxiety gave place, the impulse to utterance began again to urge him.
What this impulse is, who can define, or who can trace its origin? The
result of it in Walter's case was ordered words, or, conventionally,
poetry. Seldom is such a result of any value, but the process is for the
man invaluable: it remained to be seen whether in Walter it was for
others as well as himself.

He became rapidly capable of better work. His duty was drudgery, but
drudgery well encountered will reveal itself as of potent and precious
reaction, both intellectual and moral. One incapable of drudgery can not
be capable of the finest work. Many a man may do many things well, and
be far from reception into the most ancient guild of workers.

Walter labored with conscience and diligence, and brought his good taste
to tell on the quality of his drudgery. He is a contemptible workman who
thinks of his claims before his duties, of his poor wages instead of his
undertaken work. There was a strong sense of fairness in Walter; he saw
the meanness of pocketing the poorest without giving good work in
return; he saw that its own badness, and nothing else, makes any work
mean--and the workman with it. That he believed himself capable of
higher work was the worst of reasons for not giving money's worth for
his money. That a thing is of little value is a poor excuse for giving
bad measure of it. Walter carried his hod full, and was a man.

Sullivan was mainly employed in writing the reviews of "current
literature." One evening he brought Walter a book of some pretension,
told him he was hard pressed, and begged him to write a notice of it.
Walter, glad of the opportunity of both serving his friend and trying
his own hand, set himself at once to read the book. The moment he thus
took the attitude of a reviewer, he found the paragraphs begin, like
potatoes, to sprout, and generate other paragraphs. Between agreeing and
disagreeing he had soon far more than enough to say, and sought his
table, as a workman his bench.

To many people who think, writing is the greatest of bores; but Walter
enjoyed it, even to the mechanical part of the operation. Heedless of
the length of his article, he wrote until long after midnight, and next
morning handed the result to his friend. He burst out laughing.

"Here's a paper for a quarterly!" he cried. "Man, it is almost as long
as the book itself! This will never do! The world has neither time,
space, money, nor brains for so much! But I will take it, and see what
can be done with it"

About a sixth part of it was printed. In that sixth Walter could not
recognize his hand; neither could he have gathered from it any idea of
the book.

A few days after, Harold brought him a batch of books to review, taking
care, however, to limit him to an average length for each. Walter
entered thus upon a short apprenticeship, the end of which was that, a
vacancy happening to occur, he was placed on "the staff" of the journal,
to aid in reviewing the books sent by their publishers. His income was
considerably augmented, but the work was harder, and required more of
his time.

From the first he was troubled to find how much more honesty demanded
than pay made possible. He had not learned this while merely
supplementing the labor of his friend, and taking his time. But now he
became aware that to make acquaintance with a book, and pass upon it a
justifiable judgment, required at least four times the attention he
could afford it and live. Many, however, he could knock off without
compunction, regarding them as too slight to deserve attention:
"indifferent honest," he was not so sensitive in justice as to reflect
that the poorest thing has a right to fair play; that, free to say
nothing, you must, if you speak, say the truth of the meanest. But
Walter had not yet sunk to believe there can be _necessity_ for doing
wrong. The world is divided, very unequally, into those that think a man
can not avoid, and those who believe he _must_ avoid doing wrong. Those
live in fear of death; these set death in one eye and right in the
other.

His first important review, Walter was compelled to print without having
finished it. The next he worked at hardest, and finished, but with less
deliberation. He grew more and more careless toward the books he counted
of little consequence, while he imagined himself growing more and more
capable of getting at the heart of a book by skimming its pages. If to
skim be ever a true faculty, it must come of long experience in the art
of reading, and is not possible to a beginner. To skim and judge, is to
wake from a doze and give the charge to a jury.

Writing more and more smartly, he found the usual difficulty in
abstaining from a smartness which was unjust because irrelevant.

So far as his employers were concerned, Walter did his duty, but forgot
that, apart from his obligation to the mere and paramount truth, it was
from the books he reviewed--good, bad, or indifferent, whichever they
were--that he drew the food he eat and the clothes that covered him.

His talent was increasingly recognized by the editors of the newspaper,
and they began to put other, and what they counted more important work
in his way, intrusting him with the discussion of certain social
questions of the day, in regard to which, like many another youth of
small experience, he found it the easier to give a confident opinion
that his experience was so small. In general he wrote logically, and,
which is rarer, was even capable of being made to see where his logic
was wrong. But his premises were much too scanty. What he took for
granted was very often by no means granted. It mattered, little to
editors or owners, however, so long as he wrote lucidly, sparklingly,
"crisply," leaving those who read, willing to read more from the same
pen.


CHAPTER IX.


FLATTERY.

Within a year Walter began to be known--to the profession, at least--as
a promising writer; and was already, to more than a few, personally
known as a very agreeable, gentlemanly fellow, so that in the following
season he had a good many invitations. It was by nothing beyond the
ephemeral that he was known; but may not the man who has invented a good
umbrella one day build a good palace? His acquaintance was considerably
varied, but of the social terraces above the professional, he knew for a
time nothing.

One evening, however, he happened to meet, and was presented to Lady
Tremaine: she had asked to have the refined-looking young man, of whom
she had just heard as one of the principal writers in the "Field
Battery," introduced to her. She was a matronly, handsome woman, with
cordial manners and a cold eye; frank, easy, confident, unassuming.
Under the shield of her position, she would walk straight up to any
subject, and speak her mind of it plainly. It was more than easy to
become acquainted with her when she chose.

The company was not a large one, and they soon found themselves alone in
a quiet corner.

"You are a celebrated literary man, Mr. Colman, they tell me!" said Lady
Tremaine.

"Not in the least," answered Walter. "I am but a poor hack."

"It is well to be modest; but I am not bound to take your description of
yourself. Your class at least is in a fair way to take the lead!"

"In what, pray?"

"In politics, in society, in everything."

"You ladyship can not think it desirable."

"I do not pretend to desire it. I am not false to my own people. But the
fact remains that you are coming to the front, and we are falling
behind. And the sooner you get to the front, the better it will be for
the world, and for us too."

"I can not say I understand you."

"I will tell you why. There are now no fewer than three aristocracies.
There is one of rank, and one of brains. I belong to the one, you to the
other. But there is a third."

"If you recognize the rich as an aristocracy, you must allow me to
differ from you--very much!"

"Naturally. I quite agree with you. But what can your opinion and mine
avail against the rising popular tide! All the old families are melting
away, swallowed by the _nouveaux riches_. I should not mind, or at least
I should feel it in me to submit with a good grace, if we were pushed
from our stools by a new aristocracy of literature and science, but I do
rebel against the social _régime_ which is every day more strongly
asserting itself. All the gradations are fast disappearing; the
palisades of good manners, dignity, and respect, are vanishing with the
hedges; the country is positively inundated with slang and
vulgarity--all from the ill-breeding, presumption, and self-satisfaction
of new people."

Walter felt tempted to ask whether it was not the fault of the existent
aristocracy in receiving and flattering them; whether it could not
protect society if it would; whether in truth the aristocracy did not
love, even honor money as much as they; but he was silent.

As if she read his thought, Lady Tremaine resumed:

"The plague of it is that younger sons must live! Money they must
have!--and there's the gate off the hinges! The best, and indeed the
only thing to help is, that the two other aristocracies make common
cause to keep the rich in their proper place."

It was not a very subtle flattery, but Walter was pleased. The lady saw
she had so far gained her end, for she had an end in view, and changed
the subject.

"You go out of an evening, I see!" she said at length. "I am glad. Some
authors will not."

"I do when I can. The evening, however, to one who--who--"

"--Has an eye on posterity! Of course! It is gold and diamonds! How
silly all our pursuits must appear in your eyes! But I hope you will
make an exception in my favor!"

"I shall be most happy," responded Walter, cordially.

"I will not ask you to come and be absorbed in a crowd--not the first
time at least! Gould you not manage to come and see me in the morning?"

"I am at your ladyship's service," replied Walter.

"Then come--let me see!--the day after to-morrow--about five o'clock.
17, Goodrich Square."

Walter could not but be flattered that Lady Tremaine was so evidently
pleased with him. She called his profession an aristocracy too!
therefore she was not patronizing him, but receiving him on the same
social level! We can not blame him for the inexperience which allowed
him to hold his head a little higher as he walked home.

There was little danger of his forgetting the appointment. Lady Tremaine
received him in what she called her growlery, with cordiality. By and by
she led the way toward literature, and after they had talked of several
new books--

"We are not in this house altogether strange," she said, "to your
profession. My daughter Lufa is an authoress in her way. You, of course,
never heard of her, but it is twelve months since her volume of verse
came out."

Surely Walter had, somewhere about that time, when helping his friend
Sullivan, seen a small ornate volume of verses, with a strange name like
that on the title-page! Whether he had written a notice of it he could
not remember.

"It was exceedingly well received--for a first, of course! Lufa hardly
thought so herself, but I told her what could she expect, altogether
unknown as she was. Tell me honestly, Mr. Colman, is there not quite as
much jealousy in your profession as in any other?"

Walter allowed it was not immaculate in respect of envy and evil
speaking.

"You have so much opportunity for revenge, you see!" said Lady Tremaine;
"and such a coat of darkness for protection! With a few strokes of the
pen a man may ruin his rival!"

"Scarcely that!" returned Walter. "If a book be a good book, the worst
of us can not do it much harm; nor do I believe there are more than a
few in the profession who would condescend to give a false opinion upon
the work of a rival; though doubtless personal feeling may pervert the
judgment."

"That, of course," returned the lady, "is but human! You can not deny,
however, that authors occasionally make furious assaults on each other!"

"Authors ought not to be reviewers," replied Walter. "I fancy most
reviewers avoid the work of an acquaintance even, not to say a friend or
enemy."

The door opened, and what seemed to Walter as lovely a face as could
ever have dawned on the world, peeped in, and would have withdrawn.

"Lufa," said Lady Tremaine, "you need not go away. Mr. Colman and I have
no secrets. Come and be introduced to him."

She entered--a small, pale creature, below the middle height, with the
daintiest figure, and child-like eyes of dark blue, very clear,
and--must I say it?--for the occasion "worn" wide. Her hair was brown,
on the side of black, divided in the middle, and gathered behind in a
great mass. Her dress was something white, with a shimmer of red about
it, and a blush-rose in the front. She greeted Walter in the simplest,
friendliest way, holding out her tiny hand very frankly. Her features
were no smaller than for her size they ought to be, in themselves
perfect, \Walter thought, and in harmony with her whole being and
carriage. Her manner was a gentle, unassuming assurance--almost as if
they knew each other, but had not met for some time. Walter felt some
ancient primeval bond between them--dim, but indubitable.

The mother withdrew to her writing-table, and began to write, now and
then throwing in a word as they talked. Lady Lufa seemed pleased with
her new acquaintance; Walter was bewitched. Bewitchment I take to be the
approach of the real to our ideal. Perhaps upon that, however, depends
even the comforting or the restful. In the heart of every one lies the
necessity for homeliest intercourse with the perfectly lovely; we are
made for it. Yet so far are we in ourselves from the ideal, which no man
can come near until absolutely devoted to its quest, that we continually
take that for sufficing which is a little beyond.

"I think, Mr. Colman, I have seen something of yours! You do put your
name to what you write?" said Lady Lufa.

"Not always," replied Walter.

"I think the song must have been yours!"

Walter had, just then, for the first time published a thing of his own.
That it should have arrested the eye of this lovely creature! He
acknowledged that he had printed a trifle in "The Observatory."

"I was _charmed_ with it!" said the girl, the word charmingly drawled.

"The merest trifle!" remarked Walter. "It cost me nothing."

He meant what he said, unwilling to be judged by such a slight thing.

"That is the beauty of it!" she answered. "Your song left your soul as
the thrush's leaves his throat. Should we prize the thrush's more if we
came upon him practicing it?"

Walter laughed.

"But we are not meant to sing like the birds!"

"That you could write such a song without effort, shows you to possess
the bird-gift of spontaneity."

Walter was surprised at her talk, and willing to believe it profound.

"The will and the deed in one may be the highest art!" he said. "I
hardly know."

"May I write music to it?" asked Lady Lufa, with upward glance, sweet
smile, and gently apologetic look.

"I am delighted you should think of doing so. It is more than it
deserves!" answered Walter. "My only condition is, that you will let me
hear it."

"That you have a right to. Besides, I dared not publish it without
knowing you liked it."

"Thank you so much! To hear you sing it will let me know at once whether
the song itself be genuine."

"No, no! I may fail in my part, and yours be all I take it to be. But I
shall not fail. It holds me too fast for that!"

"Then I may hope for a summons?" said Walter, rising.

"Before long. One can not order the mood, you know!"


CHAPTER X.


THE ROUND OF THE WORLD.

Birds when they leave the nest carry, I presume, their hearts with them;
not a few humans leave their hearts behind them--too often, alas! to be
sent for afterward. The whole round of the world, many a cloud-rack on
the ridge of it, and many a mist on the top of that, rises between them
and the eyes and hearts which gave their very life that they might live.
Some as they approach middle age, some only when they are old, wake up
to understand that they have parents. To some the perception comes with
their children; to others with the pang of seeing them walk away
light-hearted out into the world, as they themselves turned their backs
on their parents: they had been all their own, and now they have done
with them! Less or more, have we not all thus taken our journey into a
far country? But many a man of sixty is more of a son to the father gone
from the earth, than he was while under his roof. What a disintegrated
mass were the world, what a lump of half-baked brick, if death were
indeed the end of affection! if there were no chance more of setting
right what was so wrong in the loveliest relations! How gladly would
many a son who once thought it a weariness to serve his parents,
minister now to their lightest need! and in the boundless eternity is
there no help?

Walter was not a prodigal; he was a well-behaved youth. He was _only_
proud, _only_ thought much of himself; was _only_ pharisaical, not
hypocritical; was _only_ neglectful of those nearest him, always polite
to those comparatively nothing to him! Compassionate and generous to
necessity, he let his father and his sister-cousin starve for the only
real food a man can give, that is, _himself_. As to him who thought his
very thoughts into him, he heeded him not at all, or mocked him by
merest ceremony. There are who refuse God the draught of water He
desires, on the ground that their vessel is not fit for Him to drink
from: Walter thought his too good to fill with the water fit for God to
drink.

He had the feeling, far from worded, not even formed, but certainly in
him, that he was a superior man to his father. But it is a fundamental
necessity of the kingdom of heaven, impossible as it must seem to all
outside it, that each shall count other better than himself; it is the
natural condition of the man God made, in relation to the other men God
has made. Man is made, not to contemplate himself, but to behold in
others the beauty of the Father. A man who lives to meditate upon and
worship himself, is in the slime of hell. Walter knew his father a
reading man, but because he had not been to a university, placed no
value on his reading. Yet this father was a man who had intercourse with
high countries, intercourse in which his son would not have perceived
the presence of an idea.

In like manner, Richard's carriage of mind, and the expression of the
same in his modes and behavior, must have been far other than
objectionable to the ushers of those high countries; his was a certain
quiet, simply, direct way, reminding one of Nathanael, in whom was no
guile. In another man Walter would have called it bucolic; in his father
he shut his eyes to it as well as he could, and was ashamed of it. He
would scarcely, in his circle, be regarded as a gentleman! he would look
odd! He therefore had not encouraged the idea of his coming to see him.
He was not satisfied with the father by whom the Father of fathers had
sent him into the world! But Richard was the truest of gentlemen even in
his outward carriage, for he was not only courteous and humble, but that
rare thing--natural; and the natural, be it old as the Greek, must be
beautiful. The natural dwells deep, and is not the careless, any more
than the studied or assumed.

Walter loved his father, but the root of his love did not go deep enough
to send aloft a fine flower: deep in is high out. He seldom wrote, and
wrote briefly. He did not make a confidant of his father. He did not
even tell him what he was doing, or what he hoped to do. He might
mention a success, but of hopes, fears, aspirations, or defeats, or
thoughts or desires, he said nothing. As to his theories, he never
imagined his father entering into such things as occupied _his_ mind!
The ordinary young man takes it for granted that he and the world are
far ahead of "the governor;" the father may have left behind him, as
nebulae sinking below the horizon of youth, questions the world is but
just waking to put.

The blame, however, may lie in part at the parent's door. The hearts of
the fathers need turning to the children, as much as the hearts of the
children need turning to the fathers. Few men open up to their children;
and where a man does not, the schism, the separation begins with him,
for all his love be deep and true. That it is unmanly to show one's
feelings, is a superstition prevalent with all English-speaking people.
Now, wherever feeling means weakness, falsehood, or excitement, it ought
not merely not be shown, but not to exist; but for a man to hide from
his son his loving and his loathing, is to refuse him the divinest
fashion of teaching. Richard read the best things, and loved best the
best writers: never once had he read a poem with his son, or talked to
him about any poet! If Walter had even suspected his father's insight
into certain things, he would have loved him more. Closely bound as they
were, neither knew the other. Each would have been astonished at what he
might have found in the other. The father might have discovered many
handles by which to lay hold of his son; the son might have seen the
lamp bright in his father's chamber which he was but trimming in his.


CHAPTER XI.


THE SONG.

AT length came the summons from Lady Lufa to hear her music to his
verses.

It was not much of a song, neither did he think it was.

  Mist and vapor and cloud
    Filled the earth and the air!
  My heart was wrapt in a shroud.
    And death was everywhere.

  The sun went silently down
    To his rest in the unseen wave;
  But my heart, in its purple and crown.
    Lay already in its grave.

  For a cloud had darkened the brow
    Of the lady who is my queen;
  I had been a monarch, but now
    All things had only been!

  I sprung from the couch of death:
    Who called my soul? Who spake?
  No sound! no answer! no breath!
    Yet my soul was wide awake!

  And my heart began to blunder
    Into rhythmic pulse the while;
  I turned--away was the wonder--
    My queen had begun to smile!

  Outbrake the sun in the west!
    Outlaughed the crested sea!
  And my heart was alive in my breast
    With light, and love, and thee!

There was a little music in the verses, and they had a meaning--though
not a very new or valuable one.

He went in the morning--the real, not the conventional--and was shown
into the drawing-room, his heart beating with expectation. Lady Lufa was
alone, and already at the piano. She was in a gray stuff with red
rosebuds, and looked as simple as any country parson's daughter. She
gave him no greeting beyond a little nod, at once struck a chord or two,
and began to sing.

Walter was charmed. The singing, and the song through the singing,
altogether exceeded his expectation. He had feared he should not be able
to laud heartily, for he had not lost his desire to be truthful--but she
was an artist! There was indeed nothing original in her music; it was
mainly a reconstruction of common phrases afloat in the musical
atmosphere; but she managed the slight dramatic element in the lyric
with taste and skill, following tone and sentiment with chord and
inflection; so that the music was worthy of the verses--which is not
saying very much for either; while the expression the girl threw into
the song went to the heart of the youth, and made him foolish.

She ceased; he was silent for a moment, then fervent in thanks and
admiration.

"The verses are mine no more," he said. "I shall care for them now!"

"You won't mind if I publish them with the music?"

"I shall feel more honored than I dare tell you. But how _am_ I to go to
my work after this taste of paradise! It was too cruel of you, Lady
Lufa, to make me come in the morning!"

"I am very sorry!"

"Will you grant me one favor to make up?"

"Yes."

"Never to sing the song to any one when I am present. I could not bear
it."

"I promise," she answered, looking up in his face with a glance of
sympathetic consciousness.

There was an acknowledged secret between them, and Walter hugged it.

"I gave you a frozen bird," he said, "and you have warmed it, and made
it soar and sing."

"Thank you; a very pretty compliment!" she answered--and there was a
moment's silence.

"I am so glad we know each other!" she resumed. "You could help me so
much if you would! Next time you come, you must tell me something about
those old French rhymes that have come into fashion of late! They say a
pretty thing so much more prettily for their quaint, antique, courtly
liberty! The _triolet_ now--how deliriously impertinent it is! Is it
not?"

Walter knew nothing about the old French modes of versifying; and,
unwilling to place himself at a disadvantage, made an evasive reply, and
went. But when at length he reached home, it was with several ancient
volumes, among the rest "Clement Marot," in pockets and hands. Ere an
hour was over, he was in delight with the variety of dainty modes in
which, by shape and sound, a very pretty French something was carved out
of nothing at all. Their fantastic surprises, the ring of their
bell-like returns upon themselves, their music of triangle and cymbal,
gave him quite a new pleasure. In some of them poetry seemed to approach
the nearest possible to bird-song--to unconscious seeming through most
conscious art, imitating the carelessness and impromptu of warblings as
old as the existence of birds, and as new as every fresh individual joy;
for each new generation grows its own feathers, and sings its own song,
yet always the feathers of its kind, and the song of its kind.

The same night he sent her the following _triolet_

  Oh, why is the moon
  Awake when thou sleepest?
  To the nightingale's tune,
  Why is the moon
  Making a noon,
  When night is the deepest
  Why is the moon
  Awake when thou sleepest?

In the evening came a little note, with a coronet on the paper, but
neither date nor signature:

"Perfectly delicious! How _can_ such a little gem hold so much color?
Thank you a thousand times!"


CHAPTER XII.


LOVE.

By this Walter was in love with Lady Lufa. He said as much to himself,
at least; and in truth he was almost possessed with her. Every thought
that rose in his mind began at once to drift toward her. Every hour of
the day had a rose-tinge from the dress in which he first saw her.

One might write a long essay on this they call _love,_ and yet
contribute little to the understanding of it in the individual case. Its
kind is to be interpreted after the kind of person who loves. There are
as many hues and shades, not to say forms and constructions of love, as
there are human countenances, human hearts, human judgments and schemes
of life. Walter had not been an impressionable youth, because he had an
imagination which both made him fastidious, and stood him in stead of
falling in love. When a man can give form to the things that move in
him, he is less driven to fall in love. But now Walter saw everything
through a window, and the window was the face of Lufa. His thinking was
always done in the presence and light of that window. She seemed an
intrinsic component of every one of his mental operations. In every
beauty and attraction of life he saw her. He was possessed by her,
almost as some are possessed by evil spirits. And to be possessed, even
by a human being, may be to take refuge in the tombs, there to cry, and
cut one's self with fierce thoughts.

But not yet was Walter troubled. He lived in love's eternal present, and
did not look forward. Even jealousy had not yet begun to show itself in
any shape. He was not in Lady Lufa's set, and therefore not much drawn
to conjecture what might be going on. In the glamour of literary
ambition, he took for granted that Lady Lufa allotted his world a higher
orbit than that of her social life, and prized most the pleasures they
had in common, which so few were capable of sharing.

She had indeed in her own circle never found one who knew more of the
refinements of verse than a school-girl does of Beethoven; and it was a
great satisfaction to her to know one who not merely recognized her
proficiency, but could guide her further into the depths of an art which
every one thinks he understands, and only one here and there does. It
was therefore a real welcome she was able to give him when they met, as
they did again and again during the season. How much she cared for him,
how much she would have been glad to do for him, my reader shall judge
for himself. I think she cared for him very nearly as much as for a
dress made to her liking. An injustice from him would have brought the
tears into her eyes. A poem he disapproved of she would have thrown,
aside, _perhaps_ into the fire.

She did not, however, submit much of her work to his judgment. She was
afraid of what might put her out of heart with it. Before making his
acquaintance, she had a fresh volume, a more ambitious one, well on its
way, but fearing lack of his praise, had said nothing to him about it.
And besides this diffidence, she did not wish to _appear_ to solicit
from him a good review. She might cast herself on his mercy, but it
should not be confessedly. She had pride though not conscience in the
matter. The mother was capable of begging, not the daughter. She might
use fascination, but never entreaty; that would be to degrade herself!

Walter had, of course, taken a second look at her volume. It did not
reveal that he had said of it what was not true; but he did see that,
had he been anxious to praise, he might have found passages to commend,
or in which, at least, he could have pointed out merit. But no allusion
was made to the book, on the one hand because Lady Lufa was aware he had
written the review, and on the other because Walter did not wish to give
his opinion of it. He placed it in the category of first works; and,
knowing how poor those of afterward distinguished writers may be, it did
not annoy him that one who could talk so well should have written such
rubbish.

Lady Lufa had indeed a craze for composition, and the indulgence of it
was encouraged by her facility. There was no reason in heaven, earth, or
the other place, why what she wrote should see the light, for it had
little to do with light of any sort. "Autumn Leaves" had had no such
reception as her mother would have Walter believe. Lady Tremaine was one
of those good mothers who, like "good churchmen," will wrong any other
to get for their own. She had paid her court to Walter that she might
gain a reviewer who would yield her daughter what she called justice:
for justice' sake she could curry favor! A half-merry, half-retaliative
humor in Lufa, may have wrought for revenge by making Walter fall in
love with her; at all events it was a consolation to her wounded vanity
when she saw him, in love with her; but it was chiefly in the hope of a
"good" review of her next book that she cultivated his acquaintance, and
now she felt sure of her end.

Most people liked Walter, even when they laughed at his simplicity, for
it was the simplicity of a generous nature; we can not therefore wonder
if he was too confident, and from Lady Lufa's behavior presumed to think
she looked upon him as worthy of a growing privilege. If she regarded
literature as she professed to regard it, he had but to distinguish
himself, he thought, to be more acceptable than wealth or nobility could
have made him. As to material possibilities, the youth never thought of
them; a worshiper does not meditate how to feed his goddess! But on this
the last night I will tell you that which is more than a tale--it is
a great historical secret. My lips have been sealed, but I see no reason
why I should not leave behind me some account of this remarkable
adventure, which must otherwise be entirely lost, since I and only I, of
all living men, have a knowledge of the facts.

I will ask you to go back with me to the year 1821.

In that year our great Emperor had been absent from us for six
years, and only now and then from over the seas we heard some whisper
which showed that he was still alive.

You cannot think what a weight it was upon our hearts for us who
loved him to think of him in captivity eating his giant soul out upon
that lonely island. From the moment we rose until we closed our eyes in
sleep the thought was always with us, and we felt dishonoured that he,
our chief and master, should be so humiliated without our being able to
move a hand to help him. There were many who would most willingly have
laid down the remainder of their lives to bring him a little ease, and
yet all that we could do was to sit and grumble in our cafes and
stare at the map, counting up the leagues of water which lay between
us.

It seemed that he might have been in the moon for all that we could
do to help him.

But that was only because we were all soldiers and knew nothing of
the sea.

Of course, we had our own little troubles to make us bitter, as
well as the wrongs of our Emperor.

There were many of us who had held high rank and would hold it again
if he came back to his own.

We had not found it possible to take service under the white flag
of the Bourbons, or to take an oath which might turn our sabres
against the man whom we loved.

So we found ourselves with neither work nor money.

What could we do save gather together and gossip and grumble, while
those who had a little paid the score and those who had nothing
shared the bottle?

Now and then, if we were lucky, we managed to pick a quarrel with one
of the Garde du Corps, and if we left him on his hack in the Bois
we felt that we had struck a blow for Napoleon once again.

They came to know our haunts in time, and they avoided them as if
they had been hornets' nests.

There was one of these--the Sign of the Great Man--in the Rue
Varennes, which was frequented by several of the more distinguished
and younger Napoleonic officers.

Nearly all of us had been colonels or aides-de-camp, and when any
man of less distinction came among us we generally made him feel
that he had taken a liberty.

There were Captain Lepine, who had won the medal of honour at
Leipzig; Colonel Bonnet, aide-de-camp to Macdonald; Colonel Jourdan,
whose fame in the army was hardly second to my own; Sabbatier of
my own Hussars, Meunier of the Red Lancers, Le Breton of the Guards,
and a dozen others.

Every night we met and talked, played dominoes, drank a glass or
two, and wondered how long it would be before the Emperor would be
back and we at the head of our regiments once more.

The Bourbons had already lost any hold they ever had upon the
country, as was shown a few years afterward, when Paris rose against
them and they were hunted for the third time out of France.

Napoleon had but to show himself on the coast, and he would
have marched without firing a musket to the capital, exactly as he had
done when he came back from Elba.

Well, when affairs were in this state there arrived one night in February,
in our cafe, a most singular little man. He was short but
exceedingly broad, with huge shoulders, and a head which was a
deformity, so large was it. His heavy brown face was scarred with
white streaks in a most extraordinary manner, and he had grizzled whiskers
such as seamen wear. Two gold earrings in his ears, and plentiful
tattooing upon his hands and arms, told us also that he was of the
sea before he introduced himself to us as Captain Fourneau, of the
Emperor's navy.

He had letters of introduction to two of our number, and there could be
no doubt that he was devoted to the cause. He won our respect, too,
for he had seen as much fighting as any of us, and the burns upon his
face were caused by his standing to his post upon the Orient, at the
Battle of the Nile, until the vessel blew up underneath him. Yet he
would say little about himself, but he sat in the corner of the
cafe watching us all with a wonderfully sharp pair of eyes and
listening intently to our talk.

One night I was leaving the cafe when Captain Fourneau followed me, and
touching me on the arm he led me without saying a word for some
distance until we reached his lodgings.

"I wish to have a chat with you," said he, and so conducted me up the
stair to his room. There he lit a lamp and handed me a sheet of paper
which he took from an envelope in his bureau. It was dated a few
months before from the Palace of Schonbrunn at Vienna. "Captain Fourneau
is acting in the highest interests of the Emperor Napoleon. Those who
love the Emperor should obey him without question.--Marie Louise."
That is what I read. I was familiar with the signature of the Empress,
and I could not doubt that this was genuine.

"Well," said he, "are you satisfied as to my credentials?"
"Entirely."
"Are you prepared to take your orders from me?"
"This document leaves me no choice."
"Good! In the first place, I understand from something you said in
the cafe that you can speak English?"
"Yes, I can."
"Let me hear you do so."
I said in English, "Whenever the Emperor needs the help of Etienne
Gerard I am ready night and day to give my life in his service." Captain
Fourneau smiled.

"It is funny English," said he, "but still it is better than no English.

For my own part I speak English like an Englishman. It is all that I
have to show for six years spent in an English prison. Now I will
tell you why I have come to Paris. I have come in order to
choose an agent who will help me in a matter which affects the interests
of the Emperor.
I was told that it was at the cafe of the Great Man that I would find
the pick of his old officers, and that I could rely upon every man there
being devoted to his interests. I studied you all, therefore, and I
have come to the conclusion that you are the one who is most suited
for my purpose."
I acknowledged the compliment. "What is it that you wish me to do?" I
asked.

"Merely to keep me company for a few months," said he. "You must
know that after my release in England I settled down there, married an
English wife, and rose to command a small English merchant
ship, in which I have made several voyages from Southampton to the Guinea
coast.
They look on me there as an Englishman. You can understand, however,
that with my feelings about the Emperor I am lonely sometimes, and
that it would be an advantage to me to have a companion who would
sympathize with my thoughts.

One gets very bored on these long voyages, and I would make it worth your
while to share my cabin."
He looked hard at me with his shrewd grey eyes all the time that he
was uttering this rigmarole, and I gave him a glance in return which
showed him that he was not dealing with a fool. He took out a canvas
bag full of money.

"There are a hundred pounds in gold in this bag," said he. "You will
be able to buy some comforts for your voyage. I should recommend
you to get them in Southampton, whence we will start in ten days. The
name of the vessel is the Black Swan. I return to Southampton to-morrow,
and I shall hope to see you in the course of the next week."

"Come now," said I. "Tell me frankly what is the destination of our
voyage?"
"Oh, didn't I tell you?" he answered. "We are bound for the Guinea coast
of Africa."
"Then how can that be in the highest interests of the Emperor?" I
asked.

"It is in his highest interests that you ask no indiscreet questions and
I give no indiscreet replies," he answered, sharply. So he brought
the interview to an end, and I found myself back in my lodgings with
nothing save this bag of gold to show that this singular interview had
indeed taken place.

There was every reason why I should see the adventure to a conclusion,
and so within a week I was on my way to England. I passed from St.
Malo to Southampton, and on inquiry at the docks I had no difficulty
in finding the Black Swan, a neat little vessel of a shape which
is called, as I learned afterward, a brig.

There was Captain Fourneau himself upon the deck, and seven or eight
rough fellows hard at work grooming her and making her ready for
sea. He greeted me and led me down to his cabin.

"You are plain Mr. Gerard now," said he, "and a Channel Islander. I would
be obliged to you if you would kindly forget your military ways and drop
your cavalry swagger when you walk up and down my deck.
A beard, too, would seem more sailor-like than those moustaches."
I was horrified by his words, but, after all, there are no ladies on the
high seas, and what did it matter? He rang for the steward.

"Gustav," said he, "you will pay every attention to my friend, Monsieur
Etienne Gerard, who makes this voyage with us. This is Gustav Kerouan,
my Breton steward," he explained, "and you are very safe in his hands."

This steward, with his harsh face and stern eyes, looked a very warlike
person for so peaceful an employment.

I said nothing, however, though you may guess that I kept my eyes open.
A berth had been prepared for me next the cabin, which would have
seemed comfortable enough had it not contrasted with the extraordinary
splendour of Fourneau's quarters. He was certainly a most luxurious
person, for his room was new-fitted with velvet and silver in a way
which would have suited the yacht of a noble better than a little
West African trader.

So thought the mate, Mr.

Burns, who could not hide his amusement and contempt whenever he
looked at it.

This fellow, a big, solid, red-headed Englishman, had the other berth
connected with the cabin. There was a second mate named Turner, who
lodged in the middle of the ship, and there were nine men and one boy
in the crew, three of whom, as I was informed by Mr. Burns, were Channel
Islanders like myself. This Burns, the first mate, was much interested
to know why I was coming with them.

"I come for pleasure," said I.

He stared at me.

"Ever been to the West Coast?" he asked.

I said that I had not.

"I thought not," said he. "You'll never come again for that reason,
anyhow."
Some three days after my arrival we untied the ropes by which the
ship was tethered and we set off upon our journey.

I was never a good sailor, and I may confess that we were far out
of sight of any land before I was able to venture upon deck.

At last, however, upon the fifth day I drank the soup which the
good Kerouan brought me, and I was able to crawl from my bunk and
up the stair.

The fresh air revived me, and from that time onward I accommodated
myself to the motion of the vessel.

My beard had begun to grow also, and I have no doubt that I should
have made as fine a sailor as I have a soldier had I chanced to be
born to that branch of the service. I learned to pull the ropes
which hoisted the sails, and also to haul round the long sticks
to which they are attached.

For the most part, however, my duties were to play ecarte with Captain
Fourneau, and to act as his companion.

It was not strange that he should need one, for neither of his mates
could read or write, though each of them was an excellent seaman.

If our captain had died suddenly I cannot imagine how we should
have found our way in that waste of waters, for it was only he who
had the knowledge which enabled him to mark our place upon the chart.

He had this fixed upon the cabin wall, and every day he put our
course upon it so that we could see at a glance how far we were
from our destination.

It was wonderful how well he could calculate it, for one morning
he said that we should see the Cape Verd light that very night,
and there it was, sure enough, upon our left front the moment that
darkness came.

Next day, however, the land was out of sight, and Burns, the mate, explained
to me that we should see no more until we came to our port in the
Gulf of Biafra.

Every day we flew south with a favouring wind, and always at noon the
pin upon the chart was moved nearer and nearer to the African coast.

I may explain that palm oil was the cargo which we were in search of,
and that our own lading consisted of coloured cloths, old muskets,
and such other trifles as the English sell to the savages.

At last the wind which had followed us so long died away, and for several
days we drifted about on a calm and oily sea, under a sun which brought
the pitch bubbling out between the planks upon the deck. We turned and
turned our sails to catch every wandering puff, until at last we
came out of this belt of calm and ran south again with a brisk breeze,
the sea all round us being alive with flying fishes. For some days
Burns appeared to be uneasy, and I observed him continually shading his
eyes with his hand and staring at the horizon as if he were looking for
land. Twice I caught him with his red head against the chart in the
cabin, gazing at that pin, which was always approaching and yet
never reaching the African coast.

At last one evening, as Captain Fourneau and I were playing ecarte
in the cabin, the mate entered with an angry look upon his sunburned
face.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Fourneau," said he.

"But do you know what course the man at the wheel is steering?"
"Due south," the captain answered, with his eyes fixed upon his
cards.

"And he should be steering due east."
"How do you make that out?"
The mate gave an angry growl.

"I may not have much education," said he, "but let me tell you this,
Captain Fourneau, I've sailed these waters since I was a little
nipper of ten, and I know the line when I'm on it, and I know the
doldrums, and I know how to find my way to the oil rivers.

We are south of the line now, and we should be steering due east instead
of due south if your port is the port that the owners sent you to."

"Excuse me, Mr. Gerard. Just remember that it is my lead," said the
captain, laying down his cards.

"Come to the map here, Mr. Burns, and I will give you a lesson in
practical navigation.

Here is the trade wind from the southwest and here is the line, and here
is the port that we want to make, and here is a man who will have his
own way aboard his own ship." As he spoke he seized the unfortunate
mate by the throat and squeezed him until he was nearly senseless.
Kerouan, the steward, had rushed in with a rope, and between them
they gagged and trussed the man, so that he was utterly helpless.

"There is one of our Frenchmen at the wheel. We had best put the mate
overboard," said the steward.

"That is safest," said Captain Fourneau.

But that was more than I could stand. Nothing would persuade me to agree
to the death of a helpless man.

With a bad grace Captain Fourneau consented to spare him, and we carried
him to the after-hold, which lay under the cabin. There he was laid
among the bales of Manchester cloth.

"It is not worth while to put down the hatch," said Captain Fourneau.

"Gustav, go to Mr. Turner and tell him that I would like to have a
word with him."
The unsuspecting second mate entered the cabin, and was instantly
gagged and secured as Burns had been.

He was carried down and laid beside his comrade. The hatch was then
replaced.

"Our hands have been forced by that red-headed dolt," said the captain,
"and I have had to explode my mine before I wished. However, there is no
great harm done, and it will not seriously disarrange my plans.

"Kerouan, you will take a keg of rum forward to the crew and tell
them that the captain gives it to them to drink his health on the
occasion of crossing the line.

"They will know no better. As to our own fellows, bring them down to
your pantry so that we may me sure that they are ready for business.
Now, Colonel Gerard, with your permission we will resume our game of
ecarte."
It is one of those occasions which one does not forget.

This captain, who was a man of iron, shuffled and cut, dealt and played
as if he were in his cafe. From below we heard the inarticulate murmurings
of the two mates, half smothered by the handkerchiefs which gagged them.
Outside the timbers creaked and the sails hummed under the brisk breeze
which was sweeping us upon our way. Amid the splash of the waves and the
whistle of the wind we heard the wild cheers and shoutings of the English
sailors as they broached the keg of rum. We played half-a-dozen games and
then the captain rose. "I think they are ready for us now," said he.
He took a brace of pistols from a locker, and he handed one of them to
me.

But we had no need to fear resistance, for there was no one to
resist.

The Englishman of those days, whether soldier or sailor, was an
incorrigible drunkard.

Without drink he was a brave and good man.

But if drink were laid before him it was a perfect madness--nothing
could induce him to take it with moderation.

In the dim light of the den which they inhabited, five senseless figures
and two shouting, swearing, singing madmen represented the crew of the
Black Swan. Coils of rope were brought forward by the steward, and with
the help of two French seamen (the third was at the wheel) we secured
the drunkards and tied them up, so that it was impossible for them to
speak or move. They were placed under the fore-hatch, as their officers
had been under the after one, and Kerouan was directed twice a day to
give them food and drink. So at last we found that the Black Swan
was entirely our own.

Had there been bad weather I do not know what we should have done, but
we still went gaily upon our way with a wind which was strong
enough to drive us swiftly south, but not strong enough to cause us
alarm. On the evening of the third day I found Captain Fourneau gazing
eagerly out from the platform in the front of the vessel. "Look, Gerard,
look!" he cried, and pointed over the pole which stuck out in front.

A light blue sky rose from a dark blue sea, and far away, at the point
where they met, was a shadowy something like a cloud, but more definite
in shape.

"What is it?" I cried.

"It is land."
"And what land?"
I strained my ears for the answer, and yet I knew already what the
answer would be.

"It is St. Helena."
Here, then, was the island of my dreams! Here was the cage where our great
Eagle of France was confined!

All those thousands of leagues of water had not sufficed to keep Gerard
from the master whom he loved.

There he was, there on that cloud-bank yonder over the dark blue sea.
How my eyes devoured it! How my soul flew in front of the vessel--flew on
and on to tell him that he was not forgotten, that after many days one
faithful servant was coming to his side. Every instant the dark blur
upon the water grew harder and clearer.

Soon I could see plainly enough that it was indeed a mountainous island.

The night fell, but still I knelt upon the deck, with my eyes fixed upon
the darkness which covered the spot where I knew that the great Emperor
was. An hour passed and another one, and then suddenly a little golden
twinkling light shone out exactly ahead of us. It was the light
of the window of some house--perhaps of his house. It could not be
more than a mile or two away. Oh, how I held out my hands to it!--they
were the hands of Etienne Gerard, but it was for all France that
they were held out.
Every light had been extinguished aboard our ship, and presently,
at the direction of Captain Fourneau, we all pulled upon one of the
ropes, which had the effect of swinging round one of the sticks
above us, and so stopping the vessel. Then he asked me to step down
to the cabin.
"You understand everything now, Colonel Gerard," said he, "and you
will forgive me if I did not take you into my complete confidence
before.
In a matter of such importance I make no man my confidant. I have
long planned the rescue of the Emperor, and my remaining in England
and joining their merchant service was entirely with that design.
All has worked out exactly as I expected. I have made several
successful voyages to the West Coast of Africa, so that there was
no difficulty in my obtaining the command of this one. One by one
I got these old French man-of-war's-men among the hands. As to you,
I was anxious to have one tried fighting man in case of resistance,
and I also desired to have a fitting companion for the Emperor
during his long homeward voyage. My cabin is already fitted up for
his use. I trust that before to-morrow morning he will be inside
it, and we out of sight of this accursed island."
You can think of my emotion, my friends, as I listened to these
words.Walter did not think how much champagne he had
taken, nor how much that might have to do with one judgment at night and
another in the morning. "Set one mood against another," he said,
conscious all the time it was a piece of special pleading, "and the one
weighs as much as the other!" For it was horrible to him to think that
the morning was the clear-eyed, and that the praise he had lavished on
the book was but a vapor of the night. How was he to carry himself to
the lady of his love, who at most did not care half as much for him as
for her book?

How poetry could be such a passion with her when her own was but
mediocre, was a question Walter dared not shape--not, however, that he
saw the same question might be put with regard to himself: his own
poetry was neither strong nor fresh nor revealing. He had not noted that
an unpoetic person will occasionally go into a mild ecstasy over phrase
or passage or verse in which a poet may see little or nothing.

He came back to this:--his one hour had as good a claim to insight as
his other; if he saw the thing so once, why not say what he had seen?
Why should not the thing stand? His consciousness of the night before
had certainly been nearer that of a complete, capable being, than that
of to-day! He was in higher human condition then than now!

But there came another doubt: what was he to conclude concerning his
other numerous judgments passed irrevocably? Was he called and appointed
to influence the world's opinion of the labor of hundreds according to
the mood he happened to be in, or the hour at which he read their
volumes? But if he must write another judgment of that poem in vellum
and gold, he must first pack his portmanteau! To write in her home as he
felt now, would be treachery!

Not confessing it, he was persuading himself to send on the review. Of
course, had he the writing of it now, he would not write a paper like
that! But the thing being written, it could claim as good a chance of
being right as another! Had it not been written as honestly as another
of to-day would be? Might it not be just as true? The laws of art are so
undefined!

Thus on and on went the windmill of heart and brain, until at last the
devil, or the devil's shadow--that is, the bad part of the man
himself--got the better, and Walter, not being true, did a
lie--published the thing he would no longer have said. He thought he
worshiped the truth, but he did not. He knew that the truth was
everything, but a lie came that seemed better than the truth. In his
soul he knew he was not acting truly; that had he honestly loved the
truth, he would not have played hocus-pocus with metaphysics and logic,
but would have made haste to a manly conclusion. He took the package,
and on his way to the dining-room, dropped it into the post-box in the
hall.

During lunch he was rather silent and abstracted; the package was not
gone, and his conscience might yet command him to recall it! When the
hour was passed, and the paper beyond recovery, he felt easier, saying
to himself, what was done could not be undone; he would be more careful
another time. One comfort was, that at least he had done no injustice to
Lufa! He did not reflect that he had done her the greatest injustice in
helping her to believe that worthy which was not worthy, herself
worshipful who was not worshipful. He told her that he finished her
drama before going to bed, and was perfectly charmed with it. That it as
much exceeded his expectations then as it had fallen below them since,
he did not say.

In the evening he was not so bright as before. Lufa saw it and was
troubled. She feared he doubted the success of her poem. She led the
way, and found he avoided talking about it. She feared he was not so
well pleased with it as he had said. Walter asked if he might not read
from it in the drawing-room. She would not consent.

"None there are of our sort!" she said. "They think literature
foolishness. Even my mother, the best of mothers, doesn't care about
poetry, can not tell one measure from another. Come and read a page or
two of it in the summer-house in the wilderness instead. I want to know
how it will sound in people's ears."

Walter was ready enough. He was fond of reading aloud, and believed he
could so read the poem that he need not say anything. And certainly, if
justice meant making the words express more than was in them, he did it
justice. But in truth the situation was sometimes touching; and the more
so to Walter that the hero was the lady's inferior in birth, means, and
position--much more her inferior than Walter was Lufa's. The lady alone
was on the side of the lowly born; father, mother, brothers, sisters,
uncles, aunts, and cousins to the remotest degree, against him even to
hatred. The general pathos of the idea disabled the criticism of the
audience, composed of the authoress and the reader, blinding perhaps
both to not a little that was neither brilliant nor poetic. The lady
wept at the sound of her own verses from the lips of one who was to her
in the position of the hero toward the heroine; and the lover, critic as
he was, could not but be touched when he saw her weep at passages
suggesting his relation to her; so that, when they found the hand of the
one resting in that of the other, it did not seem strange to either.
When suddenly the lady snatched hers away, it was only because a
mischievous little bird spying them, and hurrying away to tell, made a
great fluttering in the foliage. Then was Walter's conscience not a
little consoled, for he was aware of a hearty love for the poem. Under
such conditions he could have gone on reading it all the night!


CHAPTER XVI.


THE RIDE TOGETHER.

Days passed, and things went on much the same, Walter not daring to tell
the girl all he felt, but seizing every opportunity of a _tête-à-tête_,
and missing none of the proximity she allowed him, and she never seeming
other than pleased to be his companion. Her ways with him were always
pretty, and sometimes playful. She was almost studious to please him;
and if she never took a liberty with him, she never resented any he took
with her, which certainly were neither numerous nor daring, for Walter
was not presumptuous, least of all with women.

But Lufa was careful not to neglect their other guests. She was always
ready to accompany any of the ladies riding out of a morning; and a Mr.
Sefton, who was there when Walter arrived, generally rode with them. He
was older than Walter, and had taken little notice of him, which Walter
resented more than he would have cared to acknowledge. He was tall and
lanky, with a look of not having been in the oven quite long enough, but
handsome nevertheless. Without an atom of contempt, he cared nothing for
what people might think; and when accused of anything, laughed, and
never defended himself. Having no doubt he was in the right, he had no
anxiety as to the impression he might make. In the hunting-field he was
now reckless, now so cautious that the men would chaff him. But they
knew well enough that whatever he did came either of pure whim or
down-right good sense; no one ever questioned his pluck. I believe an
intermittent laziness had something to do with his inconsistency.

It had been taken for granted by Lufa that Walter could not ride;
whereas, not only had he had some experience, but he was one of the few
possessed of an individual influence over the lower brotherhood of
animals, and his was especially equine.

One morning, from an ailment in one of the horses, Lufa found that her
mount required consideration. Sefton said the horse he had been riding
would carry her perfectly.

"What will you do for a horse?"

"Go without."

"What shall we do for a gentleman?"

"Go without."

"I saw a groom this morning," suggested Walter, "on a lovely little
roan!"

"Ah, Red Racket!" answered Lady Lufa, "He is no horse; he is a little
fiend. Goes as gently as a lamb with my father, though, or any one that
he knows can ride him. Try Red Racket, George."

They were cousins, though not in the next degree.

"I would if I could sit him. But I'm not a rough rider, and much
disinclined to have my bones broken. It's not as if there was anything
to be got by it, even a brush!"

"Two hours of your sister, your cousin, and their friend!" said Lufa.

"Much of you I should have with Red Racket under me--or over me as
likely! at best jumping about, and taking all the attention I had! No,
thank you!"

"Come, George," said his sister, "you will make them think you are no
horseman!"

"Neither I am; I have not a good seat, and you know it! I am not going
to make a fool of myself on compulsion! I know what I can do, and what I
can't do."

"I wish I had the chance!" murmured Walter, as if to himself, but so
that Lufa heard.

"You can ride?" said Lufa, with pleased surprise.

"Why not?" returned Walter. "Every Englishman should ride."

"Yes; every Englishman should swim; but Englishmen are drowned every
day!"

"That is as often because they can swim, but have not Mr. Sefton's
prudence."

"You mustn't think my cousin afraid of Red Racket!" she returned.

"I don't. He doesn't look like it!"

"Do you really wish to ride the roan?"

"Indeed I do!"

"I will order him round," she said, rising.

Walter did not quite enjoy her consenting so easily; had she no fear for
him of the risk Mr. Sefton would not run?

"She wants me to cut a good figure!" he said to himself, and went to get
ready.

I have no deed of prowess on Walter's part to record. The instant he was
in the saddle, Red Racket recognized a master.

"You can't have ridden him before?" questioned Lufa.

"I never saw him till this morning."

"He likes you, I suppose!" she said.

As they returned, the other ladies being in front, and the groom some
distance behind, Walter brought his roan side by side with Lufa's horse,
and said--

"You know Browning's 'Last Ride Together'?"

"Yes," she answered, with a faint blush; "but this is not our last ride!
It is our first! Why didn't you tell me? We might have had many rides
together!"

"Promise me a last one," he said.

"How can I? How should I know it was the last?"

"Promise," he persisted, "that if ever you see just one last ride
possible, you will let me know."

She hesitated a moment, then answered--

"I will."

"Thank you!" said Walter with fervor.

As by consent, they rode after the others.

Walter had not yet the courage to say anything definite. But he had said
many things that must have compelled her to imagine what he had not
said; therefore the promise she had given him seemed encouraging. They
rode in silence the rest of the way.

When Sefton saw Red Racket as quiet as a lamb, he went up to him,
stroked his neck, and said to Walter:

"With me he would have capered like an idiot till he had thrown me. It
is always my luck with horses of his color! You must have a light hand!"

He stroked his neck once more, turned aside, and was too late to help
the ladies dismount.

It was the last ride for the present, because of a change in the
weather. In a few days came "The Field Battery" with Walter's review,
bringing a revival of the self-reproach he had begun to forget. The
paper felt in his hand like bad news or something nasty. He could not
bear the thought of having to take his part in the talk it would
occasion. It could not now be helped, however, and that was a great
comfort! It was impossible, none the less, to keep it up! As he had
foreseen, all this time came no revival of his first impression of the
poem. He went to find his hostess, and told her he must go to London
that same afternoon. As he took his leave, he put the paper In Lufa's
hand, saying,

"You will find there what I have said about the poem."


CHAPTER XVII.


HIS BOOK.

I need hardly say he found his first lonely evening dull. He was not yet
capable of looking beneath the look of anything. He felt cabined,
cribbed, confined. His world-clothing came too near him. From the
flowing robes of a park, a great house, large rooms, wide
staircases--with plenty of air and space, color, softness, fitness,
completeness, he found himself in the worn, tight, shabby garment of a
cheap London lodging! But Walter, far from being a wise man, was not
therefore a fool; he was not one whom this world can not teach, and who
has therefore to be sent to some idiot asylum in the next, before sense
can be got into him, or, rather, out of him. No man is a fool, who,
having work to do, sets himself to do it, and Walter did. He had begun a
poem to lead the van of a volume, of which the rest was nearly ready:
into it he now set himself to weave a sequel to her drama, from the
point where she had left the story. Every hour he could spare from
drudgery he devoted to it--urged by the delightful prospect of letting
Lufa see what he could do. Gaining facility with his stanza as he went
on, the pleasure of it grew, and more than comforted his loneliness.
Sullivan could hardly get him from his room.

Finding a young publisher prepared to undertake half the risk, on the
ground, unexpressed, of the author's proximity to the judgment-seat,
Walter, too experienced to look for any gain, yet hoped to clear his
expenses, and became liable for much more than he possessed.

He had one little note from Lufa, concerning a point in rhythm which
perplexed her. She had a good ear, and was conscientious in her
mechanics. There was not a cockney-rhyme from beginning to end of her
poem, which is more than the uninitiated will give its weight to. But
she understood nothing of the broken music which a master of verse will
turn to such high service. There are lines in Milton which Walter, who
knew far more than she, could not read until long after, when Dante
taught him how.

In the month of December came another note from Lady Lufa, inviting him
to spend a week with them after Christmas.

"Perhaps then we may have yet a ride together," added a postscript.

"What does she mean?" thought Walter, a pale fear at his heart. "She
can not mean our last ride!"

One conclusion he came to--that he must tell her plainly he loved her.
The thing was only right, though of course ridiculous in the eyes of
worldly people, said the far from unworldly poet. True, she was the
daughter of an earl, and he the son of a farmer; and those who called
the land their own looked down upon those who tilled it! But a banker,
or a brewer, or the son of a contractor who had wielded the spade, might
marry an earl's daughter: why should not the son of a farmer--not to say
one who, according to the lady's mother, himself belonged to an
aristocracy? The farmer's son indeed was poor, and who would look at a
poor banker, or a poor brewer, more than a poor farmer! it was all
money! But was he going to give in to that? Was he to grant that
possession made a man honorable, and the want of it despicable! To act
as if she could think after such a silly fashion, would be to insult
her! He would lay bare his heart to her! There were things in it which
she knew what value to set upon--things as far before birth as birth was
before money! He would accept the invitation, and if possible get his
volume out before the day mentioned, so as, he hoped, to be a little in
the mouth of the public when he went.

Walter, like many another youth, imagined the way to make a woman love
him, was to humble himself before her, tell her how beautiful she was,
and how much he loved her. I do not see why any woman should therefore
love a man. If she loves him already, anything will do to make her love
him more; if she does not, no entreaty will wake what is not there to be
waked. Even wrong and cruelty and carelessness may increase love already
rooted; but neither love, nor kindness, nor worship, will prevail to
plant it.

In his formal acceptance of the invitation, he inclosed some verses
destined for his volume, in which he poured out his boyish passion over
his lady's hair, and eyes, and hands--a poem not without some of the
merits made much of by the rising school of the day, and possessing
qualities higher, perhaps, than those upon which that school chiefly
prided itself. She made, and he expected, no acknowledgment, but she did
not return the verses.

Lyric after lyric, with Lufa for its inspiration, he wrought, like
damask flowers, into his poem. Every evening, and all the evening,
sometimes late into the morning, he fashioned and filed, until at length
it was finished.

When the toiling girl who waited on him appeared with the proof-sheets
in her hand, she came like a winged ministrant laying a wondrous gift
before him. And in truth, poor as he came to think it, was it not a gift
greater than any angel could have brought him? Was not the seed of it
sown in his being by Him that loved him before he was? These were the
poor first flowers, come to make way for better--themselves a gift none
but God could give.

The book was rapidly approaching its birth, as the day of Lufa's summons
drew near. He had inscribed the volume to her, not by name, but in a
dedication she could not but understand and no other would; founded on
her promise of a last ride: it was so delightful to have a secret with
her! He hoped to the last to take a copy with him, but was disappointed
by some _contretemps_ connected with the binding--about which he was as
particular as if it had been itself a poem: he had to pack his
portmanteau without it.

Continuously almost, on his way to the station, he kept repeating to
himself: "Is it to be the last ride, or only another?"


CHAPTER XVIII.


A WINTER AFTERNOON.

When Walter arrived, he found the paradise under snow. But the summer
had only run in-doors, and there was blooming. Lufa was kinder than
ever, but, he fancied, a little embarrassed, which he interpreted to his
advantage. He was shown to the room he had before occupied.

It did not take him long to learn the winter ways of the house. Mr. and
Miss Sefton were there; and all seemed glad of his help against
consciousness; for there could be no riding so long as the frost lasted
and the snow kept falling, and the ladies did not care to go out; and
in, some country-houses Time has as many lives as a cat, and wants a
great deal of killing--a butchery to be one day bitterly repented,
perhaps; but as a savage can not be a citizen, so can not people of
fashion belong to the kingdom of heaven.

The third morning came a thaw, with a storm of wind and rain; and after
lunch they gathered in the glooming library, and began to tell ghost
stories. Walter happened to know a few of the rarer sort, and found
himself in his element. His art came to help him, and the eyes of the
ladies, and he rose to his best. As he was working one of his tales to
its climax, Mr. Sefton entered the room, where Walter had been the only
gentleman, and took a chair beside Lufa. She rose, saying,

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Colman, but would you mind stopping a minute
while I get a little more red silk for my imperial dragon? Mr. Sefton
has already taken the sting out of the snake!"

"What snake?" asked Sefton.

"The snake of terror," she answered. "Did you not see him as you came
in--erect on his coiled tail, drawing his head back for his darting
spring?"

"I am very sorry," said Sefton. "I have injured everybody, and I hope
everybody will pardon me!"

When Lufa had found her silk, she took a seat nearer to Walter, who
resumed and finished his narrative.

"I wonder she lived to tell it!" said one of the ladies.

"For my part," rejoined their hostess, "I do not see why every one
should be so terrified at the thought of meeting a ghost! It seems to me
cowardly."

"I don't think it cowardly," said Sefton, "to be frightened at a ghost,
or at anything else."

"Now don't say you would run away!" remonstrated his sister.

"I couldn't very well, don't you know, if I was in bed! But I might--I
don't know--hide my head under the blankets!"

"I don't believe it a bit!"

"To be sure," continued Sefton, reflectively, "there does seem a
difference! To hide is one thing, and to run is another--quite another
thing! If you are frightened, you are frightened and you can't help it;
but if you run away, then you are a coward. Yes; quite true! And yet
there are things some men, whom other men would be afraid to call
cowards, would run from fast enough! Your story, Mr. Colman," he went
on, "reminds me of an adventure I had--if that be an adventure where was
no danger--except, indeed, of losing my wits, which Lufa would say was
no great loss. I don't often tell the story, for I have an odd weakness
for being believed; and nobody ever does believe that story, though it
is as true as I live; and when a thing is true, the blame lies with
those that don't believe it. Ain't you of my mind, Mr. Colman?"

"You had better not appeal to him!" said Lufa. "Mr. Colman does not
believe a word of the stories he has been telling. He regards them
entirely from the artistic point of view, and cares only for their
effect. He is writing a novel, and wants to study people under a ghost
story."

"I don't indorse your judgment of me, Lady Lufa," said Walter, who did
not quite like what she said. "I am ready to believe anything in which I
can see reason. I should like much to hear Mr. Sefton's story. I never
saw the man that saw a ghost, except Mr. Sefton be that man."

"You shall say what you will when you have heard. I shall offer no
explanation, only tell you what I saw, or, if you prefer it,
experienced; you must then fall back on your own metaphysics. I don't
care what anybody thinks about it."

"You are not very polite!" said Lufa.

"Only truthful," replied Sefton.

"Please go on?"

"We are dying to hear!"

"A real ghost story!"

"Is it your best, George?"

"It is my only one," Sefton answered, and was silent a few moments, as
if arranging his thoughts.

"Well, here goes!" he began. "I was staying at a country house--"

"Not here, I hope!" said Lufa.

"I have reasons for not saying where it was, or where it wasn't. It may
have been in Ireland, it may have been in Scotland, it may have been in
England; it was in one of the three--an old house, parts very old. One
morning I happened to be late, and found the breakfast-table deserted. I
was not the last, however; for presently another man appeared, whom I
had met at dinner the day before for the first time. We both happened to
be in the army, and had drawn a little together. The moment I saw him, I
knew he had passed an uncomfortable night. His face was like dough, with
livid spots under the eyes. He sat down and poured himself out a cup of
tea. 'Game-pie?' I said, but he did not heed me. There was nobody in the
room but ourselves, and I thought it best to leave him alone. 'Are you
an old friend of the family?' he said at length. 'About the age of most
friends,' I answered. He was silent again, for a bit, then said, 'I'm
going to cut!' 'Ha, ha!' thought I, and something more. 'No, it's not
that!' he said, reading my thought, which had been about a lady in the
house with us. 'Pray don't imagine I want to know,' I replied. 'Neither
do I want to tell,' he rejoined. 'I don't care to have fellows laugh at
me!' 'That's just what I don't care to do. Nothing hurts me less than
being laughed at, so I take no pleasure in it,' I said. 'What I do
want,' said he, 'is to have you tell Mrs. ---' There! I was on the very
edge of saying her name! and you would have known who she was, all of
you! I _am_ glad I caught myself in time!--'tell Mrs. Blank,' said he,
'why I went.' 'Very well! I will. Why are you going?' 'Can't you help a
fellow to an excuse? I'm not going to give _her_ the reason.' 'Tell me
what you want me to say, and I will tell her you told me to say so.' 'I
will tell _you_ the truth.' 'Fire away, then.' 'I was in a beastly funk
last night. I dare say you think as I did, that a man ought never to be
a hair off the cool?' 'That depends,' I replied; 'there are some things,
and there may be more, at which any but an idiot might well be scared;
but some fools are such fools they can't shiver! What's the matter? I
give you my word I'll not make game of it.' The fellow looked so seedy,
don't you know, I couldn't but be brotherly, or, at least, cousinly to
him!--that don't go for much, does it, Lufa? 'Well,' he said, 'I will
tell you. Last night, I had been in bed about five minutes, and hadn't
even had time to grow sleepy, when I heard a curious shuffling in the
passage outside my door, and an indescribable terror came over me. To be
perfectly open with you, however, I _had_ heard that was the sign she
was coming!' '_Who_ coming?' said I. 'The ghost, of course!' he
answered. 'The ghost!' 'You don't mean to say you never heard of the
ghost?' 'Never heard a word of it.' 'Well, they don't like to speak of
it, but everybody knows it!' 'Go on,' said I; and he did, but plainly
with a tearing effort. 'The shuffling was like feet in slippers much too
big. As if I had been five instead of five-and-thirty, I dived under the
blankets, and lay so for minutes after the shuffling had ceased. But at
length I persuaded myself it was but a foolish fancy, and I had never
really heard anything. What with fear and heat I was much in want of
breath too, I can tell you! So I came to the surface, and looked out.'
Here he paused a moment, and turned almost livid. 'There stood a
horrible old woman, staring at me, as if she had been seeing me all the
time, and the blankets made no difference!' 'Was she really ugly?' I
asked. 'Well, I don't know what you call ugly,' he answered, 'but if you
had seen her stare, you would have thought her ugly enough! Had she been
as beautiful as a houri, though, I don't imagine I should have been less
frightened!' 'Well,' said I, for he had come to a pause, 'and what came
next?' 'I can not tell. I came to myself all trembling, and as cold and
as wet as if I had been dipped in a well' 'You are sure you were not
dreaming?' I said. '_I was not._ But I do not expect you believe me!'
'You must not be offended,' I said, 'if I find the thing stiff to stow!
I believe _you_ all the same.' 'What?' he said, not quite understanding
me. 'An honest man and a gentleman,' I answered. 'And a coward to boot!'
'God forbid!' I returned: 'what man can answer for himself at every
moment! If I remember, Hector turned at last and ran from Achilles!' He
said nothing, and I went on. 'I once heard a preaching fellow say, "When
a wise man is always wise, then is the kingdom of heaven!" and I thought
he knew something!' I talked, don't you know, to quiet him. 'I once
saw,' I said, 'the best-tempered man I ever knew, in the worst rage I
ever saw man in--though I must allow he had good reason!' He drank his
cup of tea, got up, and said, 'I'm off. Good-bye--and thank you! A
million of money wouldn't make me stay in the house another hour! There
is that in it I fear ten times worse than the ghost?' 'Gracious! what is
that?' I said. 'This horrible cowardice oozing from her like a mist. The
house is full of it!' 'But what shall I say to Mrs. Blank?' 'Anything
you like.' 'I will say then, that you are very sorry, but were compelled
to go.' 'Say what you please, only let me go! Tell them to send my traps
after me. Good-bye! I'm in a sepulcher! I shall have to throw up my
commission!' So he went."

"And what became of him?"

"I've neither seen nor heard of him to this day!"

He ceased with the cadence of an ended story.

"Is that all?"

"You spoke of an adventure of your own!"

"I was flattering myself," said Lufa, "that in our house Mr. Colman was
at last to hear a ghost story from the man's own lips!"

"The sun is coming out!" said Sefton. "I will have a cigar at the
stables."

The company protested, but he turned a deaf ear to expostulation, and
went.


CHAPTER XIX.


THE BODILESS.

In the drawing-room after dinner, some of the ladies gathered about him,
and begged the story of his own adventure. He smiled queerly.

"Very well, you shall have it!" he answered.

They seated themselves, and the company came from all parts of the
room--among the rest, Lufa and Walter.

"It was three days, if I remember," began Sefton, "after my military
friend left, when one night I found myself alone in the drawing-room,
just waked from a brown study. No one had said good-night to me. I
looked at my watch; it was half past eleven. I rose and went. My bedroom
was on the first-floor.

"The stairs were peculiar--a construction later than much of the house,
but by no means modern. When you reached the landing of the first-floor
and looked up, you could see above you the second-floor, descended by a
balustrade between arches. There were no carpets on stairs or landings,
which were all of oak.

"I can not certainly say what made me look up; but I think, indeed I am
almost sure, I had heard a noise like that the ghost was said to make,
as of one walking in shoes too large: I saw a lady looking down over the
balusters on the second-floor. I thought some one was playing me a
trick, and imitating the ghost, for the ladies had been chaffing me a
good deal that night; they often do. She wore an old-fashioned, browny,
silky looking dress. I rushed up to see who was taking the rise out of
me. I looked up at her as I ran, and she kept looking down, but
apparently not at me. Her face was that of a middle-aged woman,
beginning, indeed, to be old, and had an intent, rather troubled look, I
should say; but I did not consider it closely.

"I was at the top in a moment, on the level where she stood leaning over
the handrail. Turning, I approached her. Apparently, she neither saw nor
heard me. 'Well acted!' I said to myself--but even then I was beginning
to be afraid, without knowing why. Every man's impulse, I fancy, is to
go right up to anything that frightens him--at least, I have always
found it so. I walked close up to the woman. She moved her head and
turned in my direction, but only as if about to go away. Whether she
looked at me I can not tell, but I saw her eyes plain enough. By this
time, I suppose, the idea of a ghost must have been uppermost, for,
being now quite close to her, I put out my hand as if to touch her. _My
hand went through her--through her head and body!_ I am not joking in
the least; I mean you to believe, if you can, exactly what I say. What
then she did, or whether she took any notice of my movement, I can not
tell; I only know what I did, or rather what I did not do. For, had I
been capable, I should have uttered a shriek that would have filled the
house with ghastliest terror; but there was a load of iron on my chest,
and the hand of a giant at my throat. I could not help opening my mouth,
for something drew all the muscles of my jaws and throat, but I could
not utter a sound. The horror I was in, was entirely new to me, and no
more under my control than a fever. I only wonder it did not paralyze
me, that I was able to turn and run down the stair! I ran as if all the
cardinal sins were at my heels. I flew, never seeming to touch the
stairs as I went. I darted along the passage, burst into my room, shut
and locked the door, lighted my candles, fell into a chair, shuddered,
and began to breathe again."

He ceased, not without present signs of the agitation he described.

"But that's not all!"

"And what else?"

"Did anything happen?"

"Do tell us more."

"I have nothing more to tell," answered Sefton. "But I haven't done
wondering what could have put me in such an awful funk! You can't have a
notion what it was like!"

"I know I should have been in a worse!"

"Perhaps--but why? Why should any one have been terrified? The poor
thing had lost her body, it is true, but there she was
notwithstanding--all the same! It might be nicer or not so nice to her,
but why should it so affect me? that's what I want to know! Am I not, as
Hamlet says, 'a thing immortal as itself?' I don't see the sense of it!
Sure I am that one meets constantly--sits down with, eats and drinks
with, hears sing, and play, and remark on the weather, and the fate of
the nation--"

He paused, his eyes fixed on Walter.

"What _are_ you driving at?" said Lufa.

"I was thinking of a much more fearful kind of creature," he answered.

"What kind of a creature?" she asked.

"A creature," he said, slowly, "that has a body, but no soul to it. All
body, with brain enough for its affairs, it has _no_ soul. Such will
never wander about after they are dead! there will be nothing to wander!
Good-night, ladies! Were I to tell you the history of a woman whose
acquaintance I made some years ago at Baden, you would understand the
sort Good-night!"

There was silence for a moment or two. Had his sister not been present,
something other than complimentary to Sefton might have crept about the
drawing-room--to judge from the expression of two or three faces. Walter
felt the man worth knowing, but felt also something about him that
repelled him.


CHAPTER XX.


THE SOULLESS.

In his room, Walter threw himself in a chair, and sat without thinking,
for the mental presence of Lufa was hardly thought Gradually Sefton's
story revived, and for a time displaced the image of Lufa. It was the
first immediately authenticated ghost-narration he had ever heard. His
fancy alone had hitherto been attracted by such tales; but this brought
him close to things of import as profound as marvelous. He began to
wonder how he was likely to carry himself in such an interview. Courage
such as Mr. Sefton's he dared not claim--any more than hope for the
distinction of ever putting his hand through a ghost! To be sure, the
question philosophically considered, Sefton could have done no such
thing; but where no relations existed, he reasoned, or rather assumed,
the one could not be materially present to the other; _a fortiori_ there
could be no passing of the one through the other! Where the ghost was,
the hand was; both existed in the same space at the same time; therefore
the one did not penetrate the other! The ghost, he held, never saw
Sefton, knew or thought of his presence, or was aware of any intrusive
outrage from his hand! He shrunk none the less, however, from such
phantasmic presence as Sefton had described; a man's philosophy made but
a fool of him when it came to the pinch! He would indeed like to see a
ghost, but not to be alone with one!

Here came back to him a certain look in Lufa's face, which he had not
understood: was it possible she knew something about the thing? Could
this be the house where it took place, where the ghost appeared? The
room in which he sat was very old! the pictures in it none but for their
age would hang up on any wall! And the bed was huger and gloomier than
he had ever elsewhere seen! It was on the second-floor too! What if this
was the very room the officer slept in!

He must run into port, find shelter from the terrors of the shoreless
sea of the unknown! But all the harbor he could seek, was bed and closed
eyes! The dark is a strange refuge from the darkness--yet that which
most men seek. It is so dark! let us go further from the light! Thus
deeper they go, and come upon greater terrors! He undressed hurriedly,
blew out his candles, and by the light of the fire, glowing rather than
blazing, plunged into the expanse which glimmered before him like a lake
of sleep in the moonshine of dreams.

The moment he laid down his head, he became aware of what seemed
unnatural stillness. Throughout the evening a strong wind had been
blowing about the house; it had ceased, and without having noted the
tumult, he was now aware of the calm. But what made him so cold? The
surface of the linen was like a film of ice! He rolled himself round,
and like a hedge-hog sought shelter within the circumference of his own
person. But he could not get warm, lie close as he might to his own
door; there was no admittance! Had the room turned suddenly cold? Could
it be that the ghost was near, making the air like that of the sepulcher
from which she had issued? for such ghosts as walk the world at night,
what refuge so fit as their tombs in the day-time! The thought was a
worse horror than he had known himself capable of feeling. He shivered
with the cold. It seemed to pierce to his very bones. A strange and
hideous constriction seized the muscles of his neck and throat; had not
Sefton described the sensation? Was it not a sure sign of ghostly
presence?

How much longer he could have endured, or what would have been the
result of the prolongation of his suffering, I can not tell. Molly would
have found immediate refuge with Him to whom belong all the ghosts
wherever they roam or rest--with Him who can deliver from the terrors of
the night as well as from the perplexities of the day; but Walter felt
his lonely being exposed on all sides.

The handle of the door moved. I am not sure whether ghosts always enter
and leave a room in silence, but the sound horribly shook Walter's
nerves, and nearly made an end of him for a time. But a voice said, "May
I come in?" What he answered or whether he answered, Walter could not
have told, but his terror subsided. The door opened wider, some one
entered, closed it softly, and approached the bed through the dull
fire-light. "I did not think you would be in bed!" said the voice, which
Walter now knew for Sefton's; "but at the risk of waking you, even of
giving you a sleepless night, I must have a little talk with you!"

"I shall be glad," answered Walter.

Sefton little thought how welcome was his visit!

But he was come to do him a service for which he could hardly at once be
grateful. The best things done for any are generally those for which
they are at the moment least grateful; it needs the result of the
service to make them able to prize it.

Walter thought he had more of the story to tell--something he had not
chosen to talk of to the ladies.

Sefton stood, and for a few moments there was silence. He seemed to be
meditating, yet looked like one who wanted to light his cigar.

"Won't you take a seat?" said Walter.

"Thank you!" returned Sefton, and sat on the bed.

"I am twenty-seven," he said at length. "How old are you?"

"Twenty-three," answered Walter.

"When I was twenty-three, I knew ever so much more than I do now! I'm
not half so sure about things as I was. I wonder if you will find it
so!"

"I hope I shall--otherwise I sha'n't have got on."

"Well, now, couldn't you just--why not?--forestall your experience by
making use of mine? I'm talking like a fool, I know, but never mind; it
is the more genuine. Look here, Mr. Colman! I like you, and believe you
will one day be something more than a gentleman. There, that won't do!
What's my opinion, good or bad, to you? Listen to me anyhow: you're on
the wrong tack here, old boy!"

"I'm sorry I don't understand you," said Walter.

"Naturally not; how could you? I will explain."

"Please. Don't mind me. I shall do my best not to be offended."

"That is more than I should have presumed to ask." Again a brief silence
followed.

"You heard my story about the ghost?" said Sefton.

"I was on the point of asking you if I might tell it in print!"

"You may do what you like with it, except the other fellow's part."

"Thank you. But I wish you would tell me what you meant by that other
more fearful--apparition--or what did you call it? Were you alluding to
the vampire?"

"No. There are live women worse than vampires. Scared as I confess I
was, I would rather meet ten such ghosts as I told you of, than another
woman such as I mean. I know one, and she's enough. By the time you had
seen ten ghosts you would have got used to them, and found there was no
danger from them; but a woman without a soul will devour any number of
men. You see she's all room inside! Look here! I must be open with you:
tell me you are not in love with my cousin Lufa, and I will bid you
good-night"

"I am so much in love with her, that I dare not think what may come of
it," replied Walter.

"Then for God's sake tell her, and have done with it! Anything will be
better than going on like this. I will not say what Lufa is; indeed I
don't know what name would at all fit her! You think me a queer, dry,
odd sort of a customer: I was different when I fell in love with Lufa.
She is older than you think her, though not so old as I am. I kept
saying to myself she was hardly a woman yet; I must give her time. I was
better brought up than she; I thought things of consequence that she
thought of none. I hadn't a stupid ordinary mother like hers. She's my
second cousin. She took my love-making, never drew me on, never pushed
me back; never refused my love, never returned it. Whatever I did or
said, she seemed content. She was always writing poetry. 'But where's
her own poetry?' I would say to myself. I was always trying to get
nearer to what I admired; she never seemed to suspect the least relation
between the ideal and life, between thought and action. To have an ideal
implied no aspiration after it! She has not a thought of the smallest
obligation to carry out one of the fine things she writes of, any more
than people that go to church think they have anything to do with what
they hear there. Most people's nature seems all in pieces. They wear and
change their moods as they wear and change their dresses. Their moods
make them, and not they their moods. They are different with every
different mood. But Lufa seems never to change, and yet never to be in
one and the same mood. She is always in two moods, and the one mood has
nothing to do with the other. The one mood never influences, never
modifies the other. They run side by side and do not mingle. The one
mood is enthusiasm for what is not, the other indifference to what is.
She has not the faintest desire to make what is not into what is.
For love, I believe all she knows about it is, that it is a fine thing
to be loved. She loves nobody but her mother, and her only after a
fashion. I had my leg broken in the hunting-field once; my horse got up
and galloped off; I lay still. She saw what had happened, and went after
the hounds. She said she could do no good; Doctor Black was in the
field, and she went to find him. She didn't find him, and he didn't
come. I believe she forgot. But it's worth telling you, though it has
nothing to do with her, that I wasn't forgot. Old Truefoot went straight
home, and kept wheeling and tearing up and down before the windows, but,
till his own groom came, would let no one touch him. Then when he would
have led him to the stable, he set his forefeet out in front of him, and
wouldn't budge. The groom got on his back, but was scarce in the saddle
when Truefoot was oft in a bee-line over everything to where I was
lying. There's a horse for you! And there's a woman! I'm telling you all
this, mind, not to blame her, but to warn you. Whether she is to blame
or not, I don't know; I don't understand her.

"I was free to come and go, and say what I pleased, for both families
favored the match. She never objected; never said she would not have me;
said she liked me as well as any other. In a word she would have married
me, if I would have taken her. There are men, I believe, who would make
the best of such a consent, saying they were so in love with the woman
they would rejoice to take her on any terms: I don't understand that
sort of love! I would as soon think of marrying a woman I hated as a
woman that did not love me. I know no reason why any woman should love
me, and if no woman can find any, I most go alone. Lufa has found none
yet, and life and love too seem to have gone out of me waiting. If you
ask me why I do not give it all up, I have no answer. You will say for
Lufa, it is only that the right man is not come! It may be so; but I
believe there is more than that in it. I fear she is all outside. "This
is the way down," said he, and then, suddenly,
"Dios mio, what is that?"
A terrible cry had risen out of the woods beneath us.

I saw that de Pombal was shivering like a frightened horse.

"It is that devil," he whispered. "He is treating another as he treated
me. But on, on, for Heaven help us if he lays his hands upon us."
One by one we crawled down the narrow goat track.

At the bottom of the cliff we were back in the woods once more.
Suddenly a yellow glare shone above us, and the black shadows of the
tree-trunks started out in front.

They had fired the beacon behind us. Even from where we stood we
could see that impassive body amid the flames, and the black figures
of the guerillas as they danced, howling like cannibals, round the
pile. Ha!
how I shook my fist at them, the dogs, and how I vowed that one day my
Hussars and I would make the reckoning level!

De Pombal knew how the outposts were placed and all the paths which led
through the forest. But to avoid these villains we had to plunge among
the hills and walk for many a weary mile.

And yet how gladly would I have walked those extra leagues if only
for one sight which they brought to my eyes!

It may have been two o'clock in the morning when we halted upon the bare
shoulder of a hill over which our path curled.

Looking back we saw the red glow of the embers of the beacon as if
volcanic fires were bursting from the tall peak of Merodal. And then,
as I gazed, I saw something else--something which caused me to
shriek with joy and to fall upon the ground, rolling in my delight.

For, far away upon the southern horizon, there winked and twinkled
one great yellow light, throbbing and flaming, the light of no house,
the light of no star, but the answering beacon of Mount d'Ossa,
which told that the army of Clausel knew what Etienne Gerard had
been sent to tell them.

V. How the Brigadier Triumphed in England
I have told you, my friends, how I triumphed over the English at the
fox-hunt when I pursued the animal so fiercely that even the herd
of trained dogs was unable to keep up, and alone with my own hand
I put him to the sword.

Perhaps I have said too much of the matter, but there is a thrill
in the triumphs of sport which even warfare cannot give, for in
warfare you share your successes with your regiment and your army,
but in sport it is you yourself unaided who have won the laurels.

It is an advantage which the English have over us that in all classes
they take great interest in every form of sport. It may be that they are
richer than we, or it may be that they are more idle: but I was
surprised when I was a prisoner in that country to observe how
widespread was this feeling, and how much it filled the minds and
the lives of the people.

A horse that will run, a cock that will fight, a dog that will kill
rats, a man that will box--they would turn away from the Emperor
in all his glory in order to look upon any of these.

I could tell you many stories of English sport, for I saw much of
it during the time that I was the guest of Lord Rufton, after the
order for my exchange had come to England.

There were months before I could be sent back to France, and during this
time I stayed with this good Lord Rufton at his beautiful house of High
Combe, which is at the northern end of Dartmoor. He had ridden with the
police when they had pursued me from Princetown, and he had felt
toward me when I was overtaken as I would myself have felt had I, in my
own country, seen a brave and debonair soldier without a friend to help
him. In a word, he took me to his house, clad me, fed me, and treated
me as if he had been my brother.
I will say this of the English, that they were always generous enemies,
and very good people with whom to fight.

In the Peninsula the Spanish outposts would present their muskets
at ours, but the British their brandy-flasks.

And of all these generous men there was none who was the equal of this
admirable milord, who held out so warm a hand to an enemy in distress.

Ah! what thoughts of sport it brings back to me, the very name of
High Combe!

I can see it now, the long, low brick house, warm and ruddy, with white
plaster pillars before the door.

He was a great sportsman, this Lord Rufton, and all who were about him
were of the same sort. But you will be pleased to hear that there were
few things in which I could not hold my own, and in some I excelled.

Behind the house was a wood in which pheasants were reared, and it was
Lord Rufton's joy to kill these birds, which was done by sending
in men to drive them out while he and his friends stood outside and
shot them as they passed. For my part, I was more crafty, for I studied
the habits of the bird, and stealing out in the evening I was able
to kill a number of them as they roosted in the trees. Hardly a single
shot was wasted, but the keeper was attracted by the sound of the firing,
and he implored me in his rough English fashion to spare those that
were left.

That night I was able to place twelve birds as a surprise upon Lord
Rufton's supper-table, and he laughed until he cried, so overjoyed
was he to see them.

"Gad, Gerard, you'll be the death of me yet!" he cried.

Often he said the same thing, for at every turn I amazed him by the way
in which I entered into the sports of the English.

There is a game called cricket which they play in the summer, and
this also I learned.

Rudd, the head gardener, was a famous player of cricket, and so was
Lord Rufton himself.

Before the house was a lawn, and here it was that Rudd taught me
the game.

It is a brave pastime, a game for soldiers, for each tries to strike
the other with the ball, and it is but a small stick with which you
may ward it off.

Three sticks behind show the spot beyond which you may not retreat. I can
tell you that it is no game for children, and I will confess that, in
spite of my nine campaigns, I felt myself turn pale when first the
ball flashed past me.

So swift was it that I had not time to raise my stick to ward it
off, but by good fortune it missed me and knocked down the wooden
pins which marked the boundary.

It was for Rudd then to defend himself and for me to attack.

When I was a boy in Gascony I learned to throw both far and straight,
so that I made sure that I could hit this gallant Englishman.

With a shout I rushed forward and hurled the ball at him. It flew as
swift as a bullet toward his ribs, but without a word he swung his staff
and the ball rose a surprising distance in the air. Lord Rufton clapped
his hands and cheered. Again the ball was brought to me, and again it
was for me to throw. This time it flew past his head, and it seemed
to me that it was his turn to look pale.

But he was a brave man, this gardener, and again he faced me.

Ah, my friends, the hour of my triumph had come! It was a red waistcoat
that he wore, and at this I hurled the ball. You would have said that
I was a gunner, not a hussar, for never was so straight an aim. With a
despairing cry--the cry of the brave man who is beaten--he fell
upon the wooden pegs behind him, and they all rolled upon the ground
together.

He was cruel, this English milord, and he laughed so that he could not
come to the aid of his servant. It was for me, the victor, to rush
forward to embrace this intrepid player, and to raise him to his
feet with words of praise, and encouragement, and hope. He was in pain
and could not stand erect, yet the honest fellow confessed that there
was no accident in my victory. "He did it a-purpose! He did it a-purpose!"

Again and again he said it. Yes, it is a great game this cricket, and
I would gladly have ventured upon it again but Lord Rufton and
Rudd said that it was late in the season, and so they would play
no more.

How foolish of me, the old, broken man, to dwell upon these successes,
and yet I will confess that my age has been very much soothed and
comforted by the memory of the women who have loved me and the men
whom I have overcome.

It is pleasant to think that five years afterward, when Lord Rufton
came to Paris after the peace, he was able to assure me that my
name was still a famous one in the north of Devonshire for the fine
exploits that I had performed.

Especially, he said, they still talked over my boxing match with
the Honourable Baldock.

It came about in this way. Of an evening many sportsmen would assemble
at the house of Lord Rufton, where they would drink much wine,
make wild bets, and talk of their horses and their foxes.

How well I remember those strange creatures. Sir Barrington, Jack Lupton,
of Barnstable, Colonel Addison, Johnny Miller, Lord Sadler, and my
enemy, the Honourable Baldock.

They were of the same stamp all of them, drinkers, madcaps, fighters,
gamblers, full of strange caprices and extraordinary whims.

Yet they were kindly fellows in their rough fashion, save only this
Baldock, a fat man, who prided himself on his skill at the box-fight.

It was he who, by his laughter against the French because they were
ignorant of sport, caused me to challenge him in the very sport at
which he excelled.

You will say that it was foolish, my friends, but the decanter had
passed many times, and the blood of youth ran hot in my veins.

I would fight him, this boaster; I would show him that if we had
not skill at least we had courage.

Lord Rufton would not allow it. I insisted.

The others cheered me on and slapped me on the back.

"No, dash it, Baldock, he's our guest," said Rufton.

"It's his own doing," the other answered.

"Look here, Rufton, they can't hurt each other if they wear the mawleys,"
cried Lord Sadler.

And so it was agreed.

What the mawleys were I did not know, but presently they brought
out four great puddings of leather, not unlike a fencing glove, but
larger.

With these our hands were covered after we had stripped ourselves
of our coats and our waistcoats.

Then the table, with the glasses and decanters, was pushed into the
corner of the room, and behold us; face to face!

Lord Sadler sat in the arm-chair with a watch in his open hand.
"Time!"

said he.

I will confess to you, my friends, that I felt at that moment a
tremor such as none of my many duels have ever given me.

With sword or pistol I am at home, but here I only understood that
I must struggle with this fat Englishman and do what I could, in
spite of these great puddings upon my hands, to overcome him.

And at the very outset I was disarmed of the best weapon that was
left to me.

"Mind, Gerard, no kicking!" said Lord Rufton in my ear. I had only a
pair of thin dancing slippers, and yet the man was fat, and a few
well-directed kicks might have left me the victor. But there is an etiquette
just as there is in fencing, and I refrained. I looked at this Englishman
and I wondered how I should attack him.

His ears were large and prominent.

Could I seize them I might drag him to the ground.

I rushed in, but I was betrayed by this flabby glove, and twice I
lost my hold.

He struck me, but I cared little for his blows, and again I seized him by
the ear.

He fell, and I rolled upon him and thumped his head upon the ground.

How they cheered and laughed, these gallant Englishmen, and how
they clapped me on the back!

"Even money on the Frenchman," cried Lord Sadler.

"He fights foul," cried my enemy, rubbing his crimson ears. "He savaged
me on the ground."

"You must take your chance of that," said Lord Rufton, coldly.

"Time!" cried Lord Sadler, and once again we advanced to the assault.

He was flushed, and his small eyes were as vicious as those of a bull-dog.
There was hatred on his face. For my part I carried myself lightly and
gaily.

A French gentleman fights but he does not hate.

I drew myself up before him, and I bowed as I have done in the duello.

There can be grace and courtesy as well as defiance in a bow; I put
all three into this one, with a touch of ridicule in the shrug which
accompanied it.

It was at this moment that he struck me. The room spun round me.

I fell upon my back. But in an instant I was on my feet again and
had rushed to a close combat.

His ear, his hair, his nose, I seized them each in turn.

Once again the mad joy of the battle was in my veins.
The old cry of triumph rose to my lips.

"Vive l'Empereur!" I yelled as I drove my head into his stomach.

He threw his arm round my neck, and holding me with one hand he struck
me with the other. I buried my teeth in his arm, and he shouted with
pain.

"Call him off, Rufton!" he screamed.

"Call him off, man! He's worrying me!"

They dragged me away from him.
Can I ever forget it?

--the laughter, the cheering, the congratulations!

Even my enemy bore me no ill-will, for he shook me by the hand.

For my part I embraced him on each cheek. Five years afterward I learned
from Lord Rufton that my noble bearing upon that evening was still
fresh in the memory of my English friends.

It is not, however, of my own exploits in sport that I wish to speak
to you to-night, but it is of the Lady Jane Dacre and the strange adventure
of which she was the cause. Lady Jane Dacre was Lord Rufton's sister and
the lady of his household. I fear that until I came it was lonely for
her, since she was a beautiful and refined woman with nothing in
common with those who were about her.

Indeed, this might be said of many women in the England of those
days, for the men were rude and rough and coarse, with boorish
habits and few accomplishments, while the women were the most lovely
and tender that I have ever known.

We became great friends, the Lady Jane and I, for it was not possible
for me to drink three bottles of port after dinner like those
Devonshire gentlemen, and so I would seek refuge in her drawing-room,
where evening after evening she would play the harpsichord and I
would sing the songs of my own land.

In those peaceful moments I would find a refuge from the misery which
filled me, when I reflected that my regiment was left in the front
of the enemy without the chief whom they had learned to love and to
follow.

Indeed, I could have torn my hair when I read in the English papers of
the fine fighting which was going on in Portugal and on the frontiers
of Spain, all of which I had missed through my misfortune in falling
into the hands of Milord Wellington.

From what I have told you of the Lady Jane you will have guessed what
occurred, my friends.

Etienne Gerard is thrown into the company of a young and beautiful
woman.

What must it mean for him?

What must it mean for her?

It was not for me, the guest, the captive, to make love to the
sister of my host.

But I was reserved.

I was discreet. I tried to curb my own emotions and to discourage hers.

For my own part I fear that I betrayed myself, for the eye
becomes more eloquent when the tongue is silent.

Every quiver of my fingers as I turned over her music-sheets told her my
secret. But she--she was admirable. It is in these matters that women
have a genius for deception. If I had not penetrated her secret I should
often have thought that she forgot even that I was in the house.

For hours she would sit lost in a sweet melancholy, while I admired
her pale face and her curls in the lamp-light, and thrilled within
me to think that I had moved her so deeply.

Then at last I would speak, and she would start in her chair and stare
at me with the most admirable pretence of being surprised to find
me in the room. Ah! how I longed to hurl myself suddenly at her feet, to
kiss her white hand, to assure her that I had surprised her secret
and that I would not abuse her confidence.

But no, I was not her equal, and I was under her roof as a castaway
enemy. My lips were sealed. I endeavoured to imitate her own
wonderful affectation of indifference, but, as you may think?

I was eagerly alert for any opportunity of serving her.

One morning Lady Jane had driven in her phaeton to Okehampton, and I
strolled along the road which led to that place in the hope that I might
meet her on her return.

It was the early winter, and banks of fading fern sloped down to
the winding road.

It is a bleak place this Dartmoor, wild and rocky--a country of wind
and mist.

I felt as I walked that it is no wonder Englishmen should suffer
from the spleen. My own heart was heavy within me, and I sat upon a rock
by the wayside looking out on the dreary view with my thoughts
full of trouble and foreboding.

Suddenly, however, as I glanced down the road, I saw a sight which drove
everything else from my mind, and caused me to leap to my feet
with a cry of astonishment and anger.

Down the curve of the road a phaeton was coming, the pony tearing along
at full gallop. Within was the very lady whom I had come to meet. She
lashed at the pony like one who endeavours to escape from some pressing
danger, glancing ever backward over her shoulder. The bend of the road
concealed from me what it was that had alarmed her, and I ran
forward not knowing what to expect.

The next instant I saw the pursuer, and my amazement was increased at the
sight. It was a gentleman in the red coat of an English fox-hunter,
mounted on a great grey horse. He was galloping as if in a race, and the
long stride of the splendid creature beneath him soon brought
him up to the lady's flying carriage. I saw him stoop and seize the reins
of the pony, so as to bring it to a halt. The next instant he was
deep in talk with the lady, he bending forward in his saddle and speaking
eagerly, she shrinking away from him as if she feared and loathed him.

You may think, my dear friends, that this was not a sight at which I
could calmly gaze. How my heart thrilled within me to think that a
chance should have been given to me to serve the Lady Jane! I ran--oh,
good Lord, how I ran! At last, breathless, speechless, I reached the
phaeton. The man glanced up at me with his blue English eyes, but so
deep was he in his talk that he paid no heed to me, nor did the lady
say a word.

She still leaned back, her beautiful pale face gazing up at him.
He was a good-looking fellow--tall, and strong, and brown; a pang of
jealousy seized me as I looked at him.

He was talking low and fast, as the English do when they are in earnest.

"I tell you, Jinny, it's you and only you that I love," said he. "Don't
bear malice, Jinny. Let by-gones be by-gones. Come now, say it's
all over."

"No, never, George, never!" she cried.

A dusky red suffused his handsome face. The man was furious.

"Why can't you forgive me, Jinny?"
"I can't forget the past."
"By George, you must! I've asked enough. It's time to order now. I'll
have my rights, d'ye hear?" His hand closed upon her wrist.

At last my breath had returned to me.

"Madame," I said, as I raised my hat, "do I intrude, or is there any
possible way in which I can be of service to you?"
But neither of them minded me any more than if I had been a fly who
buzzed between them.

Their eyes were locked together.

"I'll have my rights, I tell you. I've waited long enough."
"There's no use bullying, George."
"Do you give in?"

"No, never!"
"Is that your final answer?"
"Yes, it is."

He gave a bitter curse and threw down her hand.

"All right, my lady, we'll see about this."
"Excuse me, sir!"

said I, with dignity.

"Oh, go to blazes!"

he cried, turning on me with his furious face. The next instant he had
spurred his horse and was galloping down the road once more.

Lady Jane gazed after him until he was out of sight, and I was surprised
to see that her face wore a smile and not a frown. Then she turned to me
and held out her hand.

"You are very kind, Colonel Gerard. You meant well, I am sure."
"Madame," said I, "if you can oblige me with the gentleman's name and
address I will arrange that he shall never trouble you again."
"No scandal, I beg of you," she cried.

"Madame, I could not so far forget myself. Rest assured that no lady's
name would ever be mentioned by me in the course of such an incident.

In bidding me to go to blazes this gentleman has relieved me from the
embarrassment of having to invent a cause of quarrel."
"Colonel Gerard," said the lady, earnestly, "you must give me your
word as a soldier and a gentleman that this matter goes no farther,
and also that you will say nothing to my brother about what you
have seen.

Promise me!"
"If I must."
"I hold you to your word. Now drive with me to High Combe, and I will
explain as we go."

The first words of her explanation went into me like a sabre-point.

"That gentleman," said she, "is my husband."

"Your husband!"

"You must have known that I was married."

She seemed surprised at my agitation.

"I did not know."
"This is Lord George Dacre. We have been married two years. There is no
need to tell you how he wronged me. I left him and sought a refuge
under my brother's roof. Up till to-day he has left me there unmolested.
What I must above all things avoid is the chance of a duel betwixt
my husband and my brother. It is horrible to think of. For this reason
Lord Rufton must know nothing of this chance meeting of to-day."
"If my pistol could free you from this annoyance----"
"No, no, it is not to be thought of. Remember your promise, Colonel
Gerard. And not a word at High Combe of what you have seen!"

Her husband! I had pictured in my mind that she was a young widow.
Who would take joy in paradise with hell in his
heart! Let him stay out in the night with the suffering, groaning trees,
with the clouds that have swallowed the moon and the stars, with the
frost and the silent gathering of the companies, troops, and battalions
of snow!

Every man understands something of what Walter felt. His soul was seared
with cold. The ways of life were a dull sickness. There was no reason
why things should be, why the world should ever have been made! The
night was come: why should he keep awake! How cold the river looked in
its low, wet channel! How listlessly the long grasses hung over its
bank! And the boy on the other side was whistling!

It grew darker. He had made a long round, and unaware was approaching
the house. He had not thought what he must do. Nothing so practical as
going away had yet occurred to him. She had not been unkind! She had
even pressed on him a sister's love! The moth had not yet burned away
enough of its wings to prevent it from burning its whole body! it kept
fluttering about the flame. Nor was absent the childish weakness, the
unmanly but common impulse, to make the woman feel how miserable she had
made him. For this poor satisfaction, not a few men have blown their
brains out; not a few women drowned themselves or taken poison--and
generally without success! Walter would stand before her the ruin she
had made him, then vanish from her sight. To-morrow he would leave the
house, but she must see him yet once, alone, before he went! Once more
he must hang his shriveled pinions in the presence of the seraph whose
radiance had scorched him! And still the most hideous thought of all
would keep lifting its vague ugly head out of chaos--the thought that,
lovely as she was, she was not worshipful.

The windows were dimly shining through their thick curtains. The house
looked a great jewel of bliss, in which the spirits of paradise might
come and go, while such as he could not enter! What should he do? Where
should he go? To his room, and dress for dinner? It was impossible! How
could he sit feeling her eyes, and facing Sefton! How endure the
company, the talk, the horrible eating! All so lately full of
refinement, of enchantment--the music, the pictures, the easy
intercourse--all was stupid, wearisome, meaningless! He would go to his
room and say he had a headache! But first he would peep into the
drawing-room: she might be there--and looking sad!


CHAPTER XXIV.


THE DRAWING-ROOM.

He opened a door into one of the smaller compartments of the
drawing-room, looked, crept in, and closed the door behind him.

Lufa was there--alone! He durst not approach her, but if he seated
himself in a certain corner, he could see her and she him! He did not,
however, apprehend that the corner he had chosen was entirely in shadow,
or reflect that the globe of a lamp was almost straight between them. He
thought she saw him, but she did not.

The room seemed to fold him round with softness as he entered from the
dreary night; and he could not help being pervaded by the warmth, and
weakened by the bodily comfort. He sat and gazed at his goddess--a mere
idol, seeming, not being, until he hardly knew whether she was actually
before him, or only present to his thought. She was indeed a little
pale--but that she always was when quiet; no sorrow, not a shadow was on
her face. She seemed brooding, but over nothing painful. At length she
smiled.

"She is pleased to think that I love her!" thought Walter. "She leans to
me a little! When the gray hair comes and the wrinkles, it will be a
gracious memory that she was so loved by one who had but his life to
give her! 'He was poor,' she will say, 'but I have not found the riches
he would have given me! I have been greatly loved!'"

I believe myself, she was ruminating a verse that had come to her in the
summer-house, while Walter was weeping by her side.

A door opened, and Sefton came in.

"Have you seen the 'Onlooker'?" he said--a journal at the time in much
favor with the more educated populace. "There is a review in it that
would amuse you."

"Of what?" she asked, listlessly.

"I didn't notice the name of the book, but it is a poem, and just your
sort, I should say. The article is in the 'Onlooker's' best style."

"Pray let me see it!" she answered, holding out her hand.

"I will read it to you, if I may."

She did not object. He sat down a little way from her, and read.

He had not gone far before Walter knew, although its name had not
occurred as Sefton read, that the book was his own. The discovery
enraged him: how had the reviewer got hold of it when he himself had
seen no copy except Lufa's? It was a puzzle he never got at the root of.
Probably some one he had offended had contrived to see as much of it, at
the printer's or binder's, as had enabled him to forestall its
appearance with the most stinging, mocking, playfully insolent paper
that had ever rejoiced the readers of the "Onlooker." But he had more to
complain of than rudeness, a thing of which I doubt if any reviewer is
ever aware. For he soon found that, by the blunder of reviewer or
printer, the best of the verses quoted were misquoted, and so rendered
worthy of the epithet attached to them. This unpleasant discovery was
presently followed by another--that the rudest and most contemptuous
personal remark was founded on an ignorant misapprehension of the
reviewer's own; while in ridicule of a mere misprint which happened to
carry a comic suggestion on the face of it, the reviewer surpassed
himself.

As Sefton read, Lufa laughed often and heartily: the thing was
gamesomely, cleverly, almost brilliantly written. Annoyed as he was,
Walter did not fail to note, however, that Sefton did not stop to let
Lufa laugh, but read quietly on. Suddenly she caught the paper from his
hand, for she was as quick as a kitten, saying:

"I must see who the author of the precious book is!"

Her cousin did not interfere, but sat watching her--almost solemnly.

"Ah, I thought so!" she cried, with a shriek of laughter. "I thought so!
I could hardly be mistaken! What _will_ the poor fellow say to it! It
will kill him!" She laughed immoderately. "I hope it will give him a
lesson, however!" she went on. "It is most amusing to see how much he
thinks of his own verses! He worships them! And then makes up for the
idolatry by handling without mercy those of other people! It was he who
so maltreated my poor first! I never saw anything so unfair in my life!"

Sefton said nothing, but looked grim.

"You _should_ see--I will show it you--the gorgeous copy of this same
comical stuff he gave me to-day! I am so glad he is going: he won't be
able to ask me how I like it, and I sha'n't have to tell a story! I'm
sorry for him, though--truly! He is a very nice sort of boy, though
_rather_ presuming. I must find out who the writer of that review is,
and get mamma to invite him! He is a host in himself! I don't think I
ever read anything so clever--or more just!"

"Oh, then, you have read the book?" spoke her cousin at length.

"No; but ain't those extracts enough? Don't they speak for
themselves--for their silliness and sentimentality?"

"How would you like of a book of yours judged by scraps chopped off
anywhere, Lufa!--or chosen for the look they would have in the humorous
frame of the critic's remarks! It is less than fair! I do not feel that
I know in the least what sort of book this is. I only know that again
and again, having happened to come afterward upon the book itself, I
have set down the reviewer as a knave, who for ends of his own did not
scruple to make fools of his readers. I am ashamed, Lufa, that you
should so accept everything as gospel against a man who believes you his
friend!"

Walter's heart had been as water, now it had turned to ice, and with the
coldness came strength: he could bear anything except this desert of a
woman. The moment Sefton had thus spoken, he rose and came forward--not
so much, I imagine, to Sefton's surprise as Lufa's and said,

"Thank you, Mr. Sefton, for undeceiving me. I owe you, Lady Lufa, the
debt of a deep distrust hereafter of poetic ladies."

"They will hardly be annihilated by it, Mr. Colman!" returned Lufa.
"But, indeed, I did not know you were in the room; and perhaps you did
not know that in our circle it is counted bad manners to listen!"

"I was foolishly paralyzed for a moment," said Walter, "as well as
unprepared for the part you would take."

"I am very glad, Mr. Colman," said Sefton, "that you have had the
opportunity of discovering the truth! My cousin well deserves the
pillory in which I know you will not place her!"

"Lady Lufa needs fear nothing from me. I have some regard left for the
idea of her--the thing she is not! If you will be kind, come and help me
out of the house."

"There is no train to-night."

"I will wait at the station for the slow train."

"I can not press you to stay an hour where you have been so treated,
but--"

"It is high time I went!" said Walter--not without the dignity that
endurance gives. "May I ask you to do one thing for me, Mr. Sefton?"

"Twenty things, if I can."

"Then please send my portmanteau after me."

With that he left the room, and went to his own, far on the way of cure,
though not quite so far as he imagined. The blood, however, was surging
healthily through his veins: he had been made a fool of, but he would be
a wiser man for it!

He had hardly closed his door when Sefton appeared.

"Can I help you?" he said.

"To pack my portmanteau? Did you ever pack your own?"

"Oftener than you, I suspect! I never had but one orderly I could bear
about me, and he's dead, poor fellow! I shall see him again, though, I
do trust, let believers in dirt say what they will! Never till I myself
think no more, will I cease hoping to see my old Archie again! Fellows
must learn something through the Lufas, or they would make raving
maniacs of us! God be thanked, he has her in his great idiot-cage, and
will do something with her yet! May you and I be there to see when she
comes out in her right mind!"

"Amen!" said Walter.

"And now, my dear fellow," said Sefton, "if you will listen to me, you
will not go till to-morrow morning. No, I don't want you to stay to
breakfast! You shall go by the early train as any other visitor might.
The least scrap of a note to Lady Tremaine, and all will go without
remark."

He waited in silence. Walter went on putting up his things.

"I dare say you are right!" he said at length. "I will stay till the
morning. But you will not ask me to go down again?"

"It would be a victory if you could."

"Very well, I will. I am a fool, but this much less of a fool, that I
know I am one."

Somehow Walter had a sense of relief. He began to dress, and spent some
pains on the process. He felt sure Sefton would take care the "Onlooker"
should not be seen--before his departure anyhow. During dinner he talked
almost brilliantly, making Lufa open her eyes without knowing she did.

He retired at length to his room with very mingled feelings. There was
the closing paragraph of the most interesting chapter of his life yet
constructed! What was to follow?

  Into the gulf of an empty heart
    Something must always come.
  "What will it be?" I think with a start,
    And a fear that makes me dumb.

  I can not sit at my outer gate
    And call what shall soothe my grief;
  I can not unlock to a king in state,
    Can not bar a wind-swept leaf!

  Hopeless were I if a loving Care
    Sat not at the spring of my thought--
  At the birth of my history, blank and bare.
    Of the thing I have not wrought.

  If God were not, this hollow need.
    All that I now call _me_,
  Might wallow with demons of hate and greed
    In a lawless and shoreless sea!

  Watch the door of this sepulcher,
    Sit, my Lord, on the stone,
  Till the life within it rise and stir.
    And walk forth to claim its own.

This was how Walter felt and wrote some twelve months after, when he had
come to understand a little of the process that had been conducted in
him; when he knew that the life he had been living was a mere life in
death, a being not worth being.

But the knowledge of this process had not yet begun. A thousand subtle
influences, wrapped in the tattered cloak of dull old Time, had to come
into secret, potent play, ere he would be able to write thus.

And even this paragraph was not yet quite at an end.


CHAPTER XXV.


A MIDNIGHT INTERVIEW.

Walter drew his table near the fire, and sat down to concoct a brief
note of thanks and farewell to his hostess, informing her that he was
compelled to leave in haste. He found it rather difficult, though what
Lufa might tell her mother he neither thought nor cared, if only he had
his back to the house, and his soul out of it. It was now the one place
on the earth which he would sink in the abyss of forgetfulness.

He could not get the note to his mind, falling constantly into thought
that led nowhither, and at last threw himself back in his chair, wearied
with the emotions of the day. Under the soothing influence of the heat
and the lambent motions of the flames, he fell into a condition which
was not sleep, and as little was waking. His childhood crept back to
him, with all the delights of the sacred time when home was the
universe, and father and mother the divinities that filled it. A
something now vanished from his life, looked at him across a gulf of
lapse, and said, "Am I likewise false? The present you desire to forget;
you say, it were better it had never been: do you wish I too had never
been? Why else have you left my soul in the grave of oblivion?" Thus
talking with his past, he fell asleep.

It could have been but for a few minutes, though when he awoke it seemed
a century had passed, he had dreamed of so much. But something had
happened! What was it? The fire was blazing as before, but he was
chilled to the marrow! A wind seemed blowing upon him, cold as if it
issued from the jaws of the sepulcher! His imagination and memory
together linked the time to the night of Sefton's warning: was the ghost
now really come? Had Sefton's presence only saved him from her for the
time? He sat bolt upright in his chair listening, the same horror upon
him as then. It seemed minutes he thus sat motionless, but moments of
fearful expectation are long drawn out; their nature is of centuries,
not years. One thing was certain, and one only--that there was a wind,
and a very cold one, blowing upon him. He stared at the door. It moved.
It opened a little. A light tap followed. He could not speak. Then came
a louder, and the spell was broken. He started to his feet, and with the
courage of terror extreme, opened the door--not opened it a little, as
if he feared an unwelcome human presence, but pulled it, with a sudden
wide yawn, open as the grave!

There stood no bodiless soul, but soulless Lufa!

He stood aside, and invited her to enter. Little as he desired to see
her, it was a relief that it was she, and not an elderly lady in brown
silk, through whose person you might thrust your hand without injury or
offense.

As a reward of his promptitude in opening the door, he caught sight of
Lady Tremaine disappearing in the corridor.

Lady Lufa walked in without a word, and Walter followed her, leaving the
door wide. She seated herself in the chair he had just left, and turned
to him with a quiet, magisterial air, as if she sat on the seat of
judgment.

"You had better shut the door," she said.

"I thought Lady Tremaine might wish to hear," answered Walter.

"Not at all. She only lighted me to the door."

"As you please," said Walter, and having done as she requested,
returned, and stood before her.

"Will you not take a seat?" she said, in the tone of--"You may sit
down."

"Your ladyship will excuse me!" he answered.

She gave a condescending motion to her pretty neck, and said,

"I need hardly explain, Mr. Colman, why I have sought this interview.
You must by this time be aware how peculiar, how unreasonable indeed,
your behavior was!"

"Pardon me! I do not see the necessity for a word on the matter. I leave
by the first train in the morning!"

"I will not dwell on the rudeness of listening--"

"--To a review of my own book read by a friend!" interrupted Walter,
with indignation; "in a drawing-room where I sat right in front of you,
and knew no reason why you should not see me! I did make a great
mistake, but it was in trusting a lady who, an hour or two before, had
offered to be my sister! How could I suspect she might speak of me in a
way she would not like to hear!"

Lady Lufa was not quite prepared for the tone he took. She had expected
to find him easy to cow. Her object was to bring him into humble
acceptance of the treatment against which he had rebelled, lest he
should afterward avenge himself! She sat a moment in silence.

"Such ignorance of the ways of the world," she said, "is excusable in a
poet--especially--"

"Such a poet!" supplemented Walter, who found it difficult to keep his
temper in face of her arrogance.

"But the world is made up of those that laugh and those that are laughed
at."

"They change places, however, sometimes!" said Walter--which alarmed
Lufa, though she did not show her anxiety.

"Certainly!" she replied. "Everybody laughs at everybody when he gets a
chance! What is society but a club for mutual criticism! The business of
its members is to pass judgment on each other! Why not take the
accident, which seems so to annoy you, with the philosophy of a
gentleman--like one of us! None of us think anything of what is said of
us; we do not heed what we say of each other! Every one knows that all
his friends pull him to pieces the moment he is out of sight--as
heartily as they had just been assisting him to pull others to pieces.
Every gathering is a temporary committee, composed of those who are
present, and sitting upon those whose who are not present. Nobody dreams
of courtesy extending beyond presence! when that is over, obligation is
over. Any such imaginary restriction would render society impossible. It
is only the most inexperienced person that could suppose things going on
in his absence the same as in his presence! It is I who ought to be
pitied, not you! I am the loser, not you!"

Walter bowed and was silent. He did not yet see her drift. If his regard
had been worth anything, she certainly had lost a good deal, but, as it
was, he did not understand how the loss could be of importance to her.

With sudden change of tone and expression, she broke out--

"Be generous, Walter! Forgive me. I will make any atonement you please,
and never again speak of you as if you were not my own brother!"

"It is not of the least consequence how you speak of me now, Lady Lufa:
I have had the good though painful fortune to learn your real feelings,
and prefer the truth to the most agreeable deception. Your worst opinion
of me I could have borne and loved you still; but there is nothing of
you, no appearance of anything even, left to love! I know now that a
woman may be sweet as Hybla honey, and false as an apple of Sodom!"

"Well, you _are_ ungenerous! I hope there are not many in the world to
whom one might confess a fault and not be forgiven. This is indeed
humiliating!"

"I beg your pardon; I heard no confession!"

"I asked you to forgive me."

"For what?"

"For talking of you as I did.'

"Which you justified as the custom of society!"

"I confess, then, that in your case I ought not to have done so."

"Then I forgive you; and we part in peace."

"Is that what you call forgiveness?"

"Is it not all that is required? Knowing now your true feeling toward
me, I know that in this house I am a mistake. Nothing like a true
relation exists, nothing more than the merest acquaintance can exist
between us!"

"It is terrible to have such an enemy!"

"I do not understand you!"

"The match is not fair! Here stands poor me undefended, chained to the
rock! There you lurk, behind the hedge, invisible, and taking every
advantage! Do you think it fair?"

"I begin to understand! The objection did not seem to strike you while I
was the person shot at! But still I fail to see your object. Please
explain."

"You _must_ know perfectly what I mean, Walter! and I can not but
believe you too just to allow a personal misunderstanding to influence
your public judgment! You gave your real unbiased opinion of my last
book, and you are bound by that!"

"Is it possible," cried Walter, "that at last I understand you! That you
should come to me on such an errand, Lady Lufa, reveals yet more your
opinion of me! _Could_ you believe me capable of such vileness as to
take my revenge by abusing your work?"

"Ah, no! Promise me you will not."

"If such a promise were necessary, how could it set you at your ease?
The man who could do such a thing would break any promise!"

"Then whatever rudeness is offered me in your journal, I shall take as
springing from your resentment."

"If you do you will wrong me far worse than you have yet done. I shall
not merely never review work of yours, I will never utter an opinion of
it to any man."

"Thank you. So we part friends!"

"Conventionally."

She rose. He turned to the door and opened it. She passed him, her head
thrown back, her eyes looking poisonous, and let a gaze of contemptuous
doubt rest on him for a moment. His eyes did not quail before hers.

She had left a taper burning on a slab outside the door. Walter had but
half closed it behind her when she reappeared with the taper in one hand
and the volume he had given her in the other. He took the book without a
word, and again she went; but he had hardly thrown it on the hot coals
when once more she appeared. I believe she had herself blown her taper
out.

"Let me have a light, please," she said.

He took the taper from her hand, and turned to light it. She followed
him into the room, and laid her hand on his arm.

"Walter," she said, "it was all because of Sefton! He does not like you,
and can't bear me to like you! I am engaged to him. I ought to have told
you!"

"I will congratulate him next time I see him!" said Walter.

"No, no!" she cried, looking at once angry and scared.

"I will not, then," answered Walter; "but allow me to say I do not
believe Sefton dislikes me. Anyhow, keep your mind at ease, pray. I
shall certainly not in any way revenge myself."

She looked up in his eyes with a momentary glimmer of her old sweetness,
said "Thank you!" gently, and left the room. Her last glance left a
faint, sad sting in Walter's heart, and he began to think whether he had
not been too hard upon her. In any case, the sooner he was out of the
house the better! He must no more trifle with the girl than a
dipsomaniac with the brandy bottle!

All the time of this last scene, the gorgeous book was frizzling and
curling and cracking on the embers. Whether she saw it or not I can not
say, but she was followed all along the corridor by the smell of the
burning leather, which got on to some sleeping noses, and made their
owners dream the house was on fire.

In the morning, Sefton woke him, helped him to dress, got him away in
time, and went with him to the station. Not a word passed between them
about Lufa. All the way to London, Walter pondered whether there could
be any reality in what she had said about Sefton. Was it not possible
that she might have imagined him jealous? Sefton's dislike of her
treatment of him might to her have seemed displeasure at her familiarity
with him! "And indeed," thought Walter, "there are few friends who care
so much for any author, I suspect, as to be indignant with his
reviewers!"


CHAPTER XXVI.


A PERIOD.

If London was dreary when Lufa left it, it was worse than dreary to
Walter now that she was gone from his world; gone from the universe past
and future both--for the Lufa he had dreamed of was not, and had never
been! He had no longer any one to dream about, waking or asleep. The
space she had occupied was a blank spot, black and cold, charred with
the fire of passion, cracked with the frost of disappointment and scorn.
It had its intellectual trouble too--the impossibility of bringing
together the long-cherished idea of Lufa, and the reality of Lufa
revealed by herself; the two stared at each other in mortal
irreconcilement. Now also he had no book to occupy him with pleasant
labor. It had passed from him into the dark; the thought of it was
painful, almost loathesome to him. No one, however, he was glad to find,
referred to it. His friends pitied him, and his foes were silent. Three
copies of it were sold. The sneaking review had had influence enough
with the courted public to annihilate it.

But the expenses of printing it remained; he had yet to pay his share of
them; and, alas, he did not know how! The publisher would give him time,
no doubt, but, work his hardest, it would be a slow clearance! There was
the shame too of having undertaken what he was unable at once to
fulfill! He set himself to grind and starve.

At times the clouds would close in upon him, and there would seem
nothing in life worth living for; though in truth his life was so much
the more valuable that Lufa was out of it. Occasionally his heart would
grow very gentle toward her, and he would burrow for a possible way to
her excuse. But his conclusion was ever the same: how could he forget
that laugh of utter merriment and delight when she found it was indeed
himself under the castigation of such a mighty beadle of literature! In
his most melting mood, therefore, he could only pity her. But what would
have become of him had she not thus unmasked herself! He would now be
believing her the truest, best of women, with no fault but a coldness of
which he had no right to complain, a coldness comforted by the extent of
its freezing!

But there was far more to make London miserable to him: he was now at
last disgusted with his trade: this continuous feeding on the labor of
others was no work for a gentleman! he began to descry in it certain
analogies which grew more and more unpleasant as he regarded them. For
his poetizing he was sick of that also. True, the quality or value of
what he had written was nowise in itself affected by its failure to meet
acceptance. It had certainly not had fair play; it had been represented
as it was not; its character had been lied away! But now that the
blinding influence of their chief subject was removed, he saw the verses
themselves to be little worth. The soul of them was not the grand
all-informing love, but his own private self-seeking little passion for
a poor show of the lovable. No one could care for such verses, except
indeed it were some dumb soul in love with a woman like, or imaginably
like the woman of their thin worship! Not a few were pretty, he allowed,
and some were quaint--that is, had curious old-flavored phrases and
fantastic turns of thought; but throughout there was no revelation! They
sparkled too with the names of things in themselves beautiful, but
whether these things were in general wisely or fairly used in his
figures and tropes and comparisons, he was now more than doubtful. He
had put on his singing robes to whisper his secret love into the two
great red ears of the public!--desiring, not sympathy from love and
truth, but recognition from fame and report! That he had not received it
was better than he deserved! Then what a life was it thus to lie
wallowing among the mushrooms of the press! To spend gifts which,
whatever they were, were divine, in publishing the tidings that this man
had done ill, that other had done well, that he was amusing, and she was
dull! Was it worth calling work, only because it was hard and dreary?
His conscience, his taste, his impulses, all declined to back him in it
any longer. What was he doing for the world? they asked him. How many
books had he guided men to read, by whose help they might steer their
way through the shoals of life? He could count on the fingers of one
hand such as he had heartily recommended. If he had but pointed out what
was good in books otherwise poor, it would have been something! He had
not found it easy to be at once clever, honest, and serviceable to his
race: the press was but for the utterance of opinion, true or false, not
for the education of thought! And why should such as he write books, who
had nothing to tell men that could make them braver, stronger, purer,
more loving, less selfish!

What next was to be done? His calling had vanished! It was not work
worthy of a man! It was contemptible as that of the parson to whom the
church is a profession! He owed his landlady money: how was he to pay
her? He must eat, or how was he to work? There must be something honest
for him to do! Was a man to do the wrong in order to do the right?

The true Walter was waking--beginning to see things as they were, and
not as men regarded them. He was tormented with doubts and fears of all
kinds, high and low. But for the change in his father's circumstances,
he would have asked his help, cleared off everything, and gone home at
once; and had he been truer to his father, he would have known that such
a decision would even now have rejoiced his heart.

He had no longer confidence enough to write on any social question. Of
the books sent him, he chose such as seemed worthiest of notice, but
could not do much. He felt not merely a growing disinclination, but a
growing incapacity for the work. How much the feeling may have been
increased by the fact that his health was giving way, I can not tell;
but certainly the root of it was moral.

His funds began to fail his immediate necessities, and he had just come
from pawning the watch which he would have sold but that it had been his
mother's, and was the gift of his father, when he met Harold Sullivan,
who persuaded him to go with him to a certain theater in which the
stalls had not yet entirely usurped upon the enjoyable portion of the
pit. Between the first and second acts, he caught sight of Lady Lufa in
a box, with Sefton standing behind her. There was hardly a chance of
their seeing him, and he regarded them at his ease, glad to see Sefton,
and not sorry to see Lufa, for it was an opportunity of testing himself.
He soon perceived that they held almost no communication with each
other, but was not surprised, knowing in how peculiar a relation they
stood. Lufa was not looking unhappy--far from it; her countenance
expressed absolute self-contentment: in all parts of the house she was
attracting attention, especially from the young men. Sefton's look was
certainly not one of content; but neither, as certainly, was it one of
discontent; it suggested power waiting opportunity, strength quietly
attendant upon, hardly expectant of the moment of activity. Walter
imagined one watching a beloved cataleptic: till she came alive, what
was to be done but wait! God has had more waiting than any one else!
Lufa was an iceberg that would not melt even in the warm southward sea,
watched by a still volcano, whose fires were of no avail, for they could
not reach her. Sparklingly pretty, not radiantly beautiful, she sat,
glancing, coruscating, glittering, anything except glowing: glow she
could not even put on! She did not know what it was. Now and then a soft
sadness would for a moment settle on Sefton's face--like the gray of a
cloudy summer evening about to gather into a warm rain; but this was
never when he looked at her; it was only when, without seeing, he
thought about her. Hitherto Walter had not been capable of understanding
the devotion, the quiet strength, the persistent purpose of the man; now
he began to see into it and wonder. While a spark of hope lay alive in
those ashes of disappointment that had often seemed as if they would
make but a dust-heap of his bosom, there he must remain, by the clean,
cold hearth, swept and garnished, of the woman he loved--loved
strangely, mysteriously, inexplicably even to himself!

Walter sat gazing; and as he gazed, simultaneously the two became aware
of his presence. A friendly smile spread over Sefton's face, but, with
quick perception, he abstained from any movement that might seem to
claim recognition. To Walter's wonder, Lufa, so perfectly
self-contained, so unchangingly self-obedient, colored--faintly indeed,
but plainly enough to the eyes of one so well used to the white rose of
her countenance. She moved neither head nor person, only turned her eyes
away, and seemed, like the dove for its foot, to seek some resting-place
for her vision--and with the sight awoke in Walter the first unselfish
resolve of his life. Would he not do anything--could he not do something
to bring those two together? The thought seemed even to himself almost a
foolish one; but spiritual relations and potencies go far beyond
intellectual ones, and a man must become a fool to be wise. Many a
foolish thought, many a most improbable idea, has proved itself
seed-bearing fruit of the kingdom of heaven. A man may fail to effect,
or be unable to set hand to work he would fain do--and be judged, as
Browning says in his "Saul," by what he would have done if he could.
Only the _would_ must be as true as a deed; then it is a deed. The
kingdom of heaven is for the dreamers of true dreams only!

Was there then anything Walter could do to help the man to gain the
woman he had so faithfully helped Walter to lose? It was no plain task.
The thing was not to enable him to marry her--that Sefton could have
done long ago--might do any day without help from him! As she then was,
she was no gain for any true man! But if he could help to open the eyes
of the cold-hearted, conceited, foolish girl, either to her own
valuelessness as she was, or her worth as she might be, or again to the
value, the eternal treasure of the heart she was turning from, she would
then be a gift that in the giving grew worthy even of such a man!

Here, however, came a different thought, bearing nevertheless in the
same direction. It was very well to think of Lufa's behavior to Sefton,
but what had Walter's been to Lufa? It may seem strange that the
reflection had not come to him before; but in nothing are we slower than
in discovering our own blame--and the slower that we are so quick to
perceive or imagine we perceive the blame of others. For, the very fact
that we see and heartily condemn the faults of others, we use,
unconsciously perhaps, as an argument that we must be right ourselves.
We must take heed not to judge with the idea that so we shall escape
judgment--that by condemning evil we clear ourselves. Walter's eyes were
opened to see that he had done Lufa a great wrong; that he had helped
immensely to buttress and exalt her self-esteem. Had he not in his whole
behavior toward her, been far more anxious that he should please her
than that she should be worthy? Had he not known that she was far more
anxious to be accepted as a poet than to be admired as a woman?--more
anxious indeed to be accepted than, even in the matter of her art, to be
worthy of acceptance--to be the thing she wished to be thought? In that
review which, in spite of his own soul, he had persuaded himself to
publish, knowing it to be false, had he not actively, most
unconscientiously, and altogether selfishly, done her serious
intellectual wrong, and heavy moral injury? Was he not bound to make
what poor reparation might be possible? It mattered nothing that she did
not desire any such reparation; that she would look upon the attempt as
the first wrong in the affair--possibly as a pretense for the sake of
insult, and the revenge of giving her the deepest possible pain: having
told her the lies, he must confess they were lies! having given her the
poison of falsehood, he must at least follow it with the only antidote,
the truth! It was not his part to judge of consequences so long as a
duty remained to be done! and what could be more a duty than to
undeceive where he had deceived, especially where the deception was
aggravating that worst of diseases, self-conceit, self-satisfaction,
self-worship? It was doubtful whether she would read what he might
write; but the fact that she did not trust him, that, notwithstanding
his assurance, she would still be in fear of how he might depreciate her
work in the eyes of the public, would, he thought, secure for him a
reading. She might, when she got far enough to see his drift, destroy
the letter in disgust; that would be the loss of his labor; but he would
have done what he could! He had begun to turn a new leaf, and here was a
thing the new leaf required written upon it!

As to Sefton, what better thing could he do for him, than make her think
less of herself! or, if that were impossible, at least make her
understand that other people did not think so much of her as she had
been willingly led to believe! In wronging her he had wronged his friend
as well, throwing obstacles in the way of his reception! He had wronged
the truth itself!

When the play was over, and the crowd was dispersing, he found himself
close to them on the pavement as they waited for their carriage. So near
to Lufa was he that he could not help touching her dress. But what a
change had passed on him! Not once did he wish her to look round and
brighten when she saw him! Sefton, moved perhaps by that unknown power
of presence, operating in bodily proximity but savoring of the
spiritual, looked suddenly round and saw him. He smiled and did not
speak, but, stretching out a quiet hand, sought his. Walter grasped it
as if it was come to lift him from some evil doom. Neither spoke, and
Lufa did not know that hands had clasped in the swaying human flood. No
physical influence passed between Walter and her.

Having made up his mind on the way, he set to work as soon as he reached
home. He wrote and destroyed and rewrote, erased and substituted, until,
as near as he could, he had said what he intended, so at least as it
should not be mistaken for what he did not intend, which is the main
problem in writing. Then he copied all out fair and plain, so that she
could read it easily--and here is his letter, word for word:

"MY DEAR LADY LUFA,--In part by means of the severe lesson I received
through you, a great change has passed upon me. I am no longer able to
think of myself as the important person I used to take myself for. It is
startling to have one's eyes opened to see one's self as one is, but it
very soon begins to make one glad, and the gladness, I find, goes on
growing. One's nature is so elevated by being delivered from the
honoring and valuing of that which is neither honorable nor valuable,
that the seeming loss is annihilated by the essential gain; the being
better makes up--infinitely makes up for showing to myself worse. I
would millions of times rather know myself a fool than imagine myself a
great poet. For to know one's self a fool is to begin to be wise; and I
would be loyal among the sane, not royal among lunatics. Who would be
the highest, in virtue of the largest mistake, of the profoundest
self-idolatry!

"But it was not to tell you this I began to write; it was to confess a
great wrong which once I did you; for I can not rest, I can not make it
up with my conscience until I have told you the truth. It may be you
will dislike me more for confessing the wrong than for committing it--I
can not tell; but it is my part to let you know it--and none the less my
part that I must therein confess myself more weak and foolish than
already I appear.

At the supreme moment you have but to put it to your lips and you will
be dead in an instant."
This was a cheerful beginning. I will confess to you, my friends, that
a cold chill passed up my back and my hair rose upon my head.

"Excuse me, sir," said I, as I saluted, "I am aware that I have volunteered
for a service of great danger, but the exact details have not yet been
given to me."
"Colonel Perrin," said Lannes, severely, "it is unfair to allow this
brave officer to volunteer before he has learned what the perils
are to which he will be exposed."
But already I was myself once more.

"Sir," said I, "permit me to remark that the greater the danger the
greater the glory, and that I could only repent of volunteering
if I found that there were no risks to be run."

It was a noble speech, and my appearance gave force to my words. For
the moment I was a heroic figure.

As I saw Lannes's eyes fixed in admiration upon my face it thrilled me
to think how splendid was the debut which I was making in the army of
Spain. If I died that night my name would not be forgotten. My new
comrades and my old, divided in all else, would still have a point of
union in their love and admiration of Etienne Gerard.

"General Razout, explain the situation!" said Lannes, briefly.

The engineer officer rose, his compasses in his hand.

He led me to the door and pointed to the high grey wall which towered up
amongst the debris of the shattered houses.

"That is the enemy's present line of defence," said he. "It is the wall
of the great Convent of the Madonna. If we can carry it the city must
fall, but they have run countermines all round it, and the walls are so
enormously thick that it would be an immense labour to breach it with
artillery. We happen to know, however, that the enemy have a
considerable store of powder in one of the lower chambers. If that
could be exploded the way would be clear for us."

"How can it be reached?" I asked.

"I will explain. We have a French agent within the town named Hubert.
This brave man has been in constant communication with us, and he had
promised to explode the magazine. It was to be done in the early morning,
and for two days running we have had a storming party of a thousand
Grenadiers waiting for the breach to be formed. But there has
been no explosion, and for these two days we have had no communication
from Hubert. The question is, what has become of him?"
"You wish me to go and see?"
"Precisely. Is he ill, or wounded, or dead? Shall we still wait for
him, or shall we attempt the attack elsewhere? We cannot determine
this until we have heard from him. This is a map of the town,
Captain Gerard. You perceive that within this ring of convents and
monasteries are a number of streets which branch off from a central
square. If you come so far as this square you will find the
cathedral at one corner. In that corner is the street of Toledo.
Hubert lives in a small house between a cobbler's and a
wine-shop, on the right-hand side as you go from the cathedral. Do you
follow me?"
"Clearly."
"You are to reach that house, to see him, and to find out if his plan
is still feasible or if we must abandon it."
He produced what appeared to be a roll of dirty brown flannel. "This
is the dress of a Franciscan friar," said he. "You will find it the most
useful disguise."
I shrank away from it.

"It turns me into a spy," I cried. "Surely I can go in my uniform?"
"Impossible! How could you hope to pass through the streets of the
city?
Remember, also, that the Spaniards take no prisoners, and that your fate
will be the same in whatever dress you are taken."
It was true, and I had been long enough in Spain to know that that fate
was likely to be something more serious than mere death. All the way
from the frontier I had heard grim tales of torture and mutilation. I
enveloped myself in the Franciscan gown.

"Now I am ready."
"Are you armed?"

"My sabre."
"They will hear it clank. Take this knife, and leave your sword. Tell
Hubert that at four o'clock, before dawn, the storming party will again
be ready. There is a sergeant outside who will show you how to get
into the city. Good-night, and good luck!"
Before I had left the room, the two generals had their cocked hats
touching each other over the map.

At the door an under-officer of engineers was waiting for me.

I tied the girdle of my gown, and taking off my busby, I drew the cowl
over my head. My spurs I removed. Then in silence I followed my
guide.

It was necessary to move with caution, for the walls above were lined by
the Spanish sentries, who fired down continually at our advance posts.
Slinking along under the very shadow of the great convent, we picked our
way slowly and carefully among the piles of ruins until we came to a
large chestnut tree. Here the sergeant stopped.

"It is an easy tree to climb," said he. "A scaling ladder would not be
simpler. Go up it, and you will find that the top branch will enable
you to step upon the roof of that house. After that it is your guardian
angel who must be your guide, for I can help you no more."
Girding up the heavy brown gown, I ascended the tree as directed. A
half moon was shining brightly, and the line of roof stood out dark and
hard against the purple, starry sky. The tree was in the shadow of
the house.

Slowly I crept from branch to branch until I was near the top. I had
but to climb along a stout limb in order to reach the wall. But suddenly
my ears caught the patter of feet, and I cowered against the trunk and
tried to blend myself with its shadow. A man was coming toward me on the
roof. I saw his dark figure creeping along, his body crouching, his
head advanced, the barrel of his gun protruding. His whole bearing was
full of caution and suspicion. Once or twice he paused, and then came
on again until he had reached the edge of the parapet within a few
yards of me. Then he knelt down, levelled his musket, and fired.

I was so astonished at this sudden crash at my very elbow that I
nearly fell out of the tree.

For an instant I could not be sure that he had not hit me. But when I heard
a deep groan from below, and the Spaniard leaned over the parapet and
laughed aloud, I understood what had occurred. It was my poor, faithful
sergeant, who had waited to see the last of me. The Spaniard had seen
him standing under the tree and had shot him. You will think that it
was good shooting in the dark, but these people used trabucos, or
blunderbusses, which were filled up with all sorts of stones and
scraps of metal, so that they would hit you as certainly as I have
hit a pheasant on a branch.

The Spaniard stood peering down through the darkness, while an occasional
groan from below showed that the sergeant was still living. The sentry
looked round and everything was still and safe.

Perhaps he thought that he would like to finish of this accursed Frenchman,
or perhaps he had a desire to see what was in his pockets; but whatever
his motive, he laid down his gun, leaned forward, and swung himself
into the tree. The same instant I buried my knife in his body, and he
fell with a loud crashing through the branches and came with a
thud to the ground.

I heard a short struggle below and an oath or two in French.

The wounded sergeant had not waited long for his vengeance.

For some minutes I did not dare to move, for it seemed certain that someone
would be attracted by the noise.

However, all was silent save for the chimes striking midnight in the city.
I crept along the branch and lifted myself on to the roof. The Spaniard's
gun was lying there, but it was of no service to me, since he had
the powder-horn at his belt.

At the same time, if it were found, it would warn the enemy that
something had happened, so I thought it best to drop it over the
wall.

Then I looked round for the means of getting of the roof and down into
the city.

It was very evident that the simplest way by which I could get down was
that by which the sentinel had got up, and what this was soon became
evident. A voice along the roof called "Manuelo! Manuelo!" several times,
and, crouching in the shadow, I saw in the moonlight a bearded head,
which protruded from a trap-door.

Receiving no answer to his summons, the man climbed through, followed
by three other fellows, all armed to the teeth. You will see here how
important it is not to neglect small precautions, for had I left the
man's gun where I found it, a search must have followed and I
should certainly have been discovered.

As it was, the patrol saw no sign of their sentry, and thought, no
doubt, that he had moved along the line of the roofs.

They hurried on, therefore, in that direction, and I, the instant that
their backs were turned, rushed to the open trap-door and descended the
flight of steps which led from it. The house appeared to be an empty
one, for I passed through the heart of it and out, by an open door,
into the street beyond.

It was a narrow and deserted lane, but it opened into a broader road,
which was dotted with fires, round which a great number of soldiers and
peasants were sleeping.

The smell within the city was so horrible that one wondered how people
could live in it, for during the months that the siege had lasted
there had been no attempt to cleanse the streets or to bury the dead.
Many people were moving up and down from fire to fire, and among them
I observed several monks. Seeing that they came and went unquestioned,
I took heart and hurried on my way in the direction of the great
square.
Once a man rose from beside one of the fires and stopped me by seizing
my sleeve. He pointed to a woman who lay motionless on the road, and I
took him to mean that she was dying, and that he desired me to
administer the last offices of the Church. I sought refuge,
however, in the very little Latin that was left to me. "Ora pro nobis,"
said I, from the depths of my cowl. "Te Deum laudamus. Ora pro nobis."
I raised my hand as I spoke and pointed forward. The fellow released
my sleeve and shrank back in silence, while I, with a solemn gesture,
hurried upon my way.

As I had imagined, this broad boulevard led out into the central
square, which was full of troops and blazing with fires.

I walked swiftly onward, disregarding one or two people who addressed
remarks to me.

I passed the cathedral and followed the street which had been
described to me.

Being upon the side of the city which was farthest from our attack,
there were no troops encamped in it, and it lay in darkness, save for
an occasional glimmer in a window. It was not difficult to find the
house to which I had been directed, between the wine-shop and the
cobbler's.
There was no light within and the door was shut. Cautiously I pressed
the latch, and I felt that it had yielded.

Who was within I could not tell, and yet I must take the risk. I pushed
the door open and entered.

It was pitch-dark within--the more so as I had closed the door
behind me.

I felt round and came upon the edge of a table. Then I stood still and
wondered what I should do next, and how I could gain some news of
this Hubert, in whose house I found myself.

Any mistake would cost me not only my life but the failure of my mission.
Perhaps he did not live alone.

Perhaps he was only a lodger in a Spanish family, and my visit might
bring ruin to him as well as to myself.

Seldom in my life have I been more perplexed.

And then, suddenly, something turned my blood cold in my veins.

It was a voice, a whispering voice, in my very ear. "Mon Dieu!" cried
the voice, in a tone of agony.

"Oh, mon Dieu! mon Dieu!"

Then there was a dry sob in the darkness, and all was still once more.

It thrilled me with horror, that terrible voice, but it thrilled me also
with hope, for it was the voice of a Frenchman.

"Who is there?"

I asked.

There was a groaning, but no reply.

"Is that you, Monsieur Hubert?"

"Yes, yes," sighed the voice, so low that I could hardly hear it.
"Water, water, for Heaven's sake, water!"

I advanced in the direction of the sound, but only to come in
contact with the wall.

Again I heard a groan, but this time there could be no doubt that it was
above my head. I put up my hands, but they felt only empty air.

"Where are you?" I cried.

"Here! Here!"

whispered the strange, tremulous voice.

I stretched my hand along the wall and I came upon a man's naked foot.
It was as high as my face, and yet, so far as I could feel, it had
nothing to support it.

I staggered back in amazement. Then I took a tinder-box from my pocket and
struck a light. At the first flash a man seemed to be floating in the
air in front of me, and I dropped the box in my amazement.

Again with tremulous fingers I struck the flint against the steel, and
this time I lit not only the tinder but the wax taper. I held it up,
and if my amazement was lessened my horror was increased by that which
it revealed.

The man had been nailed to the wall as a weasel is nailed to the door
of a barn. Huge spikes had been driven through his hands and his
feet. The poor wretch was in his last agony, his head sunk upon his
shoulder and his blackened tongue protruding from his lips. He was dying
as much from thirst as from his wounds, and these inhuman wretches
had placed a beaker of wine upon the table in front of him to add
a fresh pang to his tortures.

I raised it to his lips. He had still strength enough to swallow, and
the light came back a little to his dim eyes.

"Are you a Frenchman?" he whispered.

"Yes. They have sent me to learn what had befallen you."
"They discovered me. They have killed me for it. But before I die let
me tell you what I know. A little more of that wine, please! Quick!
Quick!
I am very near the end. My strength is going. Listen to me! The powder
is stored in the Mother Superior's room. The wall is pierced, and the
end of the train is in Sister Angela's cell, next the chapel. All was
ready two days ago. But they discovered a letter and they tortured me."

"Good heavens! have you been hanging here for two days?"
"It seems like two years. Comrade, I have served France, have I
not?
Then do one little service for me. Stab me to the heart, dear friend!
I implore you, I entreat you, to put an end to my sufferings."
The man was indeed in a hopeless plight, and the kindest action
would have been that for which he begged.
And yet I could not in cold blood drive my knife into his body,
although I knew how I should have prayed for such a mercy had I
been in his place. But a sudden thought crossed my mind. In my
pocket I held that which would give an instant and a painless death.
It was my own safeguard against torture, and yet this poor soul was
in very pressing need of it, and he had deserved well of France. I
took out my phial and emptied it into the cup of wine. I was in the
act of handing it to him when I heard a sudden clash of arms outside
the door.
In an instant I put out my light and slipped behind the
window-curtains.
Next moment the door was flung open and two Spaniards strode into
the room, fierce, swarthy men in the dress of citizens, but with
muskets slung over their shoulders. I looked through the chink in
the curtains in an agony of fear lest they had come upon my traces,
but it was evident that their visit was simply in order to feast
their eyes upon my unfortunate compatriot.
One of them held the lantern which he carried up in front of the
dying man, and both of them burst into a shout of mocking laughter.
Then the eyes of the man with the lantern fell upon the flagon of
wine upon the table. He picked it up, held it, with a devilish grin,
to the lips of Hubert, and then, as the poor wretch involuntarily
inclined his head forward to reach it, he snatched it back and took
a long gulp himself.
At the same instant he uttered a loud cry, clutched wildly at his
own throat, and fell stone-dead upon the floor. His comrade stared
at him in horror and amazement. Then, overcome by his own superstitious
fears, he gave a yell of terror and rushed madly from the room. I
heard his feet clattering wildly on the cobble-stones until the
sound died away in the distance.
The lantern had been left burning upon the table, and by its light
I saw, as I came out from behind my curtain, that the unfortunate
Hubert's head had fallen forward upon his chest and that he also
was dead. That motion to reach the wine with his lips had been his
last. A clock ticked loudly in the house, but otherwise all was
absolutely still. On the wall hung the twisted form of the Frenchman,
on the floor lay the motionless body of the Spaniard, all dimly lit
by the horn lantern. For the first time in my life a frantic spasm
of terror came over me. I had seen ten thousand men in every
conceivable degree of mutilation stretched upon the ground, but the
sight had never affected me like those two silent figures who were
my companions in that shadowy room. I rushed into the street as the
Spaniard had done, eager only to leave that house of gloom behind
me, and I had run as far as the cathedral before my wits came back
to me.she would open the
letter! she would not read one word more than was needful to know
whether it came to say that Walter was ill! Why should Mr. Sullivan have
put his name outside, except to make sure of its being attended to
immediately!

She went hack to the room where lay the letter. Her aunt was there
still. Molly was glad of it: the easiest way of letting her know, for
she would not have done it without, was to let her see her do what she
did! She went straight to the chimney, reached up, and took the letter.

"Leave that alone!" cried Miss Hancock. "I know what you are after! You
want to give it to my brother, and be the first to know what is in it!
Put it back this moment!"

Molly stood with the letter in her hand.

"You are mistaken, auntie," she said. "I am going to open it."

"You shall do nothing of the sort--not if I live!" returned Aunt Ann,
and flew to take the letter from her. But Molly was prepared for the
attack, and was on the other side of the door before she could pounce.

She sped to her room, locked the door, and read the letter, then went
instantly to her bonnet and cloak. There was time to catch the last
train! She inclosed the letter, addressed it to her father, and wrote
inside the envelope that she had opened it against the wish of her aunt,
and was gone to nurse Walter. Then taking money from her drawer, she
returned to Aunt Ann.

"It is about Walter. He is very ill," she said. "I have inclosed the
letter, and told him it was I that opened it"

"Why such a fuss?" cried Aunt Ann. "You can tell him your impertinence
just as well as write it! Oh, you've got your bonnet on!--going to run
away in a fright at what you've done! Well, perhaps you'd better!"

"I am going to Walter."

"_Where?_"

"To London to Walter."

"You!"

"Yes; who else?"

"You shall _not_. I will go myself!"

Molly knew too well how Walter felt toward his aunt to consent to this.
She would doubtless behave kindly if she found him really ill, but she
would hardly be a comfort to him!

"I shall be ready in one moment!" continued Miss Hancock. "There is
plenty of time, and you can drive me to the station if you like. Richard
shall not say I left the care of his son to a chit of a girl!"

Molly said nothing, but rushed to the stable. Nobody was there! She
harnessed the horse, and put him to the dog-cart with her own hands, in
terror lest her aunt should be ready before her.

She was driving from the yard when her aunt appeared, in her Sunday
best.

"That's right!" she said, expecting her to pull up and take her in.

But Molly touched up her horse, and he, having done nothing for some
time, was fresh, and started at speed. Aunt Ann was left standing, but
it was some time before she understood that the horse had not run away.

Ere Molly reached the station, she left the dog-cart at a neighboring
inn, then told one of the porters, to whom her father was well known, to
look out for him by the last train, and let him know where the trap was.

As the train was approaching London, it stopped at a station where
already stood another train, bound in the opposite direction, which
began to move while hers stood. Molly was looking out of her window, as
it went past her with the slow beginnings of speed, watching the faces
that drifted by, in a kind of phantasmagoric show, never more to be
repeated, when, in the further corner of a third-class carriage near the
end of the train, she caught sight of a huddled figure that reminded her
of Walter; a pale face was staring as if it saw nothing, but dreamed of
something it could not see. She jumped up and put her head out of the
window, but her own train also was now moving, and if it were Walter,
there was no possibility of overtaking him. She was by no means sure,
however, that it was he. The only way was to go on to her journey's end!


CHAPTER XXVIII.


DOING AND DREAMING.

Walter had passed a very troubled night, and was worse, though he
thought himself better. His friend looked in to see him before going to
the office, and told him that he would come again in the evening. He did
not tell him that he had written to his father.

Walter slept and woke and slept again. All the afternoon he was
restless, as one who dreams without sleeping. The things presented to
his mind, and seeming with him, were not those about him. Late in the
afternoon, the fever abated a little, and he felt as one who wakes out
of a dream. For a few minutes he lay staring into the room, then rose
and with difficulty dressed himself, one moment shivering, the next
burning. He knew perfectly what he was doing; his mind was possessed
with an unappeasable longing and absolute determination to go home. The
longing had been there all the night and all the day, except when it was
quieted by the shadowy assuagement of his visions; and now with the
first return of his consciousness to present conditions, came resolve.
Better die at home, he said to himself, than recover in such a horrible
place! On he went with his preparations, mechanical but methodical, till
at last he put on his great-coat, took his rug, searched his purse,
found enough to pay a cab to the railway station, went softly down the
stair, and was in the street, a man lonely and feeble, but with a great
joy of escape. Happily a cab was just passing, and he was borne in
safety, half asleep again after his exertions, to the station. There he
sought the station-master, and telling him his condition, prevailed upon
him to take his watch as a pledge that he would send him the price of
his ticket.

It was a wet night, but not very cold, and he did not suffer at
first--was in fact more comfortable than he had been in bed. He seemed
to himself perfectly sane when he started, but of the latter half of his
journey he remembered nothing connectedly. What fragments of it returned
to his recollection appeared as the remnants of a feverish dream.

The train arrived late in the dark night, at an hour when a conveyance
was rarely to be had. He remembered nothing, however, of setting out to
walk home, and nothing clearly as to how he fared on the way. His
dreaming memory gave him but a sense of climbing, climbing, with a cold
wind buffeting him back, and bits of paper, which must have been
snow-flakes, beating in his face: he thought they were the shreds of the
unsold copies of his book, torn to pieces by the angry publisher, and
sent swirling about his face in clouds to annoy him. After that came a
great blank.

The same train had taken up Mr. Colman at a junction. The moment he got
out of it, the porter to whom Molly had spoken in the morning, addressed
him, with the message Molly had left for him. Surprised and uneasy, he
was putting some anxious questions to the man, when his son passed him.
The night was still dark, and cloudy with snow, the wind was coming in
gusts, now and then fiercely, and the lamps were wildly struggling
against being blown out: neither saw the other. Walter staggered away,
and Richard set out for the inn, to drive home as fast as possible:
there only could he get light on Molly's sudden departure for London! In
her haste she had not left message enough. But he knew his son must be
ill; nothing else could have caused it! He met with some delay at the
inn, but at length was driving home as fast as he dared through the
thick darkness of the rough ascent.

He had not driven far, before one of those little accidents occurred to
his harness which, small in themselves, have so often serious results:
the strap of the hames gave way, and the traces dropped by the horse's
sides. Mr. Colman never went unprovided for accidents, but in a dark
night, in the middle of the road, with a horse fresh and eager to get
home, it takes time to rectify anything.

At length he arrived in safety, and having roused the man, hastened into
the house. There he speedily learned the truth of his conjecture, and it
was a great comfort to him that Molly had acted so promptly. But he
bethought himself that, by driving to another station some miles further
off, at which a luggage train stopped in the night, he could reach town
a few hours earlier. He went again to the stable, and gave orders to
have the horse well fed and ready in an hour. Then he tried to eat the
supper his sister-in-law had prepared for him, but with small success.
Every few minutes he rose, opened the door, and looked out. It was a
very dark morning, full of wind and snow.

By and by he could bear it no longer, and though he knew there was much
time to spare, got up to go to the stable. The wind met him with an
angry blast as he opened the door, and sharp pellets of keen snow stung
him in the face. He had taken a lantern in his hand, but, going with his
head bent against the wind, he all but stumbled over a stone seat, where
they would sit by the door of a summer evening. As he recovered himself,
the light of his lantern fell upon a figure huddled crouching upon the
seat, but in the very act of tumbling forward from off it. He caught it
with one arm, set down the light, raised its head, and in the wild,
worn, death-pale features and wandering eyes, knew the face of his son.
He uttered one wailing groan, which seemed to spend his life, gathered
him to his bosom, and taking him up like a child, almost ran to the
house with him. As he went he heard at his ear the murmured word,

"Father, I have sinned--not worthy--"

His heart gave a great heave, but he uttered no second cry.

Aunt Ann, however, had heard the first. She ran, and, opening the door,
met him with the youth in his arms.

"I'm afraid he's dead!" gasped Richard. "He is cold as a stone!"

Aunt Ann darted to the kitchen, made a blazing fire, set the kettle on
it and bricks around it, then ran to see if she could help.

Richard had got his boy into his own bed, had put off his own clothes,
and was lying with him in his arms to warm him. Aunt Ann went about like
a steam-engine, but noiseless. She got the hot bricks, then hot bottles,
and more blankets. The father thought he would die before the heat got
to him. As soon as he was a little warm, he mounted his horse, and rode
to fetch the doctor. It was terrible to him to think that he must have
passed his boy on the way, and left him to struggle home without help.

Ere he returned, Walter had begun to show a little more life. He moaned,
and murmured, and seemed going through a succession of painful events.
Now he would utter a cry of disgust, now call for his father; then he
would be fighting the storm with a wild despair of ever reaching his
father.

The doctor came, examined him, said they were doing quite right, but
looked solemn over him.

Had it not been for that glimpse she had at the station where last the
train stopped, Molly would have been in misery indeed when, on arriving
at Walter's lodging, and being told that he was ill in bed, she went up
to his room, and could find him nowhere. It was like a bad dream. She
almost doubted whether she might not be asleep. The landlady had never
heard him go out, and until she had searched the whole house, would not
believe he was not somewhere in it. Rather unwillingly, she allowed
Molly to occupy his room for the night; and Molly, that she might start
by the first train, stretched herself in her clothes on the miserable
little horse-hair sofa. She could not sleep, and was not a little
anxious about Walter's traveling in such a condition; but for all that,
she could not help laughing more than once or twice to think how Aunt
Ann would be crowing over her: basely deserted, left standing in the
yard in her Sunday clothes, it was to her care after all that Walter was
given, not Molly's! But Molly could well enough afford to join in her
aunt's laugh: she had done her duty, and did not need to be told that we
have nothing to do with consequences, only with what is right. So she
waited patiently for the morning.

But how was she to do when she got home? Aunt Ann would have installed
herself as nurse! It would not matter much while Walter was really ill;
so long Aunt Ann would be good to him! but when he began to be himself
again--for that time Molly must look out and be ready!

When she reached home, she was received at the door by her father who
had been watching for her, and learned all he had to tell her. Aunt Ann
spoke to her as if she had but the minute before left the room,
vouchsafing not a single remark concerning Walter, and yielding her a
position of service as narrow as she could contrive to make it. Molly
did everything she desired without complaint, fetching and carrying for
her as usual. She received no recognition from the half-unconscious
Walter.

If it had not been that Aunt Ann must, like other nurses, have rest,
Molly's ministering soul would have been sorely pinched and hampered;
but when her aunt retired, she could do her part for the patient's
peace. In a few days he had come to himself enough to know who were
about him, and seemed to manifest a preference for Molly's nursing. To
Aunt Ann this seemed very hard--and hard it would have been, but that,
through all her kindness, Walter could not help foreseeing how she would
treat him in the health to which she was doing her best to bring him
back. He sorely dreaded the time when, strong enough to be tormented,
but not able to lock his door against her, he would be at her mercy. But
he cherished a hope that his father would interfere. If necessary he
would appeal to him, and beg him to depose Aunt Ann, and put sweet Molly
in her stead!

One morning--Molly had been sitting up the night with the invalid--she
found Aunt Ann alone at the breakfast-table.

"His father is with him now," said Molly. "I think he is a little
better; he slept more quietly."

"He'll do well enough!" grunted Aunt Ann. "There's no fear of _him_!
he's not of the sort to die early! This is what comes of letting young
people have their own way! My brother will be wiser now! and so, I hope,
will Walter! It shall not be my fault if he's not made to understand!
Old or young wouldn't listen to me! Now perhaps, while they are smarting
from the rod, it may be of use to speak!"

"Aunt," said Molly, with her heart in her throat, but determined,
"please do not say anything to him for a long time yet; you might make
him ill again! You do not know how he hates being talked at!"

"Don't you be afraid! I won't talk _at_ him! He shall be well talked
_to_, and straight!"

"He won't stand it any more, auntie! He's a man now, you know! And when
a mere boy, he used to complain that you were always finding fault with
him!"

"Highty, tighty! What next! The gentleman has the choice, has he, when
to be found fault with, and when not!"

"I give you fair warning," said Molly, hurriedly, "that I will do what I
can to prevent you!"

Aunt Ann was indignant.

"You dare to tell me, in my own"--she was going to say _house_, but
corrected herself--"in my own home, where you live on the charity of--"

Molly interrupted her.

"I shall ask my father," she said, "whether he wishes me to have such
words from you. If he does, you shall say what you please to me. But as
to Walter, I will ask nobody. Till he is able to take care of himself, I
shall not let you plague him. I will fight you first! There now!"

The flashing eyes and determined mouth of Molly, who had risen, and
stood regarding her aunt in a flame of honest anger, cowed her. She shut
her jaws close, and looked the picture of postponement.

That instant came the voice of Mr. Colman:

"Molly! Molly!"

"Yes, Richard!" answered Miss Hancock, rising.

But Molly was out of the door, almost before her aunt was out of her
chair.

Walter had asked where she was, and wanted to see her. It was the first
wish of any sort he had expressed!


CHAPTER XXIX.


DREAM-MOLLY.

So far better as to be able to talk, Walter one day told Molly the
strange dream which, as he looked back, seemed to fill the whole time
almost from his leaving his lodging to his recognition of his father by
his bedside.

It was a sweet day in the first of the spring. He lay with his head
toward the window, and the sun shining into the room, with the tearful
radiance of sorrows overlived and winter gone, when Molly entered. She
was at once whelmed in the sunlight, so that she could see nothing,
while Walter could almost have counted her eyelashes.

"Stand there, Molly," he cried, "one moment! I want to look at you!"

"It is not fair!" returned Molly. "The sun is in my eyes! I am as blind
as a bat!"

I had retained her cloak in my hands, and with this wrapped round
me I crept into the darkest corner of her cell.

There I lay when the door was opened and several men came in. I had
reckoned that they would bring no lantern, for they had none with
them before.

To their eyes I was only a dark blur in the corner.

"Bring a light," said one of them.

"No, no; curse it!" cried a rough voice, which I knew to be that of the
ruffian, Matteo. "It is not a job that I like, and the more I saw it
the less I should like it. I am sorry, signora, but the order of the
tribunal has to be obeyed."
My impulse was to spring to my feet and to rush through them all and out
by the open door. But how would that help Lucia? Suppose that I got clear
away, she would be in their hands until I could come back with help, for
single-handed I could not hope to clear a way for her. All this flashed
through my mind in an instant, and I saw that the only course for me
was to lie still, take what came, and wait my chance. The fellow's
coarse hand felt about among my curls--those curls in which only
a woman's fingers had ever wandered.

The next instant he gripped my ear and a pain shot through me as if I
had been touched with a hot iron.
I bit my lip to stifle a cry, and I felt the blood run warm down my
neck and back.

"There, thank Heaven, that's over," said the fellow, giving me a
friendly pat on the head.

"You're a brave girl, signora, I'll say that for you, and I only wish you'd
have better taste than to love a Frenchman.

You can blame him and not me for what I have done."
What could I do save to lie still and grind my teeth at my own
helplessness? At the same time my pain and my rage were always soothed
by the reflection that I had suffered for the woman whom I loved. It
is the custom of men to say to ladies that they would willingly endure
any pain for their sake, but it was my privilege to show that I had said
no more than I meant. I thought also how nobly I would seem to have acted
if ever the story came to be told, and how proud the regiment of
Conflans might well be of their colonel. These thoughts helped me to
suffer in silence while the blood still trickled over my neck and
dripped upon the stone floor. It was that sound which nearly led to my
destruction.

"She's bleeding fast," said one of the valets.

"You had best fetch a surgeon or you will find her dead in the morning."

"She lies very still and she has never opened her mouth," said
another.

"The shock has killed her."
"Nonsense; a young woman does not die so easily." It was Matteo who spoke.
"Besides, I did but snip off enough to leave the tribunal's mark upon
her. Rouse up, signora, rouse up!"
He shook me by the shoulder, and my heart stood still for fear he
should feel the epaulet under the mantle.

"How is it with you now?" he asked.

I made no answer.

"Curse it, I wish I had to do with a man instead of a woman, and the
fairest woman in Venice," said the gondolier. "Here, Nicholas, lend me
your handkerchief and bring a light."
It was all over. The worst had happened. Nothing could save me. I still
crouched in the corner, but I was tense in every muscle, like a wild
cat about to spring.

If I had to die I was determined that my end should be worthy of my
life.

One of them had gone for a lamp and Matteo was stooping over me with a
handkerchief. In another instant my secret would be discovered. But he
suddenly drew himself straight and stood motionless. At the same
instant there came a confused murmuring sound through the little
window far above my head. It was the rattle of oars and the buzz
of many voices.
Then there was a crash upon the door upstairs, and a terrible voice
roared: "Open! Open in the name of the Emperor!"
The Emperor! It was like the mention of some saint which, by its
very sound, can frighten the demons.
Away they ran with cries of terror--Matteo, the valets, the steward,
all of the murderous gang. Another shout and then the crash of a
hatchet and the splintering of planks. There were the rattle of
arms and the cries of French soldiers in the hall. Next instant
feet came flying down the stair and a man burst frantically into
my cell.
"Lucia!" he cried, "Lucia!" He stood in the dim light, panting and
unable to find his words.All above me had died doing their duty, and I lay at
the bottom of the heap and could not die, because I had fought, not for
the right, but for the glory of a soldier. I was full of shame, for I
was not worthy to die! I was not permitted to give my life for the great
cause for which the rest were dead. But one of the dead woke, and
turned, and clasped me; and then I woke, and it was your arms about me,
Molly! and my head was leaning where it leaned! when your wings were
about me!"

By this time Molly was quietly weeping.

"I wish I had wings, Walter, to flap from morning to night for you!" she
said, laughing through her tears.

"You are always flapping them, Molly! only nobody can see them except in
a dream. There are many true things that can not be seen with the naked
eye! The eye must be clothed and in its right mind first!"

"Your poetry is beginning to come, Walter! I don't think it ever did
before!" said Molly.

Walter gazed at her wonderingly: was little Molly going to turn out a
sibyl? How grown she was! What a peace and strength shone from her
countenance! She was woman, girl, and child, all in one! What a fire of
life there was in this lady with the brown hands--so different from the
white, wax-doll ends to Lufa's arms! She was of the cold and ice, of the
white death and lies! Here was the warm, live, woman-truth! He would
never more love woman as he had! Could that be a good thing which a
creature like Lufa roused in him? Could that be true which had made him
lie? If his love had been of the truth, would it not have known that she
was not a live thing? True love would have known when it took in its
arms a dead thing, a body without a soul, a material ghost!

Another time--it was a cold evening; the wind howled about the house;
but the fire was burning bright, and Molly, having been reading to him,
had stopped for a moment--Walter said,

"I could not have imagined I should ever feel at home as I do now! I
wonder why it is!"

"I think I could tell you!" said Molly.

"Tell me then."

"It is because you are beginning to know your father!"

"Beginning to know my father, Moll!"

"You never came right in sight of him till now. He has been the same
always, but you did not--could not see him!"

"Why couldn't I see him, wise woman?" said Walter.

"Because you were never your father's son till now," answered Molly.
"Oh, Walter, if you had heard Jane tell what a cry he gave when he found
his boy on the cold bench, in the gusty dark of the winter morning! Half
your father's heart is with your mother, and the other half with you! I
did not know how a man could love till I saw his face as he stood over
you once when he thought no one was near!"

"Did he find me on the stone bench?" "Yes, indeed! Oh, Walter, I have
known God better, and loved him more, since I have _seen_ how your
father loves you!"

Walter fell a thinking. Ha had indeed, since he came to himself, loved
his father as he had never loved him before; but he had not thought how
he had been forgetting him. And herewith a gentle repentance began,
which had a curing and healing effect on his spirit. Nor did the
repentance leave him at his earthly father's door, but led him on to his
father in heaven.

The next day he said,

"I know another thing that makes me feel more at home: Aunt Ann never
scolds at me now. True, she seldom comes near me, and I can not say I
want her to come! But just tell me, do you think she has been
converted?"

"Not that I know of. The angels will have a bad time of it before they
bring her to her knees--her real knees, I mean, not her church-knees!
For Aunt Ann to say she was wrong, would imply a change I am incapable
of imagining. Yet it must come, you know, else how is she to enter the
kingdom of heaven?"

"What then makes her so considerate?"

"It's only that I've managed to make her afraid of me."


CHAPTER XXX.


WORKADAY MOLLY.

The days passed; week after week went down the hill--or, is it not
rather, up the hill?--and out of sight; the moon kept on changelessly
changing; and at length Walter was well, though rather thin and white.

Molly saw that he was beginning to brood. She saw also, as clearly as if
he had opened his mind to her, what troubled him: it needed no witch to
divine that! he must work: what was his work to be?

Whatever he do, if he be not called to it, a man but takes it up "at his
own hand, as the devil did sinning."

Molly was one of the wise women of the world--and thus: thoughts grew
for her first out of things, and not things out of thoughts. God's
things come out of His thoughts; our realities are God's thoughts made
manifest in things; and out of them our thoughts must come; then the
things that come out of our thoughts will be real. Neither our own
fancies, nor the judgments of the world, must be the ground of our
theories or behavior. A. J. DUNKIN.

_Roden's Colt._--A lady of a certain age is said in common parlance to be
"Forty, save one, the age of Roden's colt." What can Nimrod tell us
touching this proverbialised animal?

R. C. WARDE.

Kidderminster.

_Sir Christopher Wren and the Young Carver._--A reader has a floating
notion in his head of having once read in the _Literary Gazette_ a
strange story of a country boy going to town to seek employment as a
carver or sculptor; of his being accosted by Sir Christopher Wren, and
offering to carve for him a sow and pigs, &c.

Can any correspondent have pity on him, and tell him where to find the
tale?

A. H.

_Vellum Cleaning._--Are there not preparations in use for cleaning the
backs of old vellum-bound books without destroying the polish? How
made, or where procurable?

J. F. M.

_Dionysia in Boeotia._--Can any of your readers refer me to a
passage in any ancient author in which this supposed town is
mentioned?

Dumersan refers to Diodorus Siculus as his authority for its existence,
but my search in that author has been vain, and I am not alone in
that respect.

AUGUSTUS LANGDON.

Bloomsbury.

_Poll Tax in 1641._--I find in Somers' _Tracts_, 2nd ed. vol. iv. p.
298.:

"The copy of an order agreed upon in the House of Commons upon Friday,
18th June, wherein every man is rated according to his estate, for
the king's use."
Is there on record the return made to this order; and where may it be
consulted?

TEWARS.

_Thomas Chester, Bishop of Elphin, 1580.

_--This prelate, who was the second son of Sir William Chester,
Kt., Lord Mayor of London in 1560, by his first wife Elizabeth,
daughter of Thomas Lovett, Esq., of Astwell in Northamptonshire,
is said by Anthony à Wood (_Athenaæ Oxon._, ed.

Bliss, vol. ii. p. 826.) to have "given way to fate at Killiathar in
that city, in the month of June in 1584."

The calendars of the Will Office of the Prerogative Court of Canterbury
do not contain his name; can any of your Irish contributors inform
me whether his will was proved in Ireland? I should be glad to know,
too, what will offices exist in Ireland, and from what period they
date their commencement. He is said to have married ----, daughter
of Sir James Clavering, Kt., of Axwell Park in Northumberland:
does any pedigree of the Claverings supply this lady's Christian
name? His eldest brother, William Chester, Esq., married his
cousin-german Judith, daughter and co-heiress of Anthony Cave, Esq.,
of Chichley Hall, Bucks, and was ancestor to the extinct family of
the baronets of that name and place.
Bishop Chester died _s. p._ 
TEWARS.
_Rev. Urban Vigors._--Amongst the chaplains of King Charles I., was
there one of the name of Vigors, the Rev. Urban Vigors of Taunton?
Any particulars of him will be acceptable.

Y. S. M.
_Early English MSS._--What is the earliest document, of any historical
import to this country, now existing in MS.?

T. HUGHES.
_Curing of Henry IV._--The best account of the curing of Hen. IV.
from the leprosy: vide Lambard's _Dictionary_, p. 306.
A. J. DUNKIN.
_Standard of Weights and Measures._--I would gladly learn something
of the system of weights and measures in other countries, and
particularly whether in England and America there exists for this
object any government inspection; and if so, how this is executed?"I have it here: may I read it to you?"

"Well--I don't know!--if you like. I can't say I care about reviews."

"Of course not! Nobody should. They are only thoughts about thoughts
about things. But I want you to hear this!" pleaded Molly, drawing the
paper from her pocket.

The review was of the shortest--long enough, however, to express much
humorous comment for the kind of thing of which it said this was a
specimen. It showed no suspicion of the presence in it of the things
Walter had just said he saw there. But as Molly read, he stopped her.

"There is nothing like that in the story! The statement is false!" he
exclaimed.

"Not a doubt of it!" responded Molly, and went on. But arrested by a
certain phrase, Walter presently stopped her again.

"Molly," he said, seizing her hand, "is it any wonder I can not bear
the thought of touching that kind of work again? Have pity upon me,
Molly! It was I, I myself, who wrote that review! I had forgotten all
about it! I did not mean to lie, but I was not careful enough not to
lie! I have been very unjust to some one!"

"You could learn her name, and how to find her, from the publisher of
the little book!" suggested Molly.

"I will find her, and make a humble apology. The evil, alas! is done;
but I could--and will write another notice quite different."

Molly burst into the merriest laugh.

"The apology is made, Walter, and the writer forgives you heartily! Oh,
what fun! The story is mine! You needn't stare so--as if you thought I
couldn't do it! Think of the bad grammar! It was not a strong point at
Miss Talebury's! Yes, Walter," she continued, talking like a child to
her doll, "it was little Molly's first! and her big brother cut it all
up into weeny weeny pieces for her! Poor Molly! But then it was a great
honor, you know--greater than ever she could have hoped for!"

Walter stared bewildered, hardly trusting his ears. Molly an
authoress!--in a small way, it might be, but did God ever with anything
begin it big? Here was he, home again defeated!--to find the little bird
he had left in the nest beautifully successful!

The lords of creation have a curious way of patronizing the beings they
profess to worship. Man was made a little lower than the angels; he
calls woman an angel, and then looks down upon her! Certainly, however,
he has done his best to make her worthy of his condescension! But Walter
had begun to learn humility, and no longer sought the chief place at the
feast.

"Molly!" he said, in a low, wondering voice.

"Yes?" answered Molly.

"Forgive me, Molly. I am unworthy."

"I forgive you with all my heart, and love you for thinking it worth
while to ask me."

"I am full of admiration of your story!"

"Why? It was not difficult."

Walter took her little hand and kissed it as if she had been a princess.
Molly blushed, but did not take her hand from him. Walter might do what
he liked with her ugly little hand! It was only to herself she called it
ugly, however, not to Walter! Anyhow she was wrong; her hand was a very
pretty one. It was indeed a little spoiled with work, but it was gloved
with honor! It were good for many a heart that its hands were so
spoiled! Human feet get a little broadened with walking; human hands get
a little roughened with labor; but what matter! There are others, after
like pattern but better finished, making, and to be ready by the time
these are worn out, for all who have not shirked work.

Walter rose and went up the stairs to his own room, a chamber in the
roof, crowded with memories. There he sat down to think, and thinking
led to something else. Molly sat still and cried; for though it made her
very glad to see him take it so humbly, it made her sad to give him
pain. But not once did she wish she had not told him.


CHAPTER XXXI.


THIS PICTURE AND THIS.

After awhile, as he did not appear, Molly went up to find him: she was
anxious he should know how heartily she valued his _real_ opinion.

"I have got a little poem here--if you can call it a poem--a few lines I
wrote last Christmas: would you mind looking at it, and telling me if it
is anything?"

"So, my bird of paradise, you sing too?" said Walter.

"Very little. A friend to whom I sent it, took it, without asking me, to
one of the magazines for children, but they wouldn't have it. Tell me if
it is worth printing. Not that I want it printed--not a bit!"

"I begin to think, Molly, that anything you write must be worth
printing! But I wonder you should ask one who has proved himself so
incompetent to give a true opinion, that even what he has given he is
unable to defend!"

"I shall always trust your opinion, Walter--only it must be an opinion:
you gave a judgment then without having formed an opinion. Shall I
read?"

"Yes, please, Molly. I never used to like having poetry read to me, but
you _can_ read poetry!"

"This is easy to read!" said Molly.

  "See the countless angels hover!
  See the mother bending over!

  See the shepherds, kings and cow!
  What is baby thinking now?

  Oh, to think what baby thinks
  Would be worth all holy inks!

  But he smiles such lovingness,
  That I will not fear to guess!--

  'Father called; you would not come!
  The fellow took his place behind me and began to row.

  A good soldier in an enemy's country
  should everywhere and at all times be on the alert.

  It has been one of the rules of my
  life, and if I have lived to wear grey hairs it is because I have
observed it.

  And yet upon that night I was
  as careless as a foolish young recruit who fears lest he should
be thought to be afraid.

  My pistols I had left behind in
  my hurry.

  My sword was at my belt, but it
  is not always the most convenient of weapons.

"You don't care for them!" said Molly, sadly, but with the sweetest
smile. "It's not that I care so much about the poetry; but I do love
what I thought the baby might be thinking: it seems so true! so fit to
be true!"

"The poetry is lovely, anyhow!" said Walter. "And one thing I am sure
of--the father will not take me on his knee, if I go on as I have been
doing! You must let me see everything you write, or have written, Molly!
Should you mind?"

"Surely not, Walter! We used to read everything we thought might be
yours!"

"Oh, don't!" cried Walter. "I can't bear to think of the beastly
business!--I beg your pardon, Molly; but I am ashamed of the thing.
There was not one stroke of good in the whole affair!"

"I admit," said Molly, "the kind of thing is not real work, though it
may well be hard enough! But all writing about books and authors is not
of that kind. A good book, like a true man, is well worth writing about
by any one who understands it. That is very different from making it
one's business to sit in judgment on the work of others. The mental
condition itself of habitual judgment is a false one. Such an attitude
toward any book requiring thought, and worthy of thought, renders it
impossible for the would-be judge to know what is in the book. If, on
the other hand, the book is worth little or nothing, it is not worth
writing about, and yet has a perfect claim to fair play. If we feel
differently at different times about a book we know, how am I to know
the right mood for doing justice to a new book?"

"I am afraid the object is to write, not to judge righteous judgment!"

"One whose object is to write, and with whom judgment is the mere
pretext for writing, is a parasite, and very pitiful, because, being a
man, he lives as a flea lives. You see, Walter, by becoming a critic,
you have made us critical--your father and me! We have talked about
these things ever since you took to the profession!"

"Trade, Molly!" said Walter, gruffly.

"A profession, at least, that is greater than its performance! But it
has been to me an education. We got as many as we were able of the books
you took pains with, and sometimes could not help doubting whether you
had seen the object of the writer. In one you dwelt scornfully on the
unscientific allusions, where the design of the book was perfectly
served by those allusions, which were merely to illustrate what the
author meant. Your social papers, too, were but criticism in another
direction. We could not help fearing that your criticism would prove a
quicksand, swallowing your faculty for original, individual work. Then
there was one horrid book you reviewed!"

"Well, I did no harm there! I made it out horrid enough, surely!"

"I think you did harm. I, for one, should never have heard of the book,
and nobody down here would, I believe, if you had not written about it!
You advertised it! Let bad books lie as much unheard of as may be. There
is no injustice in leaving them alone."

Walter was silent.

"I have no doubt," he said at length, "that you are out and out right,
Molly! Where my work has not been useless, it has been bad!"

"Our powder is finished." "Then why not retire?" "Our appearance may
hold them back for a little. We must give the Emperor time to escape."
Such were the soldiers of France.

Behind this screen of brave men the others took their breath, and
then went on in less desperate fashion.

They had broken away from the road, and all over the countryside
in the twilight I could see the timid, scattered, frightened crowd
who ten hours before had formed the finest army that ever went down
to battle.

I with my splendid mare was soon able to get clear of the
throng, and just after I passed Genappe I overtook the Emperor with the
remains of his Staff. Soult was with him still, and so were
Drouot, Lobau, and Bertrand, with five Chasseurs of the Guard,
their horses hardly able to move.

The night was falling, and the Emperor's haggard face gleamed white
through the gloom as he turned it toward me.

"Who is that?" he asked.

"It is Colonel Gerard," said Soult.

"Have you seen Marshal Grouchy?"

"No, Sire. The Prussians were between."

"It does not matter. Nothing matters now.

Soult, I will go back."

He tried to turn his horse, but Bertrand seized his bridle. "Ah, Sire,"
said Soult, "the enemy has had good fortune enough already."

They forced him on among them. He rode in silence with his chin upon
his breast, the greatest and the saddest of men.

Far away behind us those remorseless guns were still roaring. Sometimes
out of the darkness would come shrieks and screams and the low thunder
of galloping hoofs.

At the sound we would spur our horses and hasten onward through the
scattered troops.

At last, after riding all night in the clear moonlight, we found
that we had left both pursued and pursuers behind.

By the time we passed over the bridge at Charleroi the dawn was
breaking.

What a company of spectres we looked in that cold, clear, searching
light, the Emperor with his face of wax, Soult blotched with powder,
Lobau dabbled with blood!

But we rode more easily now, and had ceased to glance over our
shoulders, for Waterloo was more than thirty miles behind us.

One of the Emperor's carriages had been picked up at Charleroi, and
we halted now on the other side of the Sambre, and dismounted from
our horses.

You will ask me why it was that during all this time I had said
nothing of that which was nearest my heart, the need for guarding
the Emperor.

As a fact, I had tried to speak of it both to Soult and to Lobau, but
their minds were so overwhelmed with the disaster and so distracted by
the pressing needs of the moment that it was impossible to make them
understand how urgent was my message.

I am drawn to nothing else."

"Well, it seems to me that a man who would like to make a saddle, must
first have some pig-skin to make it of! Have you any pig-skin, Walter?"

"I see well enough what you mean!"

"A man must want long leisure for thought before he can have any
material for his literary faculty to work with.

"You could write a history, but could you write one _now_? Even for a
biography, you would have to read and study for months--perhaps years.
As to the social questions you have been treating, men generally change
their opinions about such things when they know a little more; and who
would utter his opinions, knowing he most by and by wish he had not
uttered them!"

"No one; but unhappily every one is cock-sure of his opinion till he
changes it--and then he is as sure as before till he changes it again!"

"Opinion is not sight, your father says," answered Molly; and again a
little pause followed.

"Well, but, Molly," resumed Walter, "how is that precious thing, leisure
for thought, to be come by? Write reviews I will not! Write a history, I
can not. Write a poem I might, but they wouldn't buy copies enough of it
to pay for the paper and printing. Write a novel I might, if I had time;
but how to live, not to say how to think, while I was writing it?
Perhaps I ought to be a tutor, or a school-master!"

"Do you feel drawn to that, Walter?"

"I do not."

"And you do feel drawn to write?"

"I dare not say I have thoughts which demand expression; and yet somehow
I want to write."

"And you say that some begin by writing what is of no value, but come to
write things that are precious?"

"It is true."

"Then perhaps you have served your apprenticeship in worthless things,
and the inclination to write comes now of precious things on their way,
which you do not yet see or suspect, not to say know!"

"But many men and women have the impulse to write, who never write
anything of much worth!"

Molly thought awhile.

"What if they yielded to the impulse before they ought? What if their
eagerness to write when they ought to have been doing something else,
destroyed the call in them? It was a woman's voice which spoke--a voice
which was always music to my ears. I sprang through the gap and I flung
my arms round her.

"Lucia! Lucia!" I cried.

It was "Etienne!" and "Lucia!" for some minutes, for one does not make
speeches at moments like that.

It was she who came to her senses first.

"Oh, Etienne, they will kill you. How came you into their hands?"
"In answer to your letter." 
"I wrote no letter."
"The cunning demons! But you?"
"I came also in answer to your letter."You will, I know, do what I or any one else may propose, if it
appears to you right! But don't you think that, for the best work, a man
ought to be independent of the work?"

"You would have your poet a rich man!"

"Just the contrary, Walter! A rich man is the most dependent of all--at
least most rich men are. Take his riches, and what could himself do for
himself? He depends on his money. No; I would have the poet earn his
bread by the sweat of his brow--with his hands feed his body, and with
his heart and brain the hearts of his brothers and sisters. We have
talked much about this, your father and I. That a man is not a gentleman
who works with his hands, is the meanest, silliest article in the social
creed of our country. He who would be a better gentleman than the
Carpenter of Nazareth, is not worthy of Him. He gave up His working only
to do better work for His brothers and sisters, and then He let the men
and women, but mostly, I suspect, the women, that loved Him, support
him! Thousands upon thousands of young men think it more gentlemanly to
be clerks than to be carpenters, but, if I were a man, I would rather
_make_ anything, than add up figures and copy stupid letters all day
long! If I had brothers, I would ten times rather see them masons, or
carpenters, or book-binders, or shoe-makers, than have them doing what
ought to be left for the weaker and more delicate!"

"Which do you want me to be, Molly--a carpenter or a shoe-maker?"

"Neither, Walter--but a farmer: you don't want to be a finer gentleman
than your father! Stay at home and help him, and grow strong. Plow and
cart, and do the work of a laboring man. Nature will be your mate in her
own work-shop!"

Molly was right. If Burns had but kept to his plow and his fields, to
the birds and the beasts, to the storms and the sunshine! He was a free
man while he lived by his labor among his own people! Ambition makes of
gentlemen time-servers and paltry politicians; of the plowman-poet it
made an exciseman!

Of Wellington we had no great fear.

We had found him to be brave and cautious, but with little enterprise.
Besides, in that barren country his pursuit could not be rapid.

But on our flanks and in our rear there had gathered great numbers
of Portuguese militia, of armed peasants, and of guerillas. These people
had kept a safe distance all the winter, but now that our horses were
foundered they were as thick as flies all round our outposts, and
no man's life was worth a sou when once he fell into their hands.

I could name a dozen officers of my own acquaintance who were cut off
during that time, and the luckiest was he who received a ball from behind
a rock through his head or his heart.Walter
was a true man in that he was ready to become truer: what better thing
could be said of any unfinished man!


CHAPTER XXXII.


THE LAST, BUT NOT THE END.

It was the second spring, and Molly and Walter sat again in the
twilighted garden. Walter had just come home from his day's work; he had
been plowing. He was a broad-shouldered, lean, powerful, handsome
fellow, with a rather slow step, but soldierly carriage. His hands were
brown and mighty, and took a little more washing than before.

"My father does not seem quite himself!" he said to Molly.

"He has been a little depressed for a day or two," she answered.

"There's nothing wrong, is there, Molly?"

"No, nothing. It is only his spirits. They have never been good once
your mother died. He declares himself the happiest man in the county,
now you are at home with us."

Walter was up early the next morning, and again at his work. A new-born
wind blew on his face, and sent the blood singing through his veins. he
cried, and he laid me in the place of the dead body. "I have four of my
men waiting, and they will place this upon the beacon." He opened
the door and gave an order. Several of the brigands entered and bore out
Duplessis. For myself I remained upon the floor, with my mind in a
turmoil of hope and wonder.
Five minutes later de Pombal and his men were back.
"You are laid upon the beacon," said he; "I defy anyone in the world
to say it is not you, and you are so gagged and bound that no one
can expect you to speak or move.His father had managed to pay his
debts; his hopes were high, his imagination active; his horses were
pulling strong; the plow was going free, turning over the furrow smooth
and clean; he was one of the powers of nature at work for the harvest of
the year; he was in obedient consent with the will that makes the world
and all its summers and winters! He was a thinking, choosing, willing
part of the living whole, its vital fountain issuing from the heart of
the Father of men! Work lay all about him, and he was doing the work!
And Molly was at home, singing about hers! At night, when the sun was
set, and his day's work done, he would go home to her and his father, to
his room and his books and his writing!

It turned to the left and again to the left, and then I found myself
back in the hall once more. They were almost within touch of me and
there was no time for thought. I turned toward the staircase, but two
men were coming down it.They were a true family: when
one member suffered, all the members suffered with it.

So throughout the morning, as his horses pulled, and the earth opened,
and the plow folded the furrow back, Walter thought, and made, and
remembered: he had a gift for remembering completions, and forgetting
the chips and rejected rubbish of the process. In the evening he carried
borne with him these verses:

  How shall he sing who hath no song?
  He laugh who hath no mirth?
  Will strongest can not wake a song!
  It is no use to strive or long
  To sing with them that have a song,
  And mirthless laugh with mirth!
  Though sad, he must confront the wrong,
  And for the right face any throng,
  Waiting, with patience sweet and strong,
  Until God's glory fills the earth;
  Then shall he sing who had no song,
  He laugh who had no mirth!

  Yea, if like barren rock thou sit
  Upon a land of dearth,
  Round which but phantom waters flit,
  Of visionary birth--
  Yet be thou still, and wait, wait long;
  There comes a sea to drown the wrong,
  His glory shall o'erwhelm the earth,
  And thou, no more a scathed rock,
  Shall start alive with gladsome shock,
  Shalt a hand-clapping billow be,
  And shout with the eternal sea!

  To righteousness and love belong
  The dance, the jubilance, the song!
  I have been led to write to you after reading
  your _Pilgrimage to the Land of My Fathers_,
  and seeing in it that you are the author
  of a work entitled _The Jews in Great
  Britain_, which I have not seen, and
  concluding from this that if any one can obtain information you
can.

"I send this letter to Messrs. Smith and Elder, booksellers, of
Cornhill, London, with a request to send it to you through your
publisher, Mr.

R. Bentley," &c. &c.

I do not feel justified in publishing the last two paragraphs in my
correspondent's letter, and have therefore omitted them. I shall feel
extremely obliged to any of the readers of "N. & Q." who could and
would help me to answer the anxious Query from the Hymmalayas.

M. M.
In his heart he sung this song:

"Blessed art thou among women! for thou hast given me a son of
consolation!"

And to Molly he said,

"Let us go to Walter!"




THE END.