Produced by David Widger


THE NOVEL AND THE COMMON SCHOOL

By Charles Dudley Warner

There has been a great improvement in the physical condition of the
people of the United States within two generations. This is more
noticeable in the West than in the East, but it is marked everywhere; and
the foreign traveler who once detected a race deterioration, which he
attributed to a dry and stimulating atmosphere and to a feverish anxiety,
which was evident in all classes, for a rapid change of condition, finds
very little now to sustain his theory. Although the restless energy
continues, the mixed race in America has certainly changed physically for
the better. Speaking generally, the contours of face and form are more
rounded. The change is most marked in regions once noted for leanness,
angularity, and sallowness of complexion, but throughout the country the
types of physical manhood are more numerous; and if women of rare and
exceptional beauty are not more numerous, no doubt the average of
comeliness and beauty has been raised. Thus far, the increase of beauty
due to better development has not been at the expense of delicacy of
complexion and of line, as it has been in some European countries.
Physical well-being is almost entirely a matter of nutrition. Something
is due in our case to the accumulation of money, to the decrease in an
increasing number of our population of the daily anxiety about food and
clothes, to more leisure; but abundant and better-prepared food is the
direct agency in our physical change. Good food is not only more abundant
and more widely distributed than it was two generations ago, but it is to
be had in immeasurably greater variety. No other people existing, or that
ever did exist, could command such a variety of edible products for daily
consumption as the mass of the American people habitually use today. In
consequence they have the opportunity of being better nourished than any
other people ever were. If they are not better nourished, it is because
their food is badly prepared. Whenever we find, either in New England or
in the South, a community ill-favored, dyspeptic, lean, and faded in
complexion, we may be perfectly sure that its cooking is bad, and that it
is too ignorant of the laws of health to procure that variety of food
which is so easily obtainable. People who still diet on sodden pie and
the products of the frying-pan of the pioneer, and then, in order to
promote digestion, attempt to imitate the patient cow by masticating some
elastic and fragrant gum, are doing very little to bring in that
universal physical health or beauty which is the natural heritage of our
opportunity.

Now, what is the relation of our intellectual development to this
physical improvement? It will be said that the general intelligence is
raised, that the habit of reading is much more widespread, and that the
increase of books, periodicals, and newspapers shows a greater mental
activity than existed formerly. It will also be said that the opportunity
for education was never before so nearly universal. If it is not yet true
everywhere that all children must go to school, it is true that all may
go to school free of cost. Without doubt, also, great advance has been
made in American scholarship, in specialized learning and investigation;
that is to say, the proportion of scholars of the first rank in
literature and in science is much larger to the population than a
generation ago.

But what is the relation of our general intellectual life to popular
education? Or, in other words, what effect is popular education having
upon the general intellectual habit and taste? There are two ways of
testing this. One is by observing whether the mass of minds is better
trained and disciplined than formerly, less liable to delusions, better
able to detect fallacies, more logical, and less likely to be led away by
novelties in speculation, or by theories that are unsupported by historic
evidence or that are contradicted by a knowledge of human nature. If we
were tempted to pursue this test, we should be forced to note the seeming
anomaly of a scientific age peculiarly credulous; the ease with which any
charlatan finds followers; the common readiness to fall in with any
theory of progress which appeals to the sympathies, and to accept the
wildest notions of social reorganization. We should be obliged to note
also, among scientific men themselves, a disposition to come to
conclusions on inadequate evidence--a disposition usually due to
one-sided education which lacks metaphysical training and the philosophic
habit. Eccl. lib. i. c. 15.
+ Augustin, A.D. 895 (De Consens. Evan. c. 34), had heard that the
Pagans pretended to be possessed of an epistle of Christ to Peter and Paul;
but he had never seen it, and appears to doubt of the existence of
any such piece either genuine or spurious. No other ancient writer mentions
it. He also, and he alone, notices, and that in order to condemn it, an
epistle ascribed to Christ by the Manichees, A.D. 270, and a short
hymn attributed to him by the Priscillianists, A.D. 378 (cont. Faust.
Man.
Lib xxviii, c,4). The lateness of the writer who notices these
things, the manner in which he notices them, and above all, the silence
of every preceding writer, render them unworthy on of
consideration.
_________ 

V.

If the ascription of the Gospels to their respective authors had been
arbitrary or conjectural, they would have been ascribed to more eminent
men. This observation holds concerning the first three Gospels, the reputed
authors of which were enabled, by their situation, to obtain true
intelligence, and were likely to deliver an honest account of what they
knew, but were persons not distinguished in the history by
extraordinary marks of notice or commendation. Of the apostles, I hardly
know any one of whom less is said than of Matthew, or of whom the little
that is said is less calculated to magnify his character.

Of Mark, nothing is said in the Gospels; and what is said of any
person of that name in the Acts, and in the epistles, in no part bestows
praise or eminence upon him. The name of Luke is mentioned only in St
Paul's epistles,* and that very transiently. The judgment, therefore,
which assigned these writings to these authors proceeded, it may be
presumed, upon proper knowledge and evidence, and not upon a voluntary
choice of names.

VI. Christian writers and Christian churches appear to have soon arrived
at a very general agreement upon the subject, and that without the
interposition of any public authority. When the diversity of opinion
which prevailed, and prevails among Christians in other points, is
considered, their concurrence in the canon of Scripture is remarkable,
and of great weight, especially as it seems to have been the result
of private and free inquiry. We have no knowledge of any interference
of authority in the question before the council of Laodicea in the year
363. Probably the decree of this council rather declared than regulated
the public judgment, or, more properly speaking, the judgment of
some neighbouring churches; the council itself consisting of no more than
thirty or forty bishops of Lydia and the adjoining countries.+ Nor does
its authority seem to have extended further; for we find numerous Christian
writers, after this time, discussing the question, "What books
were entitled to be received as Scripture," with great freedom, upon
proper grounds of evidence, and without any reference to the
decision at Laodicea.

_________
* Col. iv. 14. 2Tim. iv. 11. Philem. 24.
+ Lardner, Cred. vol. viii. P.291, et seq.
_________

These considerations are not to be neglected: but of an argument concerning
the genuineness of ancient writings, the substance, undoubtedly, and
strength, is ancient testimony.

This testimony it is necessary to exhibit somewhat in detail; for when
Christian advocates merely tell us that we have the same reason for
believing the Gospels to be written by the evangelists whose names they
bear as we have for believing the Commentaries to be Caesar's, the
Aeneid Virgil's, or the Orations Cicero's, they content themselves with
an imperfect representation. They state nothing more than what is true,
but they do not state the truth correctly. In the number, variety, and
early date of our testimonies, we far exceed all other ancient books.

For one which the most celebrated work of the most celebrated Greek or
Roman writer can allege, we produce many. But then it is more
requisite in our books than in theirs to separate and distinguish
them from spurious competitors. The result, I am convinced, will
be satisfactory to every fair inquirer: but this circumstance renders
an inquiry necessary.
In a work, however, like the present, there is a difficulty in
finding a place for evidence of this kind. To pursue the details
of proof throughout, would be to transcribe a great part of Dr.
Lardner's eleven octavo volumes: to leave the argument without
proofs is to leave it without effect; for the persuasion produced
by this species of evidence depends upon a view and induction of
the particulars which compose it.As everything has a cause, it would be worth while to inquire
whether the encyclopaedic newspaper is in response to a demand, to a
taste created by our common schools. Or, to put the question in another
form, does the system of education in our common schools give the pupils
a taste for good literature or much power of discrimination? Do they come
out of school with the habit of continuous reading, of reading books, or
only of picking up scraps in the newspapers, as they might snatch a hasty
meal at a lunch-counter? What, in short, do the schools contribute to the
creation of a taste for good literature?

Great anxiety is felt in many quarters about the modern novel. It is
feared that it will not be realistic enough, that it will be too
realistic, that it will be insincere as to the common aspects of life,
that it will not sufficiently idealize life to keep itself within the
limits of true art. But while the critics are busy saying what the novel
should be, and attacking or defending the fiction of the previous age,
the novel obeys pretty well the laws of its era, and in many ways,
especially in the variety of its development, represents the time.
Regarded simply as a work of art, it may be said that the novel should be
an expression of the genius of its writer conscientiously applied to a
study of the facts of life and of human nature, with little reference to
the audience. Perhaps the great works of art that have endured have been
so composed. We may say, for example, that "Don Quixote" had to create
its sympathetic audience. But, on the other hand, works of art worthy the
name are sometimes produced to suit a demand and to please a taste
already created. A great deal of what passes for literature in these days
is in this category of supply to suit the demand, and perhaps it can be
said of this generation more fitly than of any other that the novel seeks
to hit the popular taste; having become a means of livelihood, it must
sell in order to be profitable to the producer, and in order to sell it
must be what the reading public want. They begged Columbus to let the
scoundrels go if they wished to, as the condition of those who remained
would be improved rather than hurt by their absence, and they would be a
good riddance.
They then went back to the deck and told Porras and his followers that
the sooner they went the better, and that nobody would interfere with
their going as long as they offered no one any violence.

The Admiral had some time before purchased some good canoes from the
natives, and the mutineers seized ten of these and loaded them with
native provisions. Every effort was made to add to the number of the
disloyal ones; and when they saw their friends making ready to
depart several of these did actually join. There were forty-eight who
finally embarked with the brothers Porras; and there would have been
more, but that so many of them were sick and unable to face the exposure
of the voyage. As it was, those who remained witnessed with no very
cheerful emotions the departure of their companions, and even in some
cases fell to tears and lamentations. The poor old Admiral struggled out
of his bed again, went round among the sick and the loyal, cheering them
and comforting them, and promising to use every effort of the power
left to him to secure an adequate reward for their loyalty when he should
return to Spain.

We need only follow the career of Porras and his deserters for the
present far enough to see them safely off the premises and out of the
way of the Admiral and our narrative. They coasted along the shore of
Jamaica to the eastward as Mendez had done, landing whenever they
had a mind to, and robbing and outraging the natives; and they
took a particularly mean and dirty revenge on the Admiral by
committing all their robbings and outragings as though under his
authority, assuring the offended Indians that what they did they
did by his command and that what they took he would pay for; so
that as they went along they sowed seeds of grievance and hostility
against the Admiral.

They told the natives, moreover, that Columbus was an enemy of all
Indians, and that they would be very well advised to kill him and get him
out of the way.

It is a note of our general intellectual
development that cheapness in literature is almost as much insisted on by
the rich as by the poor. The taste for a good book has not kept pace with
the taste for a good dinner, and multitudes who have commendable judgment
about the table would think it a piece of extravagance to pay as much for
a book as for a dinner, and would be ashamed to smoke a cigar that cost
less than a novel. Indeed, we seem to be as yet far away from the
appreciation of the truth that what we put into the mind is as important
to our well-being as what we put into the stomach.

No doubt there are more people capable of appreciating a good book, and
there are more good books read, in this age, than in any previous, though
the ratio of good judges to the number who read is less; but we are
considering the vast mass of the reading public and its tastes. I say its
tastes, and probably this is not unfair, although this traveling,
restless, reading public meekly takes, as in the case of the reading
selected in the newspapers, what is most persistently thrust upon its
attention by the great news agencies, which find it most profitable to
deal in that which is cheap and ephemeral. The houses which publish books
of merit are at a disadvantage with the distributing agencies.

Criticism which condemns the common-school system as a nurse of
superficiality, mediocrity, and conceit does not need serious attention,
any more than does the criticism that the universal opportunity of
individual welfare offered by a republic fails to make a perfect
government. But this is not saying that the common school does all that
it can do, and that its results answer to the theories about it. It must
be partly due to the want of proper training in the public schools that
there are so few readers of discrimination, and that the general taste,
judged by the sort of books now read, is so mediocre. Most of the public
schools teach reading, or have taught it, so poorly that the scholars who
come from them cannot read easily; hence they must have spice, and blood,
and vice to stimulate them, just as a man who has lost taste peppers his
food. We need not agree with those who say that there is no merit
whatever in the mere ability to read; nor, on the other hand, can we join
those who say that the art of reading will pretty surely encourage a
taste for the nobler kind of reading, and that the habit of reading trash
will by-and-by lead the reader to better things. As a matter of
experience, the reader of the namby-pamby does not acquire an appetite
for anything more virile, and the reader of the sensational requires
constantly more highly flavored viands. Nor is it reasonable to expect
good taste to be recovered by an indulgence in bad taste.

What, then, does the common school usually do for literary taste?
Generally there is no thought about it. It is not in the minds of the
majority of teachers, even if they possess it themselves. The business is
to teach the pupils to read; how they shall use the art of reading is
little considered. If we examine the reading-books from the lowest grade
to the highest, we shall find that their object is to teach words, not
literature. The lower-grade books are commonly inane (I will not say
childish, for that is a libel on the open minds of children) beyond
description. There is an impression that advanced readers have improved
much in quality within a few years, and doubtless some of them do contain
specimens of better literature than their predecessors. But they are on
the old plan, which must be radically modified or entirely cast aside,
and doubtless will be when the new method is comprehended, and teachers
are well enough furnished to cut loose from the machine. We may say that
to learn how to read, and not what to read, is confessedly the object of
these books; but even this object is not attained. There is an endeavor
to teach how to call the words of a reading-book, but not to teach how to
read; for reading involves, certainly for the older scholars, the
combination of known words to form new ideas. This is lacking. The taste
for good literature is not developed; the habit of continuous pursuit of
a subject, with comprehension of its relations, is not acquired; and no
conception is gained of the entirety of literature or its importance to
human life. Consequently, there is no power of judgment or faculty of
discrimination.

Now, this radical defect can be easily remedied if the school authorities
only clearly apprehend one truth, and that is that the minds of children
of tender age can be as readily interested and permanently interested in
good literature as in the dreary feebleness of the juvenile reader. The
mind of the ordinary child should not be judged by the mind that produces
stuff of this sort: "Little Jimmy had a little white pig." "Did the
little pig know Jimmy?" "Yes, the little pig knew Jimmy, and would come
when he called." "How did little Jimmy know his pig from the other little
pigs?" "By the twist in his tail." ("Children," asks the teacher, "what
is the meaning of 'twist'?") "Jimmy liked to stride the little pig's
back." "Would the little pig let him?" "Yes, when he was absorbed eating
his dinner." ("Children, what is the meaning of 'absorbed'?") And so on.

This intellectual exercise is, perhaps, read to children who have not got
far enough in "word-building" to read themselves about little Jimmy and
his absorbed pig. It may be continued, together with word-learning, until
the children are able to say (is it reading?) the entire volume of this
precious stuff. To what end? The children are only languidly interested;
their minds are not awakened; the imagination is not appealed to; they
have learned nothing, except probably some new words, which are learned
as signs. Often children have only one book even of this sort, at which
they are kept until they learn it through by heart, and they have been
heard to "read" it with the book bottom side up or shut! All these books
cultivate inattention and intellectual vacancy. They are--the best of
them--only reading exercises; and reading is not perceived to have any
sort of value. The child is not taught to think, and not a step is taken
in informing him of his relation to the world about him. His education is
not begun.

Now it happens that children go on with this sort of reading and the
ordinary text-books through the grades of the district school into the
high school, and come to the ages of seventeen and eighteen without the
least conception of literature, or of art, or of the continuity of the
relations of history; are ignorant of the great names which illuminate
the ages; have never heard of Socrates, or of Phidias, or of Titian; do
not know whether Franklin was an Englishman or an American; would be
puzzled to say whether it was Ben Franklin or Ben Jonson who invented
lightning--think it was Ben Somebody; cannot tell whether they lived
before or after Christ, and indeed never have thought that anything
happened before the time of Christ; do not know who was on the throne of
Spain when Columbus discovered America--and so on. John (xix. 35), describing
the crucifixion, with the particular circumstance of piercing Christ's
side with a spear, the historian adds, as for himself, "and he
that saw it bare record, and his record is true, and he knoweth that he
saith true, that ye might believe." Again (xxi. 24), after relating a
conversation which passed between Peter and "the disciple," as it is
there expressed, "whom Jesus loved," it is added, "this is the disciple
which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things." This testimony,
let it be remarked, is not the less worthy of regard, because it is, in
one view, imperfect. The name is not mentioned; which, if a fraudulent
purpose had been intended, would have been done. The third of our present
Gospels purports to have been written by the person who wrote the
Acts of the Apostles; in which latter history, or rather latter
part of the same history, the author, by using in various places
the first person plural, declares himself to have been a contemporary
of all, and a companion of one, of the original preachers of the
religion.

CHAPTER IX.

There is satisfactory evidence that many, professing to be original witnesses
of the Christian miracles, passed their lives in labours, dangers,
and sufferings, voluntarily undergone in attestation of the accounts
which they delivered, and solely in consequence of their belief of those
accounts; and that they also submitted, from the same motives, to
new rules of conduct.

OF THE AUTHENTICITY OF THE SCRIPTURES.

Not forgetting, therefore, what credit is due to the evangelical history,
supposing even any one of the four Gospels to be genuine; what credit is
due to the Gospels, even supposing nothing to be known concerning
them but that they were written by early disciples of the religion,
and received with deference by early Christian churches; more especially
not forgetting what credit is due to the New Testament in its capacity
of cumulative evidence; we now proceed to state the proper and
distinct proofs, which show not only the general value of these records,
but their specific authority, and the high probability there is that
they actually came from the persons whose names they bear.

There are, however, a few preliminary reflections, by which we may draw
up with more regularity to the propositions upon which the close and
particular discussion of the subject depends. Of which nature
are the following:

I. We are able to produce a great number of ancient manuscripts, found in
many different countries, and in countries widely distant from each
other, all of them anterior to the art of printing, some Certainly
seven or eight hundred years old, and some which have been preserved
probably above a thousand years.* We have also many ancient versions
of these books, and some of them into languages which are not at
present, nor for many ages have been, spoken in any part of the
world.

The existence of these manuscripts and versions proves that the
Scriptures were not the production of any modern contrivance. It
does away also the uncertainty which hangs over such publications as the
works, real or pretended, of Ossian and Rowley, in which the editors are
challenged to produce their manuscripts and to show where they obtained
their copies. The number of manuscripts, far exceeding those of
any other book, and their wide dispersion, afford an argument, in some
measure to the senses, that the Scriptures anciently, in like manner as
at this day, were more read and sought after than any other books, and
that also in many different countries. The greatest part of spurious
Christian writings are utterly lost, the rest preserved by some single
manuscript. There is weight also in Dr. Bentley's observation, that the
New Testament has suffered less injury by the errors of transcribers than
the works of any profane author of the same size and antiquity; that is,
there never was any writing, in the preservation and purity of which the
world was so interested or so careful.

_________
* The Alexandrian manuscript, now in the British Museum, was written
probably in the fourth or fifth century.
_________

II. An argument of great weight with those who are judges of the
proofs upon which it is founded, and capable, through their testimony,
of being addressed to every understanding, is that which arises
from the style and language of the New Testament. It is just such
a language as might be expected from the apostles, from persons of
their age and in their situation, and from no other persons.It would seem that in the complete organization of the public schools all
education of the pupil is turned over to them as it was not formerly, and
it is possible that in the stress of text-book education there is no time
for reading at home. The competent teachers contend not merely with the
difficulty of the lack of books and the deficiencies of those in use, but
with the more serious difficulty of the erroneous ideas of the function
of text-books. They will cease to be a commercial commodity of so much
value as now when teachers teach. If it is true that there is no time for
reading at home, we can account for the deplorable lack of taste in the
great mass of the reading public educated at the common schools; and we
can see exactly what the remedy should be--namely, the teaching of the
literature at the beginning of school life, and following it up broadly
and intelligently during the whole school period. It will not crowd out
anything else, because it underlies everything. After many years of
perversion and neglect, to take up the study of literature in a
comprehensive text-book, as if it were to be learned--like arithmetic, is
a ludicrous proceeding. This, is not teaching literature nor giving the
scholar a love of good reading. It is merely stuffing the mind with names
and dates, which are not seen to have any relation to present life, and
which speedily fade out of the mind. The love of literature is not to be
attained in this way, nor in any way except by reading the best
literature.

The notion that literature can be taken up as a branch of education, and
learned at the proper time and when studies permit, is one of the most
farcical in our scheme of education. It is only matched in absurdity by
the other current idea, that literature is something separate and apart
from general knowledge. Here is the whole body of accumulated thought and
experience of all the ages, which indeed forms our present life and
explains it, existing partly in tradition and training, but more largely
in books; and most teachers think, and most pupils are led to believe,
that this most important former of the mind, maker of character, and
guide to action can be acquired in a certain number of lessons out of a
textbook! Which Gospel they first preached, and afterwards, by the
will of God, committed to writing, that it might be for time to come
the foundation and pillar of our faith.--For after that our Lord arose
from the dead, and they (the apostles) were endowed from above
with the power of the Holy Ghost coming down upon them, they received a
perfect knowledge of all things.
They then went forth to all the ends of the earth, declaring to men the
Message of heavenly peace, having all of them, and every one, alike the
Gospel of God. Matthew then, among the Jews, wrote a Gospel in their own
language, while Peter and Paul were preaching the Gospel at Rome,
and founding a church there: and after their exit, Mark also, the
disciple and interpreter of Peter, delivered to us in writing the things
that had been preached by Peter and Luke, the companion of Paul, put
down in a book the Gospel preached by him (Paul). Afterwards John,
the disciple of the Lord, who also leaned upon his breast, he likewise
published a Gospel while he dwelt at Ephesus in Asia." If any modern
divine should write a book upon the genuineness of the Gospels, he could
not assert it more expressly, or state their original more distinctly,
than Irenaeus hath done within little more than a hundred years after
they were published.

The correspondency, in the days of Irenaeus, of the oral and written
tradition, and the deduction of the oral tradition through various
channels from the age of the apostles, which was then lately passed,
and, by consequence, the probability that the books truly delivered what
the apostles taught, is inferred also with strict regularity from
another passage of his works.I am certain, however, that educated teachers would
use only the best means for forming the minds and enlightening the
understanding of their pupils. It must be kept in mind that reading,
silent reading done by the scholar, is not learning signs and calling
words; it is getting thought. If children are to get thought, they should
be served with the best--that which will not only be true, but appeal so
naturally to their minds that they will prefer it to all meaner stuff. If
it is true that children cannot acquire this taste at home--and it is
true for the vast majority of American children--then it must be given in
the public schools. The shout was a signal, and immediately from every
part of the vessel resounded the voices of the Spaniards, crying
out that they would follow Porras.

In the midst of the confusion Columbus hobbled out of his bed and staggered
on to the deck; Bartholomew seized his weapons and prepared for action;
but the whole of the crew was not mutinous, and there was a
large enough loyal remnant to make it unwise for the chicken-hearted
mutineers to do more for the moment than shout: Some of them, it is true,
were heard threatening the life of the Admiral, but he was hurried back
to his bed by a few of the faithful ones, and others of them rushed
up to the fierce Bartholomew, and with great difficulty persuaded him
to drop his lance and retire to Christopher's cabin with him while they
dealt with the offenders.It will be again evident that
literature is not a trade, but an art requiring peculiar powers and
patient training. When people know how to read, authors will need to know
how to write.

In all other pursuits we carefully study the relation of supply to
demand. Why not in literature? Formerly, when readers were comparatively
few, and were of a class that had leisure and the opportunity of
cultivating the taste, books were generally written for this class, and
aimed at its real or supposed capacities. If the age was coarse in speech
or specially affected in manner, the books followed the lead given by the
demand; but, coarse or affected, they had the quality of art demanded by
the best existing cultivation. Naturally, when the art of reading is
acquired by the great mass of the people, whose taste has not been
cultivated, the supply for this increased demand will, more or less,
follow the level of its intelligence. After our civil war there was a
patriotic desire to commemorate the heroic sacrifices of our soldiers in
monuments, and the deeds of our great captains in statues. This noble
desire was not usually accompanied by artistic discrimination, and the
land is filled with monuments and statues which express the gratitude of
the people. Bithynia and Pontus were at a great distance from Judea,
the centre from which the religion spread; yet in these provinces
Christianity had long subsisted, and Christians were now in such
numbers as to lead the Roman governor to report to the emperor that they
were found not only in cities, but in villages and in open countries;
of all ages, of every rank and condition; that they abounded so much as
to have produced a visible desertion of the temples; that beasts brought
to market for victims had few purchasers; that the sacred solemnities
were much neglected:--circumstances noted by Pliny for the express purpose
of showing to the emperor the effect and prevalency of the new
institution.Foreign travel,
foreign study, and the importation of works of art (still blindly
restricted by the American Congress) were the lessons that began to work
a change. Now, in all our large towns, and even in hundreds of villages,
there are well-established art schools; in the greater cities, unions and
associations, under the guidance of skillful artists, where five or six
hundred young men and women are diligently, day and night, learning the
rudiments of art. The result is already apparent. Excellent drawing is
seen in illustrations for books and magazines, in the satirical and comic
publications, even in the advertisements and theatrical posters. Matt.
ii. 22. "When he (Joseph) heard that Archclaus did reign in Judea in the
room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither: notwithstanding,
being warned of God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of
Galilee."
II. In this passage it is asserted that Archclaus succeeded Herod in Judea;
and it is implied that his power did not extend to Galilee. Now we learn
from Josephus that Herod the Great, whose dominion included all the land
of Israel, appointed Archelaus his successor in Judea, and assigned the
rest of his dominions to other sons; and that this disposition was ratified,
as to the main parts of it, by the Roman emperor (Ant. lib. xvi. c. 8,
sect. 1.).
Saint Matthew says that Archclaus reigned, was king, in Judea.What is true of the novel is true of all other literature. Taste
for it must be cultivated in childhood. The common schools must do for
literature what the art schools are doing for art. Not every one can
become an artist, not every one can become a writer--though this is
contrary to general opinion; but knowledge to distinguish good drawing
from bad can be acquired by most people, and there are probably few minds
that cannot, by right methods applied early, be led to prefer good
literature, and to have an enjoyment in it in proportion to its
sincerity, naturalness, verity, and truth to life.

