Produced by Curtis A. Weyant, Charles Franks,
and the Distributed Proofreading Team.


The Majesty of Calmness

Individual Problems
and Possibilities...

by

William George Jordan

Author of "The Kingship of Self-Control"


CONTENTS


I.   THE MAJESTY OF CALMNESS
II.  HURRY, THE SCOURGE OF AMERICA
III. THE POWER OF PERSONAL INFLUENCE
IV.  THE DIGNITY OF SELF-RELIANCE
V.   FAILURE AS A SUCCESS
VI.  DOING OUR BEST AT ALL TIMES
VII. Elias leads the Scripture: I've argued before God, And hatred,
persecution, jealousy suffered For this safely.

There is Amoz Bey's son: I punished great and small, my Shepherd =
That God desires to go Office Seyn.

Bey Jeremiah heist: the King and Explains the servants I have no
fear of the Supreme word and rights, and spared neither curse,
persecution, nor scorn band.

God gave me above, also the kingdom of heaven as a reward. There is
Bey Daniel: God is a God of gods, the calls I brünstig to who was
also my Savior. Not gold, nor glory, took me to waste. now I probably
would have been a fool genennet Seyn. heist so John Scripture: I read
ehr assassinate me, I am prince Eh = yard would become a hypocrite.

Bey Paulo Diess less I: I fled the Heucheley, What Felix needs
to know that I say without shyness. I have scorn and ridicule, persecution
and chase around Jesus' words and teaching with joyousness worn. This
left the hall with all the pictures work, and let me this script
to the last focus: The hero worship = image is found in Scripture,
On earth is their spirit and image, has long since disappeared.

Quiet, silent Physici it, I think you will no longer be that only the
basilisk in desert caves wär, Man könte nowhere else very
verschmizte snakes, just as in dark woods and rocky crevices = catch.
Paradieß This has brought herfür as well as how the doves = pair from
which the presumption of innocence laughs. And if they also directly
from God distributed such place; Thus, it is nevertheless always
remained the best location.

Schooß The Germania, the German Heart and blood, Is now their stay, they
are safe alwo rests. It is on the chest of human umgeschlungen
That also by their strong poison flesh and blood pressures. My skin
shivers now that I should call it, How is our time by the Verläumdern
full? Where is thy glory o old Germany! hingekommen? Has the Verläumdung
you shine the old dizzy? It was clever of fame previously not to be
jealous; Man honors and loved those who excels done, And most of the
Fatherland gerahten and controversy, frost, hunger, shock, and suffered
thirst and pestilence . Zog in the triumph with a victory =
journey, Sun Flower Factory Muste Zierath Seyn its finest,
with these looked the hero worship: Every darbei could hear a cheer
muntres. Who after Flor citizens struggled and spirit, and as an Biedermann
o beautiful glory!
Stop, rest for a
moment, and let calmness and peace assert themselves. If you let these
irritating outside influences get the better of you, you are confessing
your inferiority to them, by permitting them to dominate you. Study the
disturbing elements, each by itself, bring all the will power of your
nature to bear upon them, and you will find that they will, one by one,
melt into nothingness, like vapors fading before the sun. The glow of
calmness that will then pervade your mind, the tingling sensation of an
inflow of new strength, may be to you the beginning of the revelation
of the supreme calmness that is possible for you. Then, in some great
hour of your life, when you stand face to face with some awful trial,
when the structure of your ambition and life-work crumbles in a moment,
you will be brave. You can then fold your arms calmly, look out
undismayed and undaunted upon the ashes of your hope, upon the wreck of
what you have faithfully built, and with brave heart and unfaltering
voice you may say: "So let it be,--I will build again."

When the tongue of malice and slander, the persecution of inferiority,
tempts you for just a moment to retaliate, when for an instant you
forget yourself so far as to hunger for revenge,--be calm. When the
grey heron is pursued by its enemy, the eagle, it does not run to
escape; it remains calm, takes a dignified stand, and waits quietly,
facing the enemy unmoved. With the terrific force with which the eagle
makes its attack, the boasted king of birds is often impaled and run
through on the quiet, lance-like bill of the heron. The means that man
takes to kill another's character becomes suicide of his own.

No man in the world ever attempted to wrong another without being
injured in return,--someway, somehow, sometime. The only weapon of
offence that Nature seems to recognize is the boomerang. Nature keeps
her books admirably; she puts down every item, she closes all accounts
finally, but she does not always balance them at the end of the month.
To the man who is calm, revenge is so far beneath him that he cannot
reach it,--even by stooping. When injured, he does not retaliate; he
wraps around him the royal robes of Calmness, and he goes quietly on
his way.

When the hand of Death touches the one we hold dearest, paralyzes our
energy, and eclipses the sun of our life, the calmness that has been
accumulating in long years becomes in a moment our refuge, our reserve
strength.

The most subtle of all temptations is the _seeming_ success of the
wicked. It requires moral courage to see, without flinching, material
prosperity coming to men who are dishonest; to see politicians rise
into prominence, power and wealth by trickery and corruption; to see
virtue in rags and vice in velvets; to see ignorance at a premium, and
knowledge at a discount. To the man who is really calm these puzzles of
life do not appeal. He is living his life as best he can; he is not
worrying about the problems of justice, whose solution must be left to
Omniscience to solve.

When man has developed the spirit of Calmness until it becomes so
absolutely part of him that his very presence radiates it, he has made
great progress in lite. Calmness cannot be acquired of itself and by
itself; it must come as the culmination of a series of virtues. What
the world needs and what individuals need is a higher standard of
living, a great realizing sense of the privilege and dignity of life, a
higher and nobler conception of individuality.

With this great sense of calmness permeating an individual, man becomes
able to retire more into himself, away from the noise, the confusion
and strife of the world, which come to his ears only as faint, far-off
rumblings, or as the tumult of the life of a city heard only as a
buzzing hum by the man in a balloon.

The man who is calm does not selfishly isolate himself from the world,
for he is intensely interested in all that concerns the welfare of
humanity. His calmness is but a Holy of Holies into which he can retire
_from_ the world to get strength to live _in_ the world. He
realizes that the full glory of individuality, the crowning of his
self-control is,--the majesty of calmness.


II

Hurry, the Scourge of America


The first sermon in the world was preached at the Creation. It was a
Divine protest against Hurry. It was a Divine object lesson of perfect
law, perfect plan, perfect order, perfect method. Six days of work
carefully planned, scheduled and completed were followed by,--rest.
Whether we accept the story as literal or as figurative, as the account
of successive days or of ages comprising millions of years, matters
little if we but learn the lesson.

Nature is very un-American. Nature never hurries. Every phase of her
working shows plan, calmness, reliability, and the absence of hurry.
Hurry always implies lack of definite method, confusion, impatience of
slow growth. The Tower of Babel, the world's first skyscraper, was a
failure because of hurry. The workers mistook their arrogant ambition
for inspiration. They had too many builders,--and no architect. They
thought to make up the lack of a head by a superfluity of hands. This
is a characteristic of Hurry. It seeks ever to make energy a substitute
for a clearly defined plan,--the result is ever as hopeless as trying
to transform a hobby-horse into a real steed by brisk riding.

Hurry is a counterfeit of haste. Haste has an ideal, a distinct aim to
be realized by the quickest, direct methods. Haste has a single compass
upon which it relies for direction and in harmony with which its course
is determined. Hurry says: "I must move faster. I will get three
compasses; I will have them different; I will be guided by all of them.
One of them will probably be right." Hurry never realizes that slow,
careful foundation work is the quickest in the end.

Hurry has ruined more Americans than has any other word in the
vocabulary of life. It is the scourge of America; and is both a cause
and a result of our high-pressure civilization. Hurry adroitly assumes
so many masquerades of disguise that its identity is not always
recognized.

Hurry always pays the highest price for everything, and, usually the
goods are not delivered. In the race for wealth men often sacrifice
time, energy, health, home, happiness and honor,--everything that money
cannot buy, the very things that money can never bring back. However, he
gets what his chest happily; What harm, if you like with other calves
plowing. Yes, the North also äuserste over the place, and seems as if
now the Doctorand to shame, because he can not talk, so defines a
friend Dreiner, And looks in this anxiety to be Advocat Seyn. O thou
eloquence! What you flee from the most, And Wilster the time of the
North no Beystand afford.

Klag But what I do the gods = Both offer? Is not the foolishness and
inertia blame? Who calls you a since of late, and long talk, as wolter
you the wisdom of big belly before the burst. Say shortly, but rather
good, wise, witty, thoroughly pure, eloquent, pleasant, so do you
like Doctor Seyn. Kan is a farm servant, and shepherd = stupid boy,
with his unberedt and often rough tongue, Von Schaaf, plow and Trift,
from fields, plants, seeds, Clever Answer thun, so much he has customers.
This will be a candidate but have as much foot as it is currently the
North to honor könte good. The bad science and not the mouth is at
fault, however, Love has also Stümper with patience. O Canada! Bey
Schenckung not believe your honor, as if in Welsch country would be
fruitful only Doctores, you now get the same fame.

Not true? du sagest yes, Grow Your included many stops in Padua. * * *
What a Trommeten = Thon erschallet bit of heaven! Who does such a
powerful Getöß turmoil and how the Lord Jacobs Jericho done before?
Hey look! an old woman, not a war = If such a man Geschrey: The
Heucheley calls heftig: Follow my feet up! Seyde merry and busy in
my service to go!

gives me the heart, And let your good faith by the witness Seyn
change. Entschuldget you not only with a weak mind = strength; You learn
my art and my hands = bad and works with Müh easier. On! Follow my
step, I'll give you strength and spirit, mind and strength. spührt
your service in my nothing dangerous, the other people Bey otherwise
accompany her tuna.

Take just the lessons to make you my mouth says: Your kids! maybe when
a gentleman of you desires, Diessen or to jens thun; to complete the
work, Diessen piece übergehn and Diess to be served. So does a
Compliment, very politely and say yes. And then, is what else to
remember because, Thus, the Achslen only, and is looking for you not to
block. To expand its your luck and get gnädge gentlemen. And so
when you a word from the prophet threatens, Sun suppressed the shoot,
and will not roth; Großmuth wrong to take , verlachet all shame, To
Seyde her with the most splendid time in the country. tapfrer No general
who supervised in the field, Has ever such luck with the hearts
upset, as is now the Heucheley their intent has been achieved. The
people coming Schaars = White jumped into her arms, the strong
reputation and unfamiliar city = Geschrey Where else only the rabble
and rabble Loss Bey, Solo is the Heucheley far been happy, from men
of intellect and famous is her favorite religious empire built with all
his might; Yes chiefs that you otherwise viewed before the pillars,
before the crack in order to stand, are usually bemühet Theil, In its
service to Seyn so that their fortunes blühet. Raise your eyes, there
is many a man, tongue and lips, and not I think talking kan. the
omnipotence = hand in lieu of such idols to breeding well-deserved
place on earth can.

It is hypocrisy Bey Bey the yard and largest, in order to host a table
and wiping plates to Seyn. To make a cup of wine, a Wildpret = roast,
And you politely Compliment perform Judas that. right Freyheit and prayer,
song, church, writing, and Word, Must be non-coercive and North,
only just hypocrites to continue. And where a fair in the nation to
see it blackens villainously , and is looking for him to suffocate. =
The faith of the fathers are Bey Verläumdung boldly, if they order by
blasphemy = fox tail is bemühn. Is there the mouth of the
opponent on the chair and Catheder church, word and doctrine, and
does what any other After each faith = office and duty to hold is
guilty, So it is not so much zeal equipped, Man is silent and not
seek to determine the reasons and outlaw public skilful opponents
to overcome.

If you are
sure you are right, do not let the voice of the world, or of friends,
or of family swerve you for a moment from your purpose. Accept slow
growth if it must be slow, and know the results _must_ come, as
you would accept the long, lonely hours of the night,--with absolute
assurance that the heavy-leaded moments _must_ bring the morning.

Let us as individuals banish the word "Hurry" from our lives. Let us
care for nothing so much that we would pay honor and self-respect as
the price of hurrying it. Let us cultivate calmness, restfulness,
poise, sweetness,--doing our best, bearing all things as bravely as we
can; living our life undisturbed by the prosperity of the wicked or the
malice of the envious. Let us not be impatient, chafing at delay,
fretting over failure, wearying over results, and weakening under
opposition. Let us ever turn our face toward the future with confidence
and trust, with the calmness of a life in harmony with itself, true to
its ideals, and slowly and constantly progressing toward their
realization.

Let us see that cowardly word Hurry in all its most degenerating
phases, let us see that it ever kills truth, loyalty, thoroughness; and
let us determine that, day by day, we will seek more and more to
substitute for it the calmness and repose of a true life, nobly lived.


III

The Power of Personal Influence


The only responsibility that a man cannot evade in this life is the one
he thinks of least,--his personal influence. Man's conscious influence,
when he is on dress-parade, when he is posing to impress those around
him,--is woefully small. But his unconscious influence, the silent,
subtle radiation of his personality, the effect of his words and acts,
the trifles he never considers,--is tremendous. Every moment of life he
is changing to a degree the life of the whole world. Every man has an
atmosphere which is affecting every other. So silent and unconsciously
is this influence working, that man may forget that it exists.

All the forces of Nature,--heat, light, electricity and gravitation,--
are silent and invisible. We never _see_ them; we only know that
they exist by seeing the effects they produce. In all Nature the
wonders of the "seen" are dwarfed into insignificance when compared
with the majesty and glory of the "unseen." The great sun itself does
not supply enough heat and light to sustain animal and vegetable life
on the earth. We are dependent for nearly half of our light and heat
upon the stars, and the greater part of this supply of life-giving
energy comes from _invisible_ stars, millions of miles from the
earth. In a thousand ways Nature constantly seeks to lead men to a
keener and deeper realization of the power and the wonder of the
invisible.

Into the hands of every individual is given a marvellous power for good
or for evil,--the silent, unconscious, unseen influence of his life.
This is simply the constant radiation of what a man really _is_,
not what he pretends to be. Every man, by his mere living, is radiating
sympathy, or sorrow, or morbidness, or cynicism, or happiness, or hope,
or any of a hundred other qualities. Life is a state of constant
radiation and absorption; to exist is to radiate; to exist is to be the
recipient of radiations.

There are men and women whose presence seems to radiate sunshine, cheer
and optimism. You feel calmed and rested and restored in a moment to a
new and stronger faith in humanity. There are others who focus in an
instant all your latent distrust, morbidness and rebellion against
life. Without knowing why, you chafe and fret in their presence. You
lose your bearings on life and its problems. Your moral compass is
disturbed and unsatisfactory. It is made untrue in an instant, as the
magnetic needle of a ship is deflected when it passes near great
mountains of iron ore.

There are men who float down the stream of life like icebergs,--cold,
reserved, unapproachable and self-contained. In their presence you
involuntarily draw your wraps closer around you, as you wonder who left
the door open. These refrigerated human beings have a most depressing
influence on all those who fall under the spell of their radiated
chilliness. But there are other natures, warm, helpful, genial, who are
like the Gulf Stream, following their own course, flowing undaunted and
undismayed in the ocean of colder waters. Their presence brings warmth
and life and the glow of sunshine, the joyous, stimulating breath of
spring. There are men who are like malarious swamps,--poisonous,
depressing and weakening by their very presence. They make heavy,
oppressive and gloomy the atmosphere of their own homes; the sound of
the children's play is stilled, the ripples of laughter are frozen by
their presence. They go through life as if each day were a new big
funeral, and they were always chief mourners. There are other men who
seem like the ocean; they are constantly bracing, stimulating, giving
new draughts of tonic life and strength by their very presence.

There are men who are insincere in heart, and that insincerity is
radiated by their presence. They have a wondrous interest in your
welfare,--when they need you. They put on a "property" smile so
suddenly, when it serves their purpose, that it seems the smile must be
connected with some electric button concealed in their clothes. Their
voice has a simulated cordiality that long training may have made
almost natural. But they never play their part absolutely true, the
mask _will_ slip down sometimes; their cleverness cannot teach
their eyes the look of sterling honesty; they may deceive some people,
but they cannot deceive all. There is a subtle power of revelation
which makes us say: "Well, I cannot explain how it is, but I know that
man is not honest."

Man cannot escape for one moment from this radiation of his character,
this constantly weakening or strengthening of others. He cannot evade
the responsibility by saying it is an unconscious influence. He can
_select_ the qualities that he will permit to be radiated. He can
cultivate sweetness, calmness, trust, generosity, truth, justice,
loyalty, nobility,--make them vitally active in his character,--and by
these qualities he will constantly affect the world.

Discouragement often comes to honest souls trying to live the best they
can, in the thought that they are doing so little good in the world.
Trifles unnoted by us may be links in the chain of some great purpose.
In 1797, William Godwin wrote The Inquirer, a collection of
revolutionary essays on morals and politics. This book influenced
Thomas Malthus to write his Essay on Population, published in 1798.
Malthus' book suggested to Charles Darwin a point of view upon which he
devoted many years of his life, resulting, in 1859, in the publication
of The Origin of Species,--the most influential book of the nineteenth
century, a book that has revolutionized all science. These were but
three links of influence extending over sixty years. It might be
possible to trace this genealogy of influence back from Godwin, through
generation and generation, to the word or act of some shepherd in early
Britain, watching his flock upon the hills, living his quiet life, and
dying with the thought that he had done nothing to help the world.

Men and women have duties to others,--and duties to themselves. In
justice to ourselves we should refuse to live in an atmosphere that
keeps us from living our best. If the fault be in us, we should master
it. If it be the personal influence of others that, like a noxious
vapor, kills our best impulses, we should remove from that influence,--
if we can _possibly_ move without forsaking duties. If it be wrong
to move, then we should take strong doses of moral quinine to counteract
the malaria of influence. It is not what those around us _do_ for
us that counts,--it is what they _are_ to us. We carry our house-
plants from one window to another to give them the proper heat, light,
air and moisture. Should we not be at least as careful of ourselves?

To make our influence felt we must live our faith, we must practice
what we believe. When I looked at Catherine's, I saw them with sheer
horrified eyes after staring windows, but the voices and the steps
were gone. Since erhub they came to my side and sahe, as Father's
face under my pen entstund. Not long, it came out a single step
back, at the same moment the hand of Catherine appealed to my
shoulder and I felt like her young body quivered. Immediately
Kapellenthür was also torn up, and I recognized the Junker Wulf, despite
his otherwise pale itzt face seemed bloated and red.

"Was Huck allfort you in the coffin!" he called to his sister.
"The Junker from Risch been there, his Condolenze to indicate, you would
have him probably the draft kredenzen like!" At the same time, he had
perceived my bohrete and me with his small eyes. "Wulf," said
Catherine, with me they came to him, "it is John, Wulf" The Junker
was not vonnöthen, my hand, he mustered just violenfarben my doublet
and said: "You wear as a colorful Federbalg ; it is you 'Sieur' must now
tituliren! "" Tell me, how's you like! " I said, by looking at the
yard also occur.

"Although I have access from where I come, the 'Mr' before my name
is not gefehlet - You know well, your father's son has a great right
up to me."

He looked at me astonished at what, but then said only: "Well well
so do you like to show what you have for my father's gold erlernet
searched, and should the reward for your work you not to behave.

"I meinete what the wages were concerned that I would have long since
vorausbekommen, but as the Junker said that he werd keep it as a
gentleman's gezieme, so I asked what work he would have to apply to me.
"You know it," he said and then held inne by sharply to his sister
looked at - "when a nobleman's daughter leaves the house, so must
its image is left behind.

"I felt that these words Catherine, which was at my side, like
a staggering haschte under my coat, but I replied calmly:" The
custom is known to me, but how Your meinet because, Junker Wulf?
"" I mean, "he said hard, as if he expected a counter-spell," that you
have the portraits of the daughter of this house paint shalt! "Me
transit's almost like a horror, do not know whether more than the
tone or the interpretation of these words, thought, to such start
itzt was hardly the right time. As Catherine was silent, from her
eyes but a flehentlicher view zuflog me, so I replied: "If your sister
is fine vergönnen want me, so I hope Protection Your father and
my master's teaching anzuthun no shame.

Räumet me back my Kämmerlein above the Thorweg Dieterich at the
old, it should happen, what your wünschet. "The Junker was satisfied
and said his sister, they like a snack for me to judge. I wanted to
about the beginning of my work still thun a question, but I stopped
again, because the order was received suddenly Ascended delight
in me, that I feared she could gush with each word.

So, I was also zwo Grimmen Köter not been aware that there at the
fountain on the hot stones Sun. As we came closer, she jumped in and
drove with an open mouth against me, that Catherine a cry that,
the Junker but a shrill whistle, whereupon they are howling at his
feet crept.

"When Hell elements," he laughed, "nice guys zwo; apply them equally,
a Sauschwanz cloth or Flanders!" "Well, Junker Wulf" - the speech I
could not probably contain myself - "I will once again host in your
father's house, so you may understand animals better Sitte Your
Teacher! "He flashed me with his little eyes and pulled a few times in
his crotch beard. "This is the only way their welcome, Sieur John!"
then he said, he is bent to the beasts to stroke. "For all know that
a different regiment allhier started because - to me who comes in the
way that I Hetz in the devil's throat!" The last words that he violently
ejected, he had raised high, then he whistled his dogs and progressively
across the yard to the Thore. A little while I looked hintendrein,
then I followed Katharinenstraße, under the linden shade muted and
lowered the stairs head to the mansion went up, as we went in silence
mitsammen the broad steps up to the Lords, allwo blessed we are in
the room were Mr Gerhardus .-- Here, everything was still, as I
have previously seen, the goldgeblümten leather wallpaper, the maps
on the wall, the clean parchment volumes on the shelves above the
work tables of the beautiful forest because of the earlier Ruisdael
- and then before the empty chair.

My eyes remained liable because, even as the bands down there in the
body of those who seemed to me also that chamber itzt entseelet and,
although the forest outside of the young Lenz shone through the window,
but equally of the silence of death as erfüllet. I had to Katharinenstraße
moments in this almost forgotten.

As I turned, she was almost motionless in the middle of the room, and I
saw the little hands, they held daraufgepreßt, her chest went in
impetuous work. "Not true," she said quietly, "here is no one
itzt; no one as my brother and his Grimmen dogs?" "Catherine!" I cried,
"what is you? What is this in your father's house?" "What is it,
John?" And almost wildly grabbed my two hands, and their young eyes
like sparks in anger and pain.

"No, no, let the father only in his tomb to rest, but then - thou shalt
indeed paint my picture, you will one dwell time here - then, John,
help me, by the Todt's sake, help me! "Such words of compassion and love
very defeated, I fell off the beauty, sweetness, and swore it down me
and all my strength to . Since lösete a gentle Thränenquell
from her eyes, and we sat beside each other and spoke of those who
long to memory. When we then returned to the Lower hinabgingen I asked
even after the old lady. "Oh," said Catherine, 'Bas' Ursel! Will you
welcome them?

Yes, it is also still there, and has below her chamber, because the
stairs are längsthin to their already burdensome. "We did so in a bar,
which was against the Garden, where the beds before the green
hedge walls just the tulips from the ground broke. Bas' Ursel sat in
a black crepe dress and bonnet only as an evanescent heap, just in a
high chair and had a game in front of nuns, which, as they nachmals
told me, the Lord Baron - after his father's death, he was such itzund
really - its from Lübeck to worship with them.

"So," she said, because Catherine had called me, however, they caution
the helfenbeinern Pflöcklein stuck to each other, "He is back, John?
No, it's not enough! O, c'est un jeu très-compliqué! "Then she threw
the Pflöcklein on top of each other and see me." egg, "she said," He
is indeed handsome angethan, but because He knows not that he in
a funeral home has ended? "" I know, Miss, "I replied," but as I stepped
into the Thor, I knew it not. "" Well, "she said and nodded even
begütigend," so he actually belongs to did not servants. " About
Katharinenstraße flew pale face a smile, making me any answer which
he probably wants to keep. Rather, I praised the old lady who Anmuth
their living chamber, as well as Epheu by the Thürmchen the outside
wall on the ascent, had come under the window hingesponnen and wiegete
its green tendrils against the panes. But Bas' Ursel meinete, yes, if
not only would the nightingales, which itzt again anhüben with
their night restlessness; ohnedem she could not find sleep, and
then it was almost too remote, the Gesinde was not from here in Aug
to keep in the garden outside, but just passire nothing but etwan
when the gardener's lad to the hedges or book discounts putze. -
And so the visit had its Endschaft because Katharina warned that
it was just after the time, my body to strengthen wegemüden.

I was now in my Kämmerchen above the Hofthor einlogiret, Dieterich to
the old but joy, because on the evening we sat on his Tragkist, and let
me, just like in the boys' time, he told. He will probably smoke a
pipe tobacco, custom by which people in the war in underway, and
holete all sorts of stories from the tribulations, so by the foreign
troops in the yard and down in the village have had to suffer, even
though, as I found his speech to the good Frölen Catherine, and he
did not find an end, although he broke suddenly from and see me. "Know
Your, Mr. John," he said, " 's is cruel pity that you do not also
an heraldic habet equal to the Risch over there!

"And because such talk to me jagete blood into his face, patted it
with his hard hand on my shoulder, meinend:" Well, now, Mr John, 's was
a stupid word from me, and we certainly need to stay where we hingesetzet
God. "I do not know whether I am currently in such agree, but only ask,
what of the Risch for itzund since become a man. The old man looked
at me even cute and paffte from his short Pfeiflein as if the Theurer
Feldrain on growing cabbage. "Your's Wollet know, Mr. John?" He began
then. "He belongs to those blithely Junkers in the Kieler people handling
the citizens of the buttons to shoot the houses, you may understand
believe it has excellent guns! On the violin he knows not to play so
well, because he is a funny Stücklein loves, he has lately Rathscheck
the musicians, the above Holstenthore resides at midnight with his
sword aufgeklopfet, it also not time left to jerkin and trousers
anzuthun.

Instead of the sun but the moon was in the sky, it was octavis trium
regum Pickel stones and froze, and thus has the musicians, the
Junker, with the sword behind him, bright shirts in front of him through
the streets must violins! - Your Wollet more know, Mr John? -
To look at his house, the farmer, if the God they are not blessed
with daughters, and yet - but after his father's death, he has money,
and our Junker, your's probably know, has already by absorbed his
legacy. "I certainly knew enough now, even the old had been
with his Dieterich Slogans:" But I'm just a man related, "made his
final speech. - With my Malgeräth was also my clothes came out of
the city, where I am at the Golden Lion abgeleget everything, so I
anitzt as it ziemete, in dark dress undergone.

The daytime but I turned in my first use. Namely, it was at the top
of the mansion of the blessed Lord beside a hall chamber, spatially and
high, with walls almost entirely of life-size images were verhänget,
so that only the fireplace next to a place to open two hours. They were
the forefathers of the Lord Gerhardus, most seriously, and sure-sighted
men and women, with a face, the you could probably trust it even in rich
man's age, and Catherine's mother died early the conclusions made then.
'The last two pictures were excellent even in our country man, the
Eiderstedt George Ovens, in his vigorous nature gemalet, and I looked
with my brush the features of my noble protector nachzuschaffen;
constrained in scale and only sufficient to myself, but it has
subsequently become a bigger me gedienet portraits, still itzt here in
my lonely chamber theuerste the company of my age. The portraits
of his daughter but lives with me in my inside. Often, when I made a
choice, I stood still long before the beautiful pictures.
Katharinenstraße face, I found in the back of the two parents: the
father's forehead, the mother of grace to the lips, but where was
the hard corners of the mouth, the small eye of the Junker Wulf -
This was lower from the past to come up!

Slowly I went to the older portraits lined along until about one
hundred years far down. And behold, there hung in the black, the worms
have rotten wooden frame a picture, before I was a boy who's as if I
am holding still had confessed. It Stellet a noblewoman of some forty
years ago, the small gray eyes looked cold and pungent from the hard
face that only a half between the White Kinntuch hood and the veil was
visible. Schauer A quieter überfuhr me so long already heimgegangenen
soul, and I said to myself: 'Here, this is it! How räthselhafte go
the natural way! A saeculum and drüber secretly as it runs under a
ceiling in the blood of the sexes continues, then, long forgotten,
it suddenly appeared again, the living to the disaster. Not before
the son of the noble Gerhardus; before this one and their blood offspring
nachgeborenem Katharinenstraße should I protect. " And once again, I
stepped in front of the two most recent images in which my Gemüthe
be refreshed.

So I was currently in the silent halls, where to me the only
Sonnenstäublein played under the shadow of the unprecedented.

Katharinenstraße I saw only at lunch, the old lady and Junker Wulf
for pages, but wofern Bas' Ursel not high tones in their speaking,
so it was always a silent and betrübsam meal so that I often bite
the lips in the quoll.

Not the grief for the remote was its cause, but it was between brother
and sister, as if the tablecloth cut between them. Catherine,
after it almost does not affect the food, away anytime soon, I just
barely through the eyes of greeting, the Junker, but if his temper hour,
looked at me then the draft noted, had hiegegen me and so I also wanted
to not have my desired level, überdem resist all sorts Flosculn
to defend what gespitzet were against me.

In the meantime, after the coffin has been closed for several days, was
the burial of the Lord Gerhardus down there in the church of the
village, allwo the Erbbegräbniß is and where his bones itzt where
his forefathers rested with the Supreme dereinst them a happy Urständ
wanted to pay! There were, however, to such Trauerfestlichkeit
although some people from the city and the surrounding objects came
from a few members but almost, and it only removed much of the Junker
Wulf the last of his tribe, and of Mr. Gerhardus Ehgemahl local sex was
not, so it also happened that in the near future all off again. The
Junker pushed even now that I applied my work begönne what I pictures
up there in the halls at a north window to show me the place had
erwählet.

It came Bas' Ursel, because of their gout the stairs could not climb,
and meinete, it might best be integrated in their offices or in the
chamber to happen, so be it to entertain us on both sides, but I,
like those Gevatterschaft even entrathend had at the local western
sun right painter reason against it, and everything could not help her
speeches. Rather, I was on the next morning already and the secondary
window of the hall to conduct the high easel to make, so I Hülfe Dieterich
myself in recent days made. As I have just the frame with a leash
attached to wall, opened the door from Mr Gerhardus' rooms, and
Katharina joined herein.

For what cause would be difficult to say, but I felt that we dießmal
were almost frightened to and from the black clothing that they do
not abgeleget, looked at the young face in confusion even
sweeter to me. "Katharina," said I, "You know, I will paint your
portraits; tolerate your's like?" Then drew a veil over her brown
eyes stars, and she said quietly: "Why are you so but ask, John?"
Thau As one of Fortune fell in my heart. "No, no, Catherine, but says
what is, what can I serve you? - Setzet you, so that we are
not surprised to be so idle, and then speak! Or rather, I know it
already.'s Me you need not to say "But they are not set, they came up
to me. "Your Denket yet, John, as you once Buhz with your bow niederschosset?
It does not dießmal north, although it again if the nest is lurking,
because I'm not birds, which he lets rip. But, John - I blood have
a friend - help me to resist!

"" You meinet your brother, Katharina "-" I have no other .-- The man,
whom I hate, he wants to give me a wife! During our father's longstanding
Siechbett I have the vicious battle with his argument, and
only in his coffin I abgetrotzt it's that I am in peace to grieve like
the father, but all I know, it will not hold. "I thought a studded
damsels to Preetz, Mr Gerhardus 'only sibling, and meinete if not
for protection and refuge to tackle it. Catherine nodded. "Will you
be my messenger, John - I've written it already, but in the hands
Wulf came the answer, and I know they are not only the emerging Wuthe
my brother, even the ear of the dying erfüllet would have if it would
have been left open for the sound of the world, but the gracious
God, the beloved principal had been with the last slumber zugedecket
earth.

"Katharina had now but at my request gesetzet vis me, and I began to see
the outlines of the wall line to draw.
It
is at night, in the darkest hours, those preceding dawn, that plants
grow best, that they most increase in size. May this not be one of
Nature's gentle showings to man of the times when he grows best, of the
darkness of failure that is evolving into the sunlight of success. Let
us fear only the failure of not living the right as we see it, leaving
the results to the guardianship of the Infinite.

If we think of any supreme moment of our lives, any great success, any
one who is dear to us, and then consider how we reached that moment,
that success, that friend, we will be surprised and strengthened by the
revelation. As we trace each one, back, step by step, through the
genealogy of circumstances, we will see how logical has been the course
of our joy and success, from sorrow and failure, and that what gives us
most happiness to-day is inextricably connected with what once caused
us sorrow. Many of the rivers of our greatest prosperity and growth
have had their source and their trickling increase into volume among
the dark, gloomy recesses of our failure.

There is no honest and true work, carried along with constant and
sincere purpose that ever really fails. If it sometime seem to be
wasted effort, it will prove to us a new lesson of "how" to walk; the
secret of our failures will prove to us the inspiration of possible
successes. Man living with the highest aims, ever as best he can, in
continuous harmony with them, is a success, no matter what statistics
of failure a near-sighted and half-blind world of critics and
commentators may lay at his door.

High ideals, noble efforts will make seeming failures but trifles, they
need not dishearten us; they should prove sources of new strength. The
rocky way may prove safer than the slippery path of smoothness. Birds
cannot fly best with the wind but against it; ships do not progress in
calm, when the sails flap idly against the unstrained masts.

The alchemy of Nature, superior to that of the Paracelsians, constantly
transmutes the baser metals of failure into the later pure gold of
higher success, if the mind of the worker be kept true, constant and
untiring in the service, and he have that sublime courage that defies
fate to its worst while he does his best.


VI

Doing Our Best at All Times


Life is a wondrously complex problem for the individual, until, some
day, in a moment of illumination, he awakens to the great realization
that he can make it simple,--never quite simple, but always simpler.
There are a thousand mysteries of right and wrong that have baffled the
wise men of the ages. There are depths in the great fundamental
questions of the human race that no plummet of philosophy has ever
sounded. There are wild cries of honest hunger for truth that seek to
pierce the silence beyond the grave, but to them ever echo back,--only
a repetition of their unanswered cries.

To us all, comes, at times, the great note of questioning despair that
darkens our horizon and paralyzes our effort: "If there really be a
God, if eternal justice really rule the world," we say, "why should
life be as it is? Why do some men starve while others feast; why does
virtue often languish in the shadow while vice triumphs in the
sunshine; why does failure so often dog the footsteps of honest effort,
while the success that comes from trickery and dishonor is greeted with
the world's applause? How is it that the loving father of one family is
taken by death, while the worthless incumbrance of another is spared?
Why is there so much unnecessary pain, sorrowing and suffering in the
world--why, indeed, should there be any?"

Neither philosophy nor religion can give any final satisfactory answer
that is capable of logical demonstration, of absolute proof. There is
ever, even after the best explanations, a residuum of the unexplained.
We must then fall back in the eternal arms of faith, and be wise enough
to say, "I will not be disconcerted by these problems of life, I will
not permit them to plunge me into doubt, and to cloud my life with
vagueness and uncertainty. Man arrogates much to himself when he
demands from the Infinite the full solution of all His mysteries. I
will found my life on the impregnable rock of a simple fundamental
truth:--'This glorious creation with its millions of wondrous phenomena
pulsing ever in harmony with eternal law must have a Creator, that
Creator must be omniscient and omnipotent. But that Creator Himself
cannot, in justice, demand of any creature more than the best that that
individual can give.' I will do each day, in every moment, the best I
can by the light I have; I will ever seek more light, more perfect
illumination of truth, and ever live as best I can in harmony with the
truth as I see it. If failure come I will meet it bravely; if my
pathway then lie in the shadow of trial, sorrow and suffering, I shall
have the restful peace and the calm strength of one who has done his
best, who can look back upon the past with no pang of regret, and who
has heroic courage in facing the results, whatever they be, knowing
that he could not make them different."

Upon this life-plan, this foundation, man may erect any superstructure
of religion or philosophy that he conscientiously can erect; he should
add to his equipment for living every shred of strength and
inspiration, moral, mental or spiritual that is in his power to secure.
This simple working faith is opposed to no creed, is a substitute for
none; it is but a primary belief, a citadel, a refuge where the
individual can retire for strength when the battle of life grows hard.

A mere theory of life, that remains but a theory, is about as useful to
a man, as a gilt-edged menu is to a starving sailor on a raft in mid-
ocean. It is irritating but not stimulating. No rule for higher living
will help a man in the slightest, until he reach out and appropriate it
for himself, until he make it practical in his daily life, until that
seed of theory in his mind blossom into a thousand flowers of thought
and word and act.

If a man honestly seeks to live his best at all times, that
determination is visible in every moment of his living, no trifle in
his life can be too insignificant to reflect his principle of living.
The sun illuminates and beautifies a fallen leaf by the roadside as
impartially as a towering mountain peak in the Alps. Every drop of
water in the ocean is an epitome of the chemistry of the whole ocean;
every drop is subject to precisely the same laws as dominate the united
infinity of billions of drops that make that miracle of Nature, men
call the Sea. No matter how humble the calling of the individual, how
uninteresting and dull the round of his duties, he should do his best.
He should dignify what he is doing by the mind he puts into it, he
should vitalize what little he has of power or energy or ability or
opportunity, in order to prepare himself to be equal to higher
privileges when they come. This will never lead man to that weak
content that is satisfied with whatever falls to his lot. It will
rather fill his mind with that divine discontent that cheerfully
accepts the best,--merely as a temporary substitute for something
better.

The man who is seeking ever to do his best is the man who is keen,
active, wide-awake, and aggressive. He is ever watchful of himself in
trifles; his standard is not "What will the world say?" but "Is it
worthy of me?"

Edwin Booth, one of the greatest actors on the American stage, would
never permit himself to assume an ungraceful attitude, even in his
hours of privacy. In this simple thing, he ever lived his best. On the
stage every move was one of unconscious grace. Those of his company who
were conscious of their motions were the awkward ones, who were seeking
in public to undo or to conceal the carelessness of the gestures and
motions of their private life. The man who is slipshod and thoughtless
in his daily speech, whose vocabulary is a collection of anaemic
commonplaces, whose repetitions of phrases and extravagance of
interjections act but as feeble disguises to his lack of ideas, will
never be brilliant on an occasion when he longs to outshine the stars.
Living at one's best is constant preparation for instant use. It can
never make one over-precise, self-conscious, affected, or priggish.
Education, in its highest sense, is _conscious_ training of mind
or body to act _unconsciously_. It is conscious formation of
mental habits, not mere acquisition of information.

One of the many ways in which the individual unwisely eclipses himself,
is in his worship of the fetich of luck. He feels that all others are
lucky, and that whatever he attempts, fails. He does not realize the
untiring energy, the unremitting concentration, the heroic courage, the
sublime patience that is the secret of some men's success. Their "luck"
was that they had prepared themselves to be equal to their opportunity
when it came and were awake to recognize it and receive it. His own
opportunity came and departed unnoted, it would not waken him from his
dreams of some untold wealth that would fall into his lap. So he grows
discouraged and envies those whom he should emulate, and he bandages
his arm and chloroforms his energies, and performs his duties in a
perfunctory way, or he passes through life, just ever "sampling" lines
of activity.

The honest, faithful struggler should always realize that failure is
but an episode in a true man's life,--never the whole story. It is
never easy to meet, and no philosophy can make it so, but the steadfast
courage to master conditions, instead of complaining of them, will help
him on his way; it will ever enable him to get the best out of what he
has. He never knows the long series of vanquished failures that give
solidity to some one else's success; he does not realize the price that
some rich man, the innocent football of political malcontents and
demagogues, has heroicly paid for wealth and position.

The man who has a pessimist's doubt of all things; who demands a
certified guarantee of his future; who ever fears his work will not be
recognized or appreciated; or that after all, it is really not worth
while, will never live his best. He is dulling his capacity for real
progress by his hypnotic course of excuses for inactivity, instead of a
strong tonic of reasons for action.

One of the most weakening elements in the individual make-up is the
surrender to the oncoming of years. Man's self-confidence dims and dies
in the fear of age. "This new thought," he says of some suggestion
tending to higher development, "is good; it is what we need. I am glad
to have it for my children; I would have been happy to have had some
such help when I was at school, but it is too late for me. I am a man
advanced in years."

This is but blind closing of life to wondrous possibilities. The knell
of lost opportunity is never tolled in this life. It is never too late
to recognize truth and to live by it. It requires only greater effort,
closer attention, deeper consecration; but the impossible does not
exist for the man who is self-confident and is willing to pay the price
in time and struggle for his success or development. Later in life, the
assessments are heavier in progress, as in life insurance, but that
matters not to that mighty self-confidence that _will_ not grow
old while knowledge can keep it young.

Socrates, when his hair whitened with the snow of age, learned to play
on instruments of music. Cato, at fourscore, began his study of Greek,
and the same age saw Plutarch beginning, with the enthusiasm of a boy,
his first lessons in Latin. The Character of Man, Theophrastus'
greatest work, was begun on his ninetieth birthday. Chaucer's
Canterbury Tales was the work of the poet's declining years. Ronsard,
the father of French poetry, whose sonnets even translation cannot
destroy, did not develop his poetic faculty until nearly fifty.
Benjamin Franklin at this age had just taken his really first steps of
importance in philosophic pursuits. Arnauld, the theologian and sage,
translated Josephus in his eightieth year. Winckelmann, one of the most
famous writers on classic antiquities, was the son of a shoemaker, and
lived in obscurity and ignorance until the prime of life. Hobbes, the
English philosopher, published his version of the Odyssey in his
eighty-seventh year, and his Iliad one year later. Chevreul, the great
French scientist, whose untiring labors in the realm of color have so
enriched the world, was busy, keen and active when Death called him, at
the age of 103.

These men did not fear age; these few names from the great muster-roll
of the famous ones who defied the years, should be voices of hope and
heartening to every individual whose courage and confidence is weak.
The path of truth, higher living, truer development in every phase of
life, is never shut from the individual--until he closes it himself.
Let man feel this, believe it and make this faith a real and living
factor in his life and there are no limits to his progress. He has but
to live his best at all times, and rest calm and untroubled no matter
what results come to his efforts. The constant looking backward to what
might have been, instead of forward to what may be, is a great weakener
of self-confidence. This worry for the old past, this wasted energy,
for that which no power in the world can restore, ever lessens the
individual's faith in himself, weakens his efforts to develop himself
for the future to the perfection of his possibilities.

Nature in her beautiful love and tenderness, says to man, weakened and
worn and weary with the struggle, "Do in the best way you can the
trifle that is under your hand at this moment; do it in the best spirit
of preparation for the future your thought suggests; bring all the
light of knowledge from all the past to aid you. Do this and you have
done your best. The past is forever closed to you. It is closed forever
to you. No worry, no struggle, no suffering, no agony of despair can
alter it. It is as much beyond your power as if it were a million years
of eternity behind you. Turn all that past, with its sad hours,
weakness and sin, its wasted opportunities as light; in confidence and
hope, upon the future. Turn it all in fuller truth and light so as to
make each trifle of this present a new past it will be joy to look back
to; each trifle a grander, nobler, and more perfect preparation for the
future. The present and the future you can make from it, is yours; the
past has gone back, with all its messages, all its history, all its
records to the God who loaned you the golden moments to use in
obedience to His law."


VII

The Royal Road to Happiness


"During my whole life I have not had twenty-four hours of happiness." So
said Prince Bismarck, one of the greatest statesmen of the nineteenth
century. Eighty-three years of wealth, fame, honors, power, influence,
prosperity and triumph,--years when he held an empire in his fingers,--
but not one day of happiness!

Happiness is the greatest paradox in Nature. It can grow in any soil,
live under any conditions. It defies environment. It comes from within;
it is the revelation of the depths of the inner life as light and heat
proclaim the sun from which they radiate. Happiness consists not of
having, but of being; not of possessing, but of enjoying. It is the
warm glow of a heart at peace with itself. A martyr at the stake may
have happiness that a king on his throne might envy. Man is the creator
of his own happiness; it is the aroma of a life lived in harmony with
high ideals. For what a man _has_, he may be dependent on others;
what he _is_, rests with him alone. What he _ob_tains in life
is but acquisition; what he _at_tains, is growth. Happiness is the
soul's joy in the possession of the intangible. Absolute, perfect,
continuous happiness in life, is impossible for the human. It would
mean the consummation of attainments, the individual consciousness of a
perfectly fulfilled destiny. Happiness is paradoxic because it may
coexist with trial, sorrow and poverty. It is the gladness of the
heart,--rising superior to all conditions.

Happiness has a number of under-studies,--gratification, satisfaction,
content, and pleasure,--clever imitators that simulate its appearance
rather than emulate its method. Gratification is a harmony between our
desires and our possessions. It is ever incomplete, it is the thankful
acceptance of part. It is a mental pleasure in the quality of what one
receives, an unsatisfiedness as to the quantity. It may be an element
in happiness, but, in itself,--it is not happiness.

Satisfaction is perfect identity of our desires and our possessions. It
exists only so long as this perfect union and unity can be preserved.
But every realized ideal gives birth to new ideals, every step in
advance reveals large domains of the unattained; every feeding
stimulates new appetites,--then the desires and possessions are no
longer identical, no longer equal; new cravings call forth new
activities, the equipoise is destroyed, and dissatisfaction reenters.
Man might possess everything tangible in the world and yet not be
happy, for happiness is the satisfying of the soul, not of the mind or
the body. Dissatisfaction, in its highest sense, is the keynote of all
advance, the evidence of new aspirations, the guarantee of the
progressive revelation of new possibilities.

Content is a greatly overrated virtue. It is a kind of diluted despair;
it is the feeling with which we continue to accept substitutes, without
striving for the realities. Content makes the trained individual
swallow vinegar and try to smack his lips as if it were wine. Content
enables one to warm his hands at the fire of a past joy that exists
only in memory. Content is a mental and moral chloroform that deadens
the activities of the individual to rise to higher planes of life and
growth. Man should never be contented with anything less than the best
efforts of his nature can possibly secure for him. Content makes the
world more comfortable for the individual, but it is the death-knell of
progress. Man should be content with each step of progress merely as a
station, discontented with it as a destination; contented with it as a
step; discontented with it as a finality. There are times when a man
should be content with what he _has_, but never with what he
_is_.

But content is not happiness; neither is pleasure. Pleasure is
temporary, happiness is continuous; pleasure is a note, happiness is a
symphony; pleasure may exist when conscience utters protests;
happiness,--never. Pleasure may have its dregs and its lees; but none
can be found in the cup of happiness.

Man is the only animal that can be really happy. To the rest of the
creation belong only weak imitations of the understudies. Happiness
represents a peaceful attunement of a life with a standard of living.
It can never be made by the individual, by himself, for himself. It is
one of the incidental by-products of an unselfish life. No man can make
his own happiness the one object of his life and attain it, any more
than he can jump on the far end of his shadow. If you would hit the
bull's-eye of happiness on the target of life, aim above it. Place
other things higher than your own happiness and it will surely come to
you. You can buy pleasure, you can acquire content, you can become
satisfied,--but Nature never put real happiness on the bargain-counter.
It is the undetachable accompaniment of true living. It is calm and
peaceful; it never lives in an atmosphere of worry or of hopeless
struggle.

The basis of happiness is the love of something outside self. Search
every instance of happiness in the world, and you will find, when all
the incidental features are eliminated, there is always the constant,
unchangeable element of love,--love of parent for child; love of man
and woman for each other; love of humanity in some form, or a great
life work into which the individual throws all his energies.

Happiness is the voice of optimism, of faith, of simple, steadfast
love. No cynic or pessimist can be really happy. A cynic is a man who
is morally near-sighted,--and brags about it. He sees the evil in his
own heart, and thinks he sees the world. He lets a mote in his eye
eclipse the sun. An incurable cynic is an individual who should long
for death,--for life cannot bring him happiness, death might. The
keynote of Bismarck's lack of happiness was his profound distrust of
human nature.

There is a royal road to happiness; it lies in Consecration,
Concentration, Conquest and Conscience.

Consecration is dedicating the individual life to the service of
others, to some noble mission, to realizing some unselfish ideal. Life
is not something to be lived _through_; it is something to be
lived _up to_. It is a privilege, not a penal servitude of so many
decades on earth. Consecration places the object of life above the mere
acquisition of money, as a finality. The man who is unselfish, kind,
loving, tender, helpful, ready to lighten the burden of those around
him, to hearten the struggling ones, to forget himself sometimes in
remembering others,--is on the right road to happiness. Consecration is
ever active, bold and aggressive, fearing naught but possible
disloyalty to high ideals.

Concentration makes the individual life simpler and deeper. It cuts
away the shams and pretences of modern living and limits life to its
truest essentials. Worry, fear, useless regret,--all the great wastes
that sap mental, moral or physical energy must be sacrificed, or the
individual needlessly destroys half the possibilities of living. A
great purpose in life, something that unifies the strands and threads
of each day's thinking, something that takes the sting from the petty
trials, sorrows, sufferings and blunders of life, is a great aid to
Concentration. Soldiers in battle may forget their wounds, or even be
unconscious of them, in the inspiration of battling for what they
believe is right. Concentration dignifies an humble life; it makes a
great life,--sublime. In morals it is a short-cut to simplicity. It
leads to right for right's sake, without thought of policy or of
reward. It brings calm and rest to the individual,--a serenity that is
but the sunlight of happiness.

Conquest is the overcoming of an evil habit, the rising superior to
opposition and attack, the spiritual exaltation that comes from
resisting the invasion of the grovelling material side of life.
Sometimes when you are worn and weak with the struggle; when it seems
that justice is a dream, that honesty and loyalty and truth count for
nothing, that the devil is the only good paymaster; when hope grows dim
and flickers, then is the time when you must tower in the great sublime
faith that Right must prevail, then must you throttle these imps of
doubt and despair, you must master yourself to master the world around
you. A major bear the crowns, the Scepter in his hand, The Majesty of
the beam makes clever speaker stupid. Solo before appalled almost in
the middle of the speech, the new Doctorand? ha! ha! me now is that it
is a low rate of Seyn opponents, he is not the versehn.
Be like a lighthouse that illumines and
beautifies the snarling, swashing waves of the storm that threaten it,
that seek to undermine it and seek to wash over it. Thränen flowing
from the cheeks! Weicht old virtues, and goes into mourning = Flor,
With dismal vocals this time out. Perhaps this is our time gerühret Once
that after your jewelry also a desire spühret. But no!
That too is Conquest. And Conquest is part of the
royal road to Happiness.

Conscience, as the mentor, the guide and compass of every act, leads
ever to Happiness. Because he loved those people, as he never
had a boyfriend, never father and mother and not even God had loved. The
whole unripe passion gripped his earlier years the image of this man,
whose name it two hours ago had not yet known.
The
man who is honestly seeking to live his life in Consecration,
Concentration and Conquest, living from day to day as best he can, by
the light he has, may rely explicitly on his Conscience. He can shut
his ears to "what the world says" and find in the approval of his own
conscience the highest earthly tribune,--the voice of the Infinite
communing with the Individual.

Unhappiness is the hunger to get; Happiness is the hunger to give. True
happiness must ever have the tinge of sorrow outlived, the sense of
pain softened by the mellowing years, the chastening of loss that in
the wondrous mystery of time transmutes our suffering into love and
sympathy with others.

If the individual should set out for a single day to give Happiness, to
make life happier, brighter and sweeter, not for himself, but for
others, he would find a wondrous revelation of what Happiness really
is. Whether he is aware of the caution is not a reserved Zoar Who is,
if it infringes on his fame, Not darwieder sets? God will be reset. Prior
to his teaching and Ehr Muthig you do not want to fight enemies
and blasphemers Even with word and dampen zeal.

Hingerückt Where can i? All at once makes me Bey bright light of day
is a Hall of Heroes, By Heroes, the courageous, so strong they could
only, and word before God and his glory Ehr ment under.
And Happiness would come to them,
in its highest and best form, not because they would seek to
_absorb_ it, but,--because they seek to _radiate_ it.