Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


The Eagle Cliff, by R.M. Ballantyne.

________________________________________________________________________
This is a truly delightful book by this prolific author.  I know of no
other of his books that leaves so many images in the mind, so fresh
after many a year.  The scene starts with a young man cycling on his
penny-farthing towards London.  On the way he has an accident, knocking
down an elderly lady, but fleeing the scene when he sees a policeman
coming.  But when he gets home he finds a telegram informing him that
his friends will be departing very soon in a yacht, to visit the
islands on the North-West of Britain, so he joins them.

Unfortunately there is a fog and the yacht is damaged but all the young
men and their crew manage to get ashore, finding themselves in the
neighbourhood of a large house, the residence of a gentleman and his
family.  They are invited to stay there as his guests, and it is at
this point that the adventures begin, involving fishing, shooting,
bird-watching, sailing and so forth.  --W. W. 1807.]

In Dorothy Wordsworth's 'Recollections' of the Scotch Tour the following
occurs:

"August 27, 1803.--We mentioned Rob Roy, and the eyes of all glistened;
even the lady of the house, who was very diffident, and no great
talker, exclaimed, 'He was a good man, Rob Roy!

he had been dead only about eighty years, had lived in the next farm,
which belonged to him, and there his bones were laid.' He was a
famous swordsman. Having an arm much longer than other men, he had a
greater command with his sword.

As a proof of the length of his arm, they told us that he could garter his
tartan stockings below the knee without stooping, and added a dozen
different stories of single combats, which he had fought, all in
perfect good humour, merely to prove his prowess.

I daresay they had stories of this kind which would hardly have
been exhausted in the long evenings of a whole December week, Rob
Roy being as famous here as even Robin Hood was in the forest of
Sherwood; _he_ also robbed from the rich, giving to the poor, and
defending them from oppression.

They tell of his confining the factor of the Duke of Montrose in
one of the islands of Loch Ketterine, after having taken his money
from him--the Duke's rents--in open day, while they were sitting
at table.

He was a formidable enemy of the Duke, but being a small laird against
a greater, was overcome at last, and forced to resign all his lands on
the Braes of Loch Lomond, including the caves which we visited,
on account of the money he had taken from the Duke and could not
repay."

September 12:

"Descended into Glengyle, above Loch Ketterine, and passed through
Mr.
Macfarlane's grounds, that is, through the whole of the glen, where
there was now no house left but his.

We stopped at his door to inquire after the family, though with little
hope of finding them at home, having seen a large company at work in a
hay-field, whom we conjectured to be his whole household, as it
proved, except a servant-maid who answered our enquiries. We had
sent the ferryman forward from the head of the glen to bring the boat
round from the place where he left it to the other side of the lake.
Passed the same farm-house we had such good reason to remember, and
went up to the burying-ground that stood so sweetly near the
water-side.

The ferryman had told us that Rob Roy's grave was there, so we could
not pass on without going up to the spot.
Arrived at the bottom of the hill the hilarious youth put his feet to
the treadles, and drove the machine vigorously up the opposite slope.
It was steep, but he was powerful.  He breathed hard, no doubt, but he
never flagged until he gained the next summit.  A shout burst from his
lips as he rolled along the level top, for there, about ten miles off,
lay the great city, glittering in the sunshine, and with only an
amber-tinted canopy of its usual smoke above it.

Among the tall elms and in the flowering hedgerows between which he
swept, innumerable birds warbled or twittered their astonishment that he
could fly with such heedless rapidity through that beautiful country,
and make for the dismal town in such magnificent weather.  One aspiring
lark overhead seemed to repeat, with persistent intensity, its trill of
self gratulation that it had not been born a man.  Even the cattle
appeared to regard the youth as a sort of ornithological curiosity, for
the sentiment, "Well, you are a goose!" was clearly written on their
mild faces as he flew past them.

Over the hill-top he went--twelve miles an hour at the least--until he
reached the slope on the other side; then down he rushed again, driving
at the first part of the descent like an insane steam-engine, till the
pace must have increased to twenty miles, at which point, the whirl of
the wheel becoming too rapid, he was obliged once more to rest his legs
on the handles, and take to repose, contemplation, and wiping his heated
brow--equivalent this, we might say, to the floating descent of the
sea-mew.  Of course the period of rest was of brief duration, for,
although the hill was a long slope, with many a glimpse of loveliness
between the trees, the time occupied in its flight was short, and, at
the bottom a rustic bridge, with an old inn and a thatched hamlet, with
an awkwardly sharp turn in the road beyond it, called for wary and
intelligent guidance of this lightning express.

Swiftly but safely to the foot of the hill went John Barret (that was
the youth's name), at ever-increasing speed, and without check; for no
one seemed to be moving about in the quiet hamlet, and the old English
inn had apparently fallen asleep.

A delicious undulating swoop at the bottom indicates the crossing of the
bridge.  A flash, and the inn is in rear.  The hamlet displays no sign
of life, nevertheless Barret is cautious.  He lays a finger on the brake
and touches the bell.  He is half-way through the hamlet and all goes
well; still no sign of life except--yes, this so-called proof of every
rule is always forthcoming, except that there is the sudden appearance
of one stately cock.  This is followed immediately by its sudden and
unstately disappearance.  A kitten also emerges from somewhere, glares,
arches, fuffs, becomes indescribable, and--is not!  Two or three
children turn up and gape, but do not recover in time to insult, or to
increase the dangers of the awkward turn in the road which is now at
hand.

Barret looks thoughtful.  Must the pace be checked here?  The road is
open and visible.  It is bordered by grass banks and ditches on either
side.  He rushes close to the left bank and, careering gracefully to the
right like an Algerine felucca in a white squall, dares the laws of
gravitation and centrifugal force to the utmost limitation, and
describes a magnificent segment of a great circle.  Almost before you
can wink he is straight again, and pegging along with irresistible
pertinacity.

Just beyond the hamlet a suburban lady is encountered, with clasped
hands and beseeching eyes, for a loose hairy bundle, animated by the
spirit of a dog, stands in the middle of the road, bidding defiance to
the entire universe!  The hairy bundle loses its head all at once,
likewise its heart: it has not spirit left even to get out of the way.
A momentary lean of the bicycle first to the left and then to the right
describes what artists call "the line of beauty," in a bight of which
the bundle remains behind, crushed in spirit, but unhurt in body.

At the bottom of the next hill a small roadside inn greets our cyclist.
That which cocks, kittens, dangers, and dogs could not effect, the inn
accomplishes.  He "slows."  In front of the door he describes an airy
circlet, dismounting while yet in motion, leans the lightning express
against the wall, and enters.  What! does that vigorous, handsome,
powerful fellow, in the flush of early manhood, drink?  Ay, truly he
does.

"Glass of bitter, sir?" asks the exuberant landlord.

"Ginger," says the young man, pointing significantly to a bit of blue
ribbon in his button-hole.

"Come far to-day, sir?" asks the host, as he pours out the liquid.

"Fifty miles--rather more," says Barret, setting down the glass.

"Fine weather, sir, for bicycling," says the landlord, sweeping in the
coppers.

"Very; good-day."

Before that cheery "Good-day" had ceased to affect the publican's brain
Barret was again spinning along the road to London.

It was the road on which the mail coaches of former days used to whirl,
to the merry music of bugle, wheel, and whip, along which so many men
and women had plodded in days gone by, in search of fame and fortune and
happiness: some, to find these in a greater or less degree, with much of
the tinsel rubbed off, others, to find none of them, but instead
thereof, wreck and ruin in the mighty human whirlpool; and not a few to
discover the fact that happiness does not depend either on fortune or
fame, but on spiritual harmony with God in Jesus Christ.

Pedestrians there still were on that road, bound for the same goal, and,
doubtless, with similar aims; but mail and other coaches had been driven
from the scene.

Barret had the broad road pretty much to himself.

Quickly he ran into the suburban districts, and here his urgent haste
had to be restrained a little.

"What if I am too late!" he thought, and almost involuntarily put on a
spurt.

Soon he entered the crowded thoroughfares, and was compelled to curb
both steed and spirit.  Passing through one of the less-frequented
streets in the neighbourhood of Finchley Road, he ventured to give the
rein to his willing charger.

But here Fortune ceased to smile--and Fortune was to be commended for
her severity.

Barret, although kind, courteous, manly, sensitive, and reasonably
careful, was not just what he ought to have been.  Although a hero, he
was not perfect.  He committed the unpardonable sin of turning a street
corner sharply!  A thin little old lady crossed the road at the same
identical moment, slowly.  They met!  Who can describe that meeting?
Not the writer, for he did not see it; more's the pity!  Very few people
saw it, for it was a quiet corner.  The parties concerned cannot be said
to have seen, though they felt it.  Both went down.  It was awful,
really, to see a feeble old lady struggling with an athlete and a
bicycle!

Two little street boys, and a ragged girl appeared as if by magic.  They
always do!

"Oh!  I say!  Ain't he bin and squashed 'er?"

Such was the remark of one of the boys.

"Pancakes is plump to 'er," was the observation of the other.

The ragged girl said nothing, but looked unspeakable things.

Burning with shame, trembling with anxiety, covered with dust and
considerably bruised, Barret sprang up, left his fallen steed, and,
raising the little old lady with great tenderness in his arms, sat her
on the pavement with her back against the railings, while he poured out
abject apologies and earnest inquiries.

Strange to say the old lady was not hurt in the least--only a good deal
shaken and very indignant.

Stranger still, a policeman suddenly appeared in the distance.  At the
same time a sweep, a postman, and a servant girl joined the group.

Young Barret, as we have said, was sensitive.  To become the object and
centre of a crowd in such circumstances was overwhelming.  A climax was
put to his confusion, when one of the street arabs, observing the
policeman, suddenly exclaimed:--

"Oh!  I say, 'ere's a bobby!  What a lark.  Won't you be 'ad up before
the beaks?  It'll be a case o' murder."

"No, it won't," retorted the other boy; "it'll be a case o' manslaughter
an' attempted suicide jined."

Barret started up, allowing the servant maid to take his place, and saw
the approaching constable.  Visions of detention, publicity, trial,
conviction, condemnation, swam before him.

"A reg'lar Krismas panty-mime for nuffin'!" remarked the ragged girl,
breaking silence for the first time.

Scarcely knowing what he did, Barret leaped towards his bicycle, set it
up, vaulted into the saddle, as he well knew how, and was safely out of
sight in a few seconds.

Yet not altogether safe.  A guilty conscience pursued, overtook, and sat
upon him.  Shame and confusion overwhelmed him.  Up to that date he had
been honourable, upright, straightforward; as far as the world's
estimation went, irreproachable.  Now, in his own estimation, he was
mean, false, underhand, sneaking!

But he did not give way to despair.  He was a true hero, else we would
not have had anything to write about him.  Suddenly he slowed, frowned,
compressed his lips, described a complete circle--in spite of a
furniture van that came in his way--and deliberately went back to the
spot where the accident had occurred; but there was no little lady to be
seen.  She had been conveyed away, the policeman was gone, the little
boys were gone, the ragged girl, sweep, postman, and servant maid--all
were gone, "like the baseless fabric of a vision," leaving only new
faces and strangers behind to wonder what accident and thin old lady the
excited youth was asking about--so evanescent are the incidents that
occur; and so busily pre-occupied are the human torrents that rush in
the streets of London!

The youth turned sadly from the spot and continued his journey at a
slower pace.  As he went along, the thought that the old lady might have
received internal injuries, and would die, pressed heavily upon him:
Thus, he might actually be a murderer, at the best a man-slaughterer,
without knowing it, and would carry in his bosom a dreadful secret, and
a terrible uncertainty, to the end of his life!

Of course he could go to that great focus of police energy--Scotland
Yard--and give himself up; but on second thoughts he did not quite see
his way to that.  However, he would watch the daily papers closely.
That evening, in a frame of mind very different from the mental
condition, in which he had set out on his sixty miles' ride in the
afternoon, John Barret presented himself to his friend and old
schoolfellow, Bob Mabberly.

"You're a good fellow, Barret; I knew you would come; but you look warm.
Have you been running?" asked Mabberly, opening the door of his lodging
to his friend.  "Come in: I have news for you.  Giles Jackman has agreed
to go.  Isn't that a comfort? for, besides his rare and valuable
sporting qualities, he is more than half a doctor, which will be
important, you know, if any of us should get ill or come to grief.  Sit
down and we'll talk it over."

Now, it was a telegram from Bob Mabberly which led John Barret to
suddenly undertake a sixty miles' ride that day, and which was thus the
indirect cause of the little old lady being run down.  The telegram ran
as follows:--

"Come instanter.  As you are.  Clothes unimportant.  Yacht engaged.
Crew also.  Sail, without fail, Thursday.  Plenty more to say when we
meet."

"Now, you see, Bob, with your usual want of precision, or care, or some
such quality--"

"Stop, Barret.  Do be more precise in the use of language.  How can the
want of a thing be a _quality_?"

"You are right, Bob.  You know it has been so decided in my Lord Abingdon's
case, who published his own speeches.

Mr. COOPER.--That, my Lord, was a libel upon a private individual. I
say--

Mr. Justice BEST.

--I say you have no knowledge of anything which is said in the Houses
of Parliament.

Mr. COOPER.--With great submission I re-urge it as a matter of history,
and as such I would use it whether the fact is ten years old or ten
thousand, I submit makes no difference.

Mr. Justice BEST.--Mr.

Cooper, I have told you my opinion; if you don't choose to submit
to it, the best way will be to go on, perhaps.

Mr. COOPER.--With the utmost deference to your Lordship--
Mr. Justice BEST.

--The Court of King's Bench has decided this very point, within the last
two terms, against what you are contending for.

If your own opinion be the better one, proceed.

Mr. COOPER.--Gentlemen, I was going to say, when the Speaker of the House
of Commons exclaimed (I will not repeat particularly upon what occasion)
that our ancestors would have started with indignation at practices
which were "as notorious as the sun at noon-day," can you have any doubt
in your mind that the writer of this pamphlet alluded to that
exclamation?
Why look at the passage, see, he uses the same words. "Corruption is
as notorious as the sun at noon-day" is his very expression. He is
citing the Speaker's own words, and cannot but be supposed to be
speaking of the very same facts.

It was proposed, on that occasion, to impeach a nobleman, whom I
will not name and need not, for those practices.

This however was resisted by almost all, and even by some who were
friendly to Parliamentary reform, and politically adverse to the noblemen,
to whom I allude, not, indeed, upon any pretext of his
innocence of the practices, charged against him; but on the sole ground
that those practices were so general and notorious that they would
condemn themselves in sentencing him; and among so many guilty, it
would be unjust to single him alone for punishment. Yes; although
they were practices, at which our ancestors would have started
with indignation, they were the practices of numbers, and the
practices were as notorious as the sun at noon-day; and, therefore,
the proposition of impeachment was rejected, and rightly; for as
it has been said by the first speaker of all antiquity, we cannot
call men to a strict account for their actions, while we are infirm
in our own conduct.

If this is the state of one branch of our Legislature, and if it is
avowed, and by those who would conceal it, if concealment were
possible (but it would be as easy to conceal the sun).

Good God! shall a man be prosecuted and pronounced guilty, and consigned
to punishment for affirming that our laws are corrupt; that there is
corruption in the system, and that corruption is an avowed part of that
system? when in so affirming he only echoes the exclamation of the
Speaker himself, that "practices, at which our ancestors would
have started with indignation, were as notorious as the sun at
noon-day?"

Why, if as the Speaker declared, such practices exist, and affect the
most important branch of the Legislature, I myself say, that there
is corruption in the very vitals of the Constitution itself.

In such a state of things, to talk of the Constitution, is mockery and
insult; and I say there is no Constitution.

What, then, has the writer of this pamphlet said more than has been
avowed by the highest authority, and everybody knows? And now, can you
lay your hands on your hearts, and by your verdict of Guilty send the
defendant to linger in a jail for having published what the author
has, under such circumstances, written?

Having thus concluded my observations on the passages selected from this
paper for prosecution, I will, for I have a right to read it all if
I please, direct your attention to another part of it. Let us examine
whether other passages will not convince us, that (though he should
be mistaken in some of his opinions) the whole was written with a
single and honest intention. I myself never read a paper, which, on the
whole, appeared to be written with more candour. There is an openness
that does not even spare the writer himself. Indeed, with regard to his
opinions, peculiar and mistaken as he may be, he seems himself, sincerely
to believe in them.

He is now suffering for those opinions, and suffering with a firmness,
which to those who think him wrong, is stubbornness; and, thus, he affords
another proof of the extreme impolicy of attempting to impose silence by
prosecutions, and extort from the mind the abjuration of opinions by
external and physical force.

It never succeeds; but, on the contrary, works the very opposite
effect to that which is its object. As the author from whom I have just
now cited says, with extreme force and equal beauty, "a kind of
maternal feeling is excited in the mind that makes us love the
cause for which we suffer."

It is not for the mere point of expression that it has been said, the
blood of the martyrs is the seed of the church.

It is not theological doctrine alone, that thrives and nourishes under
persecution. The principle of the aphorism applies equally to all
opinions upon all subjects.

There is widely spread through our nature an inclination to suspect that
there is a secret value in that from which others attempt to drive
us by force; and from this, joined to other powerful motives, the
persecution of men for their tenets, whatever they may be, only
draws their attachment closer, and rivets their affections to them.

Every effort to make them abandon the obnoxious doctrine renders them
more steadfast to it.

The loppings, which are designed to destroy, serve but as prunings, from
which it shoots with increased vigour, and strikes its root still
deeper.
Has it not always been seen, that persecution has bred in men that
stubborn resolution, which present death has not been able to shake;
and, what is more, an eagerness to disseminate amongst others those
principles for which they have themselves been prosecuted and
pursued.

I therefore, from my very soul, deprecate every species of persecution
on account of religious and political opinions, not only from its
illiberality, but bad policy; and I am full of hope, that you will
by your verdict to day show, that you have an equal aversion to it.

To recur, gentlemen, to the pamphlet; I submit to you that there is a
general air of sincerity in the language of the writer throughout
the composition, which obliges us to believe, that, however mistaken
you may think him in his opinions, he is honest in his intentions.

He says in another part of the address "Every government must derive its
support from the body of the people; and it follows, as a matter
of course, that the people must have a power to withhold their
supplies."

Which is very true: for, where there is a shadow of political liberty,
a revenue can only be raised by taxes to which the people have consented:
it being allowed that where there is taxation without representation
tyranny begins.

Now, if the writer really believes that there are corrupt practices
in the Government, who can blame him, for proposing (by abstinence
from those articles which are taxed and yield a revenue so large
that it supports a system of misgovernment) to compel our rulers,
by a diminution of their means of undue influence to a regard to
economy and a just administration?

I know, indeed, that this doctrine is considered offensive; nor am I
prepared to say with confidence that under the wide construction
which has been given to the law against conspiracy, persons who
were to combine to force such a change by abstaining from all
exciseable articles might not be indicted for it as a conspiracy.

It may, for aught that I know, be even indictable to unite and desist
from using tea, tobacco and snuff to coerce the government into reform
by a reduction of the revenue raised from those articles; but you
are not sitting there to try an indictment for a conspiracy; and,
therefore, though this passage may not be pleasing, I read it,
without hesitation, because it leads to others, which I think demand
your consideration and attention.

"We must deny ourselves, he proceeds to say, those little luxuries in
which we have long indulged.

Why not? Who gains, and who loses by this denial? We do not rob ourselves,
we only check our passions; and, in doing this, we strengthen
both our bodies and our purses. I would appeal to those, who, for the
last year, have had the courage and the virtue to abstain from the
use of malt and spirituous liquors, foreign tea and coffee, tobacco,
snuff, &c., whether they do not feel satisfaction from the change
of habit; and whether they are not better in health and pocket,
without the use of these things."

This, gentlemen, is a sermon on temperance, and I wish it were
generally followed.

I apprehend that this is not only innocent, but highly meritorious.

For my own part I shall maintain the opinion (though ten thousand
Mandevilles should write, and imagine they have proved private vices
public benefits) that it is infinitely more important and beneficial
that the mass of the people should be temperate and healthy, though
poor, than that an immense revenue should be collected from their
addiction to sensual pleasures and vicious luxuries. I say vicious,
because all moral writers concur in calling those sensualities vices,
as free indulgence in them leads to a state of total dissipation of
mind under which scarcely any profligacy seems a crime. The writer
continues:
"There are a variety of other things which are heavily excised, the
use of which might be prudently dropped; and which are not essential
either to the health or comfort of mankind.

Speaking for myself, I can say, I do not recommend more than I practise;
and that my food for the last year has consisted chiefly of milk and
bread and raw native fruits. I have been fatter and stronger than in any
former year of my life; and I feel as if I had obtained a new system
by the change. _My natural disposition is luxurious_, and under a better
system of government, or when this rational warfare was not called for,
I should at all times live up to my income." And here, gentlemen, I beg
you to mark, that so unreserved, so much in earnest is the writer
in his object, that he does not attempt even to conceal his own
faults, and weakness.

I ask, whether you have ever found men, who were acting and writing
with duplicity and sinister intentions, reproach or expose themselves?

But the writer of this paper practises no reserve; he conceals nothing,
though the disclosure should be against himself, but
Pours out all himself as plain, As dowright Shippen, or as old
Montaigne.

He concludes this exhortation to temperance with this sentence, "Shrink
not then you male and female reformers from this virtuous mode of
warfare; for to conquer our injurious habits and our enemy at the
same time is a double conquest, to obtain which both man and woman
and child can very properly assist."

I read this conclusion of the paragraph, gentlemen, and I beg your
attention to it, because it makes it manifest that the change which
the writer proposes to compass is a change by a moral operation
through legal and peaceful means; and that he never dreamed of
inculcating, as it is insinuated, any appeal to violence and arms.

I have now, gentlemen, concluded all the particular observations
which I had to address you upon this paper; and having shown you
that by the least liberal construction, no criminality of intention
can be imputed to the author, how can I doubt of your acquittal?

For it is your duty to construe the author's words so as to give them
an innocent meaning if they will bear it, and not come to a
conclusion of guilt from them unless you shall be convinced that
they will not possibly admit of any other than a criminal sense.

That he had no criminal design, is apparent enough, even from the indicted
passages; and by reading the context is put beyond the possibility
of a doubt.

There are many other passages as well as that, which I have read, which
tend equally to the inference of the sincerity with which the whole
paper was written, but which I will not consume your time in reading,
as you will have the whole before you when you deliberate on your
verdict, and they must themselves strike your attention.

Now, gentlemen, I cannot tell, how you feel, but I have no opinion more
deeply impressed on my mind than that the prosecution of such
political papers as this before you, as state libels, is perfectly
unnecessary; and, so far from doing good, is, if any mischief can
be produced by such writings, mischievous.

Prosecution excites the public regard, and a curiosity that will
not rest till it is gratified, towards that which, under silent
neglect, would hardly gain attention; if indeed, it did not drop
quite dead-born from the press.

But I deny wholly that any political writings, whatever their nature,
have done or ever could do any harm to political society.

Let those who advocate the contrary opinion show you a single instance
of a state injured or destroyed by inflammatory political writings. The
republic of Athens was not thrown down by libels: no--she perished
for want of that widely diffused excitement to courage, and patriotism,
and virtue, which a press perfectly free and unshackled can alone spread
throughout a whole people.

She was not ruined by anarchy into which she was thrown by seditious
writings, but because, sunk in luxury and enervated by refinement, it was
impossible to rouse the Athenians to the energy and ardour
of facing and withstanding the enemy in the field. Rome too--as little
was her gigantic power levelled with the dust by libels, but
perished from the corruptions of the tyrannical government of the
Emperors, which drained the nation of all its ancient virtue, and
bred the slavery which produces an utter debasement of the mind
(and which never could have been, if a free publication of political
opinion had been suffered), and thus she fell an easy conquest and
prey to the barbarians and Goths.

Both these renowned states fell, because their governments and the people
wanted the goad of a free press to excite them to that public spirit and
virtue, without which no country is capable of political independence
and liberty. How our ears have been dinned with the French revolution,
and how often have we been gravely told, that it was caused by the
writings of Voltaire, Rousseau, and Helvetius.

Ridiculous! I have read the history of those times and have read it
very differently. I am forced to understand that the inextricable
and utter embarrassment of the French finances, the selfish and
insolent luxury of the nobles, the desperate wretchedness of the
lower orders of the people, and the profligate licentiousness of
the Court, were the causes and the only causes of that great event.

If the finances of that country had been in order, the nobles
moderate, the poor unoppressed, and any public spirit in the
Government, Voltaire, and Helvetius, and Rousseau, might have racked
their brains for thought, and written themselves blind, before they
would have raised a single arm, or even excited a single voice to
exclaim for change.

A perfect freedom of the press would, indeed, have prevented the
causes which roused the people to assert themselves; but the causes
once in existence, all the writers in the world could not one moment
have either retarded the revolution or accelerated it.

It is not the representations of a political writer that can alter
the nature of things.

Whose ingenuity, and wit, and eloquence, will persuade me that I am
cold when I am warm; that I am hungry when I am full; a slave when I
am free; and miserable, when I feel myself happy? While such is my
state, what writings would drive me into insurrection?

And if the contrary is my condition, what stimulus could I want to free
myself from it? What persuasions could possibly even delay my
utmost efforts for a change?

It is not by the prosecution of political libels that the stability
of a government and domestic peace is ever secured. No; let the Government
pursue its only end, the public good, and let every man, or at least
a large majority, have more or less an interest in the preservation
of the State, and then all the writers in the country, from the
highest down to the obscurest corners of Grub-Street, may wear their
fingers to the roots of the nails with their pens, before they will
work the slightest discontent in the public or change in the
government.

Nothing, gentlemen, is more common with writers and speakers, than to
discourse of states by figures drawn from the government of a ship;
and I will tell you what I once heard from a friend of mine who has
served his country in our navy, and which at the time most forcibly
struck my mind.

"When I was stationed in the Mediterranean (he said, speaking of
the occurrences of his professional experience) we made captures
of the vessels of all countries except the Greeks, but we never
captured them; for they were always vigilant, active, and brave.

We never surprised them; if we chased them, they escaped us; and
if we attempted to cut them from the shelter to which we had driven
them, we were repulsed."

What created this difference? By the rules of navigation amongst the Greek
islands, every man, from the captain down to the lowest cabin-boy,
has, more or less, a share in the vessel. They watched, therefore,--they
laboured and fought for their own interest and property. Let those who
sit at the helm and govern us imitate this policy. Let them extend the
elective franchise; let them restore us to a condition in which industry
and skill may find employment and be secure in their gain. Give men
an interest and ownership in the state, and it shall never be upset
by libels; not a seditious or mutinous voice shall be heard; and what
foreign enemy shall dare to lift a hand against us? But keep the
people excluded from their share in the representation, and pressed
down by taxation, and millions of prosecutions against libels will not
save the country from sinking in ruin.

Let me now, gentlemen, call your attention back to the argument I used
almost at setting out in my address to you, by which I attempted to
maintain that you are not bound, whatever you may judge the intention of
the writer to have been, to pronounce a publication a libel by your
verdict, if you should be of opinion that such a publication cannot
be mischievous, and that prosecution of it is unnecessary. If it can do
no harm, it is no nuisance at common law to have written a paper, whatever
its nature may be, and if it could be no nuisance, you are bound in duty
to acquit the defendant, who is only the publisher. The doctrine for
which I am contending with regard to this paper, has been acted upon
by the government of one free country, with regard to all political
writings, whatever their intention or nature. The Legislature of the State
of Virginia has actually _legislated against_ such prosecutions, and
declared them totally unnecessary.

Mr. Justice BEST.--That is not the law of this country.

Mr. COOPER.--I only use it my Lord as part of my speech in argument.

Mr. Justice BEST.--I will tell you what I am bound to tell the jury.
I shall tell them that we have nothing to do here with what may be
expedient, we are not legislating here--the question is whether this is
a proper prosecution?

Mr. COOPER.--I feel that it is exceedingly important to use as matter of
argument, and as a part of my speech.

If your Lordship stops me I know that it will be my duty to submit.

Mr.

Justice BEST.--All this is only drawing them away from the question they
are to consider.

With the propriety of instituting the prosecution they have nothing
to do; the only questions they have to determine, are--Is that
paper a libel, and has the defendant published it?

An Act of the Assembly of Virginia has no validity in this country.

Mr. COOPER.--My Lord, I do not cite it as a statute of this realm to
which we are bound to pay legal attention-- 
Mr.

Justice BEST.--We are bound to pay no attention to it.

Mr. COOPER.--My Lord, I only use it to show that other men have been of
the opinion which I have expressed to your Lordship and the jury.

If your Lordship insists on my not addressing myself to the jury upon
it, I know too well the deference that is due from me to the Bench
to persevere in attempting it.

Mr. Justice BEST.--No, I don't insist upon it. But, Mr. Cooper, can you
deceive yourself so much as to think this has anything to do with the
question? I shall tell the jury to pay no attention to it.

Mr. COOPER.--Your Lordship will make any observations your condescension
may lead you to make, as well on this as on any other part of the defence.
I believe the course which I wish to take was taken on a similar occasion
by a man who united the soundest and correctest judgment with the
brightest imagination--I mean Lord Erskine--he-- 
Mr.

Justice BEST.

--I knew him for thirty odd years at the bar, and I never in all
my life knew him address himself to points such as these--that is
all I can say.

I know what is due to the liberty of the bar, and I shall cherish
a love for its freedom to the latest hour of my life.

Mr. COOPER.--If your lordship refuses me--
Mr. Justice BEST.--No, I don't refuse you.

Mr. COOPER.--I think it necessary to my case.

The preamble is--(gentlemen, I am sorry to detain you, but I have
a most important duty to discharge.

If in addressing you, I am taking a course which I ought not, I
assure you it is an error of judgment and not of design.

I declare most sincerely, that I am addressing to you arguments which I
should attend to if they were addressed to myself in such a case. His
Lordship will have a right to make what observations he pleases, and of
course I offer this and every other argument to you liable to the
honour he may confer upon me of condescending to notice anything I
have said or may say.

You, gentlemen, will, I know, regard my observations or arguments solely
as you think them forcible or weak; if they are the former you will
attend to them, if the latter reject them.

And with this observation I shall now proceed to read to you the
preamble to the Act of the Legislative Assembly of Virginia.)

"It is time enough for the rightful purposes of Civil Government, for its
officers to interfere when principles break out into overt acts
against peace and good order, and that truth is great and will
prevail if left to herself, and that she is the proper and sufficient
antagonist to error, and has nothing to fear from the conflict,
unless, by human interposition disarmed of her natural weapons,
free argument and debate: errors ceasing to be dangerous, when it
is permitted freely to contradict them."

Thus, you see, by an Act of the Legislature of that country, passed
by those who had all the knowledge of history before their eyes,
and ample experience in their own times, I am fully supported in
the position that prosecutions of this kind are not only useless
but hurtful.

By free argument and debate errors cease to be dangerous, if they
are not exploded; but attempts to stifle even errors by power and
punishment, provoke a stubborn adherence to them, and awake an eager
spirit of propagation.

"You see," he continued, "all you would have to do, if the ship were
properly fitted out, would be to add chair to chair, bench to bench,
cork mattress to mattress, until your raft was as big as you wanted; or
you could make two or three rafts, if preferable."

"But sure, sor, it would be an unstiddy machine intirely, an' given to
wobblin'," said Quin, who was one of those privileged men who not only
work for their wages, but generously throw their opinions into the
bargain.

"It would not be more unsteady than the waves, Quin; and as to wobbling,
that would be an advantage, for a rigid raft in a rough sea would be
more liable to be damaged than one that was pliable."

The discussion about rafts and ship's boats which thus began was
continued with much interest till lunchtime, for it chanced that John
Barret was one of those men whose tendency of heart and mind is to turn
everything to its best uses, and generally to strive after the highest
point of perfection in everything, with a view to the advancement of
human felicity.  This tendency called into exercise his inventive
faculties, inducing him to search after improvements of all
descriptions.  Thus it was natural that he and Jackman should enter into
a keen controversy, as to what was the best method of constructing the
raft in detail; and that, when the faithful Quin announced lunch as
being, "riddy, sor," the life-saving machine was left in an incomplete
state on the deck.

The interest attaching to this discussion had helped the three comrades
and crew alike, to tide over what might otherwise have proved a tedious
forenoon, for during the whole of that day the dense fog and profound
calm continued.

On returning to the deck the discussion was continued for a time, but
gradually the interest flagged, then other subjects engaged attention,
and the raft was finally allowed to lie undisturbed and forgotten.

"I don't know how it is," said Bob Mabberly; "but somehow I always feel
a depression of spirits in a fog at sea."

"Explanation simple enough," returned Jackman; "are we not constantly
reading in the papers of ships being run down in fogs?  Where there is
risk there is always in some minds anxiety--in your case you call it
depression of spirits."

"Your explanation, Giles, uncomplimentary to me though it be, might have
some force if we were just now in the Channel, where being run down in
fog is an event of frequent occurrence; but here, in a comparatively
unfrequented sea, it would be strange indeed were I to be influenced by
such possibilities.  What say you, Captain?"

McPherson, who had sauntered towards the group, gazed in the direction
where the horizon would have been visible had the fog been absent, and
said:--

"Hm!--weel--" and then stopped, as if for the purpose of mature
consideration.  The audience waited for the announcement of the oracle's
opinion.

"Oo ay--weel, ye see, many persons are strangely influenced by
possibeelities, what-e-ver.  There is a maiden aunt o' my own--she wass
niver marrit, an' she wass niver likely to be, for besides bein' poor
an' plain, an' mittle-aged, which are not in my opeenion objectionable,
she had an uncommon bad temper.  Yet she wass all her life influenced by
the notion that half the young men o' the place wass wantin' to marry
her! though the possibeelities in her case wass fery small."

"I should like to 'ave know'd that old gurl!" whispered Tips to Quin.

"Howld your tongue, ye spalpeen!" whispered his friend in reply.

"Have you any idea, Captain, where we are now?" asked Jackman.

"Oo ay, we're somewhere's wast'ard o' the Lewis.  But whether wast,
nor'-wast, or sooth-wast, I could not say preceesely.  The nicht, ye
see, wass uncommon dark, an' when the fog came doon i' the mornin', I
could na' feel sure we had keep it the richt coorse, for the currents
hereaboots are strang.  But we'll see whan it comes clear."

"Do you believe in presentiments, Giles?" asked Barret, in an unusually
grave tone.

"Of course I do," answered Jackman.  "I have a presentiment just now
that you are going to talk nonsense."

Barret was not, however, to be silenced by his friend's jest.

"Listen," he said, earnestly, as he rose and stood in an attitude of
intense attention.  "It may be imagination playing with the subjects of
our recent conversation, but I cannot help thinking that I hear the
beating of paddles."

"Keep a sherp look-oot, Shames," cried the skipper, suddenly, as he went
forward with unwonted alacrity.

A few minutes more and the sound which had at first been distinguished
only by Barret's sharp ear, became audible to all--the soft regular
patting of a paddle-wheel steamer in the distance, yet clearly coming
towards them.  Presently a shrill sound, very faint but prolonged, was
heard, showing that she was blowing her steam-whistle as a precaution.

"Strange, is it not, that the very thing we have been talking about
should happen?" said Mabberly.

"Nay," returned Jackman, lightly, "we were talking about being run down,
and we have not yet come to that."

"The strangest thing of all to me," said Barret, "is that, with a wide
ocean all round, vessels should ever run into each other at all, at
least on the open sea, for there is only one line, a few feet wide, in
favour of such an accident, whereas there are thousands of miles against
it."

Jackman, who was a great theorist, here propounded a reason for this.

"If vessels would only hold straight on their courses, you see," he
said, "the accident of collision would be exceedingly rare, for,
although thousands of ships might pass near to each other, not one in
ten thousand would meet; but when vessels come pretty near, their
commanders sometimes become anxious, take fancies into their heads, as
to each having forgotten the `rules of the road,' and each attempting to
correct the other--as we do sometimes in the streets--they bring about
the very disaster they are trying to avoid."

"Had we not better ring the bell, Captain?" cried Mabberly, in rising
excitement.

"Oo ay, if you think so, sir.  Ring, poy!"

The boy, who was getting alarmed, seized the tongue of the ship's bell,
and rang with all his might.  Whether this had the effect to which
Jackman had referred, we cannot tell, but next moment what appeared to
be a mountain loomed out of the mist.  The steam-whistle had been silent
for some time, but as soon as the bell was heard it burst forth with
increased fury.  From the instant her form was dimly seen the fate of
the yacht was sealed.  There was a wild shouting on board the steamer,
but there was no time for action.

"Starboard hard!" was the cry.

"Starboard it is!" was the immediate answer.  But before the helm could
act, the great rushing mass struck the _Fairy_ amidships, and literally
cut her in two!

The awful suddenness of a catastrophe, which those on board had just
been arguing was all but impossible, seemed to have paralysed every one,
for no one made the slightest effort to escape.  Perhaps the appearance
of the wall-like bow of the steamer, without rope or projection of any
kind to lay hold of, or jump at, might have conveyed the swift
perception that their case was hopeless.  At all events, they all went
under with the doomed yacht, and nothing was left in the wake of the
leviathan but a track of foam on the mist-encumbered sea.

But they were not lost!  One after another the wrecked party rose
struggling to the surface, and all of them could swim except the boy.

Giles Jackman was the first who rose.  Treading water and brushing the
hair out of his eyes, he gazed wildly about.  Barret came up close
beside him, almost a moment later.  He had barely taken breath, when the
others rose at various distances.  A cry not far from him caused him to
turn.  It was poor Robin Tips, struggling for life.  A few powerful
strokes carried Barret alongside.  He got behind the boy, caught him
under the armpits, and thus held him, at arm's length, until he could
quiet him.

"There is a spar, thank God!  Make for it, Barret, while I see to Quin,"
shouted Jackman.

As he spoke, they could hear the whistle of the steamer rushing away
from them.

Barret, forcing himself breast-high out of the water, glanced quickly
round, and caught sight of the floating spar, to which his companion had
referred.  Although only a few yards off, the fog rendered it almost
invisible.

"Are you quiet now?" demanded Barret, in a stern voice, for the
terrified boy still showed something like a hysterical determination to
turn violently round, and grasp his rescuer in what would probably have
turned out to be the grip of death.

"Yes, sir, oh! yes.  But d-don't let me go!  M-mind, I can't swim!"

"You are perfectly safe if you simply do nothing but what I tell you,"
returned Barret, in a quiet, ordinary tone of voice, that reassured the
poor lad more than the words.

By way of reply he suddenly became motionless, and as limp as a dead
eel.

Getting gradually on his back, and drawing Tips slowly on to his chest,
so that he rested with his mouth upwards, and his head entirely out of
the water, Barret struck out for the spar, swimming thus on his back.

On reaching it, he found to his surprise that it was the experimental
raft, and that the captain, Mabberly, and McGregor were already clinging
to it.

"Won't bear us all, I fear," said Mabberly; "but thank God that we have
it.  Put the boy on."

In order to do this, Barret had to get upon the raft, and he found that
it bore him easily as well as the boy.

"Have you seen Jackman?" asked Mabberly.

"Yes," replied Barret, rising and looking round.

"Here he comes, towing Quin, I think, who seems to be stunned.  Hallo!
This way--hi!  Giles!"

But Giles suddenly ceased to swim, turned over on his back, and lay as
if dead.

"Rescue, Bob, rescue!" shouted Barret, plunging into the water.
Mabberly followed, and soon had hold of Giles and his man by the hair.

"All right!" said Jackman, turning round; "I was only taking a rest.  No
one lost, I hope?"

"No; all safe, so far."

"You can tow him in now.  I'm almost used up," said Jackman, making for
the raft.  "He's only stunned, I think."

It was found that the Irishman had in truth been only stunned when they
lifted him on to the raft, for he soon began to show signs of returning
life, and a large bump on his head sufficiently explained the nature of
his injury.

But when the whole party had cautiously clambered up on the raft it sank
so deep that they scarcely dared to move.  To make matters worse, they
clearly distinguished the steamer's whistle going farther and farther
away, as if she were searching for them in a wrong direction.  This was
indeed the case, and although they all shouted singly and together, the
whistle grew fainter by degrees, and finally died away.

With feelings approaching to despair, the crew of the frail raft began
to talk of the prospect before them, when they were silenced by a slight
movement in the mist.  The white curtain was lifted for a few yards, and
revealed to their almost incredulous eyes a rocky shore, backed by a
range of precipitous cliffs, with a wild mountainous region beyond.

As the sea was still perfectly calm, there was no surf.  Our castaways,
therefore, with the exception of Quin and the boy, quietly slipped into
the water, and, with thankful hearts, propelled the raft vigorously
towards the shore.


CHAPTER THREE.

THE WRECK IS FOLLOWED BY REPOSE, REFRESHMENT, SURPRISE, AND DISASTER.

The distance from land was not more than a few hundred yards;
nevertheless, it occupied a considerable time to pass over that space,
the raft being ill-adapted for quick progression through the water.

Close to the shore there was a flat rock, to which, as they approached
it, their attention was drawn by the appearance of what seemed to be
living creatures of some sort.  Quin and Robin Tips, sitting on the
raft, naturally saw them first.

"I do belave it's men, for they're liftin' their hids an' lookin' at us.
Av it was the South Says, now, I'd say they was saviges peepin' at us
over the rocks."

"P'raps they're boys a-bathin'," suggested Tips.

"Are they white?" asked Captain McPherson, who, being chin-deep in the
water and behind the raft, could not see the rock referred to.

"No; sure they seem to be grey, or blue."

"Oo, they'll be seals," returned the skipper, nasally--a tone which is
eminently well adapted for sarcastic remark without the necessity of
elaborate language.

"In coorse they is," said Tips; "don't you see they're a-heavin' up
their tails as well as their 'eads?"

On advancing a few yards farther, all doubt upon the question was put at
rest.  The animals, of which about a dozen were enjoying themselves on
the rock, raised themselves high on their flippers and gazed, with
enormous eyes, at the strange-looking monster that was coming in from
the sea!  Thus they remained, apparently paralysed with astonishment,
until the raft was within pistol-shot, and then, unable to endure the
suspense longer, they all slipped off into the sea.

A few minutes later and the raft struck on the shore.  And well was it
for the party that the weather chanced to be so fine, for if there had
been anything like a breeze, their frail contrivance would inevitably
have been dashed to pieces.  Even a slight swell from the westward would
have raised such a surf on that rugged shore that it would have been
impossible for the best of swimmers to have landed without broken limbs,
if not loss of life.  As it was, they got ashore not only without
difficulty, but even succeeded in hauling the raft up on the beach
without much damage to its parts--though, of course, the unfortunate
fowls in the hen-coops had all perished!

While Mabberly and the others were engaged in securing the raft, Barret
was sent off along shore with directions to ascertain whether there was
any habitation near.  To his right the high cliffs came down so close to
the sea that it seemed very improbable that any cottage or hamlet could
be found in that direction.  He therefore turned towards the left, where
the cliffs receded some distance from the shore, leaving a narrow strip
of meadow land.

Hurrying forward about a quarter of a mile, he stopped and looked about
him.  The sun was still high in the heavens--for the days are long and
nights brief in that region during summer--and its rays had so far
scattered the mists that all the low-lying land was clear, though the
mountain-range inland was only visible a short distance above its base.
The effect of this was to enhance the weird grandeur of the view, for
when the eye had traced the steep glens, overhanging cliffs, rugged
water-courses, and sombre corries upward to the point where all was lost
in cloud, the imagination was set free to continue the scenery to
illimitable heights.

The youth was still gazing upward, with solemnised feelings, when there
was presented to him one of those curious aspects of nature which are
sometimes, though rarely, witnessed in mountainous regions.  Suddenly an
opening occurred in the clouds--or mist--which shrouded the
mountain-tops, and the summit of a stupendous cliff bathed in rich
sunshine, was seen as if floating in the air.  Although obviously part
of the mountain near the base of which he stood, this cliff--completely
isolated as it was--seemed a magical effect, and destitute of any real
connection with earth.

While he was looking in wonder and admiration at the sight, he observed
a bird hovering about motionless in the blue vault high above the
cliffs.  Although inexperienced in such scenery and sights, Barret knew
well enough that nothing but an eagle--and that of the largest size--
could be visible at all at such a distance.  Suddenly the bird sailed
downwards with a grand circular sweep, and was lost among the shadows of
the perpendicular rocks.  A few minutes more and the mists drifted over
the opening, causing the vision to disappear.

This was Barret's first view of the Eagle Cliff, which was destined to
exercise a powerful and lasting influence upon his fortunes!

A few yards beyond this the explorer came upon a sheep track, and a
little farther on he found one of those primitive roads which are formed
in wild out-of-the-way places by the passage of light country carts,
with the aid of a few rounded stones where holes required to be filled
up, or soft places strengthened.  Following it a short distance to a
spot where it ran between a precipice and the shore, he came suddenly in
sight of a wilderness of fallen rocks, which were varied in size from
mere pebbles to masses the size of an omnibus.  These had all fallen
from a steep spur of the mountains which projected towards the sea of
that place.  The whole of the level land at the base of the spur was
strewn with them; some being old, moss-covered and weather-worn, others
fresh and sharp in outline, as if they had fallen only the previous
winter, as probably they had, for the places from which they had been
dislodged could be seen still fresh and light-coloured, nearly a
thousand feet up on the riven cliffs.  It was a species of desolation
that powerfully recalled some scenes in Dante's "Inferno," and had a
depressing effect on the youth's spirits, for nothing seemed more
unlikely than the existence of a human habitation in such a place.

A new view of the matter broke upon him, however, when he suddenly
became aware that a spot in the confused scene which he had taken to be
a clump of withered bracken was in reality a red cow!  Looking a little
more narrowly at objects he soon perceived a hut among the rocks.  It
was so small and rude and rugged as almost to escape detection.  A
furious barking soon told that he had been seen, and two collie dogs
rushed towards him with demonstrations that threatened him with
immolation on the spot.  The uproar put life into a few more clumps of
red bracken, and produced a lively display of sheep and cattle
throughout the region.

Barret walked straight up to the door of the hut, and the collies
withdrew from the attack--as most noisy demonstrators do when treated
with silent indifference.

"Is there any one inside?" he asked of a bare-legged, shaggy-headed boy,
who came out and gazed at him, apparently with his mouth as well as his
eyes.

"Na," answered the boy.

"Any other cottages or houses near this?"

"Ay; yonder."

The boy pointed in the direction of the sea, where, in a stony nook
between two jutting masses of rock, nestled about a dozen huts built of
boulder stones gathered from the sea-shore.  So small were these huts,
and so stupendous the rocks around them, that they might easily have
been overlooked by a careless eye.  So might the half-dozen
fishing-boats that lay in the little cove beside them.

A stream or rivulet--better known in Scotland as a burn--ran past the
hamlet, formed a pool just below it, and dropped into the cove close to
the place where the boats lay.

Rejoiced to find even the poorest kind of shelter in such a place,
Barret hastened down to the cove, and, tapping at the door of the
largest of the cottages, was bidden "come in" by a soft voice.

Entering, he was surprised to find a neatly, though plainly, furnished
room, which was evidently the kitchen of the house--indeed, the sole
room, with the exception of an off-shoot closet.  The large open
fireplace contained a peat fire on the hearth, over which hung a
bubbling pot.  There were two box-beds opposite the fire, and in the
wall which faced the door there was a very small window, containing four
panes of glass, each of which had a knot in the middle of it.  One of
them also presented the phenomenon of a flattened nose, for the boy with
the ragged head had rushed down and stationed himself there to observe
the result of the unexpected and singular visit.

Beside the window, in a homely arm-chair, sat an invalid girl with pale
thin cheeks, bright blue eyes, and long flaxen hair.  If not pretty, she
was, at all events, extremely interesting, and possessed the great charm
of a winning smile.

Apologising for causing her alarm by his damp, dishevelled, and sudden
appearance, Barret asked if there were any men about the place.

No, there were none there at the moment; most of them being out after
the sheep and cattle, and some gathering peat, or away in the boats.

"But surely they have not left you all by yourself?" said Barret, struck
not only by the appearance of the girl, but by the comparative
refinement of her language.

"Oh no!" she replied, with a slight smile; "they look well after me.
Mrs Anderson has only gone to fetch some peats.  But where have you
come from, sir?  Your clothes are all wet!"

"You are right.  I have just been saved from drowning, through God's
mercy, along with my companions."

Here Barret gave her a brief outline of the recent disaster, and then
asked if Mrs Anderson was her mother.

"No; she is my aunt, but she is very good to me; takes as much care of
me as if I was her own daughter.  I don't belong to this place.  They
have sent me here for my health."

At this point they were interrupted by Mrs Anderson herself, who
entered with a load of peat, which she flung down, shook her fist at the
nose-flattener outside, and turned in astonishment to her visitor.

Of course our shipwrecked friend had to retail his story to the woman,
and then learned from her that the island was a very large one, with a
name unpronounceable by English lips, that it was very thinly inhabited,
that it consisted almost entirely of pasture land, and that "the laird"
owned a large portion of it, including the little fishing village of
"Cove."

While the woman was speaking an elderly man entered, whom she introduced
as her husband Ian.  To him Barret had to re-repeat his story, and then
asked if he and his friends could obtain shelter in the village for the
night.

"Iss it shelter ye'll be wantin'?  Ye'll hev that an' welcome, though it
will be of the poorest.  But in the mornin' ye'll gang up to the hoose,
for the laird wud be ill-pleased if we keepit ye here."

"Pray, who is this laird?" asked Barret; "your wife has already
mentioned him."

"Maister Gordon is his name.  He lives near the heed o' Loch Lossie.  It
iss over eight mile from here," said Ian; "an' a coot shentleman he iss,
too.  Fery fond o' company, though it iss not much company that comes
this way, for the steam-poats don't veesit the loch reg'lar or often.
He'll be fery glad to see you, sir, an' to help ye to git home.  But
we'd petter be goin' to tell your freen's that we can putt them up for
the nicht.  I'll go pack with ye, an we'll take the poy to help an'
carry up their things."

"You forget that we have been wrecked," returned Barret with a laugh,
"and have no `things' to carry, except our own damp carcases."

"That's true, sir, but we'll be none the worse o' the poy, what-e-ver.
Come away, Tonal'," said Ian, as they started back along the shore.  "It
iss under the Eagle Cliff where ye came to laund, I make no doot?"

"Well, I suppose it was; at least, there is a range of cliffs close to
the place where our raft struck."

"Oo ay--but it iss not the wee precipices, it iss the big hull behind
them that we ca' the Eagle Cliff."

"Oh, indeed!  I saw that cliff in a peculiar manner as I came along,"
said Barret giving a description of the scene.

"Ay; it iss sometimes seen like that," said Ian; "an' we often see the
eagle, but it's no' possible to git a shot at that crater.  The laird is
real keen to bring it doon, for it plays the mischief among the lambs,
an' him an' his freen's hes aften tried, but they hev not manicht it
yet."

Instead of regret and mortification it will be a source of pride and
happiness to me.

Small as my chance may be of credit for the assertion, I declare, that
I propose to myself no reward so high for my exertions, as the
consciousness of having, in spite of all hopes on one side, or fears
on the other, honestly discharged my duty.

If ever in my course in the profession, I should find myself wounded
either in fortune or reputation, instead of regretting and deploring
it, I will rejoice and exult at it, and, at those hours, when in
full confidence of his companions, it is neither indecent nor unsafe
in a man to speak of his own actions, I will boast of it, I will
shew it, as an honourable scar.

Gentlemen, with these preliminary observations, I will proceed to introduce
my case to you. My learned friend, Mr.

Gurney, has opened this prosecution with all that pomp of eloquence,
and solemnity of declamation, which he possesses in so ample a
manner, and which make him so accomplished an advocate.

But what has he done? All, indeed, that he or any one else could have
done: yet, nothing more than repeat those arguments, which are
trite, and worn like a turnpike, and have been topics for counsel
after counsel, through a thousand of these prosecutions; while he
has left all the great subjects of consideration that present
themselves to the mind on these questions, wholly untouched.

He has declared, indeed, but without showing you why, that the words,
charged in the indictment are an atrocious libel; in which, as it
appears to me, he has been rather premature, for a libel they are
not, and cannot be, unless your verdict should so declare them. I
assert, gentlemen, I am sure his Lordship will nod assent to me
while I assert it, that you are the only judges of the law of libel
in this case; and this paper, for which the defendant stands before
you, is either a libel or not a libel, as you may in your consciences
think it, and on your oaths pronounce it.

The statute, indeed, which declares this the law, has given, or
rather left with his Lordship, the right of stating his opinion on
that question to you; but I am sure he will not think that I exceed
my duty, as an advocate, when I say, that though it is your duty
to receive his opinion with respect, and give it the most attentive
consideration, yet it still leaves you free to your own judgments,
and if after weighing his opinion, you find yours unaltered, you
have not only a right, but it is your duty to reject his opinion
and to act on your own.

Gentlemen, I submit that it is within your province to take into
consideration the nature and operation of those writings, which
are called in prosecutions of this kind libels.

You are sitting there to try this charge as an offence by the common
law of the land.

The defendant is accused of having committed an act in the nature of a
nuisance; and you are to judge whether that act could operate as a
nuisance or not.

You are not bound, because pamphlets have been prosecuted as libels time
out of mind, or even because they have been declared libels by the
verdicts of preceding juries to tread in no other path than their
steps; and to find similar, or even the same matter, libels, if you
should not think them criminal or dangerous.

If you should be convinced by argument, not only that the pamphlet
before you is not a libel, but that almost all those political
writings, which it has been the habit of certain people, taking up
the cry from their leaders, to call libels, are not merely not
dangerous but beneficial to political society; is it possible to
conceive, that you can be induced to pronounce a verdict of guilty
against the defendant!

How can you come to such a conclusion; as that there should be punishment
where there has been no mischief, and where there could have been none,
and if there not only has been no mischief, but could have been none,--nay,
if even there must have been benefit, how can you lay your hands on your
hearts, and say there has been crime?
Suppose a man was indicted for a nuisance in doing that for which a
number of persons had in succession been indicted and convicted,
would that oblige a jury to find a verdict against a person at this
day indicted for the same act, if he should prove to them by
evidence, which their minds could not resist, that what had been
complained of as hurtful to public health and morals was noxious
to neither, but salutary to both?

Would you, in such a case, though a thousand preceding juries had, in their
ignorance, pronounced verdicts of guilty, follow their example,
against your full knowledge and internal conscience?

To illustrate by a familiar instance, when hops were first introduced
into this country they were very generally believed to be pernicious.
Several persons were I believe prosecuted and convicted for using them;
yet now they are known not only to be not pernicious, but nutritious;
they form a principal ingredient in the daily beverage of our tables,
and are even employed largely in medicine. Let us now imagine a man
prosecuted for the use of hops or any other drugs upon the ground that
they injured health, and that upon his trial he should fill the box
with men of science as witnesses, and shew you to moral
demonstration, that so far from being injurious, they were highly salutary,
would you, because other juries had convicted in a state of
ignorance, imitate their blindness, and convict the defendant?

Certainly not. Then to apply this to writings, prosecuted as libels,
though there may have been hundreds, and thousands, nay tens of
thousands of convictions upon them, yet, if you should be convinced,
that what are usually called libels (and this among them) cannot
be injurious, but so far from it, that they are innocent and even
salutary to the state, in which they are published, would you hand
over the publisher to punishment by a verdict of guilty?

But I am anticipating, I fear, my defence, and introducing too early
observations, which will better be urged in a subsequent part of
my address to you.

I will, therefore, pass at once to the paper charged as a libel in
the indictment, and examine, under what circumstances it has come
before you.
And in the first place, as to the publication, without which (whatever the
nature of the writing may be, there can be no crime) who are morally
the publishers of this pamphlet?

Have you any evidence, whatever, that any one of these pamphlets was
in circulation, or ever would have been circulated, but for the
impertinent, obtrusive, sordid, and base part of the ministers of
the Constitutional Association?

How otherwise is this pamphlet here? Let us turn back to the evidence of
the first witness. He was the worthy servant of the Association in this
and a few other recent instances, but for the most part, within a
year and a half, the servant of the Society for the Suppression of
Vice: a Society very different, indeed, from that with which we
have had to deal to-day;--not that I have any affection even for
that association: I would neither praise nor even be suspected of
approving it, but I will not be so unjust and scandalous as to
compare it with the Constitutional Association.

Before this witness was employed by that society, he was a
Custom-house officer. Are you, I asked him, now a Custom-house officer?
No. How comes that? I lost my place. How old are you? Fifty-four.
Have you any pension? No.
Now, gentlemen, I beg to observe, that it is not the habit of the Custom-
house to turn away officers, who have grown grey in their service,
without a pension; unless they have richly deserved to be so discarded
and abandoned.

Such, gentlemen, are the instruments employed as spies by the acting
members of this Association! This fellow is sent out with instructions
from the honorary secretary, Mr. Murray, who is the attorney for the
prosecution, to purchase, not this pamphlet alone, but any political
pamphlet, which in his judgment might be libelous. Good God!
to what a condition are we reduced, when, under the auspices of
this blessed Association, discarded tide-waiters, and broken gaugers,
are made judges of what is libelous, and leagued with an attorney,
are to determine what may, and what may not, without the terror of
a prosecution, issue from a free press.

Such was the course pursued: and can you conscientiously say, that, but
for this hiring of a spy to make a purchase of this pamphlet for
the sole purpose of founding this prosecution upon that very instance
of sale, the public would ever have heard of it?

Gentlemen, it is a great happiness, and much security arises from
it, that every person who stands forward as a prosecutor exposes
his own conduct, as it is connected with the prosecution, to scrutiny
and animadversion.

I have a right to assume that freedom which is the privilege of the
bar.

I remember that in the case of the King and the Dean of St.

Asaph, in which the present Marshal of the King's Bench Prison, without
any apparent connection with the subject of the prosecution, was the
prosecutor, the counsel for the defendant exercised this right, and
the Marshal was successively the object of his ridicule and indignation.

Mr. Justice BEST.--Mr. Cooper do you think it acting fairly to make
this sort of attack on a gentleman who is not present? Is this the practice
of the bar?

Mr. COOPER.--My Lord, I make no attack on the Marshal. I only state
that--
Mr. Justice BEST.--These observations being made on one who is not anywise
connected with this case, who is not present to answer for himself,
and who would not be permitted if he was, what are we to suppose?

Can any gentleman at the bar consider this as fair?

Mr. COOPER.--My Lord, I have no design to attack the Marshal either in
his absence or presence. I mentioned him but incidentally. What earthly
purpose could it answer to this case to attack him?

He _was_ the prosecutor in _that_ case, and I rather incautiously,
perhaps, mentioned who the prosecutor was, by name; when I ought only
to have said the prosecutor. If I have done him any injustice, I beg
his pardon as publicly for it, and thus, I give a remedy as wide as the
wound.

I say then, gentlemen, that the prosecutor in that case, was alternately
the object of the keenest indignation, and the most jeering ridicule,
and I have a right to be equally as free, as the counsel in that case,
with the prosecutors in this: but I shall by no means follow the
example. On the contrary, I think, we are deeply indebted to the
Constitutional Association.

Consider how we were circumstanced when they first arose amongst
us. There was the state, with a standing army of only a hundred thousand
men, and nothing besides, except the whole civil force of the realm,
a revenue of no more than seventy millions; and the feeble assistance
of the established law officers of the crown to prosecute public offenders,
when this Constitutional Association in the pure spirit of chivalry, steps
forward to help the weakness of Government, and succour its distress.
Now, whatever men may talk of justice, who can say that disinterestedness
has altogether abandoned the earth? Who can say that generosity has
forsaken us and flown to heaven? Let it be considered too, that but
for their active vigilance Carlile's shop would not have been known.

No productions from it had ever been the subject of prosecution, and
but for the keen scent of the Association, the rank and huge
sedition contained in the New Year's Address might have lain in its
covert undetected and undisturbed.

But to drop this irony and be serious, the law officers of the crown
are fully adequate to their duties, and Carlile's shop was as well
known to the Attorney General as St.

Paul's to you. For years he has not had his eyes off it. I will engage
that every publication, that has issued from it, and this very
pamphlet among the rest, has passed through his hands, and under
his review.

Yet the law officers of the crown do not appear here to prosecute it
as a libel against the state; and I entreat you to mark this, for
I have a right to urge it, as a strong negative proof, that they
do not so consider it; and how can that require your condemnation
which they (with a judgment surely very much superior to that of
the Committee of the Constitutional Association) have not thought
worthy of prosecution or notice?

Yes, you are actually called upon by this Association to deliver
over to punishment the publisher of this paper, whilst the law
officers of the crown (who neglect their duty, if they do not
prosecute offences against the state) have thought it of a nature
not at all requiring their interference What can be so preposterous?

So monstrous?

And in taking leave of this view of the case, let me once more ask
you who have been actually the publishers of this paper?

Have you a single iota of evidence, which ought to satisfy your
minds, that, but for the insidious conduct of the Association, and
its spies, this pamphlet would ever have been before you or the
public?

Is there a shadow of proof that one copy was ever sold, except those
bought by the creatures employed by the honorary secretary (who is also
the feed attorney in this prosecution) for the sole object of entangling
the defendant in this indictment? None, whatever.

None. They conspired you see to procure and seduce (the word is neither
too broad nor too long for their conduct) the publication for the
very purpose of this prosecution.

How then having thus suborned the offence of which they complain, can they
dare to stand forward as prosecutors, when they themselves are the
criminals, and ought to be the defendants.

Mr. Justice BEST.

--You mean. Mr. Cooper, to offer some evidence of that, I suppose.

Mr. COOPER.

--None, my lord, but the evidence already before the court and the
jury, and the strong and necessary inference from the facts proved
by the witnesses for the prosecution themselves.

Mr. GURNEY.

--There were many others lying on the counter.

Mr. COOPER.--What of that, does it follow that they must, therefore,
have been sold? In the absence of all other proof of any publication,
I have a right, I am forced to consider the Association as the
only publishers.

Mr. Justice BEST.--In the evidence there is nothing like it.

Mr. COOPER.--What, gentlemen, is it a necessary conclusion, that because
the pamphlets were lying in the shop, they must have been sold to
other persons? The defendant but for their intrusion, for the sole
design of prosecution, might have sold no others. She might have
changed her intention to sell.

The pamphlets might have lain like bad verses untouched on the shop
counter, till they were turned over for waste paper, and not a
soul have ever known of their contents.

The Association, therefore, by their insidious and plotted purchase
for the sole object of prosecution, have provoked the act of publication,
and they, who provoke crimes are the criminals, and ought to be
the culprits; and those, who would punish the crimes that they have
provoked, are devils, and not men; "the tempters ere the accusers."

When I contemplate such conduct--but I will not waste another word, or
another moment of your time upon this miserable Association. If I had
consulted my better judgment, I should have passed them in silence; thus
much my indignation has wrung from my contempt.

I shall now, gentlemen, proceed to the examination of the libel, or
rather that which is charged as a libel itself; and I shall begin
with the last part so charged in the indictment, instead (as
my learned friend has done) with the first; and let me beg your regard
to one remarkable fact, that at the very point of the paper, at which
the motives, and design of the writer present themselves to the
reader; at that very point this indictment stops.

It has not, as you will presently see, the candour to proceed a
single syllable farther. I will now read the passage, "Reform," it says,
"will be obtained when the existing authorities have no longer the
power to withhold it, and not before, we shall gain it as early
without petitioning as with it; and I would again put forward my
opinion that something more than a petitioning attitude is necessary."

This it has been urged to you, with great emphasis, is an excitement to
insurrection; and you are called upon to draw that inference, though
the author immediately afterwards disavows, expressly disavows any such
intention. But even, if the words stood alone, I deny that you are
compelled to such a construction. Gentlemen, will any one venture to say,
that I, standing in this place, and in the very exercise of my profession,
mean any thing, but what is strictly legal, when I say myself, that
supposing reform in Parliament be necessary, something more than mere
petitioning is requisite to obtain it?

But in saying this, do I mean any thing violent or illegal? Heaven
forbid; No: but I would have societies formed, and meetings held
for the purpose of discussing that momentous subject.

If reform be necessary, and the desire of a great majority of the country,
I would have that desire shown unambiguously to the legislature,
by resolutions and declarations at such meetings.

Who will deny such societies and meetings to be legal? Yet, such meetings
would be more than mere petitioning, much more: and the author
means nothing beyond this; for I say, that in the absence of all
other criteria, the only means of judging of a writer's intentions
are his words.

Look then at the words which immediately follow the assertion, that
"something more than a petitioning attitude is necessary." If those
words had been included in the indictment, this prosecution must
have been at an end upon merely reading the charge, and those words,
therefore, the Association avoided, as cautiously as they would the
poison of a viper. They felt, that though the indicted words standing
alone might perhaps admit of a doubt for a moment, yet the context
completely explained them, and gave an air of perfect innocence
to the whole passage.

But you shall judge for yourselves: I will read the passage,--"Something
more than a petitioning attitude is necessary.

At this moment I would not say a word about insurrection; but I
would strongly recommend union, activity, and co-operation.

Be ready and steady to meet any concurrent circumstance." Now what
kind of union, activity, and co-operation does he mean? Is it military
association, marches, and attack? No. Hear the writer's own words
again:--"The Union Rooms at Manchester and Stockport are admirable models
of co-operation, and are more calculated than any thing else to
strengthen the body of reformers."

For what do the reformers assemble in these rooms? How do they
co-operate there? Is it to consult how they shall arm and organize
themselves, and seize with a violent hand the reform which they
despair of gaining by petition?

Nothing like it. The writer himself still tells you his meaning. "Here
(that is at the Manchester and Stockport rooms) children are educated,
and adults instruct each other.

Here there is a continual and frequent communication between all the
reformers in those towns." This, then, and no other, is the co-operation
which the author intended, and proposes. If any man, taking the
paper in his hand and reading the whole paragraph, can say that any thing
more is meant, to his reason I should cease to appeal.

I should sit down in silent despair of making any impression on such an
understanding; but you, gentlemen, I ask you, adding the words which I
have read to the broken passage, which is insidiously separated and
included in the indictment, can there be a doubt remaining in any
rational and unprejudiced mind, that the union and co-operation
called for by this Address from those who desire reform in Parliament,
is nothing more than the establishment at other places, of rooms,
on the model of those at Stockport and Manchester; where children
and adults are instructed, and information disseminated on the
subject of Parliamentary Reform.

And if this is all that is meant, there is an end of this part of the
indictment; for it cannot be libelous to recommend in a writing the
people to do that, which it is perfectly legal to do.

With regard to reform itself, I cannot know, whether any of you are
advocates for it or opposed to it, nor is it requisite that I should;
I do not ask you to think or say with me, and others, that reform in
Parliament is necessary, and that nothing but reform can save
the country from ruin; all that I ask of you is to allow me and others
credit for the conscientiousness of our opinions, and charitably
admit, if yours are opposite, that though we may be mistaken in
our judgments, we must not of necessity be criminal in our intentions.

I leave you and every man to the free exercise of your thoughts, and the
free enjoyment of the conclusions to which they lead you. Let this
liberality be reciprocal, and concede the same freedom to others which
you demand for yourselves. I have always thought that a difference in
religious and political matters need not and ought not to create
hostility of feeling, and sever those, who would otherwise be
friends.

I myself enjoy the friendship of several, who entertain very different
opinions from mine upon those subjects; and yet that difference
has not, and never shall, on my part, at least, disturb our friendship.

In all questions in which you cannot have mathematical demonstration,
there may be fair, honest, conscientious difference of opinion; and you
cannot have geometrical proof in questions of religion, politics,
and morals.

The very nature of the subjects altogether excludes it.
"Hoot, man," he said, with a short laugh, "it's not whisky!  She bid me
say ye were to take only half a glass at a time, every two hours."

"Poor't oot, then, laird--poor't oot," said the man, impatiently.
"Ye'll fin' a glass i' the wundy."

Fetching a wine-glass from the window Mr Gordon half filled it with a
liquid of a dark brown colour, which the sick man quaffed with almost
fierce satisfaction, and then lay down with a sigh.

"It seems to have done ye good already, man," said the laird, putting
the bottle and glass on that convenient shelf--the window-sill.  "I've
no idea what the physic is, but my good wife seems to know, and that's
enough for me; and for you, too, I think."

"Ay, she's a good wumin.  Thank her for me," responded Ivor.

Remounting the dog-cart the old gentleman explained, as they drove
along, that Ivor Donaldson's illness was the result of intemperance.

"He is my gamekeeper," said the laird; "and there is not a better or
more trustworthy man in the island, when he is sober; but when he takes
one of his drinking fits, he seems to lose all control over himself, and
goes from bad to worse, till a fit of _delirium tremens_ almost kills
him.  He usually goes for a good while after that without touching a
drop, and at such times he is a most respectful, painstaking man,
willing to take any amount of trouble to serve one, but when he breaks
down he is as bad as ever--nay, even worse.  My wife and I have done
what we could for him, and have tried to get him to take the temperance
pledge, but hitherto without avail.  My wife has even gone the length of
becoming a total abstainer, in order to have more influence over him;
but I don't quite see my way to do that myself."

"Then _you_ have not yet done all that you could for the man, though
your wife has," thought Barret; but he did not venture to say so.

At this point in the conversation they reached a place where the road
left the shores of the loch and ascended into the hills.  Being rather
steep at its lower end, they alighted and walked; the laird pointing
out, as they ascended, features in the landscape which he thought would
interest his young guest.

"Yonder," he said, pointing to a wood on the opposite side of the
valley, "yonder is a good piece of cover for deer.  The last time we had
a drive there we got three, one o' them a stag with very fine antlers.
It was there that a young friend of mine, who was not much accustomed to
sporting, shot a red cow in mistake for a deer!  The same friend knocked
over five or six of my tame ducks, under the impression that they were
wild ones, because he found them among the heather!  Are you fond of
sport?"

"Not particularly," answered Barret; "that is, I am not personally much
of a sportsman, though I have great enjoyment in going out with my
sporting friends and watching their proceedings.  My own tastes are
rather scientific.  I am a student of natural history--a botanist and
geologist--though I lay no claim to extensive knowledge of science."

"Ah! my young friend, then you will find a powerful sympathiser in my
niece Milly--that is, when the poor child gets well--for she is half mad
on botany.  Although only two weeks have passed since she came to us,
she has almost filled her room with specimens of what she calls rare
plants.  I sometimes tease her by saying it is fortunate that bracken
does not come under that head, else she'd pull it all up and leave no
cover for the poor rabbits.  She has also half-filled several huge books
with gummed-in specimens innumerable, though I can't see that she does
more than write their names below them."

"And that is no small advance in the science, let me tell you," returned
Barret, who was stirred up to defend his co-scientist.  "No one can
succeed in anything who does not take the first steps, and undergo the
drudgery manfully."

"Womanfully, in this case, my friend; but do not imagine that I
underrate my little niece.  My remark was to the effect that I do not
see that she _does_ more, though I have no manner of doubt that her
pretty little head _thinks_ a great deal more.  Now we will get up here,
as the road is more level for a bit.  D'you see the group of alders down
in the hollow yonder, where the little stream that runs through the
valley takes a sudden bend?  There's a deep pool there, where a good
many sea-trout congregate.  You shall try it soon--that is, if you care
for fishing."

"Oh, yes, I like fishing," said Barret.  "It is a quiet, contemplative
kind of sport."

"Contemplative!" exclaimed the old gentleman with a laugh; "well, yes,
it is, a little.  Sometimes you get down into the bed of the stream with
considerable difficulty, and you have to contemplate the banks a long
time, occasionally, before deciding as to which precipice is least
likely to give you a broken neck.  Yes, it is a contemplative sport.  As
to quiet, that depends very much on what your idea of quietude may be.
Our burn descends for two or three miles in succession of leaps and
bounds.  If the roaring of cataracts is quieting to you, there is no end
of it down there.  See, the pool that I speak of is partly visible now,
with the waterfall above it.  You see it?"

"Yes, I see it."

"We call it Mac's pool," continued the laird, driving on, "because it is
a favourite pool of an old school companion of mine, named MacRummle,
who is staying with us just now.  He tumbles into it about once a week."

"Is that considered a necessary part of the process of fishing?" asked
Barret.

"No, it may rather be regarded as an eccentric addition peculiar to
MacRummle.  The fact is, that my good friend is rather too old to fish
now; but his spirit is still so juvenile, and his sporting instincts are
so keen, that he is continually running into dangerous positions and
getting into scrapes.  Fortunately he is very punctual in returning to
meals; so if he fails to appear at the right time, I send off one of my
men to look for him.  I have offered him a boy as an attendant, but he
prefers to be alone."

"There seems to be some one down at the pool now," remarked Barret,
looking back.

"No doubt it is MacRummle himself," said the laird, pulling up.  "Ay,
and he seems to be making signals to us."

"Shall I run down and see what he wants?" asked Barret.

"Do; you are active, and your legs are strong.  It will do you good to
scramble a little."

Leaping the ditch that skirted the road, the youth soon crossed the belt
of furze and heather that lay between him and the river, about which he
and his host had been conversing.  Being unaccustomed to the nature of
the Western Isles, he was a little surprised to find the country he had
to cross extremely rugged and broken, and it taxed all the activity for
which the laird had given him credit, as well as his strength of limb,
to leap some of the peat-hags and water-courses that came in his way.
He was too proud of his youthful vigour to pick his steps round them!
Only once did he make a slip in his kangaroo-like bounds, but that slip
landed him knee-deep in a bog of brown mud, out of which he dragged his
legs with difficulty.

Gaining the bank of the river at last, he soon came up to the fisher,
who was of sturdy build, though somewhat frail from age, and dressed in
brown tweed garments, with a dirty white wideawake, the crown of which
was richly decorated with casting-lines and hooks, ranging from small
brown hackle to salmon-fly.  But the striking thing about him was that
his whole person was soaking wet.  Water dripped from the pockets of his
shooting coat, dribbled from the battered brim of his wideawake, and,
flowing from his straightened locks, trickled off the end of his Roman
nose.

"You have been in the water, I fear," said Barret, in a tone of pity.

"And you have been in the mud, young man," said the fisher, in a tone of
good-humoured sarcasm.

The youth burst into a laugh at this, and the old fisherman's mouth
expanded into a broad grin, which betrayed the fact that age had failed
to damage his teeth, though it had played some havoc with his legs.

"These are what I style Highland boots," said the old man, pointing to
the muddy legs.

"Indeed!" returned Barret.  "Well, you see I have put them on at once,
for I have only arrived a few hours since.  My name is Barret.  I
believe I have the pleasure of addressing Mr MacRummle?"

"You have that pleasure, Mr Barret; and now, if you will do me the
kindness to carry my rod and basket, I will lead you back to the
dog-cart by a path which will not necessitate an additional pair of
native boots!  I would not have hailed you, but having tumbled into the
river, as you see, I thought it would be more prudent to get driven home
as quickly as possible."

"You have a good basket of fish, I see, or rather, feel," remarked
Barret, as he followed the old man, who walked rather slowly, for his
physical strength was not equal to his spirits.

"Ay, it is not so bad; but I lost the best one.  Fishers always do, you
know!  He was a grilse, a six-pounder at the least, if he was an ounce,
for I had him within an inch of my gaff when I overbalanced myself, and
shot into the stream head foremost with such force, that I verily
believe I drove him to the very bottom of the pool.  Strange to say the
rod was not broken; but when I scrambled ashore, I found that the grilse
was gone!"

"How unfortunate!  You were not hurt, I hope?"

"Not in the least.  There was plenty of depth for a dive; besides, I'm
used to it."

It became quite evident to John Barret that his new friend was "used to"
a good many more things besides tumbling into the river, for as they
went slowly along the winding footpath that led them through the
peat-hags, MacRummle tripped over a variety of stumps, roots, and other
excrescences which presented themselves in the track, and which on
several occasions brought him to the ground.  The old gentleman,
however, had a fine facility in falling.  Being slow in all his
movements, he usually subsided rather than fell; a result, perhaps, of
laziness as well as of unwillingness to struggle against fate.  His
frequent staggerings, also, on the verge of dark peat holes, caused his
companion many a shock of alarm and many a start forward to prevent a
catastrophe, before they gained the high road.  They reached it at last,
however, rather breathless, but safe.

MacRummle's speech, like his movements, was slow.  His personal courage,
considering the dangers he constantly and voluntarily encountered, was
great.

"You've been in again, Mac, I see," exclaimed the laird heartily,
extending his hand to his old friend with the view of hauling him up on
the seat beside him.  "Mind the step.  Now then!"

"Yes, I've been in, but the weather is warm!  Stop, stop!  Don't pull
quite so hard, Allan; mind my rheumatic shoulder.  Give a shove behind,
Mr Barret--gently--there.  Thankee."

The old man sat down with something of a crash beside his friend.
Barret handed him his rod, put the basket under his feet, and sprang up
on the seat behind.

Returning at a swift pace by the road they had come, they soon reached
Kinlossie, where the laird drove into the back yard, so as to deliver
the still dripping MacRummle at the back door, and thus prevent his
leaving a moist track from the front hall to his bedroom.  Having got
rid of him, and given the dog-cart in charge to the groom, Mr Gordon
led his young friend round to the front of the house.

"I see your friends have already arrived," said the laird, pointing to
the waggonette which stood in the yard.  "No doubt we shall find them
about somewhere."

They turned the corner of the mansion as he spoke, and certainly did
come on Barret's friends, in circumstances, however, which seemed quite
unaccountable at first sight, for there, in front of the open door, were
not only Bob Mabberly, Giles Jackman, Skipper McPherson, James McGregor,
Pat Quin, and Robin Tips, but also Mrs Gordon, the two boy Gordons--
named respectively, Eddie and Junkie--Duncan, the butler, and little
Flora, with a black wooden doll in her arms, all standing in more or
less awkward attitudes, motionless and staring straight before them as
if petrified with surprise or some kindred feeling.

Barret looked at his host with a slight elevation of his eyebrows.

"Hush!" said the laird, softly, holding up a finger of caution.  "My boy
Archie is behind that laurel bush.  He's photographing them!"

"That'll do," in a loud voice from Archie, disenchanted the party; and
while the operator rushed off to his "dark closet," the laird hurried
forward to be introduced to the new arrivals, and give them hospitable
greeting.

That evening the host and his wife entertained their guests to a genuine
Highland feast in the trophied hall, and at a somewhat later hour
Duncan, the butler, and Elsie, the cook, assisted by Roderick, the
groom, and Mary, the housemaid, held their share of high revelry in the
kitchen, with Quin, Tips, and "Shames" McGregor.

"You have come to the right place for sport, gentlemen," said the laird,
as he carved with vigour at a splendid haunch of venison.  "In their
seasons we have deer and grouse on the hills; rabbits, hares,
partridges, and pheasants on the low grounds.  What'll you have, Mr
Mabberly?  My dear, what have you got there?"

"Pigeon pie," answered Mrs Gordon.

"Mac, that will suit your taste, I know," cried the host with a laugh.

"Yes, it will," slowly returned MacRummle, whose ruddy face and smooth
bald head seemed to glow with satisfaction now that he had got into dry
garments.  "Yes, I'm almost as fond of pie as my old friend Robinson
used to be.  He was so fond of it that, strange though it may seem to
you, gentlemen, he had a curious predilection for pie-bald horses."

"Come, now, Mac, don't begin upon your friend Robinson till after
dinner."

"Has Archie's photography turned out well?" asked Mabberly at this
point.  "I do a little in that way myself, and am interested as to the
result of his efforts to-day."

"We cannot know that before to-morrow, I fear," replied Mrs Gordon.

"Did I hear you ask about Archie's work, Mabberly?" said the laird,
interrupting.  "Oh! it'll turn out well, I have no doubt.  He does
everything well.  In fact, all the boys are smartish fellows; a little
self-willed and noisy, perhaps, like all boys, but--"

A tremendous crash in the room above, which was the nursery, caused the
laird to drop his knife and fork and quickly leave the room, with a look
of anxiety, for he was a tender-hearted, excitable man; while his quiet
and delicate-looking wife sat still, with a look of serenity not
unmingled with humour.

"Something overturned, I suppose," she remarked.

In a few minutes her husband returned with a bland smile.

"Yes," he said, resuming his knife and fork; "it was Junkie, as usual,
fighting with Flo for the black doll.  No mischief would have followed,
I daresay, but Archie and Eddie joined in the scrimmage, and between
them they managed to upset the table.  I found them wallowing in a sea
of porridge and milk--that was all!"


CHAPTER FIVE.

PLANS, PROSPECTS, AND A GREAT FIGHT.

There is something very enjoyable in awaking in a strange bedroom with a
feeling of physical strength and abounding health about one, with a
glorious, early sunbeam irradiating the room--especially if it does not
shine upon one's face--with a window opposite, through which you can see
a mountain rising through the morning mists, until its summit appears to
claim kindred with the skies, and with the consciousness that work is
over for a time, and recreation is the order of the day.

The happy must substract from his happiness the frequent reflection,
which comes like a cloud over him, that death will snatch him from all
his blessings. The wretched finds relief in the certainty that death
will end his misery; therefore, that state is not very enviable, nor
this intolerable. Both will soon, very soon be past, and small, indeed,
is the difference between past pleasure and past pain. Be assured, madam,
that I, in return, as warmly wish you prosperity and happiness; I
wish not only that the approaching, but many succeeding years, may
have both hands full of plenty and delight for you; and I trust
that it is not so unreasonable in you to believe, that future events
may give a character of prophecy to my present wishes, as it would
be in me to expect the fulfilment of yours.

Pray, have the goodness to tell my father, that the vol. of Pickering,
from Priestleys, is procured, and that the copy of the Manuel Libraire,
at Longman's is still to be sold at four guineas.

Pray, make my thanks to him for letting me know the day of the sessions
at Norwich; I shall be present to help to do the nothing there. I suppose
he knows that the Corporation of Yarmouth have elected Mr. W--- ,
to the stewardship. I hear him say 'How stupid of them to
elect that fellow.'

I beg his pardon; it shewed exquisite judgment; and yet, after all,
there was somewhat of a felicity in it. They thought it would be
deserting propriety to have a man in the lower office of steward of
higher understanding than their Recorder. Now, under all the fleecy
cloud of wigs that lowers in the court of King's Bench, they could
not have found a second rate head to A---s, but that of W--- d, and nothing
but 'a lucky hit of nature' that mended her design when she was
determined to make as thick a skull as she had ever yet turned out
of her hands, could have given existence even to this instance of
inferiority.

He says he was quite ignorant of their intention of the honour that
has been done him. If this be not affectation, I can imagine nothing
with which to compare or illustrate his surprise, except that which must
have come over the onion, when it discovered that the Egyptians
had made a God of it.

I am wrong: surprise is the effect of perception and he has none; his
is like the genuine night, that admits no ray, and in his very
stupidity he is involved from the least glimmering of consciousness
of it.

Pray, lessen the anxiety of Harriet, which an unmerited affection for
me betrays her into, by telling her that I am getting better, and
excuse the want of turn to the conclusion of my letter in the want of
paper; and allow me abruptly to assure you that, I am, dear Madam,
Yours most faithfully, HENRY COOPER."

The following letter, the reader must think very piquant and graphic,
and it will, probably, tend to throw a new light upon his preconceived
opinions and estimation of a certain great man.

He must remember, too, whilst reading it, that Admiral Sir George Cockburn
had the command of the ship which conveyed Napoleon and his suite
to St.

Helena.

This letter is dated,

_London_, 14 _Oct._ 1816.

To the same,--
"I am very much obliged to you for your excellent and most welcome present
[it is below the dignity of the Epopee to say goose and sausages] which
reached me on Sunday, and the note which you were so kind as to send with
it, I can only repay you in this the old paper of unproductive thanks,
but the sincerity of them will be held in some estimation by the mind
actuated by the kindness that has excited them, and, therefore,
flimsy as they are, I venture to beg your acceptance of them. I have
nothing new, Madam, to send you for your entertainment from this great
city. That the Regent is going to divorce the Princess of Wales,
and excite the hope of the husbands and the fear of the wives--that
under such an example, all the legal restraints to repudiation will be
removed, and the practice become wide, and quite fashionable; you
have, of course, heard long ago from the newspapers, they are
eternally depriving us by anticipation of the power of writing
agreeable and interesting letters to the Ladies in the country.

Sir James Cockburn arrived in town last Saturday from Bermudas. He is
quite well, and neither seems nor believes himself an hour older
for having been three years at Bermudas, since he was last in
England.

I have been much with him and his brother, the Admiral, lately.

I have not (for your sex has not ALL the curiosity, though all
of a peculiar kind) omitted to ply him with questions about
Buonaparte.

He is now admirably qualified to be Emperor in that country of which
I have read, where they elect the fattest man in the state to the
Empire.

His legs are as bulky as my body, the ribs in proportion; and since this
girth is all attained in little more than five-feet five-inches
of length, he is not what Miss Cruso or Miss Godfrey [the head
milliners of Norwich at the time] would call a very genteel figure.

He eats with voraciousness of the most luxurious dishes; he has, in
Cockburn's opinion, a very mean assemblage of features with something
fearfully black and vicious about the brows and eyes.

His manners are coarse and repulsive.

Did you ever in a litter yard come suddenly on a lady in the straw
that starts up on her fore legs and, dropping fourteen infant pigs
from her teats, salutes you with a fierce jumble of barking, grunting,
and hissing?

In exactly such a sound is this amiable man represented to me to
have always replied to every address of Bertrand, Mouthoulon, and
the others, who are his fools and followers to St.

Helena. Sometimes he neglected all restraint on his nature, and gave the
same ferocious and inarticulate answers to the English officers. He played
chess so badly, that Bertrand and Mouthoulon, who had too much
discretion to excel their patron, had, at times, great difficulty
to lose the game to him; after trying for many nights he could not
attain the rudiments of whist, and went back to vingt-un; but this
is the man who has been described to us all as ALL- INTELLECT.

The newspapers, too, said I remember, that at whist he left all
instruction behind him, and soon played so well, that he had won
very large sums of the Admiral by his superior play, even while he
was only a Tyro.

I can tell you no more now; but the Admiral has had the goodness to
lend me a journal of his conversation with Buonaparte on the passage
out, and when I have the pleasure of seeing you in the sessions week, I
will give you some extracts from my memory. I am, I believe, a little
better, but the disorder in the upper part of my stomach still continues
and oppresses me. It is now inveterate, the complaint commenced last
March, a twelvemonth past.

If I cannot rid myself of it, it will kill me in time. My best duty
to my father, love to William and 'aliis,'
I am, dear Madam, Yours very faithfully, HENRY COOPER.

P.S.--I write in a great hurry for I am making up my parcel for Bermudas.
I should not write to you at all, but I do not like so long to delay
my due thanks to your kindness."

This letter is dated,

2, _Lamb's Buildings_, 27_th_ _January_, 1817.

To the same,--
I am scarcely warm in my place in London before I have to thank you for
your present to me; you hardly give me time, in the short intervals
of these marks of your kindness to me, to frame my thanks to you
for each.

I have exhausted all my common-place forms and am forced to rack
my invention (so very often have you come forward with these welcome
claims on me) to give anything like a turn to the expression in
which to convey my thanks.

Mr.

Pope (in those rhymes for the nursery which he has entitled the
Universal Prayer) calls enjoyment obedience: now if enjoyment be
thankfulness, too, then never was a being more completely thanked
than yourself; for the ducks were devoured with the most devout
gust and appetite; they were the most superb fowls that ever suffered
martyrdom of their lives to delight the palate and appease the
hunger of the Lords of the creation.

You should have sent them to some imitator of the Dutch school, who could
have painted them before he ate them; the hare, too, is as good as it
can be, and you are agreeably thanked for it by an equal portion of
enjoyment.

I must beg you to excuse a very short, dull, and hasty letter, from me.
If I were not impatient at the thought of letting any longer time
elapse without expressing my lively sense of your frequent mark of kind
consideration of me, I should not write at all to day.

I have something to do at my chambers, and in ten minutes I must run
down to Westminster Hall; and whilst I am thus engaged, I am as much
disqualified for writing, by a dark fit of low spirits, as prevented
by want of leisure. I resist as much as I can these attacks of the
night-mare by day, but I cannot wholly succeed against them; my
circumstances may possibly change, and, if not, such gloominess
is unreasonable; if Fortune is never weary of persecuting me, I
shall at last be past the sense of her persecutions.

In the meantime, whatever is the colour of my life, I shall, if I
can, continue to hope the future cannot be the worse, and the present
will be the more tolerable for it. I shall, therefore, cling to her while
I live, and to apply a beautiful thought of Tibullus--
'Dying, clasp her with my failing hand.'

In endeavouring to recollect me of the many fine things that have been
said of hope to crown my declaration of attachment to that first place
of our lives, I remember Cowley has observed 'that it is as much destroyed
by the possession of its object as by exclusion from it.' This is very
ingenious and very true, and though not to the purpose for which I was
seeking it yet will very well serve another. I wish my dear Madam, very
sincerely, that the former mode of destruction may speedily befall all
your present hopes, and that in future you will be surrounded by
so many blessings as will leave you no room for the exercise of any
hope but their continuance, My duty to my father, and my love to
William, I trust that he improves in Latin; pray tell him that I was
vexed not to find him so good a scholar in that language as I expected;
when I next see him I hope my expectations will be exceeded.

I am, my dear Madam, Yours very truly, HENRY COOPER."
The following letter I have previously made reference to.

It is written, evidently, in despondency, and heartfelt sorrow, under the
shock of the frightful calamity. It relates to the disastrous death
of poor Alfred, his youngest brother. It is dated from, and bears
date
2, _Elm Court_, _Temple_, 25_th_ _June_, 1822.

To the same,--
I received your letter yesterday, but I was so ill (that important
as the occasion is) I could not answer it.

To-day, nothing less than the urgency of the subject could prevail
upon me to make the smallest exertion, for I am scarcely able to drag
one limb up to the other. I have a violent catarrh, the glands of my
throat are further inflamed and ulcerated, and I am burning with
fever.

With regard to divulging to Harriet the disastrous event, for which,
when once known to her, she can never be consoled; I am in a very
unfit state to give advice.

I am as I have always been of opinion, that it should be concealed
from her as long as it can.

It is a more generous cause of grief than the loss of a lover; and as
Harriet's mind is built, I think more likely to shock and destroy
her. You state only one reason for breaking the secrecy which has
hitherto been observed--that it appears strange, the event public,
that you are not in mourning for it.

I cannot but think that if any good can reasonably be expected from
withholding the knowledge of this dreadful incident, it would be wrong
and trifling to forego it, for the senseless custom of putting yourself
in black for a few months. I have no crape about me. If any one were to
ask the cause of my disregard of a paltry decorum, I should either
turn on my heel from him, or explain to him that I did not put on
the mockery of sorrow, lest it should get to my sister's ear; that
I was in outward mourning, and she had to be discovering for whom.

It is, surely, easy for you to say that you do not put on black for
the same reason, to all who may enquire, or to all those to whom
you wish to appear decorous.

[He then writes on family matters, but, after a few lines, again recurs
to the painful subject of his letter.] It is known to several with
whom I am acquainted in London; but, it is easy, as Harriet restricts
herself to a very narrow intercourse, to keep it still from her knowledge,
till she has recovered strength of body to contend anew with severe and
heavy affliction.

How much I have suffered from the intelligence I shall not attempt to
describe to you. I had but little interest in life before; it is now
heavy and sickening to me. I feel as if I never should smile again;
every circumstance of aggravation attends it. To perish on the verge
of the shore, when he was just about to embark, after six years in the
climate, when we thought the danger past. With letters from him full
of felicitation of himself, and rapture at the hope of soon meeting us
again, and when we were expecting him every moment in our embrace, to
be struck cold to the heart with the news that we should never see
him again.

I owe little to man--I shall soon owe nothing to any other being. I hate
the cant of the doctrine of Providence 'your brother may be snatched
by a merciful power from impending evil.'

Bah! why not the merciful being continue life to my brother, and destroy
the impending evil?

Well, I shall soon be as he is, and though there is no consolation
in that feeling, it is some assuagement of grief, because sorrow will
then be at an end. My duty to my father. I write in great pain.

I am, dear Madam, Yours very truly, HENRY COOPER."
The following makes the last of the letters I possess, and is
written six months previous to his death; and in answer to a letter,
of my mother to him, respecting the appointment of a paid chairman, and
he, a barrister of some standing, to preside at Quarter Sessions,
and to have besides (if my recollection be correct) some civil power.

This was then in the contemplation of the Ministry; and as the poet says
"coming events cast their shadows before" evidently the shadow of the
present county courts.
The letter is dated from and bears date,
5, Hare Court, Temple.
6th March, 1824.

To the same,--

"I did not return to Town till Sunday morning, when I found your
letter at my chambers.

I hope you will accept, as a sufficient excuse, the extreme fatigue and
languor which I felt all yesterday for not answering it immediately.

I lament exceedingly, that my father should not have been early
enough in his application to the Lieutenant of the County, in whose
gift, by the frame of the bill, the appointment is placed, and in
whose hand, I fear, by the act itself it will remain.

I cannot conjecture to whom it has been promised by Col. Wodehouse. To
Alderson is not at all probable, from the part he has taken against
the Wodehouse's, who are the most bigoted and relentless Tories in
existence.

To Preston [another provincial barrister in Norwich, and the late
Jermy, who was shot by Rush], ought not to be probable, because he
is not competent either in law or common sense to fill the office;
and the favour to him would be an injury to the public.

My father has every claim to it, and I think that it would have
been no more than what was due from Col.

Wodehouse, both to the county and my father, to offer it to him
before he promised it to another.

I wish you might be right in your surmise, that the patronage will be
placed in another quarter; but, of that there is the faintest chance,
I should advise you to press my father to exert himself to procure
the appointment, as it will be an office of the most agreeable kind,
affording considerable profit at very little trouble.

I, myself, know not a soul in the world who could influence any one
of the present government: and any enquiries or attempt by me would
have, in all probability, an adverse operation.

I am of no importance whatever to any party, but my opinions, humble
and insignificant as they are, have been noticed and recorded; and
I am down in the black book for persecution, rather than in the red
for favour.

Of little note and importance as I am, such is the consciousness,
in their own infirmity, in those who rule us, that the very lowest
who have denounced their system, are objects of their hatred, for
they are the objects of their fear; and those who have put them to
the pain of apprehension, are marks for their revenge.

I should think that the best course that my father could take would
be to apply to Mr.

John Harvey, to induce his brother, Onley Harvey, Esq.

(a brother barrister of my father too), to ask it of the Home
Department; if he asked it (supposing the gift to be there), I
think, without doubt it would be given.

[The rest of the letter relates to family matters, and concludes my love
to William. He attributes too much honour to me by looking to me with
any admiration.] My duty to my father.

I am, dear Madam, Yours very truly, HENRY COOPER."
My task is all but accomplished. I have but now to lay before the
reader the promised verses; those on Buonaparte are characteristic of
the writer, who, with his high intellectual powers, possessed to the
last, a noble and independent spirit, which despised even the
appearance of servility.

"Father never rose a fish there," said Junkie, with a demure look.

The fisher paid no attention to the remark, but continued to cast a
little lower down stream each time.

"You're gettin' near the bit now," said Junkie, in the tone of one whose
expectations are awakened.

"Th-there!  That's him!"

"Ay, and a good one, too," exclaimed Jackman, as a fan-like tail
disappeared with a heavy splash.  Again the fisher cast, with the same
result.

"He's only playin' wi' the fly," said Junkie in a tone of
disappointment.

"That's often the way--no!--th-there!  Got 'im!"

The rod bent like a hoop at that moment; the reel spun round to its own
merry music, as the line flew out, and the fish finished its first wild
rush with a leap of three feet into the air.

"Hooray!" yelled Junkie, now fairly aflame, as he jumped like the fish,
flourished the big hook round his head, and gaffed Quin by the lappet of
his coat!

"Have a care, you spalpeen," shouted the Irishman, grasping the excited
youngster by the collar and disengaging himself from the hook.  "Sure it
might have been me nose as well as me coat, an' a purty objec' that
would have made me!"

Junkie heeded not.  When released he ran toward Jackman who was
struggling skilfully with the fish.

"Don't let him take you down the rapid," he shouted.  "There's no good
place for landin' him there.  Hold on, an' bring 'im up if you can.
Hi!"

This last exclamation was caused by another rush of the fish.  Jackman
had wound up his line as far as possible, and was in hopes of inducing
the salmon to ascend the stream, for he had run perilously near to the
head of the rapid against which the boy had just warned him.  But to
this the fish objected, and, finding that the fisher was obstinate, had,
as we have said, made a sudden rush across the pool, causing the reel to
spin furiously as the line ran out, and finishing off with another
splendid jump.

"A few more bursts like that will soon exhaust him," said Jackman, as he
wound in the line again and drew the fish steadily towards him.

"Yes, but _don't_ let him go down," said the boy earnestly.

It seemed almost as if the creature had heard the warning, for it turned
at the moment and made a straight rush for the head of the rapid.

When a large salmon does this it is absolutely impossible to stop him.
Only two courses are open to the fisher--either to hold on and let him
break the tackle; or follow him as fast as possible.  The former
alternative, we need hardly say, is only adopted when following is
impracticable or involves serious danger.  In the present case it was
neither impossible nor dangerous, but it was difficult; and the way in
which Giles Jackman went after that fish, staggering among pebbles,
leaping obstructions, crashing through bushes and bounding over
boulders, causing Quin to hold his sides with laughter, and little
Junkie to stand transfixed and staring with admiration, was
indescribable.

For Junkie had only seen his old father in such circumstances, and
sometimes the heavy, rather clumsy, though powerful Ivor Donaldson.  He
had not till that day seen--much less imagined--what were the capacities
of an Indian "Woods and Forester" of athletic build, superb training,
and fresh from his native jungles!

"I say! _what_ a jumper he is!" exclaimed Junkie, recovering presence of
mind and dashing after him.

The rapid was a short though rough one.  The chief danger was that the
line might be cut among the foam-covered rocks, or that the hook, if not
firmly fixed, might tear itself away; also that the fisher might fall,
which would probably be fatal to rod or line, to say nothing of elbows
and shins.

But Jackman came triumphantly out of it all.  The salmon shot into the
pool below the rapid, and turned into the eddy to rest.  The fisher, at
the same moment, bounded on to a strip of sand there--minus only hat and
wind--and proceeded to reel in the line for the next burst.

But another burst did not occur, for the fish was by that time pretty
well exhausted, and took to what is styled sulking; that is, lying at
the bottom of a hole with its nose, probably, under a stone.  While in
this position a fish may recover strength to renew the battle.  It is
therefore advisable, if possible, to drive him or haul him out of his
refuge by all or any means.  A small fish may be hauled out if the
tackle be strong, but this method is not possible with a heavy one such
as that which Jackman had hooked.

"What's to be done now, Junkie?" he said, after one or two vain efforts
to move the fish.

"Bomb stones at him," said the urchin, without a moment's hesitation.

"Bomb away then, my boy!"

Junkie at once sent several large stones whizzing into the pool.  The
result was that the salmon made another dash for life, but gave in
almost immediately, and came to the surface on its side.  The battle is
usually about ended when this takes place, though not invariably so, for
lively fish sometimes recover sufficiently to make a final effort.  In
this case, however, it was the close of the fight.  Slowly and carefully
the fisher drew the fish towards the shelving bank, where Junkie stood
ready with the gaff.  Another moment, and the boy bounded into the
water, stuck the hook into the salmon's shoulder, and laid it like a bar
of glittering silver on the bank.

"A twenty-pounder," said Junkie, with critical gravity.

"Twinty an' three-quarters," said Quin, as he weighed it.

"And a good job, too," returned the practical urchin; "for I heard
mother say we'd have no fish for dinner to-morrow if somebody didn't
catch something."


CHAPTER SIX.

DANGEROUS STUDIES, PECULIAR ART, AND SPLENDID FISHING.

There was a glass conservatory in one corner of the garden at Kinlossie
House, to which the laird was wont to retire regularly for the enjoyment
of a pipe every morning after breakfast.  In this retreat, which was
rich in hot-house plants, he was frequently joined by one or more of the
members of his family, and sometimes by the friends who chanced to be
staying with him.  Thither John Barret got into the way of going--partly
for the sake of a chat with the old man, of whom he soon became very
fond, and partly for the sake of the plants, in which he was
scientifically interested, botany being, as Mabberly said, his peculiar
weakness.

One morning--and a gloriously bright morning it was, such as induces one
to thank God for the gift of sunshine and the capacity of enjoying it--
John Barret sauntered down to the garden, after breakfast, to have a
quiet chat with his host.  He had decided to remain at home that morning
for the purpose of writing a letter or two, intending in the afternoon
to follow up some of his companions, who had gone off to the hills.

Entering the conservatory, he found that the laird was not there; but,
in his usual rustic chair, there sat a beautiful girl, sound asleep,
with her fair cheek resting on her little hand, and her nut-brown hair
straggling luxuriantly over her shoulders.

Barret was spell-bound.  He could not move for a few seconds.  Surprise
may have had something to do with the sudden paralysis of his powers.
It may have been curiosity, possibly admiration, certainly some sort of
sensation that he could neither describe nor account for.  He knew at a
glance who the girl was, though he had not seen her since the day of her
accident.  Even if he had been so obtuse as not to know, the arm in a
sling would have revealed that it was Milly Moss who slumbered there;
yet he found it hard to believe that the neat little woman, with the
lovely, benignant countenance before him was in very truth the
dishevelled, dusty, scratched, and blood-sprinkled being whom he had
carried for several miles over the heather a short time before.

As we have said, Barret stood immovable, not knowing very well what to
do.  Then it occurred to him that it was scarcely gallant or fair thus
to take advantage of a sleeping beauty.  Staring at her was bad enough,
but to awake her would be still worse; so he turned slowly about, as a
cat turns when afraid of being pounced on by a glaring adversary.  He
would retire on tiptoe as softly as possible, so as not to disturb her.
In carrying out this considerate intention, he swept a flower-pot off
its stand, which fell with a mighty crash upon the stone floor.

The poor youth clasped his hands, and glanced back over his shoulder in
horror.  The startled Milly was gazing at him with mingled surprise and
alarm, which changed, however, into a flush and a look of restrained
laughter as she began to understand the situation.

"Never mind, Mr Barret," she said, rising, and coming forward with a
gracious manner.  "It is only one of the commonest plants we have.
There are plenty more of them.  You came, I suppose, in search of my
uncle?  Excuse my left hand; the right, as you see, is not yet fit for
duty."

"I did indeed come here in search of Mr Gordon," said Barret,
recovering himself; "but permit me to lead you back to the chair; your
strength has not quite returned yet, I see."

He was right.  Although Milly had recovered much more rapidly than the
doctor had expected, she could not stand much excitement, and the shock
given by the breaking flower-pot, coupled, perhaps, with the unexpected
meeting with the man who had rescued her, from what might well have
caused her death, somewhat overcame her.

"Excuse me," she said, with a fluttering sigh, as she sank down into the
rustic chair, "I do feel rather faint.  It does seem so strange!  I--I
suppose it is because I have had no experience of anything but robust
health all my life till now.  There--I feel better.  Will you kindly
fetch me a glass of water?  You will find a cistern with a tumbler
beside it outside."

The youth hurried out, and, on returning with the glass, found that the
deadly pallor of the girl's face had passed away, and was replaced by a
tint that might have made the blush rose envious.

"You must understand," said Milly, setting down the glass, while Barret
seated himself on a vacant flower-pot-stand beside her, "that this
conservatory is a favourite haunt of mine, to which, before my accident,
I have resorted every morning since I came here, in order to sit with
Uncle Allan.  The doctor thought me so much better this morning that he
gave me leave to recommence my visits.  This is why I came; but I had
totally forgotten that uncle had arranged to go out with the shooting
party to-day, so I sat down to enjoy my favourite plants, and paid them
the poor compliment of falling asleep, owing to weakness, I suppose.
But how does it happen, Mr Barret, that you have been left behind?
They gave me to understand that you are a keen sportsman."

"They misled you, then, for I am but a poor sportsman, and by no means
enthusiastic.  Indeed, whether I go out with rod or gun, I usually
convert the expedition into a search for plants."

"Oh, then, you are fond of botany!" exclaimed the girl, with a flush of
pleasure and awakened interest.  "I am so glad of that, because--
because--"

"Well, why do you hesitate, Miss Moss?" asked Barret, with a surprised
look and a smile.

"Well, I don't quite like to lay bare my selfishness; but the truth is,
there are some rare plants in terribly inaccessible places, which can
only be reached by creatures in male attire.  In fact, I was trying to
secure one of these on the Eagle Cliff when I fell, and was so nearly
killed at the time you rescued me."

"Pray don't give the little service I rendered so dignified a name as
`rescue.'  But it rejoices me to know that I can be of further service
to you--all the more that you are now so helpless; for if you found
climbing the precipices difficult before, you will find it impossible
now with your injured arm.  By the way, I was very glad to find that I
had been mistaken in thinking that your arm was broken.  Has it given
you much pain?"

"Yes, a good deal; but I am very, very thankful it was no worse.  And
now I must show you some of the plants I have been trying to bring up
since I came here," said Milly, with animation.  "Of course, I cannot
walk about to show them to you, so I will point them out, and ask you to
fetch the pots--that is, if you have nothing better to do, and won't be
bored."

Barret protested earnestly that he had nothing--_could_ have nothing--
better to do, and that even if he had he wouldn't do it.  As for being
bored, the idea of such a state of mind being possible in the
circumstances was ridiculous.

Milly was rejoiced.  Here she had unexpectedly found a friend to
sympathise with her intelligently.  Her uncle, she was well aware,
sympathised with her heartily, but not intelligently; for his knowledge
of botany, he told her frankly, was inferior to that of a tom-cat, and
he was capable of little more in that line than to distinguish the
difference between a cabbage and a potato.

At it, therefore, the two young people went with real enthusiasm--we
might almost say with red-hot enthusiasm--for botany was only a
superstructure, so to speak, love being the foundation of the whole
affair.

But let not the reader jump to hasty conclusions.  Barret and Milly,
being young and inexperienced, were absolutely ignorant at that time of
the true state of matters.  Both were earnest and straightforward--both
were ardently fond of botany, and neither, up to that period, had known
what it was to fall in love.  What more natural, then, than that they
should attribute their condition to botany?  There is, indeed, a sense
in which their idea was correct, for sympathy is one of the most
precious seeds with which poor humanity is entrusted, and did not botany
enable these two to unite in planting that seed, and is not sympathy the
germ of full-blown love?  If so, may they not be said to have fallen in
love botanically?  We make no assertion in regard to this.  We merely,
and modestly, put the question, leaving it to the intelligent reader to
supply the answer--an exceedingly convenient mode of procedure when one
is not quite sure of the answer one's self.

To return.  Having got "at it," Barret and Milly continued at it for
several hours, during which period they either forgot, or did not care
to remember, the flight of time.  They also contrived, during that time,
to examine, discuss, and comment upon, a prodigious number of plants,
all of which, being in pots or boxes, were conveyed by the youth to the
empty stand at the side of the fair invalid.  The minute examination
with a magnifying glass of corolla, and stamen, and calyx, etcetera,
rendered it necessary, of course, that these inquiries into the
mysteries of Nature should bring the two heads pretty close together;
one consequence being that the seed-plant of sympathy was "forced" a
good deal, and developed somewhat after the fashion of those plants
which Hindoo jugglers cause magically to sprout, blossom, and bloom
before the very eyes of astonished beholders--with this difference,
however, that whereas the development of the jugglers is deceptive as
well as quick, that of our botanists was genuine and natural, though
rapid.

The clang of the luncheon gong was the first thing that brought them to
their senses.

"Surely there must be some mistake!  Junkie must be playing with--no, it
is indeed one o'clock," exclaimed Milly, consulting in unbelief a watch
so small that it seemed like cruelty to expect it to go at all, much
less to go correctly.

As she spoke, the door of the conservatory opened, and Mrs Gordon
appeared with affected indignation on her usually mild countenance.

"You naughty child!" she exclaimed, hurrying forward.  "Did I not warn
you to stay no longer than an hour? and here you are, flushed, and no
doubt feverish, in consequence of staying the whole forenoon.  Take my
arm, and come away directly."

"I pray you, Mrs Gordon, to lay the blame on my shoulders," said
Barret.  "I fear it was my encouraging Miss Moss to talk of her
favourite study that induced her to remain."

"I would be only too glad to lay the blame on your shoulders if I could
lay Milly's weakness there too," returned the lady.  "It is quite
evident that you would never do for a nurse.  Strong men like you have
not sympathy enough to put yourself in the place of invalids, and think
how they feel.  I would scold you severely, sir, if you were not my
guest.  As it is, I will forgive you if you promise me not to mention
the subject of botany in the presence of my niece for a week to come."

"The condition is hard," said Barret, with a laugh; "but I promise--that
is, if Miss Moss does not force the subject on me."

"I promise that, Mr Barret; but I also attach a condition."

"Which is--?"

"That you go to Eagle Cliff some day this week, and find for me a
particular plant for which I have sought for a long time in vain, but
which I am told is to be found there."

"Most willingly.  Nothing could give me greater pleasure," returned the
youth, with an air of such eager enthusiasm that he felt constrained to
add,--"you see, the acquisition of new and rare plants has been a sort
of passion with me for many years, and I am quite delighted to find that
there is a possibility of not only gratifying it here, but of being able
at the same time to contribute to your happiness."

They reached the house as he made this gallant speech, and Milly went
straight to her room.

The only members of the household who sat down to luncheon that day were
Mrs Gordon, Archie, the enthusiastic photographer, and Flo, with her
black doll; and the only guest, besides Barret, was McPherson, the
skipper of the lost yacht.  The rest were all out rambling by mountain,
loch, or stream.

"Milly won't appear again to-day," said the hostess, as she sat down.
"I knew that she had overdone it.  The shock to her system has been far
too severe to admit of botanical discussions."

Barret professed himself overwhelmed with a sense of guilt, and promised
to avoid the dangerous subject in future.

"Mother," exclaimed Flo, who was a good but irrepressible child, "what
d'ee t'ink?  Archie have pofografft dolly, an' she's as like as--as--two
peas.  Isn't she, Archie?"

"Quite as like as that, Flo," replied Archie, with a laugh; "liker, if
anything."

"By the way, how did you get on with your photographing yesterday
afternoon, Archie?" asked Barret.

"Pretty well with some of the views; but I ruined the last one, because
father would have me introduce Captain McPherson and his man McGregor."

"Is that so, captain?" asked Mrs Gordon.

"Oo, ay; it iss true enough," answered the skipper, with a grim smile.
"He made a queer like mess o' me, what-e-ver."

"How was it, Archie?"

"Well, mother, this is how it was.  You know the waterfall at the head
of Raven's Nook?  Well, I have long wanted to take that, so I went up
with father and Mr Mabberly.  We found the captain and McGregor sitting
there smoking their pipes, and when I was arranging the camera, the
captain said to me--"

"No, Maister Archie," interrupted the skipper; "I did not say anything
to Shames.  You should be more parteekler.  But Shames said something to
_me_, what-e-ver."

"Just so; I forgot," continued Archie.  "Well, McGregor said to the
captain, `What would you think if we wass to sit still an' co into the
pictur'?'"

"Oo, ay; that was just it, an' fery like him too," said the skipper,
laughing at Archie's imitation, though he failed to recognise the
similarity to his own drawling and nasal tones.  People always do thus
fail.  We can never see ourselves!

"Well," continued Archie, "father insisted that I was to take them,
though they quite spoiled the view.  So I did; but in the very middle of
the operation, what did the captain do but insist on changing his--"

"Not at all, Maister Archie," again interrupted the skipper; "you have
not got the right of it.  It wass Shames said to me that he thought you
had feenished, an' so I got up; an' then you roared like a wild bullock
to keep still, and so what could I do but keep still? I shall read the passage which is charged as libelous, and if the
learned counsel for the defendant can find throughout a single
passage to qualify its malignity, do you, gentleman, give the
defendant the benefit of it.

The passage is this:--"To talk about the British Constitution, is, in my
opinion, a sure proof of dishonesty; Britain has no constitution. If
we speak of the Spanish constitution, we have something tangible; there
is a substance and meaning as well as sound. In Britain there is nothing
constituted but corruption in the system of government; our very
laws are corrupt and partial, both in themselves and in their
administration; in fact, corruption as notorious as the sun at
noon-day, is an avowed part of our system, and is denominated the
necessary oil for the wheels of the government; it is a most
pernicious oil to the interests of the people."

And in another passage the following words were contained:--"Reform
will be obtained when the existing authorities have no longer the
power to withhold it, and not before.

We shall gain it as early without petitioning as with it, and I would
again put forward my opinion, that something more than a petitioning
attitude is necessary.

At this moment I would not say a word about insurrection, but I would
strongly recommend union, activity, and co-operation.

Be ready and steady to meet any concurrent circumstances." Now, gentleman,
these are the passages charged as libelous, and I defy even the ingenuity
of my learned friend to show that they are not most odious libels. What!
are the people of this free and independent country to be told
that they have no constitution? It is an assertion, the malignity of
which is only equalled by its falsehood. We have a free and glorious
constitution. It has descended to us from our brave and free ancestors,
and I trust that we, too, shall have virtue and magnanimity enough to
transmit it unimpaired to our posterity. We have laws, too, equal in
their administration. We have a constitution where no lowness of birth--no
meanness of origin--operate as an obstacle to preferment; in which the
chief situations are open to competition, and for which the only
qualifications are integrity and information.

Our laws are here stigmatized as partial and corrupt. If they were not
impartial, this man would never have dared to vilify them. The very
accusation proves that the charge is false; for if it were true,
this libeler must have suddenly suffered for this assertion.

It is because that they are administered in a spirit of mercy unknown
to the laws of any other country--it is because they are administered
in tenderness, that this man has had the power to promulgate his vile
and odious falsehood. He thought it meet and right, and most becoming
too, to tell the world that this was not the precise time for insurrection.
He plainly indicates, that he has no objection to it; but he would
not say a word about it at present, the time was not come; but he
tells his fellow reformers to be "ready and steady to meet any
concurrent circumstances."

Gentlemen, it would be an idle and impertinent waste of time to
make any further observations upon the pernicious tendency of this
libel.

But what is the defence which is to be set up by my learned friend? Are
we to be told that the prosecution of this libel is an invasion of the
liberty of the press? I will not yield to my learned friend, nor
to any man in existence, in a just regard for the freedom of the press.
But who, I would ask, is invading its liberty? He who brings to justice
the offenders, or he who under the sacred form of liberty promulgates
such language as I have just read to you?

I do not think that on this subject you can entertain a doubt. I feel
the most perfect confidence in committing this case to your good
sense.

If you believe that the defendant is guilty of publishing this libel with
the intention charged, you will pronounce your verdict of guilty.
If, on the other hand, you think that the passages which I have
read to you contain nothing libelous, or that the defendant is not
the publisher, I shall sincerely rejoice in your conscientious
acquittal.

_James Rignall_ deposed, that he had purchased the pamphlet in question
of the defendant, at her shop in Fleet Street, on Friday evening, the
9th of March. There were several other copies lying about on the
counter.

Cross-examined by Mr.

COOPER.--Who are you?--I am an agent to the Society for the Suppression
of Vice.

But you are also employed by these constitutional people, as they
call themselves?

--Only in this one instance.

Were you employed to purchase the pamphlet in question?--I purchased that
and others.

You were employed by the Constitutional Society to purchase them?--Yes,
I was.

Who sent you?--Mr. Murray.

The Attorney?--Yes.

And he directed you to purchase this pamphlet, eh?

--He did not particularize any.

Did he state his object in the purchase?--No.

What wages are you to have?

--I have no wages.

Then you perform this agreeable duty gratuitously?

--No, I do not say that.

Then how are you paid?--I made a charge for my time.

Perhaps you belong to the society?--No, indeed I do not (with vehemence).

Well, I do not wonder that you should be anxious to separate yourself
from the society (a laugh amongst the auditory).

Mr. GURNEY.--I desire that no such remarks may be made.

Mr. COOPER.--What have you had for this particular job?--I have made a
charge for several other little things I did (a laugh).

Mr.

GURNEY (to the spectators),--I shall certainly move his Lordship to
take notice of some particular persons that I see misconducting
themselves.

Cross-examination resumed.--What other jobs did you for the association?--I
did several jobs; that I will not deny.

How much have you had for these little jobs?--I declare upon my oath, I
cannot state particularly how much I had for these little jobs.

I made a charge. I don't recollect exactly what my charge was.

Come, come, the round sum?

--I can tell you pretty nearly the round sum, if that will satisfy you.
I think it was above seven pounds and under seven guineas. I was sent
on other business beside this.

I wish to know what that other business was?--Is it necessary to
answer that question?

I think it necessary.--Then I will take the sense of the Court upon
it. I have no objection to answer that or any other question, if
my Lord thinks I ought.

Mr. Justice BEST (smiling).--It tends to nothing; but it is as well to
answer it.

Then I purchased come other different things for the association, but it
was not in consequence of any general or particular orders I received: I
went to purchase these publications which I myself thought libels;
I cannot state exactly now what they were.

Then you did that, I suppose, without any hope of reward?--I don't state
without any hope of reward; I expected to be paid for my time.

Oh, then, it was not altogether out of virtue and patriotic feeling?--Those
were two of my motives, most certainly, but not the only ones (general
laughing).

Has this been the usual way of getting your living?--It has for a
year and a half past; I have had no other feasible occupation
during that time.

I suppose you received a considerable sum in the course of this
honourable employment?--I have told you the sum total was about 7
pounds.

Mr. Justice BEST.--Do you think that material, Mr.

Cooper?

Mr. COOPER.--I do think it material, to show the sort of agents that this
honourable society employs.

(To witness.) And what did you do before you suppressed vice and libels?--I
got my living honourably as an officer in his Majesty's customs.

And are you still an honourable officer, &c.?--No; I have lost my
situation.

Retired upon a pension?--No.

How old are you?--Fifty-four.

No pension, eh?--None.

Re-examined by Mr. GURNEY.--I have been in the employment of the Society
for the Suppression of Vice for a year and a half; I have been
paid by them for my services.

In this instance, and in several others, I have made some purchases for
the Constitutional Association.

_Horatio Orton_ was then called.

A general murmur ran through the Court, which was crowded to excess;
and all persons most deferentially gave the witness way.

Examined by Mr. GURNEY.

--I was a witness before the Grand Jury. On the 10th of March I purchased
another copy of the pamphlet in question from Mary Anne Carlile; I had
it from her own hand.

Cross-examined by Mr. COOPER.--How came you to purchase this on the
10th of March?

--I was directed by Mr. Murray, the solicitor, to purchase it.

This is the gentleman?

(pointing to Mr. Murray, in court)--Yes.

He is the Honorary Secretary to the Association, and the disinterested
attorney for this prosecution?

--Yes, I was sent by him for the express purpose of purchasing this
pamphlet; I should not have gone if I had not been directed by him.

What is your situation in the society?--My situation to the Association
is as clerk.

Clerk to Mr. Murray?--No; I am not in Mr.

Murray's office.

In the Society's office, separate from the attorney's office?--Yes.

In what situation were you before?

--I used to assist my brother in his correspondence with country
newspapers.

Not for the town papers?--No, for himself; he takes the reports of the
House of Lords' proceedings, and transmits them to the editors of
the country papers; I used to assist him in the copying, and he
paid me for my trouble.

What is your salary in your present honourable situation?--It is not
fixed.

It depends upon your exertions?--Yes.

Then you work at present by the piece?--No, I do not; the committee
have not yet come to a determination about my salary; I have not
made any demand for salary; I have not proposed any sum; I mean to
swear that; not any sum has been proposed to me; I don't say that
I would work for the Society gratuitously; if I want five or ten
pounds I know where to go for it; not of the Association; I can
have it of my brother; I expect to receive something of the
Association.

In your modesty, what may be the extent of your expectations?

Mr. GURNEY submitted that this was not a proper mode of
cross-examination.

Mr. COOPER.--I think it is, and I shall persist in it until I am told
by my Lord that it is irregular.

Mr. Justice BEST.

--I don't think any part of the cross-examination is approaching
to anything like regularity.

Mr. COOPER.--If your Lordship says I am not to be allowed the same latitude
which is allowed to counsel on other occasions, I shall not
persevere.

Mr. Justice BEST.--I have no objection to your taking your own course,
but I think this course of examination ought to have been stopped
long ago.

I think every fair and reasonable indulgence ought to be allowed to
counsel in such a case, but if this was a mere civil case I should have
stopped you long ago.

Mr. COOPER.--Then I shall proceed in my own way, with your Lordship's
permission. (To witness.) Is this the first job you have been employed
in?--I don't recollect any other of this kind.

Are you sure you have been employed upon no other job of this kind?--I
cannot bring to my recollection whether I have not been employed
on any other. I may have been, but I am not aware of any.

Do you know a man named King?--Yes, perfectly.

Do you recollect doing a job in which he was concerned?--I don't
recollect doing a job of this kind against King. I might if I saw
the paper before me with my mark upon it.

  There are so many of them that I
  cannot recollect any in
  particular.
  

Have you not made an affidavit in the job against King?--Yes; but that is
since this. I cannot recollect whether I have done any other jobs. I
have been in the employment of the Association about six months. I
commenced on the 8th of January. Since the 10th of March, I don't
recollect how many jobs I have been engaged in; they are so numerous I
can't recollect. The orders which Mr. Murray gave me, were to go and
purchase the Reformers' Address at the defendant's shop.

I had not any general directions to buy at this or that shop--not from
Mr. Murray.

I had from other persons, general directions to make purchase of works;
one of those persons was Mr. Sharpe.

He is the Honorary Assistant Secretary?--Yes.

(All the preceding questions excited considerable sensations
amongst the audience, and produced a chorus of humourous tittering).

Mr. Justice BEST.--The effect of these questions, Mr. Cooper, you
must feel.

You cannot wish, I am sure, to excite the sort of response which comes
from below the bar. You must see that it is done on purpose. You cannot
wish, I am sure, to produce that effect.

Mr. COOPER.--My Lord, I am the last man in the world to do any thing
inconsistent with the gravity and decorum of a Court of Justice. I
disclaim any such intention; and I must disdain the insinuation
of Mr.

Gurney, that I have taken up this cause for the purpose of adding to
the public odium in which the honourable Association is held.

Mr. GURNEY said his learned friend, Mr. Cooper, was mistaken; he had
never insinuated anything of the kind.

Mr. Justice BEST.--I am sure no gentlemen at the bar would wish to
produce the effect which all the questions put by you have had
below the bar.

Mr. COOPER said he could not control the feelings of the auditory. He
was only anxious to do his duty to the best of his humble ability, and
nothing should deter him from discharging that duty freely and
undauntedly.

Cross-examination resumed.

--What is the office of the Honorary Assistant Secretary?--It is to
do every thing at the office.

To superintend the business of the office?

--I consider him as the acting manager.

Then the Honorary Secretary has a sinecure?

--What does the word honorary mean but a sinecure?
Mr. COOPER.--"May it please your Lordship; gentlemen of the jury;
I am exceedingly sorry that some more able counsel has not to address
you on this most important and momentous occasion. I should have
been unequal to the task, under any circumstances."
Mr. GURNEY.--"Stop a minute." (The learned counsel for the prosecution
here intimated, that he had something to add to his case; but, after
a pause, he intimated to Mr. Cooper, that he might proceed.)
Mr. COOPER.--Gentlemen, under any circumstances, this would be a
task, for which, I fear, I am very ill qualified; but under those,
in which I stand to address you on this question, I feel my incapacity
doubled and trebled. I appear before you without notice, and almost
wholly without preparation. I was, indeed, applied to by the
defendant, some months ago, and negotiated with (if I may use the
phrase) to undertake her defence. But, after this, many days and
even weeks passed, during which I heard nothing of the case; and I
began to suppose that the defendant had determined to employ some
other counsel, or trust herself to her own address to the jury
against this charge. At the end of a month, however, I was again
applied to; and, again, weeks having elapsed, without my hearing
any more of this prosecution, I dismissed it entirely, not only
from my mind, but from my memory; nor was it, till last night, that,
that I was once more informed that I was to be employed as the
defendant's counsel; and my brief at last put into my hands. I was
then unfortunately engaged in other important business: and the
time, I have taken to collect my own thoughts upon this question,
and huddle together a few extract's from writers of authority, I
have been obliged to borrow from sleep; and have, therefore, in a
great measure counteracted myself; for I have lost in strength,
what I have gained in information, and appear before you ill able,
indeed, to do justice to this cause. But, whilst I make this statement
to excuse my own deficiency, I am bound to acquit the defendant of
any reproachable negligence of her own interests.
I understand, that the cause of her late application to me, is,
that having had, as a mere matter of grace, three weeks' notice of
trial from another society, by which she has been prosecuted, she
mistook it for her right; and expected the same notice from her
present prosecutors."Well, come along then; the beaters must be at work now.  How many did
you get, Ivor?"

"I'm not exactly sure, sir," returned the keeper; "there's Ian Anderson
an' Tonal' from Cove, an' Mister Archie an' Eddie, an' Roderick--that's
five.  Oo, ay, I forgot, there's that queer English loon, Robin Tips--
he's no' o' much use, but he can mak' a noise--besides three o' Mr
Grant's men."

"That's plenty--now then--"

"Please, father," said Junkie, who had listened with open eyes and
mouth, as well as ears, for this was his first deer-stalk, "may I stop
with Mr Barret?"

"Certainly, my boy, if Mr Barret does not object."

Of course Mr Barret did not object, though he was rather surprised at
this mark of preference.

"I say, me boy," whispered Pat Quin, "ask av I may stop wid ye."

Junkie looked at the Irishman doubtfully for a moment, then said--

"Father, Quin says he wants to stop with me."

"You mayn't do that, Quin," returned the laird with a smile; "but you
may go and stay with your master.  I heard him say that he would like
you to be with him to keep you out of mischief."

"Thankee, sor.  I was used to attend on 'im in the jungles to carry his
spare guns, for it's ellyphints, no less, that we was used to bag out
there; but I make no question he can amuse himsilf wid deer an' things
like that where there's nothin' better.  He was always aisy to plaze,
like Mr MacRummle."

"Just so, Quin; and as MacRummle knows the hill, and has to pass the
place where Mr Jackman has been left, you had better follow him."

This arranged, the different parties took up their positions to await
the result of the beating of a strip of dwarf forest, several miles in
extent, which clothed part of the mountain slopes below the Eagle Cliff.

On reaching the spot where Jackman was stationed, old MacRummle
explained to him the various arrangements that had just been made for
the comfort of all.

"I am sorry they gave me the best place," said Jackman.  "I suppose it
is because the laird thinks my experience in India entitles me to it;
but I would much rather that Mabberly or Barret had got the chance, for
I'm used to this sort of thing, and, after bagging elephants, I can
afford to lay on my oars and see my friends go in and win."

"An' sure, aren't thim the very words I said, sor?" put in Quin.

"Have they given you a good place?" asked Jackman of MacRummle, taking
no notice of his man's remarks.

"They've given me the worst," said the old man, simply; "and I cannot
blame them, for, as the keeper truly remarked, I can do nothing with the
gun,"--still less with the rifle, he might have added!  "At the same
time, I confess it would have added somewhat to the zest of the day if
Ivor had allowed me some degree of hope.  He thought I didn't overhear
him, but I did; for they give me credit for greater deafness than I
deserve."

There was something so pitiful, yet half amusing, in the way in which
this was said, that Jackman suddenly grasped the old gentleman's hand.

"Mr MacRummle," he said firmly, "will you do me a favour?"

"Certainly, with pleasure--if I can."

"You can--and you shall.  It is this: change places and rifles with me."

"My dear, kind sir, you don't know what you ask.  My rifle is an old
double-barrel muzzle loader, and at the white rock you wouldn't have the
ghost of a chance.  I know the place well, having often passed it in
fishing excursions up the burns.  Besides, I never used a repeating
rifle in my life.  I couldn't manage it, even if I were to try."

"Mr MacRummle, are you not a Highlander?"

"I believe I am!" replied the old man, drawing himself up with a smile.

"And is not that equivalent to saying that you are a man of your word?"

"Well--I suppose it is so--at least it should be so."

"But you will prove that it is not so, if you fail to do me a favour
that lies in your power, after promising to do it.  Come now, we have no
time to lose.  I will show you how to use the repeater.  See; it is
empty just now.  All you have to do is to take aim as you would with any
ordinary rifle, and pull the trigger.  When the shot is off, you load
again by simply doing _this_ to the trigger-guard--so.  D'you
understand?"

"Yes, perfectly; but is that all? no putting in of cartridges anywhere?"

"No, nothing more.  Simply do _that_ (open--and the cartridge flies
out), and _that_ (shut--and you are loaded and ready to fire)!  Now, try
it.  That's it!  Capital!  Couldn't be better.  Why, you were born to be
a sportsman!"

"Yes, with fish," remarked the gratified old man, as he went through the
motions of loading and firing to perfection.

"Now, then, I will load it thus.  Watch me."

As he spoke, he filled the chamber under the barrel with cartridge after
cartridge to the amazement of MacRummle and the amusement of Quin, who
looked on.

"How many shots will it fire without reloading?" asked the old man at
length.

"Sixteen," replied Jackman.

"What! sixteen?  But--but how will I ever know how many I've let off?"

"You don't require to know.  Just blaze away till it refuses to fire!
Now, I must be off.  Where is this white rock that I have to go to?"

"There it is--look.  A good bit down the hill, on the open ground near
the forest.  If you have good eyes, you can see it from here.  Look,
just behind the ridge.  D'you see?"

"I see.  Great luck to you.  Do good work, and teach that rascal Ivor to
respect your powers with the rifle.  Come along, Quin."

"But really, my young friend, it is too good, too self-denying of you
to--"

He stopped, for Jackman and Quin were already striding down the mountain
on their way to the white rock.

MacRummle had been somewhat excited by the enthusiasm of his young
friend and the novelty of his situation.  To say truth, he would much
rather have been pottering along the banks of one of his loved Highland
streams, rod in hand, than crouching in the best pass of the Eagle Cliff
in expectation of red-deer; but being an amiable and sympathetic man, he
had been fired by the enthusiasm of the household that morning, and,
seeing that all were going to the drive, including the laird, he made up
his mind to brace himself up to the effort, and float with the current.
His enthusiasm had not cooled when he reached the Eagle Cliff, and
Jackman's kindness, coupled with hope and the repeating rifle, increased
it even to white heat.  In which condition he sat down on a rock,
removed his hat, and wiped his bald, perspiring head, while a benignant
smile illuminated his glowing features.

About the same time, Barret and Junkie having selected a convenient mass
of rock as their outlook, so that they could command the pass for some
distance in both directions without exposing themselves to view, rested
the rifle against the cliff and began to talk.  Soon the young man
discovered that the little boy, like many other mischievous boys, was of
an exceedingly inquiring disposition.  Among other things, he not only
began an intelligent inquiry about the locks of a rifle, but a practical
inquiry with his fingers, which called for remonstrance.

"Do you know, Junkie, that this is the very spot where your Cousin Milly
fell?" said Barret, by way of directing the urchin's thoughts into a
safer channel.

"Is it?  Oh, dear, _what_ a thump she must have come down!"

"Yes, indeed, a dreadful thump--poor thing.  She was trying to get
flowers at the time.  Do you know that she is exceedingly fond of
flowers?"

"Oh, don't I?  She's got books full of them--all pasted in with names
printed under them.  I often wonder what she sees in flowers to be so
fond of them.  I don't care a button for them myself, unless they smell
nice.  But I often scramble after them for her."

"There is a good deal to like in flowers besides the smell," said
Barret, assuming an instructive tone, which Junkie resented on the spot.

"Oh, yes, I don't want to know; you needn't try to teach me," he said,
firmly.

"Of course not.  I wouldn't think of teaching you, my boy.  You know I'm
not a schoolmaster.  I'm not clever enough for that, and when I was your
age, I hated to be taught.  But I could _show_ you some things about
flowers and plants that would astonish you.  Only it would not be safe
to do it just now, for the deer might come up and--"

"No they won't," interrupted the boy; "it's a monstrous big wood they've
got to pass through before they can come here, so we have time to look
at some of the 'stonishin' things."

"Well, then, come.  We will just go a little way up the cliff."

Leading Junkie away among the masses of fallen rock, which strewed that
ledge of the cliff, the wily youth began to examine plants and flowers
minutely, and to gradually arouse in the boy's mind an interest in such
parts of botanical science as he was capable of understanding.

Meanwhile the small army of beaters had extended themselves across the
distant end of the forest, which, being some miles off, and on the other
side of a great shoulder of the mountain, was not only out of sight, but
out of hearing of the stalkers who watched the passes of the Eagle
Cliff.

All the beaters, or drivers, were well acquainted with the work they had
to do, with the exception of Robin Tips, to whom, of course, it was
quite new.  But Ian Anderson put him under Donald's care, with strict
injunctions to look well after him.

"Now, Tonal', see that ye don't draw together an' git ta-alkin' so as to
forget what ye're about.  Keep him at the right distance away from ye,
an' as much in line as ye can."

"Oo, ay," returned ragged head, in a tone that meant, when translated
into familiar English, "Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs!"

In a sequestered dell on the slope of the hills, a lordly stag and
several hinds were enjoying themselves that morning among the bracken
and bright mosses, partially screened from the sun by the over-arching
boughs of birch and hazel, and solaced by the tinkling music of a
neighbouring rill.  Thick underwood concealed the dell on all sides;
grey lichen-covered boulders surrounded it; no sound disturbed it save
the faint cry of the plover and curlew on the distant shore, or the flap
of a hawk's wing as it soared overhead.  Altogether it looked like a
safe and sure retreat, but it did not prove to be so.

Mingled with the plaintive cries of the wild fowl, there came a faint--
barely perceptible--sound of the human voice.  The stag pricked up his
ears, and raised his antlered head.  It was by no means a new sound to
him.  The shepherd's voice calling to his collie on the mountain-side
was a familiar sound, that experience had taught him boded no evil.  The
converse of friends as they plodded along the roads or foot-paths that
often skirted his lairs, had a tone of innocence about it which only
induced caution--not alarm.  But there was nothing of this in the sounds
that now met his ears.  He raised himself higher, opened his nostrils
wider, sniffed the tainted air, and then, turning his graceful head,
made some remark--we presume, though we cannot be positive on this
point--to his wives.

These, meek and gentle--as females usually are, or ought to be--turned
their soft inquiring gaze on their lord.  Thus they stood, as if
spell-bound, while the sounds slowly but steadily increased in volume
and approached their retreat.  Presently a shoulder of the mountain was
turned by the drivers, and their discordant voices came down on the
gentle breeze with unmistakable significance.

We regret being unable to report exactly what the stag then said to his
wives, but the result was that the entire family bounded from their
retreat, and, in the hurry and alarm of the moment, scattered along
various glades, all of which, however, trended ultimately towards those
mountain fastnesses that exist about and beyond the Eagle Cliff.

Two of the hinds followed their lord in a direction which led them out
of the wood within sight of, though a considerable distance from, the
white rock behind which Jackman and Quin were concealed.  The others
fled by tracks somewhat higher on the hill-sides, where however, as the
reader knows, the enemy was posted to intercept them.

"Sure it's a purty stag, afther all," whispered Quin, who, in spite of
elephantine-Indian sport, was somewhat excited by this sudden appearance
of the Scottish red-deer.  "But they're a long way off, sor."

"Not too far, if the rifle is true," said Jackman, in a very low voice,
as he put up the long-range sight.

"You'll git a good chance at the stag whin he tops the hillock forenent
you, sor," remarked the somewhat garrulous Irishman.

"I won't fire at the stag, Quin," returned Jackman, quietly.  --P.T.W.

* * * * *

THOU WERT THE RAINBOW OF MY DREAMS.

Thou wert the rainbow of my dreams, To whom the eyes of Hope might turn,
And bid her sacred flame arise Like incense from the festal urn; But
as the thunder clouds conspire To wreck the lovely summer sky, So
Death destroyed the liquid fire Which shone so brightly in thine
eye!

The cypress weeps upon thy tomb:
But when the stars unfold their leaves Amid their bow'rs of purple gloom,
More fervently my spirit grieves; And as the rainbow sheds its light
In fairy hues upon the sea, So this cold world appears more bright When
pensive Memory thinks of thee!

G.R.C.

* * * * *

LORD BYRON.

Translation of a letter written by Lord Byron, in Greek and Italian,
to the Pacha of Patras.[5] 
Highness.

--A vessel containing several of my friends and servants, having been
captured and conducted by a Turkish frigate to your fortresses, was
released by your highness' command. I return you thanks, not for releasing
a vessel bearing a neutral flag, and which being under British
protection, no one had a right to detain; but for having treated my
friends with great courtesy while at your disposal. Hoping it may not
be unacceptable to your highness, I have requested the Greek
Governor of this place to grant me four Turkish prisoners; which
has been readily conceded.

I send them therefore, free, to your highness, in order to return your
courtesy as far as is in my power. They are sent without conditions,
but if the affair is worthy of your remembrance, I would merely beseech
your highness to treat with humanity such Greeks as are in your
power, or may chance to fall into the hands of the Musselmen, since
the horrors of war are sufficient in themselves, without adding on
either side cruelties in cold blood.

I have the honour to be, &c.

NOEL BYRON, Peer of England.

_Missolonghi, Jan. 23, 1824._
[5] From a correspondent (E.), who believes that no English version
of this letter has hitherto appeared in print.

* * * * *

WHEN WILT THOU RETURN?

When wilt thou return?
The silver clouds are closing Like billows o'er the fairy path Of sunset
there reposing; The sapphire fields of heaven, With its golden splendour
burn, And purple is the mountain peak,-- But when wilt thou return?

When wilt thou return?
The woods are bright with summer, And the violet's bower is grac'd
With the rose--a queenly comer; The stars, that in the air Like
ethereal spirits burn, Seem watching for thy steps,-- Oh I when
wilt thou return?

When wilt thou return?
The sheathless sword is idle, And each warrior from his steed Has thrown
aside the bridle.

Hark!--'tis the trumpet's call!
With hope our bosoms burn; Its echo wakes the distant hills,
Announcing thy return!

G.R.C.

* * * * *

ANECDOTE GALLERY.

* * * * *

RECORDS OF MY LIFE.

BY THE AUTHOR OF "MONSIEUR TONSON."

_Angelica Kauffman._
The person of this lady, by all accounts, was highly interesting, and her
manners and accomplishments were peculiarly attractive. It is said
that Sir Joshua Reynolds, who was thoroughly acquainted with
human nature, and never likely to be deceived in his estimate of
individuals, was so much attached to her that he solicited her hand.

It appeared, however, that she refused him as she was attached to
the late Sir Nathaniel Holland, then Mr.

Dance, an eminent painter, whose portrait of Garrick in the character
of Richard the Third is the best and most spirited representation
of that unrivalled actor that ever appeared, though all the most
distinguished artists of the time employed themselves on the same
admirable subject.

The correspondence that had taken place between Mrs. Kauffman and Mr. Dance
became known, and was thought to be of a very interesting description,
insomuch that his Majesty George the Third, who generally heard
of anything worthy of attention, requested Mr.

Dance would permit him to peruse the letters that had passed between
them during their courtship.

What put a period to an intercourse which, being founded upon mutual
attachment, held forth so favourable a prospect of mutual happiness,
has never been developed, and is only matter of conjecture.

Mrs. Kauffman, after the termination of this promising courtship,
went abroad, and was unfortunately deluded into a marriage with a common
footman, in Germany, who had assumed a title and appeared to be a
person of high rank and affluence.

Mrs. Kauffman, it is said, by the intervention of friends had recourse to
legal authorities, was enabled to separate from the impostor, but did not
return to this country, and died a few years after, having never recovered
her spirits after the shock of so degrading an alliance. It is not a
little surprising that a lady so intelligent and accomplished should have
been the victim of such a deception.

_Highwaymen.--Jemmy Maclaine._
Mr. Donaldson told me that once having betted twenty pounds on a horse
at Newmarket, he won, but at the end of the race could not find
the person who had lost.

Returning to London the next day, his post-chaise was stopped by a
highwayman, whom he immediately recognised as the loser of the
day before. He addressed the highwayman as follows: "Sir, I will give
you all I have about me if you will pay me the twenty pounds which I
won of you yesterday at Newmarket." The man instantly spurred his
horse, and was off in a moment. It is somewhat strange that, soon after
Mr.

Donaldson landed in Jamaica, he saw the same man in a coffee-house.
He approached him, and in a whisper reminded him of his loss at Newmarket;
the man rushed out of the room, and, according to report went to
the Blue Mountains, and was never heard of again.

Mr. Donaldson was in real danger from another highwayman, who was
celebrated in his day, and known as a fashionable man by the name
of Maclaine.

This man came from Ireland, and made a splendid figure for some time,
but as his means of support were not known, he was generally
considered as a doubtful character.

He was by all accounts a tall, showy, good-looking man, and a
frequent visitor at Button's Coffee-house, founded, as is well
known, by Addison, in favour of an old servant of the Warwick family,
but never visited by him, when driven from his home by the ill-humour
of his wife; he then resorted to Will's, on the opposite side of
the same street, that he might not be reminded of domestic anxieties.

Button's was on the south side of Russell-street, Covent-garden; and
Will's in the same street, at the corner of Bow-street. Button's became
a private house, and Mrs. Inchbald lodged there.

Mr.

Donaldson, observing that Maclaine paid particular attention to the
bar-maid, the daughter of the landlord, gave a hint to the father
of Maclaine's dubious character.

The father cautioned his daughter against the addresses of Maclaine, and
imprudently told her by whose advice he put her on her guard; she
as imprudently told Maclaine.

The next time Donaldson visited the coffee-room, and was sitting
in one of the boxes, Maclaine entered, and in a loud tone said, "Mr.

Donaldson, I wish to _spake_ to you in a private room."

Mr.

Donaldson being unarmed, and naturally afraid of being alone with such
a man, said in answer, that as nothing could pass between them
that he did not wish the whole world to know, he begged leave to
decline the invitation.

"Very well," said Maclaine, as he left the room, "we shall _mate_ again."
A day or two after, as Mr. Donaldson was walking near Richmond in
the evening, he saw Maclaine on horseback, who on perceiving him
spurred the animal and was rapidly approaching him; fortunately, at that
moment a gentleman's carriage appeared in view, when Maclaine immediately
turned his horse towards the carriage, and Donaldson hurried into the
protection of Richmond as fast as possible. But for the appearance
of the carriage, which presented better prey, it is probable that Maclaine
would have shot Mr. Donaldson immediately. Maclaine a short time after
committed a highway robbery, was tried, found guilty, and hanged
at Tyburn.

_Extraordinary Story._

What the religious principles of Mr. Donaldson were, I never knew, but I
am sure he had too manly a mind to give way to superstition.
The following circumstance, however, he told me as a fact in which he
placed full confidence, on account of the character of the gentleman
who related it. The latter was a particular friend of his, and a member
of Parliament. In order to attend the House of Commons, he had taken
apartments in St. Anne's Churchyard, Westminster. On the evening when
he took possession, he was struck with something that appeared to
him mysterious in the manner of the maid-servant, who looked like
a man disguised; and he felt a very unpleasant emotion.

This feeling was strengthened by a similar deportment in the mistress of
the house, who soon after entered his room, and asked him if he wanted
anything before he retired to rest: disliking her manner, he soon
dismissed her, and went to bed, but the disagreeable impression made
on his mind by the maid and mistress, kept him long awake; at length,
however, he fell asleep.
During his sleep he dreamed that the corpse of a gentleman, who had been
murdered, was deposited in the cellar of the house. This dream
co-operating with the unfavourable, or rather repulsive countenances and
demeanour of the two women, precluded all hopes of renewed sleep, and
it being the summer season, he arose about five o'clock in the morning,
took his hat, and resolved to quit a house of such alarm and terror.
To his surprise, as he was leaving it, he met the mistress in the
entry, dressed, as if she had never gone to bed. She seemed to be much
agitated, and inquired his reason for wishing to go out so early
in the morning.

He hesitated a moment with increased alarm, and then told her that he
expected a friend, who was to arrive by a stage in Bishopsgate-street,
and that he was going to meet him. He was suffered to go out of the house,
and when revived by the open air, he felt, as he afterwards declared,
as if relieved from impending destruction. He stated that in a few
hours after, he returned with a friend to whom he had told his dream,
and the impression made on him by the maid and the mistress; he,
however, only laughed at him for his superstitious terrors, but on
entering the house, they found that it was deserted, and calling in a
gentleman who was accidentally passing, they all descended to the
cellar, and actually found a corpse in the state which the gentleman's
dream had represented.

_Drawing an Inference._
Dr. Monsey, with two or three old members of the university, in the
course of an evening walk, differed about a proper definition of man.
While they were severally offering their notions on the subject,
they came to a wall where an itinerant artist had drawn various
representations of animals, ships, &c.

After complimenting him on his skill, one of the gentlemen asked him if
he could _draw an inference_. "No," said the artist, "I never saw
one." Logic then gave way to jocularity, and a man coming by with a
fine team of horses, they stopped him, spoke highly of the condition
of his horses, particularly admiring the first.

"That horse, carter," said another of the gentlemen, "seems to be a very
strong one, I suppose he could draw a butt," The man assented. "Do you
think he could _draw an inference?"_--"Why," said the man, "he can
draw anything _in reason_." "There," said Monsey, "what becomes
of your definition, when you met a man that could _not draw an
inference_ and a _horse that could?_"

_Disposal of the body for Dissection._
Dr. Monsey had the utmost contempt for funeral ceremonies, and
exacted a promise from his daughter, that she would not interfere
with the arrangement which he had made with Mr. Thompson Forster, the
surgeon, for the disposal of his body, conceiving that whenever
it was dissected by that gentleman, something might occur for the
illustration and advancement of anatomy.

"What can it signify to me," said he, "whether my carcass is cut up by the
knife of a surgeon, or the tooth of a worm?" He had a large box in
his chambers at Chelsea, full of air-holes, for the purpose of carrying
his body to Mr. Forster, in case he should be in a trance when supposed
to be dead. It was provided with poles, like a sedan-chair.

_Voltaire._
Mentioning Voltaire, I may as well relate in this place a circumstance
communicated to me by Monsey, upon what he deemed good authority, that
Voltaire being invited to dine with a lady of quality while he was in
London, to meet some persons of distinction, waited upon the lady
an hour or two earlier than the time appointed.

The lady apologized for the necessity of leaving him, as she had visits
to pay, but begged he would amuse himself with the books in the room,
promising to return very soon.
After the party broke up, having occasion to refer to her escrutoire,
she evidently found that it had been opened in her absence, and
though nothing had been taken away, her papers were obviously not
in the same order as when she left them.

She inquired anxiously who had been in the room, and was assured nobody
but Voltaire, who had remained there till she returned home.

As Voltaire was destitute of all religious principles it is not
wonderful that he was equally devoid of all moral delicacy.

A severe account of his conduct towards the great King of Prussia, while
he was at the court of that monarch, is given in "The Reverie," a work
before referred to.

Voltaire once dined in company with Pope, Lord Bolingkroke, and
several of the most distinguished characters in London, and said it was
"the proudest day he had ever enjoyed."
* * * * *

THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

* * * * *

THE CINQUE PORTS--THEIR PAST AND PRESENT STATE.

(_Abridged from the United Service Journal._)
"`Och, sor!' gasped Quin, `Bowla Muk--no--Mowla Buksh--has gone mad
entoirely!'

"I jumped up quickly, you may believe, for I didn't often see _that_
look on Quin's face, and when I did, I knew well that something very
serious was in the wind.

"`Where away is he?'  I asked.

"`Sorrow wan o' me knows, sor,' said Quin.

"Rushing out with no very fixed purpose in view, I soon found that the
shouting in the camp was a sufficient guide to the spot where the
mischief was going on.  In a few minutes I came on a cordon of
musketeers who had been hastily drawn up, so as to prevent Mowla Buksh
from getting at the other elephants, for if he had succeeded in doing
so, he would certainly have gone knocking about the smaller ones,
perhaps maiming them, and killing every man who might chance to come in
his path.  On the other hand, if the musketeers managed to turn him,
there was the danger of his making for the main camp, and killing every
one he could lay hold of in that direction.

"Of course the thought of turning out the big fighting elephants to
master him occurred to every one; but even here there would be risk, for
these gladiators would not rest content without knocking Mowla Buksh off
his legs, in which case the mahowt would assuredly be killed.  Besides,
our Director chanced to be in the forest at the time, and no one else
seemed ready to take the responsibility of ordering them out.

"When I came up to the musketeers, I saw the elephant rushing wildly
about, trying to find a way through them, with the old mahowt sticking
to his back like a burr.

"The Bulrampore men shouted to him to try and get the elephant to go to
his standing-place, saying that if he could persuade him to sit down
they would tie his legs up.  After the brute had exhausted itself
somewhat by rushing about, the mahowt did succeed in recovering control
so far as to persuade him to move to his standing-place, which was not
far distant, and to our great relief he sat down in the usual way.  The
Bulrampore men were as good as their word.  Smart hands every one, they
ran up with ropes and commenced tying up his hind legs.  Being experts
at the work, they manipulated the thick ropes with amazing rapidity, and
had the panting animal almost secured when he partially recovered, and
began to understand what was being done to him.  He started up
indignantly, just before the knots were properly fastened, and struck
out right and left with his trunk, scattering the men in all directions.

"Although the ropes had not been quite secured, they were sufficiently
fast to impede his movements.  He therefore took to venting his rage on
the surrounding trees, and, really, until that day, I had not realised
the prodigious strength of this king of beasts.  He knocked and smashed
them down right and left with the greatest possible ease, although, I do
assure you, some of them were fully eight inches in diameter.  All this
time the old mahowt was clinging to his back, not daring to slip off.

"The men now began to lay large rope-nooses about here and there, in the
hope that he would accidentally put a foot into one of them.  But Mowla
Buksh was much too knowing to be caught in this way.  Whenever he came
across one of these nooses, he took it up with his trunk and tossed it
contemptuously aside.  Gradually he worked his way up to a cluster of
trees, near the tent in which our Director's wife had been seated all
the time--with what feelings I will not pretend to guess.  In this
cluster he spent two hours, smashing down trees all the time, and
occasionally, by way of variety, trying to lay hold of the poor mahowt,
who was gradually becoming exhausted through terror and the exertion of
holding on.

"Strange to say, now and then the man appeared to regain control over
the beast, though only for a few seconds.  During one of these intervals
he even succeeded in making Mowla Buksh partially sit down.

"`Och! now or niver!  Off wid ye!' yelled a splitting voice close to my
ear!  I need not tell you whose voice that was, or that its owner was
skipping about like a gorilla, almost as mad as the elephant!"

"Ah! sor," interrupted Quin, "don't ye remimber how yourself was--but
I'll have mercy on ye!  Go on, sor."

"Well, I confess," resumed Jackman, "that I was a little excited.
However, the Bulrampore men echoed Quin's advice in eagerly expressed
Hindustani.  The mahowt took it, slipped to the ground, and ran for his
life!  Fortunately the excited Mowla either did not perceive or did not
care.  He rose up and recommenced his work of destruction.

"All this time he had been freeing himself from the ropes, with which he
was imperfectly bound.  At last he detached them entirely, and began to
make furious rushes in every direction.

"At that critical moment our Director arrived on the scene.  Seeing how
matters stood he at once gave orders to have the fighting elephants
brought to the front, as the only chance that remained to bring the
mischief to an end.  The orders were gladly and promptly obeyed.

"Before they arrived, however, Mowla Buksh, in one of his rushes, came
straight to where Quin and I were standing--"

"Skippin', sor, ye said."

"Well, skipping.  But we stopped skipping at once, and took to running
as hard as we could.  We both ran through some soft reedy ground, where
the brute overtook us.  I glanced over my shoulder and saw him knock
Quin into the rushes and set his enormous foot on him--"

"Oh! was he killed?" exclaimed Junkie with a look of consternation at
the now heroic Quin!

There was a general burst of laughter, in which Junkie joined, for he
saw the absurdity of the question, which sudden anxiety had forced from
him.

"But why wasn't you killed?" he asked almost indignantly.

"Whisht! honey, an' ye'll hear, av ye'll howld your tongue."

"You must know," continued Jackman, "that the place he had tumbled into
was wet, soft ground, and Quin has a sharp way of looking after his
life!  Although half stunned he rolled to one side, so that only the
side of the great foot came down on his shoulder and thrust him deep
into the mud.  I stopped at once with a feeling of horror, but without
the slightest conception of what I meant to do, and the horror was
deepened as I saw the monster turn with the evident intention of
completing his work.

"At that terrible moment the colossal forms of Raj Mungul, Isri Pershad,
and the mighty Chand Moorut appeared, coming towards us.  Mowla Buksh
did not carry out his deadly intentions.  There was `method in his
madness.'  Seeing the koonkies approach, he retreated at once to the
shelter of the cluster of trees, and waited.

"I rushed forward, expecting to find my man dead and flattened, but he
rose slowly as I came up, and with an indescribable expression of
countenance said, `Arrah! then, but he _was_ heavy!'"

"An' _that_ must have been true--what-ever" said McGregor, unable to
restrain a comment at this point.

"What you remark is true likewise, Shames," said the skipper.

"Go on--quick!" cried Junkie, eagerly.

"Well, our Director gave orders, to take Raj Mungul to the south side of
the clump of trees, Isri Pershad to the west, and Chand Moorut to the
east.  It was impossible to let the last go in, though he was impatient
to do so, for by that time it was getting dark, and his mahowt would
have probably been swept off his back by the branches; and the risk of
such a gladiator being let loose without a controlling hand was not to
be thought of for a moment.

"The difficulty was got over by means of a ruse.  Two men were sent to
the north side of the clump with orders to talk and attract the
attention of Mowla.  The plan succeeded.  The moment the still fuming
brute heard their voices, he went at them furiously!  Now was the chance
for the heroic Chand Moorut; and that warrior was never known to let an
opportunity slip.  No British bull-dog ever gave or accepted a challenge
with more hilarious alacrity than he.  As soon as Mowla came out of the
trees, Chand Moorut went at him with a rush that seemed incredible in
such a mountain of usually slow and dignified flesh.  But darkness,
coupled perhaps with haste, interfered.  He missed his mark, and Mowla
Buksh, turning round, dashed straight at the tent, in front of which our
Director and a friend were standing.  The friend, who was a V.C. as well
as a cool and intrepid sportsman, directed the light of a lantern full
on the monster's face till it was close upon him, thus enabling the
Director to plant a bullet in his head.  Whether the shot gave him a
headache or not, I cannot tell.  The only certain effect it had was to
turn the animal aside, and cause it to rush off in the direction of the
main camp, closely followed by Isri Pershad and Raj Mungul.  Chand
Moorut was held back in reserve.  Happily Raj Mungul managed to outstrip
and turn the runaway, and as Mowla Buksh came back, Chand Moorut got
another chance at him.  Need I say that he took advantage of it?
Charging in like a live locomotive, he sent the mad creature flying--as
if it had been a mere kitten--head over heels into a small hollow!"

"Well done!  Capital!" shouted Junkie, at this point unable to restrain
himself, as, with glittering eyes, he glanced round the circle of
listeners.

A laugh at his enthusiasm seemed to Junkie to endorse his sentiment, so
he turned to Jackman and earnestly bade him to "go on."

"There is not much to go on with now, my boy," continued the narrator;
"for Mowla Buksh being down, the fighting elephants took good care to
punish him well before they let him up again.  But as the encounter had
aroused the combative propensities of Chand Moorut, it was thought wise
to remove him from the scene before he became too excited.  This being
managed by his mahowt, the punishing of the rebel was left to Isri
Pershad and Raj Mungul, who did their work thoroughly.  No sooner did
the culprit scramble out of the hollow than Isri Pershad knocked him
back into it, and pummelled him heartily with trunk and legs.  Again
Mowla Buksh rose, and this time Raj Mungul gave him a tap on the
forehead with his own ponderous head, which sent him into a bed of giant
rushes, over the top of which his little tail was seen to wriggle
viciously as he disappeared with a crash.

"There he would probably have been content to lie still for a time, but
his opponents had other views in regard to him.  They went at him
together, and so cuffed, kicked, bumped and pummelled him, that in about
five minutes he was reduced to a pitiable state of humiliation.  As Quin
truly remarked at the time, his own mother would have failed to
recognise him.

"Just at this point, to my surprise, the old mahowt came forward, with
tears in his eyes, and begged that his elephant might be spared!  It had
been punished quite sufficiently, he thought.  I was much impressed with
this display of a tender, forgiving spirit towards a brute that had done
its very best to take his own life.  But no one sympathised with him at
the moment, and the punishment was continued until Mowla Buksh was
thoroughly subdued, and compelled by his conquerors to return to his
standing-place, where he was finally and firmly secured.  Thus, at last,
ended this exciting and most unexpected commencement to our hunt, and
the whole camp was soon after steeped in silence and repose.  Not a bad
beginning, eh, Junkie?"

"Yes, but go on wi' the hunt," said the boy with eager promptitude, a
request which was loudly echoed by his brothers.

"No, no, boys; you've had enough to digest for one day; besides, I see
the cart coming up the road to fetch our deer.  And perhaps your father
has more work cut out for us."

"Well, not much," replied the laird, who had been quite as much
interested in the elephant story as his sons.  "There is another drive
on the east side of the hill, which we have still time for, though I
don't expect much from it.  However, we can try it.  Come now, lads,
we'll be going."

"Shames," said Captain McPherson, as the party moved away from the
lunching-ground, "I wonder if a good thrashin' like that would make the
elephant a better beast afterwards?"

"Weel now, Captain Mcphairson, I don't think it would," replied McGregor
after a pause for consideration.

"You are right, Shames," said Ian Anderson, the old fisherman, who was a
deep-thinking man.  "It has always appeared to me, that the object of
poonishment, is a not to make us coot, but to make us obedient."

"Then what for are ye always poonishin' me, an' tellin' me to be coot,
when ye say it won't make me coot?" asked Donald.

"Because, Tonal', it iss my duty to _tell_ ye to be coot, although I
cannot _make_ ye coot, ye rascal!" answered the fisherman, sternly; "but
I can make ye obey me by poonishin' you--ay, an' I wull do it too."

Donald knew too well from experience that it was not safe to attempt
arguing the question, but he gave a peculiarly defiant shake of his
ragged head, which said as plainly as words that the time was coming
when "poonishment" would cease to secure even obedience--at least in his
case!

"You are right, Ian," said Jackman, turning round, for he had overheard
the conversation.  "Punishment compelled Mowla Buksh to walk to his
standing-place and submit to be tied up, for he did not dare to disobey
with Isri Pershad and Raj Mungul standing guard over him, but it
certainly did not make him good.  I went, with many others, to see him
the next morning.  On the way over to the elephant camp, I saw the huge
trees which he had smashed down in his rage lying about in all
directions, and on reaching his standing-place, found him looking
decidedly vicious and bad-tempered.  It was quite evident that any one
venturing within reach of his trunk would receive harsh treatment and no
mercy.  A small red spot in his great forehead showed that our
Director's aim had been a fairly good one, though it had not hit the
deadly spot in the centre."

"But I want to know," said Junkie, who kept close to Jackman's side,
thirsting for every word that fell from his lips, "why did the bullet
not go in and kill Bowly Muksh?"

"Because the head of Mowla Buksh was too thick," said Jackman, laughing.
"You see, to be a thick-head is not always a disadvantage."

"There, you ought to take comfort from that, Junkie," remarked his
brother Archie, with that fine spirit of tenderness which is so often
observable in brothers.

"Ha! ha! ha!" yelled Eddie, with that delicacy of feeling which is
equally common.

"Hold your tongues!" growled Junkie--the more classic "shut up" not
having at that time found its way to the Western Isles.

"You must know, Junkie, that all parts of an elephant's head are not of
equal thickness," said Jackman in that kindly confidential tone which
tends so powerfully to soothe a ruffled spirit.  "The only point in an
elephant's forehead that can be pierced by a rifle ball is exactly in
the centre.  It is about the size of a saucer, and if you miss that, you
might as well fire against the Eagle Cliff itself, for the ball would
only stick in the skull."

With this explanation Junkie was fain to rest content at the time, for
the party had reached a part of the hill where it became necessary to
station the guns at their several posts.  In regard to this drive, we
have only to say that it ended in nothing except heavy rain and a severe
draft on the patience of the sportsmen, without any reward, save that
which may be derived from mild martyrdom.

Now, when the events which we have described were taking place on the
mountains of Loch Lossie, a very different scene was occurring in the
nursery of Kinlossie House.  In that interesting apartment, which was
one of the chief country residences of the spirits Row and Smash, little
Flora was seated all alone in the afternoon of that day.  Her seat was a
low chair, before her was a low table to match.  On the table sat her
favourite doll, Blackie, to whom she was administering counsel of the
gravest kind, in tones the most solemn.  The counsel, we need scarcely
say, gave unquestionable proof that her mother's admonitions to herself
had been thoroughly understood, though not always acted on.  Flo was in
the midst of one of her most pathetic appeals to Blackie to be "dood,"
when her mother entered hastily.

"Come with me, darling, to visit poor old Mrs Donaldson.  She is not
very well, I hear."

Flo required no second bidding, for she was extremely fond of the
keeper's mother--and love needs no persuasion.

As we have said, Mrs Donaldson's little cottage stood behind that of
her son Ivor.  It was very small, consisting of only one apartment with
a box bed and a few articles of old furniture, the most cherished of
which was a little clock with a staring face, and a poor landscape on
it.

"What caused the bruise, Maggie?" asked Mrs Gordon, after much talk on
the subject of fomentations and bandages.  The old woman hesitated to
tell, but after a little pressing she said, in half apologetic
tone,--"Weel, mem, it was na Ivor's fau't, but the day before yesterday
he cam in--fou--ye ken he's fond o' his glass, mem, an' he was swingin'
aboot his airms, poor falla, an' withoot the least intention, his haund
cam doon wi' sik a ding on my heed that knockit me doon.  But he kens na
aboot it, so ye'll no speak o't to him--or to the laird."

"You may depend upon it, poor Maggie, that I will not.  My mentioning it
could do no good.  And, as you say, Ivor was not quite himself at the
time."

"Thank'ee, mem, that's just it.  An' he's the best sons to me--_whan
he's sober_."

Soon afterwards a shout outside told that the sportsmen had returned
from the hills, so, bidding the old woman good-bye, Mrs Gordon and her
sympathetic child returned to the house.


CHAPTER NINE.

A QUIET DAY WITH A STIRRING TERMINATION.

What fisher does not know the charm, the calm delight, of a quiet day by
the river-side, after, it may be, months of too much contact with
society?  On such an occasion a congenial comrade is an advantage, but
unless the comrade be congenial, one is better alone.

This may sound selfish to some ears, but is it really so?  When a man
has all but immolated himself for ten or eleven months, it may be, on
the altar of business, art, and social duty, is a tremendous thirst for
Nature and solitude altogether selfish?  We think not.  And evidently
MacRummle thought not, as he wandered one soft, delightful morning, rod
in hand, down to the river-side.

The river-side!  There is something restfully suggestive in the very
words.  The quiet pools, the gurgling deeps, the rushing rapids, the
rippling shallows, the little cascades--what ardent hopes, what wild
suggestions, what grand possibilities these have for the young; what
gentle excitations, what pleasant, even though sad, memories for the
old!

Of course the non-fisher knows nothing of all this.  His terrestrial
joys are limited, poor thing!  The painter, indeed, has some part in the
matter--as regards his own line, so to speak--and when he goes on what
is vulgarly termed his own hook.  We have profound sympathy with the
painter.  But for the poor fellow who neither fishes nor paints, alas!
To be sure he may botanise.  Strange to say, we had almost forgotten
that! and also geologise; but our concern at present is with fishers,
or, rather, with that fishing enthusiast, MacRummle.

The sunshine of his face was second only to that of Nature.  His visage
beamed with satisfaction; his eyes gleamed with hope, as he sat down on
the bank near to his first pool, and began to select flies.

We have probably given the impression that MacRummle was alone, but this
is not strictly correct.  In his own estimation he was, indeed, in
absolute solitude, and, so far, his felicity was unbroken; but his steps
had been dogged that morning, and the dogger was Junkie.

That eccentric youngster possessed a mind which it is not easy to
analyse or describe.  One strong element in it, however, was curiosity.
Another was ambition.  The blending of these two qualities produced
wonder in Junkie--wonder that he, though as ardent a sportsman as
MacRummle, should go forth frequently to fish and catch little or
nothing, while the old gentleman went out and was wont to return with
baskets full to overflowing.  There must be a secret of some sort.  He
did not like to ask what that secret was, so he made up his mind to
follow the old man and watch him--not of course with the slightest
intention of doing anything sly or wrong, but secretly, because he was
well aware that MacRummle did not like to be distracted by company--
especially _his_ company!

Following, then, at a respectful distance, and relying for success very
much on the fisher's partial blindness and deafness, Junkie went out to
have a day of it.  He even went so far, in the matter of forethought, as
to provide himself with a massive slice of bread and cheese to sustain
him while carrying on his investigations.

Before he had got far from the house, however, he encountered Donald of
the ragged head, who had hung about the place in hopes of another
deer-drive, and whom he styled "Tonal'," in semi-sarcastic imitation of
old Ian.  Him he at once took into his confidence.

"I'll co wuth ye," said Donald.

"Come along, then.  But mind, if you make a noise, or show yourself; if
you so much as cough or sneeze, I'll punch your head an' tumble you into
the river."

"Fery coot," said Donald.  And upon this clear understanding they
advanced.

The other members of the company at the house, meanwhile, had scattered
in various directions to fish, shoot, paint or botanise, according to
fancy.

We may explain here that there were several trouting streams in the
vicinity of the house, besides the "river" at the head of the loch.
Thus it was that MacRummle had a stream all to himself.

At first the fisher tried fly, to which he was partial, but success did
not attend his efforts.  The water was not in the best condition for
fly, being rather swollen by recent rains.  Perseverance, however, was
one of MacRummle's strong qualities.  He was not to be easily beaten.

There was a certain big boulder about the size of a dog-cart near the
mouth of the stream, which narrowed its bed considerably, and thus
produced a formation of rock below water favourable to the shelter of
fish.  It also sent an oily ripple over the surface of the water, which
was favourable to the operations of the fisher.  The old gentleman
seldom failed to raise or hook a good sea-trout there, and always made
his first cast with eager expectation.  But the fish were either
obdurate or blind that morning.  They could not or they would not see.
With a slight, but by no means desponding, sigh, the old man changed his
cast and tried again.  He knew every stone and ledge of the pool, and
cast again and again with consummate skill and unusual care.  Still,
without result.

"That's odd," he muttered, for, being naturally a sociable man, he found
talking to himself an immense relief.  "Try once more, just at the tail
o' yon swirl, Dick, my boy."

His Christian name was Richard.  No one would have presumed to call him
Dick but himself.

No result following this appeal to the tail of the swirl, he sat down on
the bank and once more changed his hook.  The nature of change might
have been heard by the insects among the heather close by, if they were
listening, for Donald whispered to his companion,--"He's coin' to try
pait!"

"Didn't I bid ye hau'd your tongue?"

"Ay."

"Do't then."

MacRummle dropped a worm gently into the head of the pool, and let it go
with the current.  Instantly the line straightened, the rod bent, the
reel spun, and from the other side of the pool there leaped a lovely bar
of silver, which fell back to its native element with a considerable
splash.

"A two-pounder!" gasped Donald, unable to restrain his excitable spirit,
as he half rose.

Junkie had him by the throat in a moment, and crammed his ragged head
down among the heather.

"Tonal'!" he whispered remonstratively.

"I forgot," whispered Donald, when the strong little hands relaxed.
"I'll not do't again."

"Ye better no'," returned Junkie, with a shake of his fist that required
no explanation.

By this time the fish had darted like a lightning flash twice up stream,
once down, three times across, and twice into the air.  At the same time
the fisher had hurried up and down the bank, had tripped over two stumps
and a root, had dropped his wideawake, and had very nearly gone head
foremost into the pool; for his tackle was fine and his fish large.  The
fisher-boy gasped.

"Tonal'," said Junkie, in very low tones, "if ye don't behave better,
I'll send ye away."

"It iss not easy, but I'll try," said he.

Donald could say no more.  The best of men or boys could do no more than
try.  We may as well say here at once, however, that his efforts at
self-control were crowned with success.  He proved himself to be a great
man in embryo by ruling his own spirit that day.

In a few minutes the trout was landed by means of a miniature gaff,
which the fisher carried in his basket, for the purpose of securing fish
that were too heavy to be pulled out by the line.  It was afterwards
found to be a two-and-a-half pounder, which, being an unusually good
fish for that stream, was the occasion of much rejoicing on the part of
the old gentleman, as he stood wiping his forehead and commenting on it.

"Capital!  Not had such a fellow as that for more than a week.  There's
more where that came from; but you must give the pool a rest, Dick.  Try
the run higher up."

In obedience to his own orders, MacRummle went up to a part of the
stream where a high cliff on one side and a steepish bank on the other
caused it to flow in a deep channel, not much more than a couple of
yards wide.  At the head of the run was a ledge where fish were
invariably captured.  Towards this spot the old man hurried eagerly.

The two boys lay still in the heather, allowed him to pass, and then
softly followed, bending low, and keeping as much as possible behind
bushes and in hollows, until they were again close upon him.  Ensconcing
themselves in a convenient mass of heather, they raised their heads and
saw the fisher stepping carefully from rock to rock, as he approached
the run.

Rounded boulders, large or small, are never safe to walk on, even for
the young and active.  MacRummle found it so.  His foot slipped, and he
sat down, with undignified haste, in a small pool of water.

Down went the boys' heads, that they might explode their laughter as
softly as possible among the roots of the heather.

"Wass it not funny?" whispered Donald.

"I hope he's not hurt," replied Junkie, raising his head cautiously.

He saw that MacRummle had risen, and, with a rueful expression of face,
was making insane and futile efforts to look at himself behind.  A
beaming smile overspread the boy's face as he glanced at his companion,
for he knew well that the old gentleman cared little or nothing for
water.  And this was obviously the case, for, after squeezing as much
water out of his nether garments as chose to come, he proceeded to the
head of the runs and resumed fishing.

"I'm beginnin' to see through't," murmured Junkie, after watching for
some time.  "See! he has hooked another.  Ye see, Tonal', it must be
lettin' the hook drift away down under the ledges that does it.  I do
not know in what case, or on what occasion it was delivered, but
I believe in a judgment on a case of libel.

"Every man (says that judge) may publish at his discretion, his opinions
concerning forms and systems of government. _If they be weak and absurd_,
_they will be laughed at and forgotten_; _and_, _if they be_ bona fide,
_they cannot be criminal_, _however erroneous_."

This is the opinion of a great judge upon political publications, sitting
under the authority of the king himself to administer the laws; and to
apply this authority to the paper before you, what reason on earth
have you to suppose, that the writer from the beginning to the end
was not bona fide in his opinions; and then, however erroneous they
may be, I say, under the sanction of Lord Loughborough himself,
they are not criminal.

Having, gentlemen, submitted these observations to you, I declare most
unfeignedly that I have uttered them with the most conscientious belief,
that they are founded in reason, justice, and truth. I have not
advanced a proposition nor uttered a sentiment as an advocate,
which I am not prepared to avow and maintain as a man.

If I am wrong in my judgment, you will correct me. You will, however,
consider my reasonings, and the passages which I have cited to you
in support of them, and judge if I have not maintained the propositions,
which I have submitted to you.

No argument can be drawn from any of the observations, which I have
addressed to you for impunity to libelers and defamers of
private character.

No, they are justly called assassins; for they who destroy that without
which life is worthless are as guilty as those who destroy life
itself, and let them feel the heaviest vengeance of the law.

Private persons may be attacked and have no power to defend
themselves. They may not only be unable themselves to answer published
calumnies against their character; but also unable to employ
those who can.

But such can never be the case with those who administer the affairs of
the nation. All the wealth and power of the country is in their hands.
They may hire a thousand writers to support their measures, and
vindicate their characters, and they will not want volunteers; they
can command the press; and, for their protection, it is sufficient,
that the press should be opposed to the press.

Private individuals cannot command the press; and, therefore, let slanderers
of private character suffer the utmost punishment that the law can
inflict.

And now, gentlemen, I ask you to give me your verdict for the
defendant.
I make no attempt to move your compassion.

I will not urge you to consider that the defendant is a woman, and unable,
from the tenderness of her sex, to sustain hardship; nor call upon you
to remember, that which you cannot but know, that she has
already been convicted upon one prosecution, for which she will,
without doubt, be the subject of severe punishment.

I ask it on the higher ground of justice; though, I confess, that I
hope and wish it with more anxiety, because I trust it will send
these embodied prosecutors, this Constitutional Association, as (by
the figure, I suppose, of _lucus a non lucendo_) they entitle
themselves, into that obscurity to which they properly belong, or
at least if they will obtrude further upon the impatience of the
public, let them carry with them the ill omen of a failure in their
first attempt to insinuate, either that the English Constitution
is deficient in its establishment of responsible law officers of
the crown, or that those officers are incapable of fulfilling the
duties of their station.

It is said, and I hope truly, that the country is gradually recovering
from the distress, under which it has so long suffered, and that plenty
and prosperity have again begun to flow in upon us. May it be so! but we
shall never derive enjoyment from any improvement in our physical
condition; unless it is accompanied with domestic tranquillity.

To be happy we must be at peace amongst ourselves; and nothing will have
the effect of allaying the heart- burnings of political animosity
and uniting us, as it were, in bands of harmonious brotherhood,
so much as a discouragement of these party prosecutions, which,
while they kindle feelings of indignation, and hostility, and hatred
in large numbers of the people, are of no general benefit to the
state.

Fling back this prosecution, then, in the faces of those who have instituted
it; and, instead of sending this unfortunate woman to a prison,
send her back by your verdict of acquittal to the children of her
brother, who, deprived (in the manner you know) both of their father
and mother, are as much orphans as they would be by their death;
and who, sordid and neglected in her absence, are requiring her care.

And, what is more, you will, by your verdict of Not Guilty, give security
to the free expression of public opinion, compose our dissensions, and
protect both yourselves and posterity; since in calling on you to acquit
the defendant, I call on you to protect the freedom of the press,
and with it the freedom of the country; for unless the press is
preserved, and preserved inviolate, the political liberties of
Englishmen are lost.

Mr. Justice BEST.--It was his duty to call back the attention of the jury
to the question which they were to try. A number of observations
had been made relative to what had taken place in Virginia, but which
had nothing to do with the verdict which they were to give. One observation
had been made, in the propriety of which he perfectly agreed, which
was that they would dismiss from their minds all prejudices. The
learned counsel for the defendant seemed to think that the name
of Carlile was sufficient to create prejudices.

If that were the case, he hoped the jury would forget that the present
defendant was of that name. They had nothing now to do but to exercise
their judgment upon the facts before them.

The jury were told, and truly told, that they were the judges as to whether
this was a libel or not.

The statute gave the jury the power of finding a general verdict; but
they still were bound under the sanction of their oaths to find it
according to law. He should give his opinion, and the jury were at
liberty to differ with him; but he must beg in the most distinct
terms to state that the jury or the court had nothing to do with
the propriety or impropriety of these prosecutions, or with the
association by which the prosecution had been instituted.

For his own part he did not know by whom it had been instituted until
he had been requested by the defendant to ask the jurors as they went
into the box, whether or not they were members of that association. The
two questions to be decided were, first, Was this pamphlet a libel? and
secondly, Was the defendant the publisher? They must lay out of their
consideration acts of parliament passed in Virginia. The principles
laid down in the preamble of the act alluded to, might be a good principle
for America, but he was bound to tell them that it was not law in
England.

In the book quoted from by the learned gentlemen, it was said "how
wretched must be the state of society in a country where the laws
were uncertain;" and that must be the case where the jury take into
consideration the propriety or impropriety of laws.

In his opinion this publication was libelous, and if the jury were
not satisfied of the contrary, the safer course would be for the
jury to agree in opinion with one who must be presumed to be
acquainted with the law, and who gives that opinion upon his oath.

No man could be a more ardent admirer than he of the press, to the
freedom of which Europe was principally indebted for its happiness;
and God forbid that he should do anything which would for a moment
extinguish that liberty!

The learned counsel for the defendant had said, that the libel upon a
private individual was a species of moral assassination. It was odd that
an individual could not be libeled with impunity, and yet that society
might be set by the ears. The government were equally protected
with all others against the malevolence and virulence of the press.
He would again repeat, but he would say nothing as to what the law ought
to be, but he stated what it was. What he conceived to be the true
liberty of the press was this, that any man might, without permission,
publish what he please, if he were responsible for what he might publish.
It might be asked, then is a man answerable for every expression? To
that he would answer, no; if a man's intention were to convince the
people that the government was not acting right, he had a right
to publish his opinions; and if some sparks should fly out beyond
decorum when the real apparent object was to instruct, the expressions
ought not to be visited with punishment.

But men must not go farther than instruct: they must not say that the
system of government is a system of tyranny; which meant nothing more
than that the people ought to pull down such systems. The learned
counsel had alluded to Athens and Rome, but it was well known that those
States punished offences of this description with greater severity
than the laws of England inflicted.

Every man had a right to point out with firmness, but with respect, the
errors of government. Every man has a right to appeal to the understanding,
but not to the passions; and the man who wished to do so need not
be afraid to write. The distinction between fair discussion and libel was
this, that one was an appeal to the passions, and the other to the
understanding.

If the jury were of opinion that this pamphlet was an address to the
people of the country, to induce them by legal and constitutional
means to procure a redress of grievances, then they would acquit
the defendant; but, if on the other hand, they should be of opinion
that the intention was to appeal to prejudices and passions (as he
thought) it was their bounden duty, whatever they might think of
the propriety or impropriety of the prosecution, to return a verdict
of guilty.

He next felt it his duty to remark upon the passages in the record,
and if the learned gentleman had gone through the pamphlet, he would
have found in the next page, in which the writer said, that the
making and administration of laws was corrupt, a sufficient explanation
of what was intended by the sentence, "to talk of the British
Constitution, &c."

There was in the country a constitution not like the Spanish
Constitution, created in a day; but matured by the sense of ages,
altering and adapting it to times and circumstances until it became
what was a practical and not theoretical system of liberty.

The learned counsel had made some observations upon what had fallen from
Lord Colchester in the House of Commons; such observations he
thought irregular, but he permitted them sooner than it should be
said that the defendant, to use a familiar expression, had not "fair
play."

He did not want the authority of Lord Colchester with respect to these
corruptions, because he had evidence of it in a case in which he tried
twenty-four persons for such practices. But was it the meaning of the
passage, that there was corruption in the House of Commons? No, the
expression was that the laws (which were corrupt enough to bring
to punishment persons guilty of those practices) were corrupt.

Was this true? If there were anything for which this country was more
distinguished than another it was the equity of the laws, and it was for
this that the laws of England were extolled by all foreigners. The
writer could not mean the borough of Grampound, or any other
borough, when he said that corruption was the oil of the system.

When the writer said he did not "at that moment speak of insurrection,"
what was his meaning? Why that insurrection would not do then, but at
some future time they might, when satisfied of their strength, take
advantage of all circumstances. As far as he understood the nature
of the Manchester and Stockport Rooms they were for instruction, and
if the writer did not go farther, then indeed would the pamphlet be
harmless. "Delay some time." "Have such meetings as those at Manchester
and Stockport; be assured of your numbers, and you can overpower
the Government."

There could be no doubt that these passages were libelous.

The next question was, whether the defendant had or had not published
the libel?

and it was in evidence that these copies were purchased at two different
times.

The jury were not to take into consideration the former conviction;
and he could assure the jury that no greater severity would be used
than was sufficient to restrain this licentiousness, which, if not
restrained, would overturn this or any other Government.

The revolution recommended by this pamphlet would not be an ordinary
change of masters, but a transfer of property.

At about four o'clock the jury retired; and, having returned at
quarter before five, 
Mr.

Justice BEST said, he had received a communication that they were
not likely to agree; and as they must agree at some time or other,
he sent for them in order to give them any information in his power
upon such points as they disagreed upon.

A Juror.--The Foreman was rather precipitate in writing to
your Lordship; we have not wasted much time, and we are discussing
it among ourselves.

Mr. Justice BEST.--I am not in a hurry.

The Foreman said, there were four of the jurors obstinate, and he would
wish his Lordship to draw a juror.

Mr. Justice BEST.--I have not the power to do so.

A Juror.--I throw back the charge of obstinacy in the teeth of the
Foreman--he is obstinate.

Another Juryman.--My Lord there is obstinacy.

Second Juryman.--This is invidious; I am not the only one who stands
out; there are four of us.

The Foreman again expressed his opinion that they should not agree.

Mr. Justice BEST.

--Gentlemen, you must see the impropriety of this public discussion;
you had better retire, and endeavour to agree among yourselves.

The jury again retired, and at eight o'clock desired their families might
be informed that it was not likely they would return home before
the morning.

Wednesday, July 25th.

This morning the jury were still enclosed without the least chance of
any agreement. A number of persons were in waiting to hear the
verdict. At half-past nine o'clock, Mr. Justice HOLROYD appeared on
the bench, and an intimation was conveyed to his Lordship that there
was no probability that the jury would agree.

A conference took place between the counsel for the prosecution and
defence who appeared to be both willing to enter a _Noli Prosequi_
and discharge the jury without a verdict.

A gentleman in black (said to be Mr. Longueville Clarke, one of the Committee
of the Constitutional Association, and one of the _State Locusts_)
suddenly started up, and declared that he would not consent to
such a course.

Mr. COOPER (to the man in black).--Are you the attorney for the
prosecution, sir?

Mr.

LONGUEVILLE CLARKE.

--No: I am a member of the Constitutional Committee; and _I will_ have a
verdict.

Mr. COOPER.--However potent, sir, your word might be in the committee-
room, it has no power in this Court.

Mr. GURNEY, as counsel for the prosecution, in the absence of Mr. MURRAY,
the attorney, would take upon himself the responsibility of consenting
to discharge the jury.

Mr. COOPER, thinking it cruelty to confine the jury any longer would
yield also to a consent for their discharge.

The jury were then sent for, and in their passage to the Court were loudly
and rapturously cheered by the bystanders. Having answered to their
names,
Mr. Justice HOLROYD addressed them.--Gentlemen of the jury, I am glad
that it is in my power to relieve you from your present unpleasant
situation.

The learned counsel on both sides have consented to discharge you
without your returning a verdict.

The jury then left the Court, and were again loudly cheered in their
passage through the Hall.

Thus ended the first attempt of the Constitutional Association, or
the Bridge-street Banditti, to get a verdict; particularly important
to the country--particularly honourable to the counsel for the
defendant, and the honest Jurors who made so noble a stand for the
Liberty of the Press--and particularly disgraceful to all parties
connected with the prosecution.

You see, neither Shames nor me cares
much for fushin' in the burns, or goin' after the deer, an' there's no
chance o' raisin' the yat from the pottom o' the sea, so, if you hev no
objection, sir, we will be goin' by the steamer that arrives to-morrow.
I thought I would speak to you to-day, for we will hev to start early in
the mornin', before you're up, for it iss a long way we'll hev to go.
Iss it not so, Shames?"

"Oo, ay," replied the seaman, with more than ever of the nasal twang;
"it iss a coot many miles to where the poat comes in--so the poy Tonal'
wass tellin' me, what-e-ver."

Mabberly tried to persuade the men to remain a little longer, but they
were obdurate, so he let them go, knowing well that his father, who was
a wealthy merchant and shipowner, would see to the interests of the men
who had suffered in his son's service.

As they retraced their steps to the house the skipper gave Giles Jackman
some significant glances, which induced him to fall behind the others.

"You want to speak with me privately, I think, skipper?"

"Yes, sir, I do," replied the seaman, with some embarrassment.  "But it
iss not fery easy nor pleesant to do so.  A man does not like to speak
of another man's failin's, you see, but as I am goin' away I'm obleeged
to do it.  You will hev noticed, sir, that Ivor Tonalson iss raither
fond of his tram?"

"I'm afraid that I have observed that--poor fellow."

"He is a goot man, sir, is Tonalson--a fery goot man--when he iss sober,
but he hes got no power to resist the tram.  An' whiles he goes on the
spree, an' then he gits wild wi' D.T. you know, sir.  Noo, ever since we
cam' here, Ivor an' me hes been great friends, an' it hes been heavy on
my mind to see him like that, for he's a fine man, a superior person, is
Ivor, if he would only let alone the whusky.  So I hev spoken to him
wance or twice--serious like, you know.  At first he was not pleased,
but the last time I spoke, he took it kindly, an' said he would think
aboot what I had been sayin'.  Noo, it's heavy on me the thoucht o'
goin' away an' leavin' him in that state, so I thoucht that maybe ye
would tak the metter up, sir, an' see what ye can do wi' him.  Git him,
if ye can, to become a total abstainer, nothin' less than that wull do
wi' a man in that condeetion."

Jackman was greatly surprised, not only at the tenor of the skipper's
remarks, but at the evidently deep feeling with which he spoke, for up
to that time the reticence and quiet coolness of the man had inclined
him to think that his mind and feelings were in harmony with his rugged
and sluggish exterior.  It was, therefore, with something of warmth that
he replied,--"I shall be only too happy to do as you wish, Captain; all
the more that I have had some serious thoughts and feelings in that
direction.  Indeed, I have made up my mind, as it happens, to speak to
Ivor on that very subject, not knowing that you were already in the
field.  I am particularly sorry for his poor old mother, who has
suffered a great deal, both mentally and physically, on his account."

"Ay, that's the warst o' it," said the skipper.  "It wass the sicht o'
the poor wumin ailin' in body an' broken heartit that first set me at
Ivor."

"But how comes it, Captain, that you plead so earnestly for _total_
abstinence?" asked Jackman with a smile.  "Have I not heard you defend
the idea of moderate drinking, although you consented to sail in a
teetotal yacht?"

"Mr Jackman," said the skipper, with almost stern solemnity, "it iss
all fery weel for men to speak aboot moderate drinkin', when their
feelin's iss easy an' their intellec's iss confused wi' theories an'
fancies, but men will change their tune when it iss brought home to
themselves.  Let a man only see his brither or his mither, or his
faither, on the high road to destruction wi' drink, an' he'll change his
opeenion aboot moderate drinkin'--at least for hard drinkers--ay, an'
he'll change his practice too, unless he iss ower auld, or his stamick,
like Timothy's, canna git on withoot it.  An' that minds me that I would
tak it kind if ye would write an' tell me how he gets on, for I hev
promised to become a total abstainer if _he_ wull."

That very afternoon, while out shooting on the hills, Jackman opened the
campaign by making some delicate approaches to the keeper on the
subject, in a general and indirect way, but with what success he could
not tell, for Ivor was respectfully reserved.

About the same time John Barret went off alone for a saunter in one of
the nearest and most picturesque of the neighbouring glens.  He had
declined to accompany his comrades that day, for reasons best known to
himself.  After writing a few letters, to keep up appearances, and to
prevent his being regarded as a mere idler, he went off, as we have
said, to saunter in the glen.

He had not sauntered far when he came upon a sight which is calculated,
whenever seen, to arouse sentiments of interest in the most callous
beholder--a young lady painting!  It would be wrong to say he was
surprised, but he was decidedly pleased, to judge from the expression of
his handsome face.  He knew who the lady was, for by that time he had
studied the face and figure of Milly Moss until they had been indelibly
photographed on his--well, on the sensitive-plate of his soul, wherever
that lay.

Milly had quite recovered from her accident by that time and had resumed
her favourite pursuits.

"I'm very glad to have caught you at work at last, Miss Moss," he said,
on coming up to the picturesque spot on which her easel was erected.  "I
wish much to receive that lesson which you so kindly promised to give
me."

"I thought it was just the other way.  Did you not say that you would
teach me some of those perplexing rules of perspective which my book
lays down so elaborately--and, to me, so incomprehensibly?"

"I did, but did not you promise to show me how to manipulate oils--in
regard to which I know absolutely nothing?  And as practice is of
greater importance than theory, you must be the teacher and I the
pupil."

Upon this point they carried on a discussion until Milly, declaring she
was wasting her time and losing the effects of light and shade, went
seriously to work on the canvas before her.  Barret, whose natural
colour was somewhat heightened, stood at a respectful distance, looking
on.

"You are quite sure, I hope," said the youth, "that it does not disturb
you to be overlooked?  You know I would not presume to do so if you had
not promised to permit me.  My great desire, for many a day, has been to
observe the process of painting in oils by one who understands it."

How he reconciled this statement with the fact that he was not looking
at the picture at all, but at the little white hand that was deftly
applying the brush, and the beautiful little head that was moving itself
so gracefully about while contemplating the work, is more than we can
explain.

Soon the painter became still more deeply absorbed in her work, and the
pupil more deeply still in the painter.  It was a magnificent sweep of
landscape that lay before them--a glen glowing with purple and green,
alive with flickering sunlight and shadow, with richest browns and reds
and coolest greys in the foreground; precipices, crags, verdant slopes
of bracken, pine and birch woods hanging on the hillsides, in the middle
distance, and blue mountains mingling with orange skies in the
background, with MacRummle's favourite stream appearing here and there
like a silver thread, running through it all.  But Barret saw nothing of
it.  He only saw a pretty hand, a blushing cheek and sunny hair!

The picture was not bad.  There was a good deal of crude colour in the
foreground, no doubt, without much indication of form; and there was
also some wonderfully vivid green and purple, with impossible forms and
amazing perspective--both linear and aerial--in places, and Turneresque
confusion of yellow in the extreme distance.  But Barret did not note
that--though by means of some occult powers of comprehension he
commented on it freely!  He saw nothing but Milly Moss.

It was a glorious chance.  He resolved to make the most of it.

"I had no idea that painting in oils was such a fascinating occupation,"
he remarked, without feeling quite sure of what he said.

"I delight in it," returned the painter, slowly, as she touched in a
distant sheep, which--measured by the rules of perspective, and regard
being had to surrounding objects--might have stood for an average
cathedral.

Milly did not paint as freely as usual that afternoon.  There was
something queer, she said, about the brushes.  "I _can't_ get it to look
right," she said at last, wiping out an object for the third time and
trying again.

"No doubt," murmured the youth, "a cottage like that must be difficult
to--"

"Cottage!" exclaimed Milly, laughing outright; "it is not a cottage at
all; it's a cow!  Oh!  Mr Barret, that is a very poor compliment to my
work and to your own powers of discernment."

"Nay, Miss Moss," retorted the pupil, in some confusion, "but you have
wiped it out twice, confessing, as you did so, that you could not paint
it!  Besides, my remark referred to the cottage which I _thought_ you
were going to paint--not to your unsuccessful representations of the
cow."

The poor youth felt that his explanation was so lame that he was
somewhat relieved when the current of their thoughts was diverted by a
loud shouting in the road farther down the glen.  After an interval of
years, he became a member of Lincoln's Inn, when in due course of
time he was proposed by the late Mr. Justice, then James Allan Parke,
Esquire, and called to the bar, May 25th, 1811.

Soon after his call, he accompanied Sir James Cockburn, who had been just
appointed governor of the Bermudas, as his secretary, and after a
short period, on his arrival there, was made Attorney General, the
duties of which office he for some years performed to the entire
satisfaction of the governor.

His letters thence, I have understood, contained beautiful and vivid
descriptions of

"That happy island where huge lemons grow"
[he was an admirer of scenery and nature], and that the wit, graphic
portraitures of the men in office on the island, the general chit
chat, scandle and fun, intermixed with politics, occasional rhymes,
&c., put the reader [since dead] of a few of them, in mind of the
letters of Lord Byron.

After his return home, he took chambers in Fig Tree or Elm Court, in the
Temple, read and awaited clients, and went the Norfolk circuit; but,
alas! few profitable knocks came to his door, and the circuit yielded
rather expense than profit; but on he went struggling and struggling,
till at last his talents were acknowledged; and the four years
preceding his death, he was an eminent leader, and engaged in almost
every cause throughout his circuit, and rapidly gaining a reputation
in London from "the very eloquent, bold, and honest style of his
defence," for Mary Ann Carlile, who was prosecuted, by what was
then styled the Constitutional Association, for publishing a libel
upon the government, and the constitution of this country.

The trial ended after a brilliant speech of the defendant's counsel, full
of argument, eloquence, and ability, in the dismissal of the jury,
after being locked up all night; the counsel for the prosecution, the
late Mr. Baron Gurney, consenting to their discharge. The report of
the trial, and Henry Cooper's speech in full, was printed and
published by the notorious Richard Carlile, who then kept a shop in Fleet
Street. At the early age of forty my brother died, and he was then
looked on by the profession, as a man, who, had he lived, must
have achieved the highest honours in it.

  He was an ardent
  admirer of, and some of his friends were pleased to say, a close
imitator of the oratory of Lord Erskine, with whom, till he died,
he was on terms of the greatest intimacy.

In fact he was writing his life for publication, by the express
desire of Erskine himself, when death staid the pen.

  Alas! but a few pages
  of it were written, and those in the rough, I will, however, lay
them, ere I have done, before the reader.

Henry, the last four years of his going circuit, and when his
abilities were acknowledged, was sometimes opposed to his father,
to the no small pleasure and amusement of the Norwich people, who
as greatly respected the legal ability of the one, as they admired
the eloquence of the other; and it was often a source of half
suppressed laughter in that portion of the court set aside for the
public to hear "my learned friend" banded from one to the other by
the two Athlete--Father and Son--the one as powerful from his tact,
energy, and fervid eloquence, as the other from his legal knowledge
and great acumen, and who was often the victor, for that knowledge,
deep and extensive gave the father a superiority on those points
of a case, in which law and fact were intermingled, and which were
apt from Henry's comparative previous little business and short
practice as a leader to escape his attention, or when patent rendered
him less capable effectually to grapple with the legal and knotty
difficulty, for he had never had the advantage of a pleader's
chambers; nor let it be thought in those days that there were no
giants to contend with--Sergeants Blosset, Frere, and Storks, Messrs.

  Plumptre, Eagle,
  Robinson, Prime, and others of note, with Biggs Andrews, now Q.C.,
and George Raymond, author of the "Elliston Papers," as juniors
were on the circuit, all of whom have long since been dead, with
the exception of Mr.

Sergeant Storks and the four last named.

And here I cannot do better than insert a paragraph signed J.

S., which appeared in the _Times_, I think in or about the years 1831
or 1832; I copy from the paragraph cut out from the paper, and at the
time pasted in an album, to which the date was omitted to be attached.
The paragraph was headed, "The late Henry Cooper:"--
"To most of our legal readers, we feel convinced, that this week's
sketch of the late Henry Cooper, the friend companion and intended
biographer of the late Lord Erskine, will prove highly acceptable.

The unexpected and melancholy event which deprived the bar of one
of its most promising ornaments, and cast a shade over the gay and
talented circle in which he moved, must be fresh within the memory
of our readers.

As yet no memoir, no frail tribute to stamp even a fleeting remembrance
of his learning, professional fame, or liberal principles has appeared,
and while worthless rank and heartlessness have been perpetuated
by marble and the prostituted energies of literature, genius, talent,
and honor, have been left to the obscurity of the grave; not one
of those who shared his gay and mirthful hours, who listened
enraptured to his eloquence and flashes of wit, which as Hamlet
says 'were won't to set the table in a roar,' have endeavoured by
giving to the world his literary labours, or even a sketch of his
life, to preserve his memory from oblivion.

Henry Cooper was the son of an eminent counsellor of Norwich, a gentleman
of powerful mind, whose legal knowledge has rendered him one of
the first consulting men of the day.

Even at his present advanced age of near eighty, he may be seen early of
a morning taking his accustomed walk, or if the weather be too severe
for exercise, found in his library surrounded by his books and
papers.

Raised by his own perseverance, and in a great measure self-educated,
it is not to be wondered at if from such a father, the subject of
our sketch, acquired those habits of perseverance and industry which
enabled him by system to attain knowledge and fame in his
profession.

Upon being called to the bar his convivial powers and talent for
conversation introduced him to Erskine, who found so much pleasure
in his society, that they became not mere friends, but inseparable
companions, and plunged together in the gay round of pleasure, which
the world too temptingly presents to men whose minds enable them
to watch its interests and guide the machine by which society is
regulated.

To all who knew him, and the thoughtless life he led, it was a matter of
surprise how and when he found time to attend to the numerous cases
of his clients, for his field of action soon became extended; yet
we will venture to pronounce and feel confident of being borne out
by those who knew him, that in no one instance did the cause of the
party he advocated suffer.

In the Court he appeared as well acquainted with the words of his brief,
as if it had been for months the object of his most serious attention;
not a thread or a link of evidence escaped him, and so persuasive was
his manner, so argumentive his style of language, that the jury frequently
received the impressions he wished to convey, and their feelings
generally, if not their judgment, went in favour of his client.

He used, on some occasions, to plead in the Norfolk Courts, and we have
frequently seen him opposed to his father as a special pleader.

The old gentlemen, strong in the possession of his youthful intellect,
which time even to the present hour has failed to rob him of, was
perhaps less assailable by his pleasing manner and florid speech
than any of his brothers of the bar, and his ejaculations not always
of the most complimentary nature, were sometimes loud and frequent.

We have seen the son on such occasions always the first to smile at his
father's petulance, and the last to express any sense of the impropriety
of the interruption. We have seen the old gentleman, in the midst of his
son's argument, write to the opposing counsel suggesting authorities
and giving references and precedents against him, all with the
most perfect good humour on both sides; and the greatest triumph
he could boast was to defeat his son upon a point of law: on such
occasions he would put his hands behind his back, and moving round
with a chuckle, exclaim, "Something to learn yet, Harry!"

The father's delight and pride in his superior legal knowledge over
his son, became at last a standing joke with the barristers of the
Court.

The death of Lord Erskine blighted Henry Cooper's hopes to a seat
in Parliament, where his eloquence and sarcasm would have made him
powerful as an ally, and feared as an antagonist; liberal in
his opinions to the present exclusive system of the church, he was
a decided enemy, and a thorough reformer in the state.

His services at a crisis like the present, would have been of
incalculable benefit to his country.

From the period of the loss of his friend, till his own untimely
end, he devoted himself more than he had ever before, to literary
pursuits and the labours of his profession.

A life of Lord Erskine was nearly arranged for the press at the
time of his decease, and it is to be regretted that as yet his
labours have not been given, imperfect as they are, to the world;
no one could have had better opportunities or have been better
calculated for the task; alike the counsellor in his difficulties,
the companion of his mirthful hours, the springs of action, the
feelings of his breast, must have appeared unveiled before him;
Death, however, prevented the completion of his task and removed
him too early from the world his talents ornamented."

I had forgotten to say, that on his return from Bermudas he became
and continued very intimate with the Cockburn family, and often
prophesied the future success of the late Attorney General, now
Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas, then young Alexander
Cockburn; and often has my brother said to me, then about sixteen,
when speaking of the above family, "rely upon it, Billy, young
Alexander, if he enter the profession, will do great things in it;
he is a remarkably clever, energetic, and talented young man."

Henry had much of the restlessness and irritability, the usual accompaniments
of a high order of talent, with great earnestness in diction and
action.

Ere I proceed further; the reader will, perhaps, be pleased with a
likeness of the man.

I should say, in height, he was about five-feet eleven-inches; of
spare and sinewy frame, with an elastic tread, that those who knew
him, and seeing him in the distance, might truly say, as Ulysses
of Diomede in Shakspeare's play of "Troilus and Cressida,"
"'Tis he, I ken the manner of his gait; That spirit of his in
aspiration lifts him from the earth."

And often have I heard the late Mr. Alderson (the father of the
present judge), who travelled with my father, circuit and sessions
as a provincial barrister, more than thirty years, and who was
resident at Norwich, say,--"that Henry always put him more in mind
of a Spirit, that a man of flesh and blood;" his eye dark, like
that of Edmund Kean's, the great actor, showed every emotion of the
soul, now fiery with anger, now glazed with thought, and anon,
melting into softness; his head small, and finely rounded, and
covered with thick clustering curls of black crispy hair, was such
as sculptors have ever loved to give the youthful Antinous; his
forehead retreating was characteristic, as Lavater says, "of genius;"
his nose was slightly arched in the centre and slightly fleshy near
the nostrils; his face oval, with a well defined chin and a mouth
plain, but full of energy and expression, and similar to Sterne's,
the contour, of whose face I always thought my brother's much
resembled.

I have thus given, to please the lover of physiognomy, "a shadow
portrait," not "a Myall's photograph," which I hope will not only satisfy
the physiognomist, but which I think they, who but even slightly
remember Henry Cooper, have but to place before the tablet of their
memory and view the shade cast from it with their "mind's eye" to
at once recall and recognize the original.

I have thus sketched his likeness, as I regret to say, thus only can
he be now known, or viewed by those who were unacquainted with him
living, as no portrait of him is extant, he dying young, and for
years previous struggling to succeed in a profession where the
"battle is not always to the strong," though in the long run the
best man often succeeds, as with few exceptions, perhaps, the long
race, barring accidents, is usually won by the best horse.

He left no writings behind him save a few letters, beautifully expressed,
but mostly relating to family matters, and, therefore, uninteresting
to the general reader, with the exception of five or six preserved
by my mother, which I will give the reader ere I have ended this
biographical sketch; and the few friends with whom he corresponded,
and to whom, occasionally, he showed, and gave the productions of
his pen, though they considered him a man of considerable talent,
set such small value on his effusions, that, however, pleased at
the time they might have been with them they were put aside forgotten
and most probably destroyed, and what he himself chanced to write
and was pleased with for the instant, was, from the natural
carelessness of his disposition, hastily cast aside, and, no doubt,
often burnt with the waste paper of his chambers; so that every
endeavour I have made to possess even a shred of these scraps, has
been futile.

All I have been able to gather are the few letters alluded to, with a
few poetical lines which will be given to the reader; and, as we often
judge of character from trifles, he must, from the slight sketch I have
given, and the small crumbs I have been able to collect, form a
judgment of HIM I have endeavoured to describe. He had all but reached
the height of his profession, when he was taken away, no doubt for a wise
purpose, to the deep and lasting regret of those who not only fondly
loved him, but who had begun to take, and no wonder, a warm pride in the
object of their affections.

He died on September 19th, 1824, having been attacked some days
previous by a severe attack of diarrhoea, which, by some fatal
mischance, was mistaken by the surgeons who attended him, for brain
fever; he was, consequently, bled, and drastic medicines were
administered, which must have hastened if they did not cause his
death, which happened at the house of a friend of his, by the name
of Hill, at Chelsea, where he was buried, but his body was afterwards
removed by his sister and deposited where it now lies, near his
father's in the cloisters of Norwich Cathedral.

"I think some of the students are better than the great guns," remarked
Mrs Gordon quietly.

"True, my dear, and that is most natural, for it stands to reason that
some at least of the students must be the great guns of the future in
embryo; and they have the freshness of youth to set against the weight
of erudition."

"The student who preached to us here last Sunday," observed Barret,
"must surely be an embryo great gun, for he treated his subject in a
learned and masterly way that amazed me.  From the look of him I would
not have expected even an average discourse."

"That was partly owing to his modest air and reticence," returned the
laird.  "If you heard him converse on what he would call metapheesical
subjects, you would perhaps have been still more surprised."

"Well, I hope he will preach to-day," said Barret.

"From which I conclude that you will be one of the boat party.  My wife
and Milly make three, myself four; who else?"

"No--don't count me" interrupted the hostess; "I must stay with Flo;
besides, I must visit poor Mrs Donaldson, who is again laid up.  But
I'll be glad if you will take Aggy Anderson.  Ever since the poor girl
came here for a little change of air she has been longing to go out in
the boat.  I really believe it is a natural craving for the free, fresh
breezes of the sea.  May she go?"

"By all means; as many as the boat will hold," returned the laird.

It was finally arranged that, besides those already mentioned, Mabberly,
Jackman, MacRummle, Quin, the three boys, Roderick the groom, and Ian
Anderson, as boatman in charge, should cross over to the little church
at Drumquaich, about eight miles distant by water.

While they were getting ready, Mrs Gordon and Flo, with the beloved
black dolly, paid a visit to old Molly, the keeper's mother.  They found
her in her arm-chair, sitting by the large, open chimney, on the hearth
of which a very small fire was burning--not for the sake of warmth, but
for the boiling of an iron pot which hung over it.

The old woman was enveloped in a large, warm shawl--a gift from the
"Hoose."  She also wore a close-fitting white cap, or "mutch," which was
secured to her head by a broad, black ribbon.  The rims of her
spectacles were of tortoiseshell, and she had a huge family Bible on her
knee, while her feet rested upon a three-legged stool.  She looked up
inquiringly as her visitors entered.

"Why, Molly, I thought you were in bed.  They told me you were ill."

"Na, mem, I'm weel eneuch in body; it's the speerit that's ill.  And ye
ken why."

She spoke in a faint, quavering voice, for her old heart had been
crushed by her wayward, self-indulgent son, and a few tears rolled down
her wrinkled cheeks; but she was too old and feeble to give way to
demonstrative grief.  Little Flo, whose heart was easily touched, went
close to the poor old woman, and looked up anxiously in her face.

"My bonny doo!  It's a pleasure to look at ye," said the old woman,
laying her hand on the child's head.

Mrs Gordon drew in a chair and sat down by her side.

"Tell me about it," she said confidentially; "has he given way again,
after all his promises to Mr Jackman?"

"Oo, ay; Maister Jackman's a fine man, but he canna change the hert o'
my son--though it is kind o' him to try.  No, the only consolation I hev
is here."

She laid her hand on the open Bible.

"Where is he just now?" asked the lady.

As she spoke, a fierce yell was heard issuing from the keeper's cottage,
which, as we have said, stood close to his mother's abode.

"Ye hear till 'im," said the old woman with a sorrowful shake of the
head.  "He iss fery pad the day.  Whiles he thinks that horrible craters
are crawlin' ower him, an' whiles that fearful bogles are glowerin' at
him.  Sometimes he fancies that the foul fiend himsel' has gotten haud
o' him, an' then he screeches as ye hear."

"Would it do any good, Molly, if I were to go and speak to him, think
you?"

"Na, ye'd better let him lie.  He's no' hissel' the now, and there's no
sayin' what he might do.  Oh! drink! drink!" cried the old creature,
clasping her hands; "ye took my man awa', an' now ye're ruinin' my son!
But," she added with sudden animation, "we can pray for him; though it
iss not possible for you or Maister Jackman to change my bairn's hert,
the Lord can do it, for wi' Him `a' things are possible.'"

To this Mrs Gordon gave a hearty assent.  Sitting still as she was,
with hand resting on the old woman's arm, she shut her eyes and prayed
fervently for the salvation of the enslaved man.

She was still engaged in this act of worship when another shriek was
heard.  At the same time the door of the keeper's cottage was heard to
open, and Ivor's feet were heard staggering towards his mother's
cottage.  Poor Flo took refuge in great alarm behind Mrs Donaldson,
while her mother, rising quickly, drew back a few paces.

Next moment the small door was burst open, and the keeper plunged,
almost fell, into the room with something like a savage cheer.  He was a
terrible sight.  With wildly dishevelled hair, bloodshot eyes, and
distorted features, he stood for a few seconds glaring at his mother;
his tall figure swaying to and fro, while he held a quart bottle aloft
in his right hand.  He did not appear to observe the visitors, but
continued to stare at his mother with an expression that perplexed her,
accustomed though she was to his various moods.

"See, mother," he shouted fiercely, "I have done wi' the accursed thing
at last!"

He dashed the bottle on the hearth with tremendous violence as he spoke,
so that it vanished into minute fragments, while its contents spurted
about in all directions.  Happily very little of it went into the fire,
else the cottage would have been set ablaze.

With another wild laugh the man wheeled round, staggered out of the
cottage, and went his way.

"You are not hurt, I trust?" said the lady, anxiously bending down over
the poor old creature, who had remained calmly seated in her chair,
without the slightest appearance of alarm.

"No, I'm not hurt, thank the Lord," she answered.

"Don't you think that that was an answer to our prayer?" asked the lady
with some eagerness.

Old Molly shook her head dubiously.  "It may be so," she replied; "but I
hev often seen 'im i' that mind, and he has gone back to it again and
again, like the soo that was washed, to her wallowin' i' the mire.  Yet
there did seem somethin' different aboot 'im the day," she added
thoughtfully; "but it iss not the first time I hev prayed for him
without gettin' an answer."

"Answers do not always come as we expect them," returned her visitor;
"yet they may be granted even while we are asking.  I don't know how it
is, but I feel sure that Jesus will save your son."

Poor little Flo, who had been deeply affected by the terrible appearance
of her favourite Ivor, and who had never seen him in such a plight
before, quietly slipped out of old Molly's hut and went straight to that
of the keeper.  She found him seated on a chair with his elbows on his
knees, his forehead resting on his hands, and his strong fingers
grasping his hair as if about to tear it out by the roots.  Flo, who was
naturally fearless and trustful, ran straight to him and placed a hand
on his shoulder.  He started and looked round.

"Bairn! bairn!" he said grasping her little head, and kissing her
forehead, "what brings ye here?"

"Muzzer says she is _sure_ Jesus will save you; so I came to tell you,
for muzzer _never_ says what's not true."

Having delivered her consoling message, Flo ran back at once to Molly's
cottage with the cheerful remark that it was all right now, for she had
told Ivor that he was going to be saved!

While Mrs Gordon and Flo were thus engaged on shore, the boat party
were rowing swiftly down the loch to the little hamlet of Drumquaich.
The weather was magnificent.  Not a breath of air stirred the surface of
the sea, so that every little white cloud in the sky was perfectly
reproduced in the concave below.  The gulls that floated on the white
expanse seemed each to be resting on its own inverted image, and the
boat would have appeared in similar aspect but for the shivering of the
mirror by its oars.

"Most appropriate type of Sabbath rest," said Jackman.

"Ay, but like all things here pelow," remarked Ian Anderson, who
possessed in a high degree the faculty of disputation, "it's not likely
to last long."

"What makes you think so, Ian?" asked Milly, who sat in the stern of the
boat between John Barret and Aggy Anderson.

"Well, you see, muss," began Ian, in his slow, nasal tone, "the gless
has bin fallin' for some time past, an'--Tonal', poy, mind your helm;
see where you're steerin' to!"

Donald, who steered, was watching with profound interest the operations
of Junkie, who had slily and gravely fastened a piece of twine to a back
button of MacRummle's coat, and tied him to the thwart on which he sat.
Being thus sternly asked where he was steering to, Donald replied, "Oo,
ay," and quickly corrected the course.

"But surely," returned Milly, "there is no sign of a rapid change, at
least if we may judge from the aspect of Nature; and I am a fervent
believer in Nature, whatever the glass may predict."

"I am not sure o' that, muss," said Ian.  "You needn't pull quite so
hard, Muster Mabberly; we hev plenty o' time.  Tak it easy.  Well, as I
wass sayin', muss, I hev seen it as calm as this i' the mornin' mony a
time, an' plowin' a gale at nicht."

"Let us hope that that won't be our experience to-day," said the laird.
"Anyhow, we have a good sea-boat under us."

"Weel, the poat's no' a pad wan, laird, but I hev seen petter.  You see,
when the wund iss richt astern, she iss given to trinkin'."

"That's like Ivor," said Junkie with a laugh; "only _he_ is given to
drinkin', no matter how the wind blows."

"What do you mean?" asked Milly, much perplexed.

Barret here explained that a boat which takes in much water over the bow
is said to be given to drinking.

"I'm inclined that way myself," said Jackman, who had been pulling hard
at one of the oars up to that time.

"Has any one thought of bringing a bottle of water?"

"Here's a bottle," cried MacRummle, laughing.

"Ah, sure, an' there seems to be a bottle o' milk, or somethin' white
under the th'ort," remarked Quin, who pulled the bow oar.

"But that's Milly's bottle of milk," shouted Junkie.

"And Aggy's," chimed in Eddie.

"Yes--no one must touch that," said Junkie.

"Quite right, boys," said Jackman; "besides, milk is not good for
quenching thirst."

Cooper,--Farewell!-- Transient, yet splendid, was thy short career,
Unfading laurels twine thy early bier.

To mourn thy exit, how can we refrain, For seldom shall we see thy
like again!

Who, to deep learning, and the soundest sense, Join'd the rare gift
of matchless eloquence.
Thy wit most keen, thy penetration clear, Thy satire poignant, made
corruption fear.
And such thy knowledge of the human heart, So prompt to see, and
to unmask each art.

Oppression shrunk abash'd, while innocence Call'd thee her champion--her
sure defence.

Once more, farewell, long shall thy name be dear, And oft shall Independence
drop a tear Of grateful memory o'er departed worth, And selfish, wish
thee back again to earth.

To abide the important issue of that cause, Fix'd not by mortal, but
celestial laws, Thou'rt summon'd hence, may'st thou not plead in
vain, But from our Heavenly Judge acceptance gain, And sure
admittance to those courts on high, Where term and time are lost
in blest eternity.

APPENDIX.
THE LIFE OF LORD ERSKINE.

AS COMMENCED BY MY BROTHER

Thomas Erskine, the only advocate, and, almost, the only orator, whose
speeches are likely to survive the interest of the occasion that
gave them birth in a country, where forensic litigation abounds,
and political institutions render the study and exercise of eloquence
important and necessary, was born on the in --- the year 175, at
---, in Scotland; he was the third son of the Earl of Buchan, by ---.

This family is ancient, and connects, with its pedigree, the sovereigns,
both of Scotland and England, related to the former. The marriage
of the daughter of James the First with the Palatine, mixed his
line with the descendants, and, consequently, united him with the
family that now reigns in England.

He thus brought with him to the profession of the bar, the advantage
of all the prejudice in favour of illustrious descents, and found
easier way yielded to his powerful talents by the diminution of
envy which attended it.

Of his very early years, I am unable to supply the public with any
information, and I regret it,--not that any very important lesson
of utility can be derived from the anecdotes of childhood, but they
are amusing, and amusing without harm; and I agree with Dr.

West that he has a very imperfect knowledge of human nature who is
not convinced, that in a state of refined society, it is impossible
to amuse innocently.

All that I have been able to learn distinctly, is, that the most
playful vivacity, and the same good humour, which ever after
accompanied him even in the keenest rivalry of the bar, displayed
itself in his words and actions, and made him the delight of all,
but those who morose and splenetic, from their own disgust of
existence, conceive offence at others for that enjoyment of the
present, which can only subsist upon ignorance, and the hope of the
future that MUST BE disappointed.

To this vivacity, he, perhaps, owed as much as to those endowments, which
are deemed more solid qualifications for the bar. It imparted itself
to his eye, his mouth, his tone, and his action, and held his
hearers engaged, when his periods were such as pronounced by an
ordinary speaker, would not have preserved the audience from that
listnessness, which is instantly seen and felt by the speaker, and
soon adds embarrassment and confusion to feebleness.

In private society, to the last months of his existence, it gave him
rather the air of a youth inexperienced in the realities of life, and
entering it under the ardour of hope, than of a man who had almost
reached the limits of human existence, in the exercise of a profession,
which lays the human breast naked to inspection.

It was said of Pope, from his primitive habits of reflection and gravity,
that he was never young; and, on the contrary, it may be said with equal
justice, from the playfulness and vivacity of Erskine, that he was
never old.

At the age of he entered the navy as a midshipman, and served in
the ---, commanded by Captain ---, in America. While in this station
he was employed in making a survey under one of the lieutenants of the
ship, off the coast of Florida. He had some acquaintance with geometry;
and, as he tells us himself in his "Armata," always retained a fondness
for that science. Whether this fondness grew in acquiring the knowledge
of navigation, indispensable to his profession, or subsequently
at the university in which it forms so much the greater part of
education, I am ignorant; but that he was versed to a degree both
in geometry and astronomy, is evident, from the work I have named,
and some pieces of his poetry, which I have had access to.

The cause that led him to leave the navy and enter the army is unknown;
it is most likely to have been disgust and impatience of the subordination,
which in our fleets is rigid in the extreme, and never softened by
that alternation of social intercourse, at a common table at which in
the army, all the officers of the regiment meet daily, and from which
they rise with a feeling, not only that insulting and overbearing
command upon duty would be a violation of an implied pledge of
kindness, but injury to themselves, as diminishing in the gloom
that would spread over their next meeting, the common stock of
enjoyment.

The condition of our naval service is, in some respects, improved since
Erskine was a member of it; but then all knowledge beyond that of the
conduct of a ship, was deemed unnecessary, impertinent, and even
adverse to the attainment of nautical skill. The intercourse of the
officers even on the shore, was confined almost entirely to one
another, for not to speak of the uncouthness of their habits, which made
them as incapable of mingling in society on land, as the beings
of their element on which their avocation lay, are of living in the
air, their language was technical to a degree that rendered it to all,
except themselves, almost unintelligible.

With such persons for companions, and to use Terence's expression,
quotidian and tedious sameness of a life at sea, we need look no further
for Erskine's desire to change his profession.

When we consider the great capacity which he possessed for observation,
and his extraordinary power of combining the knowledge that he so
acquired, the period which he gave to the naval service must have
been, to a spirit so active, a period of painful constraints.

I remember that in a conversation upon Lord Erskine, with Mr. Capel
Loft, after enumerating the many great causes in which the great
advocate had been engaged, he exclaimed, "what an infinite multitude
of ideas must have passed through that man's mind."

The remark is not an empty one; I doubt whether there ever was a
man who exercised the faculty of reasoning more, who drew a greater
number of distinct conclusions, or whose materials of thought were
more the collection and property of his own observation.

Cicero, in his speech for Archias, appeals to the judges whether
he could possibly supply the demands upon him for daily exertions
of eloquence, unless he assidiously refreshed his mind with studies,
in which he was assisted by Archias and other rhetoricians, and
that he read copiously is manifested in all his works.

The accomplished academician, the able balancer of the different
schools of philosophy and morals, and the studied Rhetor is obtruded
upon us.

He was, in every sense of the term, learned; Erskine, on the contrary,
cannot be discovered by any of his speeches, or writings, to have
read much, and most probably had read very little.

He was in no sense of the word learned.

He has, indeed by acuteness of observation, vigour of combination,
and the ready power of deduction that he possessed, been able to
produce and leave behind him what will become the learning of others,
but he was not learned himself.

His qualities, from his earliest years were quickness and acuteness,
unchecked and insatiable curiosity, retentive memory, and busy reflection;
his mind was never still.

In the coffee-room he conversed and indulged in humour with all round
him.

However important or heavy the causes which were to occupy him in
court, they never oppressed his mind with a load of anxiety; his
was not like ordinary minds under great affairs, so absorbed that
he could perceive nothing round him; his, till the hour of solemn
exertion arrived, was disengaged and indulged in pleasantry; after
the toil of the day, the passion of eloquence and the intensity of
technical argument, he was full of spirits and waggery at dinner
and in the evening.

And light as his topics sometimes were, his thoughts were always distinct,
and his expressions full; you never from him heard any imperfect thoughts
expressed, that (like tadpoles, before they are complete, must go
through other processes of animation) required the exertion of your
own conceptions to attain their sense and spirit.

The activity of his mind was like that of the swallow, which either
in sport or pursuit is upon the wing for ever. With this character it
may readily be believed that young Erskine received his discharge with
feelings like those that attend the cessation of a long and painful disease
from a state which called for no exercise of his great talents, and,
neither yielded scope for the communication of his own attainments nor
opportunity to increase them from the communications of others.

He became an ensign of the Royals and married not long after. He was
sent with his corps to the Mediterranean, and stationed either
with his regiment or a detachment of his regiment, at Minorca; there,
under the influence of an ardent feeling of religion, which he owed to
the anxious inculcations of his mother, from whom he received the rudiments
of education, he is said in the absence of the chaplain, to have
composed more than one sermon, and to have delivered them to the
assembled officers and privates of his regiment.

It never occurred to me to ask him whether there was truth in this report;
but he has frequently talked to me of anecdotes which were circulated of
him, some of which he confirmed while he contradicted others, and never
spoke of this as unfounded; from my knowledge of his character it is
highly probable, and I believe it is true. About three years ago he was
at Tunbridge Wells with Mr. Coutts, and while there, pointed out to a
friend of mine a building, and said, "There, when it was a public
room, I preached a sermon of my own composition to the company;"
this was for a wager.

He returned to England in 17-- with his regiment, the father of three
children. The anxiety of his mother, whose affections and care for
her family rendered her most estimable, and have endeared her memory
to her descendants, was excited by Thomas, who had nothing but his pay
for the support of his wife and his children, likely soon to become
more numerous. Her prudence suggested to her another profession for him
by the gains of which he might avoid the destitution which she saw
hanging over his head. With this design, she sent for Mr. Adam, the
barrister (now the Commissioner of the Scotch jury courts),
that she might receive the assistance of his experience and advice.

On his arrival she said, "My son Tom has been thoughtless enough to marry
a woman without fortune, and she has brought him a family which
he cannot support himself, nor I for him,--what is to be done?

And I have been thinking that he must sell his commission, go to the
bar, and be Lord Chancellor." It is interesting to reflect, that while
this excellent woman was endeavouring to conceal the bitterness of
an affectionate mother's anguish for her son's imprudence, she was
unconsciously pronouncing a prophecy. Nor will it be less to see how
trifling an event would have prevented its accomplishment; Mr. Adam
told her that there were a great many steps from the entrance of the
profession and the very high rank which she purposed, many of which he
should be happy to congratulate her son on attaining.
The conference proceeded, the obstacles to success at the bar were weighed
against the certainty of domestic calamities if he remained in his
present profession, and they parted, both of opinion, that in the
direction of the bar, Thomas Erskine was most likely to leave
behind his present embarrassment and reach prosperity.

It remained, however, to procure the consent of her son; that was not
easy: he had no predilection for the bar, and was attached to the army,
and his regiment, to the officers of which his sprightly and amiable
manners had endeared him, and in which he was soliciting promotion and
expecting it. At last, however, his conditional consent was drawn from
him. He agreed to let his mother dispose of him as she wished, if he
should be unsuccessful in his application for the vacant captaincy
in the Royals. This was far from satisfying his mother, but he was
peremptory, and she could not induce him to more positive terms; thus,
if Erskine could have gained the rank of captain in the Royals, the
destination of which was, then, an American colony, by which he might
have gained the privilege of being scalped by the savages, or perishing
in the swamps or forests of North America, the country would never
have known that splendid eloquence, which is its boast and its pride;
Tooke, Thelwall, Hardy, and the rest of those unfortunate men who were
held so long under the terror of death, would probably have been
hanged, and the country oppressed by a gloomy precedent of constructive
treason, under which no man who has raised himself in opposition
to a corrupt and sinister government could have been safe; one is
inclined to shudder, like a man whom a shot has missed only by the
breadth of a hair, in contemplating how near so much danger was
incurred, and so much benefit lost.

But it is not on the magnitude, but continuity of the chain, that
great results depend; on examining the past, we shall find that
as small a link struck out at one point or other of succession, would
have disappointed the most important events of history. Happily for Erskine
and his country, his claims from the merit of his services were eluded,
and though he was more urgent in his applications, since the
alternative was to be the bar, he was refused promotion.

There was a singular coincidence in the fortune of the late Lord Chatham
and Erskine: the former was sent into parliament and driven into violent
opposition to Sir Robert Walpole, because that minister had deprived
him of a company of horse, and dismissed him the service, an act of which
the minister had reason to repent.

He was like the emblem of envy with the recoiled dart in his own
bosom; except Charles I., who stopped Hampden and Cromwell from embarking
upon the Thames to follow liberty into the wilderness of America,
no man had ever so much reason to curse himself for his own acts.

In the same manner a slight of Erskine's claims to promotion sent him to
display an eloquence that had never yet been heard at the English
bar.

His fame as an advocate, drew the notice of the Whig party on him;
he was enlisted in their ranks and added an importance to the
opposition, which not unfrequently increased the embarrassment of the
minister.

While he was held in suspense by those who had the disposal of commissions,
he was quartered at Maidstone, and entering the court during the
assizes there, was placed in his military uniform upon the bench,
beside the great Lord Mansfield, to whom he was distantly related,
and who at intervals of business, conversed with him on the proposed
change of arms for the gown.

This was another of the accidents which, by minds of a certain frame would
be regarded as an omen. After relating this anecdote, he added, "Only
four years from that time, I was at the place in the lead of that
very circuit."

All his hopes of promotion at an end, the commission so unequal to the
demands for subsistance upon it, was disposed of, and he was at once
entered a student of the Law Society of Lincoln's Inn, and a Commoner
at --- College, Cambridge
* * * * *
A few days before he was called to the bar, a friend came and invited
him to accompany him to dine at the villa of a wine merchant, a few
miles from London.

The allurements were a good dinner, and wine not to be procured but
by a dealer, who could cull his own stock from thousands of pipes,
and they were not to be resisted by a young man fond of pleasure,
to whom such luxuries must come gratuitously, if they come at all.

Economy, which was important to Erskine, was not quite beneath the
regard of his friend, and after many proposals of several modes of
conveyance, which were all rejected, either for their expense, or their
humbleness, they agreed to walk; I have heard playful exertions
of the mind or body attributed to what was denominated an excessive
flow of animal spirits, a phrase that sounds significantly in the
ear, but gives no information to the understanding.

Those who use it, mean, I suppose, to express that when the body has
received more nutriment than is necessary to promote its growth, or
maintain it the redundancy is thrown off in almost involuntary exertions
of the limbs or of mind.

If this physiology be just, Erskine had an extraordinary surplus of
supply,--that regular discharge like the back water of a mill, and
it found vent in various gambols and effusions of humour on the way
to the wine merchant's.

While Erskine, buoyed by high health and ardent hope, scarcely felt
the ground that he trod, the sight of a ditch by the side of the
road, tempted him to exercise his agility.

The impulse, and obedience to the impulse, were the same.

He made the attempt, but the ditch was too wide for his spring, and he
leaped a little short of the opposite bank. His dress above was
splashed with foul water, and his legs booted in mud. Nothing was to
be done on his part but to return, and his companion with a kindness
that does him honour, would have returned with him, but this, Erskine
was too generous to allow; and while his friend continued his journey
to the wine merchant's house and sumptuous dinner, Erskine solitary
and in pain (for he had severely sprained his leg) returned to town;
on reaching his lodgings Mrs.

Erskine proposed a change of dress, and urged him yet to go to dinner
at the wine merchant's. He objected his lameness from the sprain, which
she answered by proposing a coach and the expense, which he hinted,
was not to be weighed against the benefit he might derive from the
friends which his manners and spirits were likely to make him in
the mixed and numerous company he would meet there.

This was a consideration so important to a young man on the verge of the
bar, that Erskine's disinclination was overcome by these reasonings
of his wife.

A coach was procured, and he again set out, but he did not arrive till
dinner was half over, and found himself placed by this accident
by the side of Captain Bailey, of Greenwich Hospital.

With the utmost anxiety to save the latter,
her Uncle Ian made a desperate plunge when the boat upset, at the spot
where, in the confusion, he thought he saw her go down.  He grasped
something under water, which clutched him violently in return.  Rising
to the surface he found that he had got hold of Giles Jackman, who,
animated by the same desire to rescue the same girl, had also made a
plunge at her.  Flinging each other off almost angrily, they swam wildly
about in search of her, for Giles had observed that Barret was
sufficiently intent on Milly.

But poor Aggie was in even better hands.  Ivor Donaldson had kept his
eyes on her from the moment that he could distinguish faces in the
approaching boat.  He was a splendid swimmer.  Even against wind and
waves he made rapid headway, and in a few seconds caught the girl by the
hair.  In his case the absence of a plan of rescue was to some extent
remedied by sheer strength of body, coupled with determination.  The
poor girl did her best to choke him, as drowning people will, but,
happily, she was too weak for the purpose and he too strong!  He
suffered her to do her worst, and, with the arm which she left free made
his way gallantly to the beach, where Duncan and all the domestics were
ready to receive them.

Barret and Milly had landed just before them.  Immediately after Archie
and Eddie were swept in amid the foam, and Junkie himself--who, like his
brothers, could swim like a cork--came careering in on the top of a
wave, like a very water-imp!  With all the energy of his nature he
turned, the moment his feet touched ground, to lend a hand to his friend
Tonal', who was not far behind him.

Thus, one by one, the whole party got safely to land, for the laird,
although old, was still vigorous, and, like the others, able to swim.
MacRummle came in last, and they had some difficulty in getting him out
of the water, for he was rather sluggish, as well as heavy; but he was
none the worse for his immersion, and to the anxieties afterwards
expressed by his friends, he replied quietly that he had become pretty
well used to the water by that time.  It was a trying experience,
however, for all of them, and, in the opinion of Ian Anderson, as he
gave it to his wife when they met, "it was a queer way o' feenishin' off
a fery extraor'nar Sawbath tay--what-e-ver!"

One morning, not long after this incident, the gentlemen made up a
shooting party to try the summit of the hill for mountain hares--their
hostess having twitted them with their inability to keep the household
supplied with hare soup.

"I will accompany you, gentlemen, to the shoulder of the first hill,"
observed their host, as he finished his breakfast, "but not farther, for
I am not so young as I once was, and cannot be expected to keep pace
with a `Woods and Forester.'"

"That is not a good reason for your stopping short, laird," retorted
Jackman, with a smile, "because it is quite possible for the `Woods and
Forester' to regulate his pace to that of the Western Isles."

"Well, we shall see," returned his host.  "And what does my reckless
Milly intend to do with herself?"

"I mean to have a little picnic--all by myself," said Milly; "that is to
say with nobody but me and Aggy Anderson."

"D'you think that quite safe, so soon after her ducking?" asked Mrs
Gordon.

"Quite safe, auntie, for she has not felt a bit the worse for that
ducking; indeed, she seems much the better for it, and I am quite sure
that hill air is good for her."

"Oh! then, you mean to have your very select picnic on the hills?" said
the laird.

"Yes, but no one shall know to what part we are going, for, as I have
said, we mean to have a day of it all to ourselves; only we will take
Junkie to protect us, and carry our provisions."

There were two of the gentlemen who declined the shooting expedition.
John Barret said he would start with them, but would at a certain point
drop behind and botanise.  MacRummle also preferred to make _one more_
effort to catch that grilse which had risen so often to him of late, but
was still at large in the big pool under the fall.  The result of the
morning's discussion was that only Mabberly and Jackman proceeded to
assault the hares on the mountain-top, accompanied by Archie and Eddie,
with Ivor Donaldson to guide them.

Up in the nursery--that devastated region which suggested the idea of an
hospital for broken furniture and toys--poor little neglected Flo sat
down on the floor, and, propping her favourite doll up against the
remnant of a drum, asked that sable friend what she would like to do.
Receiving no answer, she said, in a cheery, confidential tone, which she
had acquired from her mother, "I'll tell you what, Miss Blackie, you an'
I will go for a picnic too.  Zere's plenty places for you an' me, as
well as for Cuzn Miwy to go to, an' we will let muzzer go wid us--if
she's dood.  So go, like a dood chile', an' get your things on."

As the day was particularly bright and warm, this minor picnic was
splendidly carried into effect, in a little coppice close to the house.
There Mrs Gordon knitted and sometimes read, and behaved altogether
like a particularly "dood chile," while Flo and Blackie carried on high
jinks around her.

The Eagle Cliff was the spot which Milly Moss had fixed on for her
select little picnic with the niece of the fisherman.  Strange to say,
and without the slightest knowledge or suspicion of this fact (so he
said), John Barret had selected the very same spot for his botanical
ramble.  It must be remembered, however, that it was a wide spot.

Seated in a secluded nook, not long after noon, Milly and Aggy, with
Junkie, enjoyed the good things which were spread on a mass of flat rock
in front of them.

"Now I call this jolly!" said Junkie, as well as he could, with a mass
of jam-tart stopping the way.

"It is indeed," returned Milly; "but I don't feel quite sure whether you
refer to the splendour of the scenery or the goodness of the tart."

"To both," returned the boy, inarticulately.

"Do you think you could eat any more?" asked Milly with a grave, earnest
look that made Aggy giggle--for Aggy was a facile giggler!

"No, I don't," said Junkie.  "I'm stuffed!"

"Well, then, you are at leisure to fill the cup again at the spring; so
run, like a good boy, and do it."

"How hard you are on a fellow, Cousin Milly," grumbled the youngster,
rising to do as he was bid; but the expression of his jammy face showed
that he was no unwilling slave.

"How old are you, Aggy?" asked Milly when he was gone.

"Sixteen last birthday," returned the girl.

"Ah! how I wish I was sixteen again!" said Milly, with a profound sigh,
as she gazed over the rim of a tartlet she happened to be eating, at the
glittering sea and the far-off horizon.  She was evidently recalling
some very sad and ancient memories.

"Why?" asked her companion, who exhibited a very slight tendency to
laugh.

"Because I was so light-hearted and happy at that age."

"How old are you now, Miss Milly?" asked Aggy, in a tone of increased
respect.

"Nineteen," replied the other with a sigh.

Again Aggy's pretty round face was rippled by a suppressed giggle, and
it is highly probable that she would have given way altogether if Junkie
had not returned at the moment and rescued her.

"Here's the water, Milly.  Now, Aggy, have you had enough?"

"Yes, quite enough," laughed the highly convalescent invalid.

"Well, then, come along wi' me and I'll show you the place where Cousin
Milly fell down.  You needn't come, Milly.  I want to show it to Aggy
all by herself, an' we won't be long away."

"Very well, Junkie, as you please.  I daresay I shall manage to pass the
time pleasantly enough till you return."

She leant back on a thick heather bush as she spoke, and indulged
herself in that most enjoyable and restful of occupations, on a bright
warm day, namely, looking straight up into the sunny sky and
contemplating the soft fleecy clouds that float there, changing their
forms slowly but continually.

Now it so happened that John Barret, in his botanical wanderings about
the Eagle Cliff, in quest of the "rare specimens" that Milly loved,
discovered Milly herself!  This was not such a matter-of-course
discovery as the reader may suppose, for the Eagle Cliff occupied a vast
space of the mountain-side, among the rugged ramparts and knolls of
which several persons might have wandered for hours without much chance
of observing each other, unless they were to shout or discharge the
echo-disturbing gun.

Whether it was the mysterious attraction or the occult discernment of
love that drew him, we cannot tell, but certain it is that when Barret,
standing on the upper edge of the cliff, glanced from the eagle--which
was watching him suspiciously--downward to the base of the cliff, where
the sheep appeared like little buff spots on the green grass, his
startled eyes alighted on Milly, lying on her back, contemplating the
heavens!

At that distance she might have been a mole or a rabbit, as far as
regards Barret's power to discern her face or figure or occupation went;
nevertheless, Barret knew at once that it was she, as his look and
colour instantly indicated.  There is something in such matters which we
cannot understand, and, perhaps, had better not attempt to comprehend.
It is sufficient to say that the young man instantly forgot his
occupation, and began to descend the cliff by break-neck routes in a way
that must have surprised--if not alarmed--the very eagle himself.  He
even trod some exceedingly rare "specimens" under foot in his haste.  In
a few minutes he drew near to the spot where Milly lay.

Then he suddenly stopped, for he remembered that she had that morning
spoken of her picnic as a very private one; and was it not taking a
base, unwarrantable advantage of her, thus to intrude on her privacy?
But then--ah! how fatally, if not fortunately, that "but then" often
comes in to seal our fate--"fix our flints," as backwoodsmen are fond of
putting it!--but then, was not the opportunity unsought--quite
accidental?  Would it not be utterly absurd, as well as disingenuous, to
pass her and pretend not to see her, with his botanical box full of her
own favourite plants and flowers?

Love is proverbially blind.  The argument was more than sufficient.  He
shut his eyes, metaphorically, and rushed upon his fate.

Milly heard him rushing--in reality, walking--and knew his step!
Another instance of the amazing--well--She started up in some confusion,
just in time to appear as if engaged in viewing with interest the
majestic landscape spread out before her.  Swooping downwards, and
hovering overhead on grand expanded pinions, the eagle seemed to watch
with keen interest the result of this meeting.

"Pardon this intrusion, Miss Moss.  I really did not know you were in
this neighbourhood till a few minutes ago," said Barret, sitting down on
the heather beside her.  "I accidentally observed you, and I have been
so very fortunate in finding rare plants this morning, that I thought I
might venture, just for a few minutes, to interrupt the privacy of your
picnic.  See, here!" he added, taking off the botanical box and opening
it; "just look at all this!"

"It is _very_ kind of you to take so much trouble on my account, Mr
Barret," said Milly, becoming deeply, almost too deeply-interested in
the plants.  "And, oh, _what_ a splendid specimen of the heliographipod.
My dear mother will be so glad to get this, for she is quite as fond of
botany as I am."

"Indeed!  Do you expect her soon?"

"Yes; her last letter leads me to expect her very soon now."

Milly looked up as she said this, but there was an expression on
Barret's face which induced her instantly to recur to scientific
research.

Now, good reader, if you think we are going further, and expect us
rudely to draw aside the curtain here, and betray confidences, you are
mistaken.  But there is no reason against--indeed, the development of
our story supplies every reason in favour of--our taking note of certain
facts which bear indirectly on the subject before us.

Far away on a shoulder of the mountain, which rose on the other side of
the valley, lying between it and the Eagle Cliff, a grey speck might
have been seen perched on a rock.  Even as the crow flies the distance
was so great that the unassisted human eye could not have distinguished
what it was.  It might have been a grey cow, or a grew crow, or a grey
rabbit, or a grey excrescence of the rock itself; but a telescope would
have revealed the fact that it was Allan Gordon, the laird of Kinlossie!

Serenity was stamped on the old man's brow, for he was amiable by
nature, and he had been rendered more amiable that morning by having had
a pleasant chat, while ascending the mountain, with Mabberly and
Jackman.  The latter he had begun facetiously to style the "Woods and
Forester."  The shooting party had left him there, according to previous
arrangement, and the old gentleman had seated himself on the grey rock
to rest and commune with nature for a short time, before beginning the
descent of the steep mountain path, and wending his way homeward.

From his commanding point of observation the entire range of the Eagle
Cliff lay spread out before him, with the sea visible on the extreme of
either hand.  The great valley lay between, with impassable gulfs and
gorges caused by its wild torrents, and its level patches, strewn with
the fallen _debris_ of ages, out of which the larger masses of rock rose
like islands in a grey ocean; but these huge masses became almost
insignificant, owing to the overpowering impression of the cliff itself.
For some time the laird gazed at it in silent admiration.  Presently a
smile beamed on his countenance.

"Ha! my puss, is that you?" he muttered, as he took a binocular
telescope from his pocket and adjusted it.  "I guessed as much.  The
Eagle Cliff has powerful attractions for you, what with its grandeur and
the `rare plants' you are so mad about.  I _think_ it is _you_, though
at such a distance I might easily mistake a sheep or a deer for you--
and, after all, that would be no mistake, for you _are_ a dear!"

He did not condescend to smile at his own mild little joke, as he
applied the telescope to his eyes.

"Yes, I'm right--and very comfortable you seem too, though I can't make
out your party.  Both Aggy and Junkie seem to have left you.  Perhaps
the rocks may hide them.  It's so far off that--hallo!"

A sudden frown clouded the laird's face as he gave vent to that hallo.

"The rascal!" he muttered between his compressed lips.  "He heard at
breakfast, as well as the rest of us, that Milly wanted no intruders.
Humph!  I had given him credit for better taste than this implies.  Eh!
come, sir, this is quite inexcusable!"

The laird became excited as he continued to gaze, and his indignation
deepened as he hastily wiped the glasses of the binocular.  Applying
them again to his eyes, his frown became still darker.

"For shame, you young scamp!" he continued to mutter, "taking advantage
of your contemptible botany to bring your two heads together in a way
that Milly would never have permitted _but_ for that ridiculous science.
Ha! they've let the whole concern fall--serves 'em right--and--no!
dropped it on purpose.  What!  Do you _dare_ to grip my niece's hand,
and--and--she lets you!  Eh! your arm round--Stop!" shouted the wrathful
man, springing up and almost hurling his binocular at the unconscious
pair.  But his shout, although fifty times louder, would have failed to
cross the valley.  Like his anger, it was unavailing.  Thrusting the
glass into its case with a bang, he strode down the mountain-side in
rampant fury, leaving the solemn eagle to watch the lovers as they
plighted their troth under the mighty cliff.  Happily they brought the
momentous transaction to a close just before Junkie and the highly
convalescent Aggy Anderson re-appeared upon the scene.

That afternoon, before dinner, John Barret asked Mr Gordon to accord
him the pleasure of a private interview in the library.

"Certainly, sir," said the laird sternly; "and all the more that I had
very much desired some private conversation with _you_."

Barret was not a little surprised at the old man's tone and manner, but
took no notice of it, and went alone with him into the library, where he
made a full and frank confession of his love for Milly, and of his
having proposed to her and been accepted--on condition that her mother
did not object.

"And now, Mr Gordon," added the youth, earnestly, "I have come to
apologise to you, to ask your forgiveness, in fact, and to express my
extreme regret at the precipitancy of my conduct.  It had been my full
intention, I do assure you, to wait until I had Mrs Moss' sanction to
pay my addresses to her daughter, but a--a--sudden opportunity, which I
had not sought for or expected--for, of course, I knew nothing of the
place where the picnic was to be--this--this--opportunity, I say, took
me by surprise, and threw me off my guard--and--and--in short, love--Oh!
_you_ know well enough the power of love, Mr Gordon, and can make
allowance for my acting precipitately!"

The old gentleman was touched on a tenderer spot than the young man was
aware of when he made this appeal to his own experience, for, in days
gone by, young Allan Gordon had himself acted precipitately.

But, although the appeal had touched him, he did not allow the fact to
be seen, nor did he interrupt the youth's confession.

"Observe, Mr Gordon," continued Barret, drawing himself up slightly,
"the only wrong-doing for which I ask pardon is undue haste.  My
position, financially and otherwise, entitles me to marry, and darling
Milly has a right to accept whom she will.  If it be thought that she is
too young and does not know her own mind, I am willing to wait.  If she
were to change her mind in the meantime, I would accept the inevitable--
but I have no fear of _that_!"

The laird's features had been relaxing while the enthusiastic youth
proceeded, but the last speech upset his gravity altogether.

"Well, well, Barret," he said, "since you have condemned yourself for
acting hastily, it would ill become your host to overwhelm you with
reproaches, and to say truth, after what you have said, I hope that the
course of true love will in your case run smooth.  But, my young
friend," he added, in more serious tones, "I must strictly forbid any
further reference to this with Milly, till her mother comes.  She is
under my care and, being responsible for her, I must see that nothing
further takes place till I am able to hand her, and all her affairs,
over to her mother.  I will explain this to Milly, and give her to
understand that you will behave to her in all respects as you did before
the occurrence of this unfortunate picnic.  Meanwhile it may comfort you
to know that her mother is already predisposed in your favour--naturally
too, for she would be ungrateful, as well as eccentric, if she had no
regard for the man who has twice saved her child's life.  Ah! there goes
the dinner-bell, and I'm glad of it, for prolonged speaking fatigues me.
Come along."


CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

A CHAPTER OF CATASTROPHES.

It was the very next day after the conversation in the library that the
waggonette was sent over to Cove to meet the steamer and fetch Mrs
Moss, who was expected to arrive.  As Ian Anderson and Donald with the
ragged head had to return home that day, they were offered a lift by
their friend Roderick.

"I wad raither waalk, Rodereek," said Ian; "but I dar' say I may as weel
tak a lift as far as the Cluff; chump up, Tonal'."

Donald was not slow to obey.  Although active and vigorous as a mountain
goat, he had no objection to repose under agreeable conditions.

LIFE OF HENRY COOPER.

The subject of the present memoir, Henry Cooper, was born at a house in
Bethel Street, in the City of Norwich, now well-known as the late
residence of Alderman Hawkes, and where resided for many years his
father, Charles, now better known as Old Counsellor Cooper, a
remarkable man, who, like the late William Cobbett, though of humble
origin, possessed one of those minds that will and must, as they
have ever done from the time of Deioces of Ecbatana (recorded by
Herodotus) till now, elevate the possessor and compel the homage,
whilst exciting the no small envy of inferior intellects.

What education he received was at a small school kept by the Rev. John
Bruckner (a Lutheran Divine), who died in 1804, and was buried at Guist,
in Norfolk, where French, Latin, and the common rudiments of an
English education were taught; and where, too, the late William
Taylor,--perhaps one of the most extraordinary men Norwich ever
produced, the early and intimate friend of Southey, and who was the
first, according to Lockhart's Life of Scott, to give that great
writer a taste for poetry by his (Taylor's) spirited and inimitable
translation of Burger's well known ballad beginning,--
"At break of day from frightful dreams up started Eleanor,"
was his fellow pupil, and who has told me what a gentle, industrious,
and amiable boy he remembered my father (truly, in this instance,
the child was father of the man); there he acquired, no doubt, some
knowledge, but it was far more to his own self-instruction that he
was indebted for the large and varied knowledge he possessed, for,
as his brother Samuel (his only and younger brother,--he had a
sister but she died young) informed my mother that such was his
early thirst for knowledge, that he not only repudiated all play,
and the sports of boyhood, taught himself Greek, and greedily
devoured the contents of every book that came within his reach, but
would, with the pocket-money given him, purchase candles, and when
the family had retired to rest, light one, and sit and read till
the dawn of day, when he would creep into bed, and sleep till the
hour of call, when he would rise to resume anew his mental exercise.

So years past by, and the young and sickly looking boy grew into the youth,
when his father, a man of strong intellect, with a great deal of sound
common sense, perceiving the bent of his son's mind,--and being a
man who had retired early in life from business with a small property,
on which he lived in a house at Heigham (a hamlet within the
city),--at once placed his son Charles with one of the most respectable
attornies, in large business in Norwich, as an articled clerk to
the law, where he very soon, by his persevering industry, his
assiduity, and the great acuteness shown in every matter entrusted
to his care and management, so conciliated the good opinion of his
master, who discovered progressively, the evident marks of superior
abilities [here, too, he indulged to an excess his insatiable thirst
for reading, that he would sit up the greater part of the night for
this purpose, to the neglect and injury of his health], that at the
termination of his engagement, his conduct was so acceptable, and
his services so manifest, and his influence, too, among the clients,
was found to be so extensive, that on his obtaining his certificate
to practise as an attorney, his principal was glad to offer him a
share in the business, and receive him as a partner; the reputation
he had already acquired became wide spread, and quickly raised the
firm in the estimation of the public, and clients flocked to it,
and all would see, if they could, and consult with Mr.

Cooper on their affairs.

Some years thus passed, when, from some cause or other, a dissolution
took place in the partnership, and when, probably from the advice
of friends stimulated by his wife's ambition (a Miss Yarrington, a
woman as I have been given to understand, of masculine mind, vast
energy, and indomitable spirit, whom her son Henry has been often
said by those who knew her, to have resembled in more than features,
for in face he resembled his mother), he was induced to enter himself
at Lincoln's Inn, which he accordingly did in the year 1782, and
is thus entered: "Charles Cooper, of the City of Norwich, eldest
son of Charles Cooper of the same place, merchant, admitted 22nd
of April, 1782."

Prior to this, a remarkable incident occurred in his life: he undertook
the conduct of a cause of great intricacy and importance for a pauper,
a labouring blacksmith. An extensive and valuable landed property,
well-known as Oby Hall, with its extensive demesnes, had been for
a long time in abeyance; the property was estimated at that period,
at not less than 30,000 pounds; on failure of male issue, the
descendants on the female side put in their claim, among whom the
blacksmith stood foremost; he came, consulted with my father on his
claim, who became after a time, convinced of the solidity of his
title; and after examining it with indefatigable assiduity, he at
length, after much entreaty, undertook to carry his cause through
every court, were it necessary, upon certain conditions; the
conditions were, that if my father succeeded in gaining the cause,
in consideration of taking upon himself all the risk, expenses, and
labour, he should enjoy the estate; whilst the claimant, having no
relations but the most distant, if any, was to receive an annuity
for life of 300 pounds.

After almost insurmountable difficulties, great expense, and consumption
of time and labour, the long anticipated time arrived when the trial was
to decide the question of such grave moment to the parties concerned:
Lord Erskine came down to Norwich specially retained for the claimant
(the origin, I believe of his after intimacy with Henry), the case
came on for trial,--was fought on both sides with all the ability
and ingenuity such a cause demanded (I forget the name of the
opposing counsel), the claimant's title was confirmed, and the
estate gained.

The claimant lived but a little more than a year or two after to
receive his annuity, to him absolute wealth; and he died, I have heard,
expressing to the last, his gratitude to (as he styled my father)
his protector.

Unfortunately, coming into the possession of the estate, my father
must turn farmer, and like him, I have before compared him to, and
I have often thought since reading the works of Cobbett, that there
was a similarity in their thoughts on many subjects; he soon began
to farm at a fearful loss (for to be a gainful farmer, so farmers
hold, or rather they did then, a man should properly be trained to
it from his youth), he was forced to trust to others to do what he
should himself have done, and being still occupied in his professional
pursuits at Norwich, his visits to the hall and the estate were but
occasional, and the eye of the master was but too often absent; his
family, however, resided there, consisting of his wife and his four
children, Charles, Henry, Harriet, and Alfred, and there his
affections were centred, so that it cannot be wondered at, that
with a divided duty, and the course pursued, ere many years, but I
am forestalling, the estate soon became involved, and eventually
he was compelled to part with it at a loss, or rather with no gain,
for at the time of its sale, which happened at a period during the
long war, land fell all of a sudden greatly in value, and the seller
was glad to experience the truth of the old saying--
"When house and land and all are spent, Then learning is most
excellent."

This sale, however, did not occur till some years after the death of his
first wife, and when he had married his second, a Miss Rose White,
my mother, and by whom he had several children, seven only living
to maturity, all of whom, I being the eldest, having survived him.

His first family, with the exception of his daughter, who died a few years
ago, having all died previous to the decease of their father. After
having pursued his studies with his accustomed assiduity, in chambers he
had taken in Stone Buildings, and eaten his terms, he was called
to the bar on the 9th of June, in the year 1788.

(For these several dates I am indebted to the kindness of Mr. Doyle, the
greatly respected steward of Lincoln's Inn.) When, having resided a few
terms in London, he hastily left the metropolis--the true and only
sphere for the full development of extensive legal knowledge and
great abilities, such as his,--to reside and practise as a provincial
barrister in his native city; where, from his previous reputation, not
only as a lawyer well versed in common law, with great knowledge in the
practical parts of it, but as a most skilful conveyancer, and great
real property lawyer, with a deep knowledge of all its intricacies and
moot points, he, at once, obtained considerable practice, and a fine
income, which, I believe, by present provincial counsel would be regarded
rather as a fiction than reality. He was, moreover, a fluent speaker,
with diction pure, and most grammatical. I ought, here, perhaps, to mention
what will seem strange to the present generation, that I have often
heard my father say, that the first book he began to study law from
was "Wood's Institutes," a book that "the Commentaries of Blackstone,"
rendering the study of the law far more intelligible and easy to
the student, has long completely superseded.

In Norwich he continued to reside up to his death, where he was ever
applied to by every attorney, without exception, far and near, if any
very difficult point of law arose; and, till within some few years
prior to his death, which happened on the 21st of July, 1836, when
age as, is usual, though it kindly spared the vigour of his intellect,
yet brought with it its physical weakness and ailments, he was
employed as leading counsel in many important causes, where legal
knowledge and acumen was required; and, in the courts, from the
high reputation he had acquired, he ever commanded the ear of the
judges, and the respect of his brethren at the bar.

He had the joy, too, to live to see his son Henry rising fast to eminence
in the same profession, though the after pang and anguish to sorrow for
his death; and he grieved for him in heart, though not his youngest, as
did Jacob at the imagined loss of his favourite, and, in my opinion,
never did he quite get over it; he not only loved, but was proud
of him.

  The latter years of him, whose life I have thus
  briefly sketched, were past at his small country residence, situated
at Lakenham, where his second wife, who survived him, my mother,
now seventy-four, still resides, a hamlet of and situate two miles
from Norwich, where he spent the chief of his time, of that he could
spare from the city where he practised, till up to the last twelve
months of his life, when in his eighty-fourth year he expired, worn
out with past exertion and years, and was, as chief Coroner and
Magistrate of the Close and its precincts, under the jurisdiction
of the Dean and Chapter, buried within the cloisters of the
cathedral.

By his family, from his sweetness of disposition, kindness of heart, and
amiability of temper, he was tenderly beloved and regretted, and
still whenever recalled to memory in the quietude of the chamber
the eye will ever be moistened by a tear, and the heart kindle at
the recollection; and by many others he was and will be yet greatly
missed; the poor and struggling literary man he would encourage not
only with praise, but with his purse, and, THAT, the poor and needy
had ever open to them, and his advice besides gratuitously, whenever
required (and this might be confirmed by hundreds still living "in
the ONCE ancient city," as a certain wise Alderman of yore styled
it), and to their affairs he would give as much attention as to the
richest client; his private memoranda alone, after death, told his
good deeds, for he strictly adhered to the beautiful doctrine laid
down by the great Teacher, "But when thou doest alms, let not thy
left hand know what thy right hand doeth,"--"_Quando ullum invenies
parem_?"

Of his first family, Charles, the eldest son, was intended for the bar,
and was entered at Lincoln's Inn, but from the natural sensitiveness
of his disposition he never kept his terms, and soon gave up all thoughts
of the profession; he lingered at home, a Westminster scholar, a man of
extensive reading, and of great intelligence [as I have been informed,
for I was much too young fully to appreciate him], till after many
years, on Henry's quitting Bermudas, he became the secretary to
Sir James Cockburn, in which employment he continued some years,
and only returned when Sir James ceased to be the governor.

He then became a kind of superior clerk in the Marine office then
held in Spring Gardens, and subsequently died at the age of about
forty-five or forty-eight of consumption, a complaint of the mother's
family. Alfred went into the army as an ensign, was at the battle of
Waterloo, was wounded there, was ordered and went subsequently to
India with his regiment, the 14th Foot, where, years after, just
as he had obtained a sick leave to return home, he was shot at
Dinapoor, whilst reposing on his sofa, thinking probably, or dreaming
of home and its affections, by a drunken Sepoy, mistaking him (in
his mad excitement) for his servant, who had just previously refused
him drink; the occurrence caused, necessarily, great excitement and
much conversation at the time, the man was caught and hanged--a
satisfaction to justice, but a wretched consolation to his family,
by whom, as the youngest, and amiable as he was gentle, he was most
fondly loved.

His father and sister, I believe, were never made acquainted with
the true cause of his death. A letter of Henry's relating, though
indistinctly, for evident reasons, to the sad occurrence, will be
placed before the reader. Harriet, as I have said, the only sister (who
married a Dr.
Leath, a physician in the army, who resides still at Bayswater) died not
very long ago, leaving no issue.

Having given a sketch, which I think and hope will have interested the
reader of him, from whom He sprung, whose life I am about to delineate.
I will now proceed to depict the life of the Son, with the simple remark
that I have undertaken a task of no slight difficulty (and much
such an one as that of the poor Jews, who, under their hard taskmasters
in Egypt, were set to make bricks without straw), with very slight
materials to describe the life of one who died when I was sixteen,
and whom I loved from his unvaried kindness to me, of the life of
one who, had he lived, would have had a far abler biographer.

Henry, in early life, took a propensity to and entered the navy,
and was a midshipman in the battle of the Nile, but soon after,
disliking the service, quitted the profession.

His education, when he returned from sea, was, through indulgence,
neglected: and he passed most of his time at Oby Hall, in Norfolk,
the then residence of his father, and distant about eight miles
from Yarmouth, in shooting, fishing, and driving a tandem-cart about the
country, built of unusual height; and an anecdote is related of him,
that, after driving it awhile, he went to Mr. Clements, the builder at
Norwich, and said, "Well, Clements, you have built a machine to surprise
all the world, and I am come to surprise you by paying you for it." And
to show his early quick perception, ready reply, wilfulness, and precocity,
I must here relate two well-attested anecdotes: the first, when
quite a child, and at his lessons in the nursery, on his mother's
running up to dispel the noise and disturbance he was making, she
exclaimed in anger, after in some measure correcting him, "Why,
sir, if you go on in this manner you'll turn the house out of the
windows," the young gentleman, looking roguishly at his mother,
responded, "How can I do that, Ma, for the house is bigger than the
windows?"

this of course dissipated all anger, and brought a smile to the mother's
face; silence, however, was restored and study resumed. The other, when
he was about eleven or twelve years of age, a poor soldier, who
had been kind to him, assisting him in his fishing, boating, &c., and
who was at that time cleaning harness for my brother in the stable, was
arrested by an escort of soldiers, who suddenly came to apprehend
and convey him, for some alleged offence, to the head quarters at
Yarmouth; without saying a word or leaving a message behind him,
young Henry started off with his friend and the soldiers, telling
the captive, "Never to care, for he would be his advocate."

He was, after some time had elapsed, missed; search was made for
him in every direction till night came on, but no traces of his
whereabouts could be discovered, and, with fearful anxiety, as I
have heard my father often say, all, at last, worn out and weary
with the fruitless search, retired to bed, but not to rest; care
brooded over their pillows and dispelled sleep.

Morning, at last, came, but with it no tidings of Henry; and, when
alarm had reached its height, in ran the servant lad, in breathless
haste, exclaiming, "Master Henry is found," and soon after he was seen,
being borne in triumph on a soldier's back, with others following, coming
up the lawn.

All were delighted to see the lost one safe, and, to delight was
added astonishment, on a soldier putting into his father's hand a
letter, which was quickly opened and read, and which came from the
commanding officer.

Such is life--viewed from different standpoints!  Ay, and correctly
estimated, too, according to these different standpoints; for the old
man saw only the sunny surrounding of the Present, while the young one
gazed into the gloomy wreck of the Future.

Being somewhat fatigued, MacRummle betook himself to a sequestered ledge
among the cliffs, and sat down under a shrub to rest.  It chanced to be
a well concealed spot.  He remained quietly there for a considerable
time, discussing with himself the relative advantages of fishing and
shooting.  It is probable that his sudden disappearance and his
prolonged absence induced the eagle to imagine that he had gone away,
for that watchful bird, after several circlings on outstretched and
apparently motionless wings, made a magnificent swoop downwards, and
again resumed its floating action in the lower strata of its atmospheric
world.  There it devoted its exclusive attention to the young man, whose
position was clearly exposed to its view.

As he sat there in gloomy thought, Barret chanced to raise his eyes, and
observed the bird high above him--far out of gunshot.

"Fortunate creature!" he said aloud; "whatever may be the troubles of
your lot, you are at least safe from exasperating _rencontres_ with your
future mother-in-law!"

We need not point out to the intelligent reader that Barret, being quite
ignorant of the eagle's domestic relations, indulged in mere assumptions
in the bitterness of his soul.

He raised his fowling-piece as he spoke, and took a long, deliberate aim
at the bird.

"Far beyond range," he said, lowering the gun again; "but even if you
were only four yards from the muzzle, I would not fire, poor bird!  Did
not Milly say you were noble, and that it would be worse than murder to
kill you?  No, you are safe from me, at all events, even if you were not
so wary as to keep yourself safe from everybody.  And yet, methinks, if
MacRummle were still up there, he would have the chance of giving you a
severe fright, though he has not the skill to bring you down."

Now it is well-known to trappers and backwoodsmen generally that the
most wary of foxes, which cannot by any means be caught by one trap, may
sometimes be circumvented by two traps.  It is the same with decoys,
whether these be placed intentionally, or place themselves accidentally.
On this occasion Barret acted the part of a decoy, all unwittingly to
that eagle or to MacRummle.

In its extreme interest in the youth's proceedings the great bird soared
straight over his head, and slowly approached the old man's position.
MacRummle was not on the alert.  He never was on the alert! but his eyes
chanced to be gazing in the right direction, and his glasses happened to
be on.  He saw it coming--something big and black!  He grasped his
repeater and knocked his glasses off.

"A raven, I think!  I'll try it.  I should like it as a trophy--a sort
of memorial of--"

Bang!

The man who was half blind, who had scarcely used gun or rifle all his
life, achieved that which dead shots and ardent sportsmen had tried in
vain for years--he shot the eagle right through the heart, and that,
too, with a single bullet!

Straight down it fell with a tremendous flutter, and disappeared over
the edge of its native cliff.

MacRummle went on his knees, and, craning his neck, replaced his
glasses; but nothing whatever could be seen, save the misty void below.
Shrinking back from the giddy position, he rose and pulled out his
watch.

"Let me see," he muttered, "it will take me a full hour to go round so
as to reach the bottom.  No; too late.  I'll go home, and send the
keeper for it in the morning.  The eagle may have picked its bones by
that time, to be sure; but after all, a raven is not much of a trophy."

While he was thus debating, a very different scene was taking place
below.

Barret had been gazing up at the eagle when the shot was fired.  He saw
the spout of smoke.  He heard the crashing shot and echoes, and beheld
the eagle descending like a thunder-bolt.  After that he saw and heard
no more, for, in reaching forward to see round a projecting rock that
interfered with his vision, his foot slipped, and he fell headlong from
the cliff.  He had not far to fall, indeed, and a whin bush broke the
force of the shock when he did strike; but he was rendered insensible,
and rolled down the remainder of the slope to the bottom.  There he lay
bruised, bleeding, and motionless on the grass, close to the road, with
his bent and broken gun beneath him, and the dead eagle not more than a
dozen yards from his side!

"It is not like Barret to be late," observed the laird that evening, as
he consulted his watch.  "He is punctuality itself, as a rule.  He must
have fallen in with some unusually interesting plants.  But we can't
wait.  Order dinner, my dear, for I'm sure that my sister must be very
hungry after her voyage."

"Indeed I am," returned the little old lady, with a peculiar smile.
"Sea-sickness is the best tonic I know of, but it is an awful medicine
to take."

"Almost as good as mountain air," remarked MacRummle, as they filed out
of the drawing-room.  "I do wish I had managed to bring that raven
home."

At first the party at dinner was as merry as usual.  The sportsmen were
graphic in recounting the various incidents of the day; Mrs Moss was
equally graphic on the horrors of the sea; MacRummle was eulogistic of
repeating rifles, and inclined to be boastful about the raven, which he
hoped to show them on the morrow, while Milly proved herself, as usual,
a beautiful and interested listener, as well as a most hearty laugher.

But as the feast went on they became less noisy.  Then a feeling of
uneasiness manifested itself, but no one ventured to suggest that
anything might have occurred to the absentee until the evening had
deepened into night.  Then the laird started up suddenly.  "Something
_must_ have happened to our friend," he exclaimed, at the same time
ringing the bell violently.  "He has never been late before, and however
far he may have gone a-field, there has been more than time for him to
return at his slowest pace.  Duncan," (as the butler entered), "turn out
all the men and boys as fast as you can.  Tell Roderick to get lanterns
ready--as many as you have.  Gentlemen, we must all go on this search
without another moment's delay!"

There is little need to say that Barret's friends and comrades were not
slow to respond to the call.  In less than a quarter of an hour they
were dispersed, searching every part of the Eagle Cliff, where he had
been last seen by Giles Jackman.

They found him at last, pale and blood-stained, making ineffectual
efforts to crawl from the spot where he had fallen, both the eagle and
the broken gun being found beside him.

"No bones broken, thank God!" said Giles, after having examined him and
bound up his wounds.  "But he is too weak to be questioned.  Now, lads,
fetch the two poles and the plaid.  I'll soon contrive a litter."

"All right, old fellow!  God bless you!" said Barret, faintly, as his
friend bent over him.

Roderick and Ivor raised him softly, and, with the eagle at his side,
bore him towards Kinlossie House.  Soon after, their heavy tramp was
heard in the hall as they carried him to his room, and laid him gently
in bed.


CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

SUSPICIONS, REVELATIONS, AND OTHER MATTERS.

With a swelled and scratched face, a discoloured eye, a damaged nose,
and a head swathed in bandages--it is no wonder that Mrs Moss failed to
recognise in John Barret the violent young man with the talent for
assaulting ladies!

She was not admitted to his room until nearly a week after the accident,
for, although he had not been seriously injured, he had received a
rather severe shock, and it was thought advisable to keep him quiet as a
matter of precaution.  When she did see him at last, lying on a sofa in
a dressing-gown, and with his head and face as we have described, his
appearance did not call to her remembrance the faintest resemblance to
the confused, wild, and altogether incomprehensible youth, who had
tumbled her over in the streets of London, and almost run her down in
the Eagle Pass.

Of course Barret feared that she would recognise him, and had been
greatly exercised as to his precise duty in the circumstances; but when
he found that she did not recognise either his face or his voice, he
felt uncertain whether it would not be, perhaps, better to say nothing
at all about the matter in the meantime.  Indeed, the grateful old lady
gave him no time to make a "clean breast of it," as he had at first
intended to do.

"Oh!  Mr Barret," she exclaimed, sitting down beside him, and laying
her hand lightly on his arm, while the laird sat down on another chair
and looked on benignly, "I cannot tell you how thankful I am that you
have not been killed, and how very grateful I am to you for all your
bravery in saving my darling Milly's life.  Now, don't say a word about
disclaiming credit, as I know you are going to do--"

"But, dear madam," interrupted the invalid, "allow me to explain.  I
cannot bear to deceive you, or to sail under false colours--"

"Sail under false colours!  Explain!" repeated Mrs Moss, quickly.
"What nonsense do you talk?  Has not my daughter explained, and _she_ is
not given to colouring things falsely."

"Excuse me, Mrs Moss," said Barret; "I did not mean that.  I only--"

"I don't care what you mean, Mr Barret," said the positive little
woman; "it's of no use your denying that you have behaved in a noble,
courageous manner, and I won't listen to anything to the contrary; so
you need not interrupt me.  Besides, I have been told not to allow you
to speak much; so, sir, if I am to remain beside you at all, I must
impose silence."

Barret sank back on his couch with a sigh, and resigned himself to his
fate.

So much for the mother.  Later in the same day the daughter sat beside
his couch.  The laird was not present on that occasion.  They were
alone.

"Milly," said the invalid, taking her small hand in his, "have you
mentioned it yet to your mother?"

"Yes, John," replied Milly, blushing in spite of--nay, rather more in
consequence of--her efforts not to do so.  "I spoke to her some days
ago.  Indeed, soon after the accident, when we were sure you were going
to get well.  And she did not disapprove."

"Ay, but have you spoken since she has seen me--since this morning?"

"Yes, John."

"And she is still of the same mind--not shocked or shaken by my
appearance?"

"She is still of the same mind," returned Milly; "and not shocked in the
least.  My darling mother is far too wise to be shocked by trifles--I--I
mean by scratches and bruises.  She judges of people by their hearts."

"I'm glad to hear that, Milly, for I have something shocking to tell her
about myself, that will surprise her, if it does nothing else."

"Indeed!" said Milly, with the slightest possible rise of her pretty
eyebrows.

"Yes.  You have heard from your mother about that young rascal who ran
into her with his bicycle in London some time ago?"

"Yes; she wrote to me about it," replied Milly, with an amused smile.
"You mean, I suppose, the reckless youth who, after running her down,
had the cowardice to run away and leave her lying flat on the pavement?
Mother has more than once written about that event with indignation, and
rightly, I think.  But how came you to know about it, John?"

"Milly," said Barret, holding her hand very tight, and speaking
solemnly, "_I am that cowardly man_!"

"Now, John, you are jesting."

"Indeed--indeed I am not."

"Do you really mean to say that it was _you_ who ran against my--Oh! you
_must_ be jesting!"

"Again I say I am _not_.  I am the man--the coward."

"Well, dear John," said Milly, flushing considerably, "I must believe
you; but the fact does not in the least reduce my affection for you,
though it will lower my belief in your prudence, unless you can
explain."

"I will explain," said Barret; and we need scarcely add that the
explanation tended rather to increase than diminish Milly's affection
for, as well as her belief in, her lover!  But when Barret went on
further to describe the meeting in the Eagle Pass, she went off into
uncontrollable laughter.

"And you are sure that mother has no idea that you are the man?" she
asked.

"Not the remotest."

"Well, now, John, you must not let her know for some time yet.  You must
gain her affections, sir, before you venture to reveal your true
character."

Of course Barret agreed to this.  He would have agreed to anything that
Milly proposed, except, perhaps, the giving up of his claim to her own
hand.  Deception, however, invariably surrounds the deceiver with more
or less of difficulty.  That same evening, while Milly was sitting alone
with her mother, the conversation took a perplexing turn.

There had been a pretty long pause, after a rather favourable commentary
on the character of Barret, when the thin little old lady had wound up
with the observation that the subject of their criticism was a
remarkably agreeable man, with a playfully humorous and a delightfully
serious turn of mind--"and _so_ modest" withal!

Apparently the last words had turned her mind into the new channel, for
she resumed--

"Talking of insolence, my dear--"

"_Were_ we talking of insolence, mother?" said Milly, with a surprised
smile.

"Well, my love, I was thinking of the opposite of modesty, which is the
same thing.  Do you know, I had a meeting on the day of my arrival here
which surprised me very much?  To say truth, I did not mention it
sooner, because I wished to give you a little surprise.  Why do you
change your seat, my love?  Did you feel a draught where you were?"

"No--no.  I--I only want to get the light a little more at my back--to
keep it off my face.  But go on, mother.  What was the surprise about?
I'm anxious to know."

If Milly did not absolutely know, she had at least a pretty good idea of
what was coming!

"Well, of course you remember about that young man--that--that
_cowardly_ young man who--"

"Who ran you down in London?  Yes, yes, _I_ know," interrupted the
daughter, endeavouring to suppress a laugh, and putting her handkerchief
suddenly to her face.  "I remember well.  The monster!  What about him?"

"You may well call him a monster!  Can you believe it?  I have met him
here--in this very island, where he must be living somewhere, of course;
and he actually ran me down again--all _but_."  She added the last two
words in order to save her veracity.

"You don't really mean it?" exclaimed Milly, giving way a little in
spite of herself.  "With a bicycle?"

It was the mother's turn to laugh now.

"No, you foolish thing; even _I_ have capacity to understand that it
would be impossible to use those hideous--frightful instruments, on the
bad hill-roads of this island.  No; but it seems to be the nature of
this dis-disagreeable--I had almost said detestable--youth, to move only
under violent impulse, for he came round a corner of the Eagle Cliff at
such a pace that, as I have said, he _all but_ ran into my arms and
knocked me down."

"Dreadful!" exclaimed Milly, turning her back still more to the light
and working mysteriously with her kerchief.

"Yes, dreadful indeed!  And when I naturally taxed him with his
cowardice and meanness, he did not seem at all penitent, but went on
like a lunatic; and although what he said was civil enough, his way of
saying it was very impolite and strange; and after we had parted, I
heard him give way to fiendish laughter.  I could not be mistaken, for
the cliffs echoed it in all directions like a hundred hyenas!"

As this savoured somewhat of a joke, Milly availed herself of it, set
free the safety-valve, and, so to speak, saved the boiler!

"Why do you laugh so much, child?" asked the old lady, when her daughter
had transgressed reasonable limits.

"Well, you know, mother, if you _will_ compare a man's laugh to a
hundred hyenas--"

"I didn't compare the man's voice," interrupted Mrs Moss; "I said that
the cliffs--"

"That's worse and worse!  Now, mother, don't get into one of your
hypercritical moods, and insist on reasons for everything; but tell me
about this wicked--this dreadful young man.  What was he like?"

"Like an ordinary sportsman, dear, with one of those hateful guns in his
hand, and a botanical box on his back.  I could not see his face very
well, for he wore one of those ugly pot-caps, with a peak before and
behind; though what the behind one is for I cannot imagine, as men have
no eyes in the back of their heads to keep the sun out of.  No doubt
some men would make us believe they have! but it was pulled down on the
bridge of his nose.  What I did see of his face seemed to be handsome
enough, and his figure was tall and well made, unquestionably, but his
behaviour--nothing can excuse that!  If he had only said he was sorry,
one might have forgiven him."

"Did he _not_ say he was sorry?" asked Milly in some surprise.

"Oh, well, I suppose he did; and begged pardon after a fashion.  But
what truth could there be in his protestations when he went away and
laughed like a hyena."

"You said a hundred hyenas, mother."

"No, Milly, I said the cliffs laughed; but don't interrupt me, you
naughty child!  Well, I was going to tell you that my heart softened a
little towards the young man, for, as you know, I am not naturally
unforgiving."

"I know it well, dear mother!"

"So, before we parted, I told him that if he had any explanations or
apologies to make, I should be glad to see him at Kinlossie House.  Then
I made up my mind to forgive him, and introduce him to you as the man
that ran me down in London!  This was the little surprise I had in store
for you, but the ungrateful creature has never come."

"No, and he never will come!" said Milly, with a hearty laugh.

"How do you know that, puss?" asked Mrs Moss, in surprise.

Fortunately the dinner-bell rang at that moment, justifying Milly in
jumping up.  Giving her mother a rather violent hug, she rushed from the
room.

"Strange girl!" muttered Mrs Moss as she turned, and occupied herself
with some mysterious--we might almost say captious--operations before
the looking-glass.  "The mountain air seems to have increased her
spirits wonderfully.  Perhaps love has something to do with it!  It may
be both!"

She was still engaged with a subtle analysis of this question--in front
of the glass, which gave her the advantage of supposing that she talked
with an opponent--when sudden and uproarious laughter was heard in the
adjoining room.  It was Barret's sitting-room, in which his friends were
wont to visit him.  She could distinguish that the laughter proceeded
from himself, Milly, and Giles Jackman, though the walls were too thick
to permit of either words or ordinary tones being heard.

"Milly," said Mrs Moss, severely, when they met a few minutes later in
the drawing-room, "what were you two and Mr Jackman laughing at so
loudly?  Surely you did not tell them what we had been speaking about?"

"Of course I did, mother.  I did not know you intended to keep the
matter secret.  And it did so tickle them!  But no one else knows it, so
I will run back to John and pledge him to secrecy.  You can caution Mr
Jackman, who will be down directly, no doubt."

As Barret had not at that time recovered sufficiently to admit of his
going downstairs, his friends were wont to spend much of their time in
the snug sitting-room which had been apportioned to him.  He usually
held his levees costumed in a huge flowered dressing-gown, belonging to
the laird, so that, although he began to look more like his former self,
as he recovered from his injuries, he was still sufficiently disguised
to prevent recognition on the part of Mrs Moss.

Nevertheless, the old lady felt strangely perplexed about him.

One day the greater part of the household was assembled in his room when
Mrs Moss remarked on this curious feeling.

"I cannot tell what it is, Mr Barret, that makes the sound of your
voice seem familiar to me," she said; "yet not exactly familiar, but a
sort of far-away echo, you know, such as one might have heard in a
dream; though, after all, I don't think I ever did hear a voice in a
dream."

Jackman and Milly glanced at each other, and the latter put the
safety-valve to her mouth while Barret replied--

"I don't know," he said, with a very grave appearance of profound
thought, "that I ever myself dreamt a voice, or, indeed, a sound of any
kind.  As to what you say about some voices appearing to be familiar,
don't you think that has something to do with classes of men?  No man, I
think, is a solitary unit in creation.  Every man is, as it were, the
type of a class to which he belongs--each member possessing more or less
the complexion, tendencies, characteristics, tones, etcetera, of his
particular class.  You are familiar, it may be, with the tones of the
class to which I belong, and hence the idea that you have heard my voice
before."

"Philosophically put, Barret," said Mabberly; "I had no idea you thought
so profoundly."

"H'm!  I'm not so sure of the profundity," said the little old lady,
pursing her lips; "no doubt you may be right as regards class; but then,
young man, I have been familiar with all classes of men, and therefore,
according to your principle, I should have some strange memories
connected with Mr Jackman's voice, and Mr Mabberly's, and the laird's,
and everybody's."

"Well said, sister; you have him there!" cried the laird with a guffaw;
"but don't lug me into your classes, for I claim to be an exception to
all mankind, inasmuch as I have a sister who belongs to no class, and is
ready to tackle any man on any subject whatever, between metaphysics and
baby linen.  Come now, Barret, do you think yourself strong enough to go
out with us in the boat to-morrow?"

"Quite.  Indeed, I would have begged leave to go out some days ago, but
Doctor Jackman there, who is a very stern practitioner, forbids me.
However, I have my revenge, for I compel him to sit with me a great
deal, and entertain me with Indian stories."

"Oh!" exclaimed Junkie, who happened to be in the room, "he hasn't told
you yet about the elephant hunt, has he?"

"No, not yet, Junkie," returned Barret; "he has been faithful to his
promise not to go on with that story till you and your brothers are
present."

"Well, but tell it now, Mr Jackman, and I'll go an call Eddie and
Archie," pleaded the boy.

"You will call in vain, then," said his father, "for they have both gone
up the burn, one to photograph and the other to paint.  I never saw such
a boy as Archie is to photograph.  I believe he has got every scene in
the island worth having on his plates now, and he has taken to the
cattle of late--What think ye was the last thing he tried?  I found him
in the yard yesterday trying to photograph himself!"

"That must indeed have puzzled him; how did he manage?" asked MacRummle.

"Well, it was ingenious.  He tried to get Pat Quin to manipulate the
instrument while he sat; but Quin is clumsy with his fingers, at least
for such delicate work, and, the last time, he became nervous in his
anxiety to do the thing rightly; so, when Archie cried `Now,' for him to
cover the glass with its little cap, he put it on with a bang that
knocked over and nearly smashed the whole concern.  So what does the boy
do but sets up a chair in the right focus and arranges the instrument
with a string tied to the little cap.  Then he sits down on the chair,
puts on a heavenly smile, and pulls the string.  Off comes the cap!  He
counts one, two--I don't know how many--and then makes a sudden dash at
the camera an' shuts it up!  What the result may be remains to be seen."

"Oh, it'll be the same as usual," remarked Junkie in a tone of contempt.
"There's always something goes wrong in the middle of it.  He tried to
take Boxer the other day, and _he_ wagged his tail in the middle of it.
Then he tried the cat, and she yawned in the middle.  Then Flo, and she
laughed in the middle.  Then me, an' I forgot, and made a face at Flo in
the middle.  It's a pity it has got a middle at all; two ends would be
better, I think.  But won't you tell about the elephants to _us_, Mr
Jackman?  There's plenty of us here--please!"

"Nay, Junkie; you would not have me break my word, surely.  When we are
all assembled together you shall have it--some wet day, perhaps."

"Then there'll be no more wet days _this_ year, if I've to wait for
that," returned the urchin half sulkily.

That same day, Milly, Barret, and Jackman arranged that the mystery of
the cowardly young man must be cleared up.

"Perhaps it would be best for Miss Moss to explain to her mother," said
Giles.

"That will not I," said Milly with a laugh.

"I have decided what to do," said Barret.  "I was invited by her to call
and explain anything I had to say, and apologise.  By looks, if not by
words, I accepted that invitation, and I shall keep it.  If you could
only manage somehow, Milly, to get everybody out of the way, so that I
might find your mother alone in--"

"She's alone _now_," said Milly.  "I left her just a minute ago, and she
is not likely to be interrupted, I know."

"Stay, then; I will return in a few minutes."

Barret retired to his room, whence he quickly returned with shooting
coat, knickerbockers, pot-cap and boots, all complete.

"`Richard's himself again!'  Allow me to congratulate you," cried
Jackman, shaking his friend by the hand.  "But, I say, don't you think
it may give the old lady rather a shock as well as a surprise?"

Barret looked at Milly.

"I think not," said Milly.  "As uncle often says of dear mother, `she is
tough.'"

For months vainly did she furnish proofs of her sincerity of heart,
the Cardinal reporting them in due season to the Marquis, who
persisted in discrediting them, and each fresh good deed of his
enemy augmented his hatred by aggravating the uneasiness which was
caused him, notwithstanding all, by a vague sense of his iniquity.

But Dorsenne no sooner turned toward the direction of the Palais Castagna
than he quickly forgot both Mademoiselle Hafner's and Montfanon's
prejudices, in thinking only of one sentence uttered by the latter
that which related to the return of Boleslas Gorka.

The news was unexpected, and it awakened in the writer such grave
fears that he did not even glance at the shop-window of the French
bookseller at the corner of the Corso to see if the label of the
"Fortieth thousand" flamed upon the yellow cover of his last book,
the Eclogue Mondaine, brought out in the autumn, with a success
which his absence of six months from Paris, had, however, detracted
from.

He did not even think of ascertaining if the regimen he practised, in
imitation of Lord Byron, against embonpoint, would preserve his
elegant form, of which he was so proud, and yet mirrors were numerous
on the way from the Place d'Espagne to the Palais Castagna, which
rears its sombre mass on the margin of the Tiber, at the extremity
of the Via Giulia, like a pendant of the Palais Sacchetti, the
masterwork of Sangallo.

Dorsenne did not indulge in his usual pastime of examining the souvenirs
along the streets which met his eye, and yet he passed in the
twenty minutes which it took him to reach his rendezvous a number
of buildings teeming with centuries of historical reminiscences.

There was first of all the vast Palais Borghese--the piano of the
Borghese, as it has been called, from the form of a clavecin adopted by
the architect--a monument of splendor, which was, less than two
years later, to serve as the scene of a situation more melancholy
than that of the Palais Castagna.

Dorsenne had not an absent glance for the sumptuous building--he passed
unheeding the facade of St.-Louis, the object of Montfanon's
admiration.

If the writer did not profess for that relic of ancient France the piety
of the Marquis, he never failed to enter there to pay his literary
respects to the tomb of Madame de Beaumont, to that 'quia non sunt'
of an epitaph which Chateaubriand inscribed upon her tombstone,
with more vanity, alas, than tenderness.

For the first time Dorsenne forgot it; he forgot also to gaze with
delight upon the rococo fountain on the Place Navonne, that square
upon which Domitian had his circus, and which recalls the cruel
pageantries of imperial Rome.

He forgot, too, the mutilated statue which forms the angle of the
Palais Braschi, two paces farther--two paces still farther, the grand
artery of the Corso Victor-Emmanuel demonstrated the effort at
regeneration of present Rome; two paces farther yet, the Palais
Farnese recalls the grandeur of modern art, and the tragedy of
contemporary monarchies.

Does not the thought of Michelangelo seem to be still imprinted on the
sombre cross-beam of that immense sarcophagus, which was the refuge of
the last King of Naples?

But it requires a mind entirely free to give one's self up to the charm
of historical dilettanteism which cities built upon the past conjure
up, and although Julien prided himself, not without reason, on being
above emotion, he was not possessed of his usual independence of
mind during the walk which took him to his "human mosaic," as he
picturesquely expressed it, and he pondered and repondered the
following questions:

"Boleslas Gorka returned?

And two days ago I saw his wife, who did not expect him until next
month. Montfanon is not, however, imaginative.
Boleslas Gorka returned?

At the moment when Madame Steno is mad over Maitland--for she is mad!

The night before last, at her house at dinner, she looked at him--it was
scandalous. Gorka had a presentiment of it this winter. When the American
attempted to take Alba's portrait the first time, the Pole put a
stop to it.

It was fine for Montfanon to talk of division between these two men.

When Boleslas left here, Maitland and the Countess were barely
acquainted and now----If he has returned it is because he has
discovered that he has a rival.

Some one has warned him--an enemy of the Countess, a confrere of Maitland.
Such pieces of infamy occur among good friends.

If Gorka, who is a shot like Casal, kills Maitland in a duel, it
will make one deceiver less.

If he avenges himself upon his mistress for that treason, it would be a
matter of indifference to me, for Catherine Steno is a great rogue....
But my little friend, my poor, charming Alba, what would become
of her if there should be a scandal, bloodshed, perhaps, on account
of her mother's folly?

Gorka returned? And he did not write it to me, to me who have
received several letters from him since he went away; to me, whom he
selected last autumn as the confidant of his jealousies, under the pretext
that I knew women, and, with the vain hope of inspiring me....

His silence and return no longer seem like a romance; they savor rather
of a drama, and with a Slav, as much a Slav as he is, one may
expect anything.

I know not what to think of it, for he will be at the Palais Castagna.
Poor, charming Alba!"

The monologue did not differ much from a monologue uttered under similar
circumstances by any young man interested in a young girl whose
mother does not conduct herself becomingly.

It was a touching situation, but a very common one, and there was no
necessity for the author to come to Rome to study it, one entire
winter and spring. If that interest went beyond a study, Dorsenne
possessed a very simple means of preventing his little friend, as
he said, from being rendered unhappy by the conduct of that mother
whom age did not conquer.

Why not propose for her hand? He had inherited a fortune, and his
success as an author had augmented it.
For, since the first book which had established his reputation, the 'Etudes
de Femmes,' published in 1879, not a single one of the fifteen novels
or selections from novels had remained unnoticed. His personal celebrity
could, strictly speaking, combine with it family celebrity, for he
boasted that his grandfather was a cousin of that brave General Dorsenne
whom Napoleon could only replace at the head of his guard by Friant.
All can be told in a word. Although the heirs of the hero of the
Empire had never recognized the relationship, Julien believed in
it, and when he said, in reply to compliments on his books, "At my
age my grand-uncle, the Colonel of the Guard, did greater things,"
he was sincere in his belief.

But it was unnecessary to mention it, for, situated as he was, Countess
Steno would gladly have accepted him as a son-in-law.

As for gaining the love of the young girl, with his handsome face,
intelligent and refined, and his elegant form, which he had retained
intact in spite of his thirty-seven years, he might have done so. Nothing,
however, was farther from his thoughts than such a project, for, as he
ascended the steps of the staircase of the palace formerly occupied
by Urban VII, he continued, in very different terms, his monologue,
a species of involuntary "copy" which is written instinctively in the
brain of the man of letters when he is particularly fond of
literature.

At times it assumes a written form, and it is the most marked of
professional distortions, the most unintelligible to the illiterate, who
think waveringly and who do not, happily for them, suffer the continual
servitude to precision of word and to too conscientious thought.

"Yes; poor, charming Alba!" he repeated to himself. "How unfortunate
that the marriage with Countess Gorka's brother could not have
been arranged four months ago.

Connection with the family of her mother's lover would be tolerably
immoral!

But she would at least have had less chance of ever knowing it; and
the convenient combination by which the mother has caused her to
form a friendship with that wife in order the better to blind the
two, would have bordered a little more on propriety.

To-day Alba would be Lady Ardrahan, leading a prosaic English life,
instead of being united to some imbecile whom they will find for
her here or elsewhere.

She will then deceive him as her mother deceived the late Steno--with
me, perhaps, in remembrance of our pure intimacy of to-day.

That would be too sad! Do not let us think of it! It is the future, of
the existence of which we are ignorant, while we do know that the present
exists and that it has all rights.

I owe to the Contessina my best impressions of Rome, to the vision of her
loveliness in this scene of so grand a past. And this is a sensation
which is enjoyable; to visit the Palais Castagna with the adorable
creature upon whom rests the menace of a drama.

To enjoy the Countess Steno's kindness, otherwise the house would not
have that tone and I would never have obtained the little one's
friendship.

To rejoice that Ardea is a fool, that he has lost his fortune on the
Bourse, and that the syndicate of his creditors, presided over by
Monsieur Ancona, has laid hands upon his palace.

For, otherwise, I should not have ascended the steps of this papal
staircase, nor have seen this debris of Grecian sarcophagi fitted
into the walls, and this garden of so intense a green.

As for Gorka, he may have returned for thirty-six other reasons than
jealousy, and Montfanon is right: Caterina is cunning enough to inveigle
both the painter and him.

She will make Maitland believe that she received Gorka for the sake of
Madame Gorka, and to prevent him from ruining that excellent woman at
gaming.

She will tell Boleslas that there was nothing more between her and
Maitland than Platonic discussions on the merits of Raphael and
Perugino.... And I should be more of a dupe than the other two for missing
the visit. It is not every day that one has a chance to see
auctioned, like a simple Bohemian, the grand-nephew of a pope."

The second suite of reflections resembled more than the first the real
Dorsenne, who was often incomprehensible even to his best friends.

The young man with the large, black eyes, the face with delicate features,
the olive complexion of a Spanish monk, had never had but one passion,
too exceptional not to baffle the ordinary observer, and developed
in a sense so singular that to the most charitable it assumed either an
attitude almost outrageous or else that of an abominable egotism
and profound corruption.

Dorsenne had spoken truly, he loved to comprehend--to comprehend
as the gamester loves to game, the miser to accumulate money, the
ambitious to obtain position--there was within him that appetite,
that taste, that mania for ideas which makes the scholar and the
philosopher.

But a philosopher united by a caprice of nature to an artist, and by that
of fortune and of education to a worldly man and a traveller. The
abstract speculations of the metaphysician would not have
sufficed for him, nor would the continuous and simple creation of
the narrator who narrates to amuse himself, nor would the ardor of
the semi-animal of the man-of-pleasure who abandons himself to the
frenzy of vice.

He invented for himself, partly from instinct, partly from method,
a compromise between his contradictory tendencies, which he formulated
in a fashion slightly pedantic, when he said that his sole aim was
to "intellectualize the forcible sensations;" in clearer terms, he
dreamed of meeting with, in human life, the greatest number of
impressions it could give and to think of them after having met
them.

He thought, with or without reason, to discover in his two favorite
writers, Goethe and Stendhal, a constant application of a similar
principle.

His studies had, for the past fourteen years when he had begun to live
and to write, passed through the most varied spheres possible to
him.

But he had passed through them, lending his presence without giving himself
to them, with this idea always present in his mind: that he existed
to become familiar with other customs, to watch other characters,
to clothe other personages and the sensations which vibrated within
them.

The period of his revival was marked by the achievement of each one
of his books which he composed then, persuaded that, once written
and construed, a sentimental or social experience was not worth the
trouble of being dwelt upon.

Thus is explained the incoherence of custom and the atmospheric
contact, if one may so express it, which are the characteristics of
his work.

Take, for example, his first collection of novels, the 'Etudes de Femmes,'
which made him famous. They are about a sentimental woman who loved
unwisely, and who spent hours from excess of the romantic studying the
avowed or disguised demi-monde. By the side of that, 'Sans Dieu,' the
story of a drama of scientific consciousness, attests a continuous
frequenting of the Museum, the Sorbonne and the College of France, while
'Monsieur de Premier' presents one of the most striking pictures
of the contemporary political world, which could only have been
traced by a familiar of the Palais Bourbon.

On the other hand, the three books of travel pretentiously named
'Tourisime,' 'Les Profils d'Etrangeres' and the 'Eclogue Mondaine,'
which fluctuated between Florence and London, St.-Moritz and Bayreuth,
revealed long sojourns out of France; a clever analysis of the Italian,
English, and German worlds; a superficial but true knowledge of the
languages, the history and literature, which in no way accords with
'l'odor di femina', exhale from every page. These contrasts are
brought out by a mind endowed with strangely complex qualities,
dominated by a firm will and, it must be said, a very mediocre
sensibility.

The last point will appear irreconcilable with the extreme and almost
morbid delicacy of certain of Dorsenne's works. It is thus however.
He had very little heart. But, on the other hand, he had an
abundance of nerves and nerves, and their irritability suffice for him
who desires to paint human passions, above all, love, with its joys
and its sorrows, of which one does not speak to a certain extent when one
experiences them.

Success had come to Julien too early not to have afforded him occasion for
several adventures. In each of the centres traversed in the course of
his sentimental vagabondage he tried to find a woman in whom was
embodied all the scattered charms of the district. He had formed
innumerable intimacies.
Some had been frankly affectionate. The majority were Platonic. Others had
consisted of the simple coquetry of friendship, as was the case
with Mademoiselle Steno.

The young man had never employed more vanity than enthusiasm. Every woman,
mistress or friend, had been to him, nine times out of ten, a curiosity,
then a model. But, as he held that the model could not be recognized
by any exterior sign, he did not think that he was wrong in making use
of his prestige as a writer, for what he called his "culture." He was
capable of justice, the defense which he made of Fanny Hafner to
Montfanon proved it; of admiration, his respect for the noble qualities
of that same Montfanon testify to it; of compassion, for without
it he would not have apprehended at once with so much sympathy the
result which the return of Count Gorka would have on the destiny
of innocent Alba Steno.

On reaching the staircase of the Palais Castagna, instead of hastening,
as was natural, to find out at least what meant the return to Rome of
the lover whom Madame Steno deceived, he collected his startled
sensibilities before meeting Alba, and, pausing, he scribbled in a
note-book which he drew from his pocket, with a pencil always within
reach of his fingers, in a firm hand, precise and clear, this note
savoring somewhat of sentimentalism:

"25 April, '90.

Palais Castagna.--Marvellous staircase constructed by Balthazar Peruzzi;
so broad and long, with double rows of stairs, like those of Santa
Colomba, near Siena.

Enjoyed above all the sight of an interior garden so arranged, so designed
that the red flowers, the regularity of the green shrubs, the
neat lines of the graveled walks resemble the features of a face. The
idea of the Latin garden, opposed to the Germanic or Anglo-Saxon, the
latter respecting the irregularity of nature, the other all in order,
humanizing and administering even to the flower-garden."
"Subject the complexity of life to a thought harmonious and clear, a
constant mark of the Latin genus, for a group of trees as well as an
entire nation, an entire religion--Catholicism. It is the contrary
in the races of the North. Significance of the word: the forests have
taught man liberty."
He had hardly finished writing that oddly interpreted memorandum, and was
closing his note-book, when the sound of a familiar voice caused him
to turn suddenly. He had not heard ascend the stairs a personage who
waited until he finished writing, and who was no other than one of the
actors in his "troupe" to use his expression, one of the persons of the
party of that morning organized the day before at Madame Steno's, and
just the one whom the intolerable marquis had defamed with so much ardor,
the father of beautiful Fanny Hafner, Baron Justus himself.

The renowned founder of the 'Credit Austro-Dalmate' was a small, thin
man, with blue eyes of an acuteness almost insupportable, in a
face of neutral color. His ever-courteous manner, his attire, simple and
neat, his speech serious and discreet, gave to him that species of
distinction so common to old diplomatists. But the dangerous adventurer
was betrayed by the glance which Hafner could not succeed in
veiling with indifferent amiability.
This was easy
with the smaller females and young ones, but it was a very different
matter with big males, especially with rogues, as we found out before
the close of that day.

"We were getting pretty well used up towards the afternoon, and had sent
ten full-grown elephants and three calves into camp, when we received
news that the rogue, which had been so long a terror to the district,
was in the neighbouring valley.  So we resolved to go for him.  Of
course there was no possibility of noosing such a monster.  The ordinary
elephants could never have been brought to face him.  Our only hope
therefore lay in our gladiators; and our plan was to make them knock him
down repeatedly, until, at length, he should be tired out.

"I need not waste time with details.  It is sufficient to say that,
after about an hour's search, we came upon the rogue in a dense part of
the jungle.  He was, as I have said, unusually big, as well as fierce.
But our hero, Chand Moorut, had never yet met his match, so we resolved
to risk an encounter.  There was the dry bed of a river, which the rogue
would have to cross when driven down the valley by the gun-men.  Here
our gladiator was placed, partially concealed and ready to meet the
rogue when he should appear.  Fifty yards back the other fighting
elephants were placed in support, and behind these were drawn up the
rest of the khedda in three lines.  Then the spectators, many of whom
were ladies, were placed on a ledge of rock about forty feet above the
river-bed, which commanded a good view of the proposed field of battle.

"Up to this time perfect silence had been maintained in our ranks.  My
elephant was stationed near the centre of the line, from which point I
could see Chand Moorut standing calmly near the river-bed, with what I
could almost fancy was a twinkle in his eye, as though he suspected what
was coming.

"Suddenly a single shot was heard from up the valley.  As it came
echoing towards us, it was mingled with the spattering fire, shouting
and yelling of the beaters, who began to advance.  Chand Moorut became
rigid and motionless, like a statue.  He was evidently thinking!
Another instant, and the rogue's shrill trumpet-note of defiance rang
high above the din.  Trembling and restive the ordinary khedda elephants
showed every symptom of alarm; but the fighters stood still, with the
exception of Chand, who, becoming inflated with the spirit of war, made
a sudden dash up the valley, intent on accepting the challenge!  Fifty
yards were passed before his mahowt, with voice, limb, and prod managed
to reduce the well-trained warrior to obedience.  Solemnly, and with
stately gait, he returned to his position, his great heart swelling, no
doubt, with anticipation.

"Scarcely had he taken up his position when the bushes higher up were
seen to move, and the huge black form of the rogue appeared upon the
scene.  Unlike the lively young elephant that had escaped us in the
morning, this old rogue marched sedately and leisurely down the
hill-side, apparently as much unconcerned about the uproar of shooting
and shouting in his rear as if it had been but the buzzing of a few
mosquitoes.  I confess that doubts as to the issue of the combat arose
in my mind when I first saw him, for he appeared to be nearly, if not
quite, as big as Chand Moorut himself, and of course I knew that the
hard and well-trained muscles of a wild elephant were sure to be more
powerful than those of a tame one.  I stupidly forgot, at the moment,
that indomitable pluck counts for much in a trial of mere brute force.

"Ignorant of what was in store for him, with head erect, and an air of
quiet contempt for all animate creation, the rogue walked into the dry
bed of the river, and began to descend.  Expectation was now on tiptoe,
when to our disgust he turned sharp to the right, and all but walked in
amongst the spectators on the ledge above, some of whom received him
with a volley of rifle balls.  As none of these touched a vital spot,
they might as well have been rhubarb pills!  They turned him aside,
however, and, breaking through the left flank of the khedda, he took
refuge in the thickest jungle he could find.  The whole khedda followed
in hot pursuit, crashing through overgrowth of canes, creepers, and
trees, in the midst of confusion and rumpus utterly inconceivable,
therefore beyond my powers of description!  We had to look out sharply
in this chase, for we were passing under branches at times.  One of
these caught my man Quin, and swept him clean off his pad.  But he fell
on his feet, unhurt, and was quickly picked up and re-seated.

"In a short time we came in sight of the rogue, who suddenly turned at
bay and confronted us.  The entire khedda came to a most inglorious
halt, for our heavy fighters had been left behind in the race, and the
others dared not face the foe.  Seeing this, he suddenly dashed into the
midst of us, and went straight for the elephant on which our director
and his wife were seated!  Fortunately, a big tree, chancing to come in
the rogue's way, interfered with his progress.  He devoted his energies
to it for a few moments.  Then he took to charging furiously at
everything that came in his way, and was enjoying himself with this
little game when Chand Moorut once more appeared on the scene!  The
rogue stopped short instantly.  It was evident that he recognised a
foeman, worthy of his steel, approaching.  Chand Moorut advanced with
alacrity.  The rogue eyed him with a sinister expression.  There was no
hesitation on either side.  Both warriors were self-confident;
nevertheless, they did not rush to the battle.  Like equally-matched
veterans they advanced with grim purpose and wary deliberation.  With
heads erect, and curled trunks, they met, more like wrestlers than
swordsmen, each seeming to watch for a deadly grip.  Suddenly they
locked their trunks together, and began to sway to and fro with awful
evidence of power, each straining his huge muscles to the uttermost--the
conflict of Leviathan and Behemoth!

"For only a few minutes did the result seem doubtful to the hundreds of
spectators, who, on elephant-back or hill-side, gazed with glaring eyes
and bated breath, and in profound silence.  The slightly superior bulk
and weight of our gladiator soon began to tell.  The rogue gave way,
slightly.  Chand Moorut, with the skill of the trained warrior or the
practised pugilist, took instant advantage of the move.  With the rush
of a thunder-bolt he struck the rogue with his head on the shoulder.
The effect was terrific.  It caused him to turn a complete somersault
into the jungle, where he fell with a thud and a crash that could be
heard far and near, and there he lay sprawling for a few moments,
nothing but struggling legs, trunk, and tail being visible above the
long grass!"

"Hooray!" shouted Junkie, unable to restrain himself.

"Just what my man Quin said," continued Jackman.  "Only he added,
`Musha!'  He that can reconcile blows and reverence may, for aught I
know, deserve for his pains, a civil respectful cudgeling whenever he
can meet with it."
So much, gentlemen, for the doctrine of non-resistance. Therefore the
author of this paper in stating that there may be times when insurrection
may be called for, has done no more than a hundred other writers, and
among them Locke, have done before him.

Locke proceeding still with the discussion of the question, whether
oppressive governments may be opposed by the people, and, having
concluded in the affirmative, says, "But here the question may be made,
who shall be judge whether the prince or legislature act contrary to
their trust. This, perhaps, ill affected and factious men may spread
among the people, when the prince only makes use of his just
prerogative.
To this, I reply, the people shall be judge; for who shall be judge
whether the trustee or deputy acts with and according to the trust that
is reposed in him, but he who deputes him, and must, by having deputed
him, have still a power to discard him when he fails in his trust. If
this be reasonable in particular cases of private men, why should it be
otherwise in that of the greatest moment when the welfare of millions
is concerned, and also when the evil if not prevented is greater,
and the redress very dear, difficult, and dangerous."

Locke, therefore, most unambiguously concludes that insurrection
may be justified and necessary. A greater and more important truth does
not exist, and we owe its promulgation with such freedom and boldness
to that most extraordinary and felicitous conjuncture at the revolution
which called upon us to support a king against a king, and obliged us
to explode (as has been done most completely) the divine right and
passive obedience under which one king claimed, to maintain the legal
title of the other.

Locke goes on further to say--
"This question, who shall be supreme judge? cannot mean that there is
no judge at all. For where there is no judicature on earth to decide
controversies among men, God in heaven is judge. But every man
is to judge for himself, as in all other cases, so in this, whether
another hath put himself in a state of war with him, and whether,
as Jeptha did, he should appeal to the Supreme Judge."

I beg that I may not be misinterpreted, I hope it will not be said I
mean to insinuate that any circumstances at present exist to justify
insurrection. I protest against any such inference. Nothing can be
further from my thoughts, and I regret that such an extravagant mode
of construing men's words should be in fashion, as to render such a
caution on my part needful. All I say is, that the writer of this paper
spoke of insurrection conditionally, and prospectively only, and, in
doing so, has done no more than Locke, in other terms had done before
him.

Gentlemen, I have but a very few more arguments to address to you, and I
am glad of it, for I assure you, you cannot be more exhausted in
patience than I am in strength.

I now, gentlemen, ask you even admitting that the _style_ and manner, in
which the opinions of the writer of this address are expressed,
should verge upon intemperance and impropriety, would you venture,
merely upon the ground of such a defect in style, to say the defendant
is guilty; when the very same opinions in substance, expressed in
a different style, would be innocent and legal, and unquestionable?We were anxious to take him
to camp, and we managed it at last, though the difficulty was almost
superhuman, and may to some extent be conceived when I tell you that,
although we spent the whole of that day, from dawn to sunset, struggling
with our obstinate captive, and with the entire force of the khedda, we
only advanced to the extent of four or five hundred yards!"

Now, while this amazing story was being told by Giles Jackman to his
friends in Barret's room, a very different story was being told in the
room above them.  That room was the nursery, and its only occupants were
little Flo and her black doll.  The rain had cleared off towards the
afternoon, and a gleam of sunshine entering the nursery windows, had
formed a spot of intense light on the nursery floor.  This seemed to
have suggested something of great interest to Flo, for, after gazing at
it with bright eyes for some time, she suddenly held the doll before her
and said--

"Blackie, I'm goin' to tell you a stowy--a bustingly intewestin' stowy."

We must remind the reader here that Flo was naturally simple and sweet,
and that as Junkie was her chief playmate, she was scarcely responsible
for her language.

"The stowy," continued Flo, "is all 'bout Doan of Ak, who was bu'nt by
some naughty men, long, long ago!  D'you hear, Blackie?  It would make
your hair stand on end--if you had any!"

Thereupon the little one set Blackie on a stool, propped her against the
wall, and gave her a fairly correct account of the death of the
unfortunate Joan of Arc, as related by Mrs Gordon that morning.  She
wound up with the question,--"Now, what you think of _zat_, Blackie?"

As Blackie would not answer, Flo had to draw on her own bank of
imagination for further supplies of thought.

"Come," she cried, suddenly, with the eagerness of one whose cheque has
just been honoured; "let's play at Doan of Ak!  You will be Doan, and I
will be the naughty men.  I'll bu'n you!  You mustn't squeal, or kick up
a wumpus, you know, but be dood."

Having made this stipulation, our little heroine placed the black martyr
on an old-fashioned straw-bottomed chair near the window, and getting
hold of a quantity of paper and some old cotton dresses, she piled the
whole round Blackie to represent faggots.  This done, she stepped back
and surveyed her work as an artist might study a picture.

"You've dot your best muslin fock on, da'ling, an it'll be spoiled; but
I don't care for zat.  Now, say your pays, Doan."

With this admonitory remark, Flo screwed up a piece of paper, went to
the fireplace, made a very long arm through the fender, and lighted it.
Next moment she applied the flame to the faggots, which blazed up with
surprising rapidity.

Stepping quickly back, the dear little child gazed at her work with
intense delight beaming from every feature.

"Now be dood, Blackie.  Don't make a wumpus!" she said; and as she said
it, the flames caught the window curtains and went up with a flare that
caused Flo to shout with mingled delight and alarm.

"I wonder," remarked Mrs Gordon, who chanced to be in the drawing-room
on the windward side of the nursery, "what amuses Flo so much!"

She arose and went, leisurely, to see.

Roderick, the groom, being in the harness-room on the lee side of the
nursery at the time, made a remark with the same opening words.

Wherefore is this?"
"Because," replied the teacher, "the highway robber treats the
servant as the master.

He takes away violently in the presence of the servant, the despoiled
man, and the master--God.

But the sneak thief imagines that God's eye is not upon him. He acts
secretly, thinking, as the Psalmist says, 'The Lord doth not see,
neither will the God of Jacob regard it.'

Listen to a parable. Two men made a feast. One invited all the inhabitants
of the city, and omitted inviting the king. The other invited neither
the king nor his subjects.

Which one deserves condemnation? Certainly the one who invited the subjects
and not the king. The people of the earth are God's subjects.

The sneak thief fears their eyes, yet he does not honor the eye of the
king, the eye of God, which watches all his actions."
Rabbi Meir says, "This law teaches us how God regards industry. If a
person steals an ox he must return five in its place, because while
the animal was in his unlawful possession it could not work for its
rightful owner.

A lamb, however, does no labor, and is not profitable that way;
therefore he is only obliged to replace it fourfold."

Rabbi Nachman dined with his teacher, Rabbi Yitzchak, and upon departing
after the meal, he said, "Teacher, bless me!"
"Listen," replied Rabbi Yitzchak. "A traveler was once journeying through
the desert, and when weary, hungry, and thirsty, he happened upon
an oasis, where grew a fruitful tree, wide-branched, and at the foot
of which there gushed a spring of clear, cool water.

"The stranger ate of the luscious fruit, enjoying and resting in the
grateful shade, and quenching his thirst in the sparkling water which
bubbled merrily at his feet.

"When about to resume his journey, he addressed the tree and spoke
as follows:--
"'Oh, gracious tree, with what words can I bless thee, and what
good can I wish thee?

I cannot wish thee good fruit, for it is already thine; the blessing of
water is also thine; and the gracious shade thrown by thy beauteous
branches the Eternal has already granted thee, for my good and the
good of those who travel by this way.

Let me pray to God, then, that all thy offspring may be goodly as thyself.'

"So it is with thee, my pupil. How shall I bless thee?

Thou art perfect in the law, eminent in the land, respected, and blessed
with means.

May God grant that all thy offspring may prove goodly as thyself."
A wise man, say the Rabbis, was Gebiah ben Pesisah. When the children
of Canaan accused the Israelites of stealing their land, saying,
"The land of Canaan is ours, as it is written, 'The land of Canaan
and its boundaries belong to the Canaanites,'" and demanded
restitution, Gebiah offered to argue the case before the ruler.

Said Gebiah to the Africans, "Ye bring your proof from the Pentateuch,
and by the Pentateuch will I refute it.

'Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.'
To whom does the property of a slave belong?

To his master. Even though the land belonged to ye, through your servitude
it became Israel's."
"Answer him," said the ruler.

The accusers asked for three days' time to prepare their reply, but at the
end of the three days they had vanished.

Then came the Egyptians, saying, "'God gave the Israelites favor in
the eyes of the Egyptians, and they lent them gold and silver.' Now
return us the gold and silver which our ancestors lent ye."
Again Gebiah appeared for the sages of Israel.

"Four hundred and thirty years," said he, "did the children of Israel
dwell in Egypt.

Come, now, pay us the wages of six hundred thousand men who
worked for ye for naught, and we will return the gold and silver."

Then came the children of Ishmael and Ketura, before Alexander of Mukdon,
saying, "The land of Canaan is ours, as it is written, 'These are
the generations of Ishmael, the son of Abraham;' even as it is
written, 'These are the generations of Isaac, the son of Abraham.'

One son is equal to the other; come, give us our share."
Again Gebiah appeared as counsel for the sages.

"From the Pentateuch, which is your proof, will I confound ye" said
he.

"Is it not written 'Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac, but unto the
sons of the concubines that Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts?'
cried several of the party, as they pointed
towards the avenue leading to the house.

All eyes were eagerly turned in that direction, and a general
exclamation of thankfulness escaped, as Milly was seen running towards
the scene of action.  She had been down seeing old Mrs Donaldson, and
knew nothing of what had occurred, till she came in sight of the
conflagration.


CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

TWO FIRES SUBDUED.

Barret, half ashamed of the wild anxiety he displayed, turned at once,
sprang back into the burning house, and began to expend his energies in
helping his companions and the men of the establishment to save as much
as possible of the laird's property.

While this was being done and the attention of every one was directed
exclusively to the work of salvage--in which work Pat Quin shone
conspicuous for daring as well as for all but miraculous power to endure
heat and swallow smoke, Roderick, the groom, retired to the lawn for a
few moments' respite.  He was accompanied by Donald, his faithful
assistant, who was almost exhausted by his labours.

"Tonal', poy, what iss it that Muster Archie wull pe doin'?"

"I think he wull pe takin' the hoose!"

They had not time to make further inquiry, for just then the wind
changed and blew the flames towards the part of the mansion that had
been already burned, giving some hope that the other parts might yet be
saved, and calling for the redoubled efforts of all hands.

Donald was right in his conjecture.  Archie was indeed "takin'" the
house!  He and Eddie--having succeeded in rescuing the photographic
apparatus, and, finding that no lives were in danger, and that enough
people were already endeavouring to save the property--had calmly
devoted themselves to taking photographs of the blazing scene from
several points of view--a feat that was still possible, as daylight had
not yet been diminished in power.

The change of wind, however, brought their operations to an abrupt
close, for no idlers were tolerated.  Even the women were summoned to
stand in a row, and pass buckets from a neighbouring pond to the burning
house.

The proceedings now had been reduced to some degree of order by Giles
Jackman, whose experience abroad had tended to develop his powers of
organisation.

The buckets were passed in uninterrupted succession from the pond to the
house, where Mabberly received them at the front door, that being deemed
the point where danger and the need for unusual energy began.  He passed
them in through the smoke of the hall to MacRummle, who handed them to
Roderick and the butler.  These last stood in the dense smoke of the
staircase, at the head of which the tall gamekeeper, Jackman and Barret,
were engaged in close and deadly conflict with the flames, intense heat,
falling _debris_, and partial suffocation.  The rest of the people,
headed by the laird, who seemed to have renewed his youth and become
ubiquitous, continued the work of salvage.

By that time the party of warriors who fought the flames was increased
by the shepherds and a few small farmers who dwelt in the neighbourhood.
These being stalwart and willing men, were a valuable accession to the
force, and did good service not only in saving property, but in
extinguishing the fire.  So that, before night closed in, the flames
were finally subdued, after about one-half of the mansion had been
consumed.

That half, however, was still a source of great danger, the walls being
intensely hot and the fallen beams a mass of glowing charcoal, which the
least breath of wind blew into a flame.  A few of the shepherds were
therefore stationed to watch these, and pour water on them continually.
But the need for urgent haste was past, and most of the people had
assembled on the lawn among the furniture when the stars began to
glimmer in the darkening sky.

"My dear," said the laird, on finding his wife in the group, "it is all
safe now, so you had better get off to rest, and take all the women with
ye.  Come, girls, be off to your beds," he added, turning with kindly
smile to the domestics, and with the energetic manner that was habitual
to him.  "You've done good service, and stand much in need of rest, all
of you.  The men will keep a sharp look out on what's left o' the fire,
so you have nothing to fear.  Off with you, an' get to sleep!"

There is also an important line from Madrid to the Portuguese frontier
near Badajoz, marked out on paper; but the fruition of this as
well as other schemes will mainly depend on the readiness with which
English capital can be obtained. Unfortunately, 'Spanish bonds' are
not in the best favour in England.

Portugal is a _terra incognita_ to railways. It is on the extremest
verge of Europe towards the Atlantic; and European civilisation
finds entrance there with remarkable slowness.

In 1845, the government tried to invite offers from capitalists to construct
railways; in 1849, the invitations were renewed; but the moneyed
men were coy, and would not be wooed. In 1851, the government
appointed a commission to investigate the whole subject. The commission
consisted of five persons; and their Report, dated October 20, 1851,
contains a large mass of valuable information.

It appeared in an English translation in some of the London journals
towards the close of the year. The commissioners take for granted
that Spain will construct railways from Madrid to the Portuguese frontier
at Badajoz on the one side, and to the French frontier, near Bayonne,
on the other; and they then inquire how best to reach Badajoz from
Lisbon.

Three routes present themselves--one to Santarem, and across the Tagus
to Badajoz; another to Santarem and Coimbra, and so on into Spain by
way of Almeida; and a third to Oporto, and thence by Bragança
into Spain. The first of these, being more directly in the route to
Madrid, is preferred by the commissioners, who estimate the outlay
at a million and a quarter sterling. They discuss the terms on which
capitalists might possibly be induced to come to their aid; and they
indulge in a hope that, ten years hence, Lisbon may be united to Central
Europe by a railway, of which 260 kilomètres will cross Portugal to
Badajoz, 370 from Badajoz to Madrid, and about 400 from Madrid to
the French frontier, where the Paris and Bayonne Railway will
continue the route.

(Five kilomètres are equal to rather more than three English miles.)
The Continental _Bradshaw_ will, we apprehend, have to wait long before
these peninsular trunk-lines find a place in its pages.

Leaving altogether the countries of Europe, and crossing the
Mediterranean, we find that even Africa is becoming a member of the
great railway system.

After a world of trouble, financial and diplomatic, the present ruler
of Egypt has succeeded in giving reality to a scheme for a railway from
Alexandria to the Nile.

A glance at a map of Egypt will shew us that a canal extends from
Alexandria to the Nile, to escape the sanded-up mouths of that famous
river.

It is mainly to expedite the overland route, so far as concerns the
transit along this canal, that the railway now in process of
construction has been planned; anything beyond this, it will be for
future ages to develop.

The subject of the Isthmus of Suez and its transit has been frequently
treated in this _Journal_, and we will therefore say nothing more
here, than that our friend _Bradshaw_ will, in all probability,
have something to tell us concerning the land of Egypt before any
long time has elapsed.

At this profound witticism there was a general laugh among the men, in
the midst of which the laird repeated his invitation to Ivor, saying
that he seemed knocked up after his exertions (which was partially
true), and adding that surely he was man enough to take a little for his
good at such a time, without giving way to it.

The laird did not mean this as a taunt, but it was taken as such by the
keeper, who came forward quickly, seized the glass, and drained it.
Having done so he stood for a moment like one awaking from a dream.
Then, without a word of thanks, he dropped the glass, sprang into the
shrubbery, and disappeared.

The laird was surprised, and his conscience smote him, but he turned the
incident off with a laugh.

"Now, lads," he said, "go to work again.  It will take all your energies
to keep the fire down, if it comes on to blow; and your comrades must be
tired by this time."

Fortunately it did not come on to blow.  The night was profoundly calm,
so that a steady though small supply of water sufficed to quench
incipient flames.

Meanwhile Giles Jackman had left the group on the lawn almost at the
same moment with the gamekeeper; for, having been accustomed to deal
with men in similar circumstances, he had a suspicion of what might
follow.  The poor man, having broken the resolve so recently and so
seriously formed, had probably, he thought, become desperate.

Ivor was too active for him, however.  He disappeared before Jackman had
followed more than a few yards.  After a few moments of uncertainty, the
latter made straight for old Molly Donaldson's cottage, thinking it
possible that her unhappy son might go there.  On the way he had to pass
the keeper's own cottage, and was surprised to see a light in it and the
door wide open.  As he approached, the sound of the keeper's voice was
heard speaking violently, mingled with blows, as if delivered with some
heavy instrument against timber.  A loud crash of breaking wood met
Jackman's ear as he sprang in.  Ivor was in the act of rending the
remains of a door from a corner cupboard, while an axe, which he had
just dropped, lay at his feet on the earthen floor.  A black quart
bottle, visible through the opening which had been made, showed the
reason of his assault on the cupboard.  If there had been any
uncertainty on the point, it would have been dispelled by the wild
laugh, or yell of fierce exultation, with which he seized the bottle,
drew the cork, and raised it to his dry lips.

Before it reached them, however, Jackman's strong hand seized the
keeper's arm.  A gasp from the roused giant, and the deadly pallor of
his countenance, as he glanced round, showed that superstition had
suddenly seized on his troubled soul; but no sooner did he see who it
was that had checked him, than the hot blood rebounded to his face, and
a fierce glare shot from his eyes.

"Thank God!--not too late!" exclaimed Jackman, fervently.

The thanksgiving was addressed to God, of course without reference to
its influence on Ivor; but no words, apparently, could have been used
with better effect upon the keeper's spirit.  His eyes lost their
ferocity, and he stood irresolute.

"Break it, like a good fellow," said Jackman, in a soft, kindly voice,
as he pointed to the bottle.

"I broke one before, sir," said Ivor, in a despairing tone; "and you see
how useless that was."

It is a song of the season which well deserves to be preserved.

Its insertion will at least have that effect, and may be the means
of our discovering an earlier and purer text.

AMBROSE MERTON.

_Portrait of Charles I._--In Sir Henry Ellis's _Original Letters_, 2d
series, vol. iii. p. 254., amongst the prefatory matter to the
reign of Charles I., there is a notice of a sermon, entitled "The Subject's
Sorrow, or Lamentations upon the Death of Britaine's Josiah, King
Charles."
Sir Henry Ellis says it is expressly stated, in this Sermon, that the
King himself desired "that unto his Golden Manual might be prefixed
his representation, kneeling; contemning a temporal crown, holding
our blessed Saviour's crown of thorns, and aspiring unto an eternal
crown of happiness."

Note _b_. upon this passage is as follows:--

"This very portrait of King Charles the First, engraved by Marshall,
adorned the original edition of the [Greek: Eikon Basilikae]. 8vo.
1648.

_The same portrait, as large as life, in oil painting, was afterwards put
up in many of our churches._"
When I was a boy, such a portrait, in oil painting, hung upon the
south wall of the body of St.

Michael's Church, Cambridge, between the pulpit and a small door to the
west, leading into the south aisle.

Out of the window of the chamber in which the King was kneeling was
represented a storm at sea, and the ship being driven by it upon
some rocks.

A few years ago, upon visiting Cambridge, I went purposely to
St.
Michael's Church to see this picture, which had been so familiar to
me in my boyhood.

The clerk told me it had been taken down, and was in the vestry. In
the vestry I found it, on its side, on the floor against the wall.
{138}
You are probably aware that this St.

Michael's Church was nearly destroyed by fire not many weeks since; that
a committee is established to arrange its restoration.

Would it not be worth while that some inquiry should be made about the
fate of this picture?

R.O.

Dec. 17. 1849.

P.S.--I may add, that there was affixed to the bottom of the frame of the
picture a board, on which was painted, in conformably large letters--
"LORD, remember David and all his trouble."
_Psalm_ cxxxii. 1.

The italics in part of the Note above quoted are mine.

_Autograph Mottoes of Richard Duke of Gloucester, and Henry
Duke of Buckingham._--In the volume of the Cottonian MSS. marked Vespasian
F.
XIII., at fol. 53., is a slip of parchment, upon which is written
by the hands of Richard Duke of Gloucester, and Henry Duke of
Buckingham, the following couplet:--
"Loyaulte me lie Richard Gloucestre
"Souente me souène Harre Bokingh'a'm."
A fac-simile is engraved in _Autographs of Royal, Noble, Learned,
and Remarkable Personages in English History_, engraved by C.J.
Smith, and edited by Mr. John Gough Nichols, 1829, 4to., where the
editor suggests that this slip of parchment was "perhaps a deceitful
toy," or it may have been attached to some present offered by the
Duke of Gloucester to his royal nephew Edward the Fifth. The meaning
of Gloucester's motto is perfectly free from misapprehension; but
he asserts his fidelity to the crown, which he soon so flagrantly
outraged--"Loyalty binds me."You and I will pray, Ivor, that God
would give us his holy Spirit, and then we shall fight our battles in
future with more success."

Thereupon, standing as they were, but with bowed spirits and heads, they
laid the matter in the hands of God in a brief but earnest prayer.

While these two were thus engaged, the scene at the house had entered
upon another phase.  The weather, which all that day had been extremely
changeable, suddenly assumed its gloomiest aspect, and rain began to
fall heavily.  Gradually the fall increased in volume, and at last
descended in an absolute deluge, rendering the use of water-buckets
quite unnecessary, and accomplishing in a very few minutes what all the
men at the place could not have done in as many hours.  But that which
prevented effectually the extension of the fire, caused, almost as
effectually, the destruction of much of the property exposed on the
lawn.  The men were therefore set to work with all their energies to
replace in the unburnt part of the mansion all that they had so recently
carried out of it.

In this work Ivor Donaldson found a sufficient outlet for the fierce
unnatural energies which had been aroused within him.  He went about
heaving and hauling, and staggering under weights that in an ordinary
state of body and mind he could scarcely have moved.  Little notice was
taken of him, however, for every one else was, if not doing the same
thing, at least working up to the utmost extent of his ability.

Before midnight all was over.  The fire was what the cook termed black
out.  The furniture, more than half destroyed, was re-housed.  The
danger of a revival of the flames was past, and the warriors in the
great battle felt themselves free to put off their armour and seek
refreshment.

This they did--the males at least--in the gun-room, which, being
farthest from the fire, and, therefore, left untouched, had not been
damaged either by fire or water.  Here the thoughtful laird had given
orders to have a cold collation spread, and here, with his guests,
men-servants, boys, and neighbouring farmers around him, he sat down to
supper.


CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

CONCLUSION.

"We are a queer lot, what-e-ver!" remarked one of the farmers, with a
deep sigh and a candid smile, as he looked round the company.

The observation was incontrovertible, if charcoaled faces, lank hair,
torn and dripping garments, and a general appearance of drowned-ratiness
may be regarded as "queer."

"My friends," said the laird, digging the carving fork into a cold
turkey, "we are also a hungry lot, if I may judge of others by myself,
so let me advise you to fall to.  We can't afford to sit long over our
supper in present circumstances.  Help yourselves, and make the most of
your opportunities."

"Thank God," said Giles Jackman, "that we have the opportunity to sit
down to sup under a roof at all."

The beginning of the seventeenth century is the period usually referred
to as the date of the extinction of personal villenage. In the celebrated
argument in the case of the negro Somerset (_State Trials_, vol. xx.
p.

41), an instance as late as 1617-18 is cited as the latest in our law
books. (See Noy's _Reports_, p. 27.) It is probably the latest recorded
_claim_, but it is observable that the claim failed, and that the
supposed villain was adjudged to be a free man."It is indeed true," returned his host, wiping the charcoal from his
face with a moist handkerchief; "but it is the Word that says it, not I.
And is it not strange," he added, turning with a humorous look to
Barret, "that after all these years the influence of Joan of Arc should
be still so powerful in the Western Isles?  To think that she should set
my house on fire in this nineteenth century!"

"I am very glad she did!" suddenly exclaimed Junkie, who, having been
pretty well ignored or forgotten by everybody, was plying his knife and
fork among the other heroes of the fight in a state of inexpressible
felicity.

Yet there are some few such books. Up till about the year 1900 the
elements of geometry were regularly taught, throughout Europe, in
a text-book written by a Greek called Eucleides in the fourth or
third century B.

C.[1] That text-book lasted over two thousand years.
The company laughed, and continued their meal, but some of them recalled
the proverb which states that "the boy is father to the man," and
secretly prophesied a heroic career for Junkie.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ten months passed away, during which period Allan Gordon retired to his
residence in Argyllshire while his mansion in the Western Island was
being restored.  His rank would have drawn notice upon him, and he had
friends full of eagerness, and not altogether without power. No
more is the partiality which, it is said, was manifestly shown him by
Lord Mansfield, to be deemed a main cause of his success. On the
contrary I am so little inclined to attribute such an effect to it,
that I believe even the hostility of the bench could not have kept
Erskine from rising.

His mind was not of the ordinary mould,--he was excited by obstacles.

Such was his temperament, that the damp slight of discouragement which
would have quenched common spirits, by the ardour of his mind
would have been converted into fuel, and have increased the splendour
with which he burst forth at once at the English bar.As
for Giles Jackman, that stalwart "Woods-and-Forester" returned to his
adopted land, accompanied by the faithful Quin, and busied himself in
the activities of his adventurous career, while he sought to commend the
religion of Jesus alike to native and European, both by precept and
example, proving the great truth that "godliness is profitable unto all
things, having promise of the life which now is, and of that which is to
come."  Norden, from whose unpublished _Survey of certain Crown Manors_ I
have extracted the following notice, adverts to the fact, but seems
to think that the times were rather unfavourable to any attempt by the
lord of the manor to put his rights in force.

"There are three bondmen of bloude belonginge unto this manor, never
known to be anie way mannumissed, namely, Thomas Goringe, William and
John Goringe. Thomas Goringe dwells at Amberley, William at
Piddinghow, and John Goringe at Rottingdean.They rode neither on horseback, nor in
a carriage, still less in a cab!  Their vehicle was a tricycle of the
form which has obtained the name of "Sociable."

"See, this is the corner, Milly," said the young man.  "I told you that
one of the very first places I would take you to see after our marriage
would be the spot where I had the good fortune to run _our_ mother down.
By this standard, if it is a legitimate and reasonable one to apply, we
shall be able to understand why classical Greek literature
was the basis of education throughout all later antiquity; why its
re-discovery, however fragmentary and however imperfectly understood,
was able to intoxicate the keenest minds of Europe and constitute
a kind of spiritual 'Re-birth', and how its further and further
exploration may be still a task worth men's spending their lives
upon and capable of giving mankind guidance as well as inspiration.

"I would read you a lecture now, sir," she said; "but will reserve it,
for here is a letter that may interest you."

It did indeed interest all three of them, as they sat together that
afternoon in the sunshine of Milly's boudoir, for it was a long and
well-written epistle from old Molly Donaldson.

We will not venture to weary the reader with all that the good old woman
had to say, but it may perhaps be of interest to transcribe the
concluding sentence.  But first in notes Sicilian placed on high, Bates
sounds the soft precluding symphony; And in sad cadence, as the bands
condense, The curfew tolls the knell of _parting sense_."
The distribution of prizes is thus recorded, Dr.But
I think little o' that.  I think more o' a bit pasteboard that hangs
over my son's mantelpiece, on which he has written wi' his own hand the
blessed words--`_Saved by Grace_.'"

THE END.