"I don't care if she does," she retorted; "no, I
don't," and she knit her brow and shook her pretty
head as she laughed.

While they stood talking Bart Holt, who had
lingered at the threshold, his eyes searching for the
fair arrival, was advancing toward the centre of the
room. Suddenly he stood still, his gaze fixed on the
vision of the girl in the clinging dress, with the blossoms 
resting on her breast. The curve of her back,
the round of the hip; the way her moulded shoulders 
rose above the lace of her bodice; the bare, full
arms tapering to the wrists;--the color, the movement, 
the grace of it all had taken away his breath.
With only a side nod of recognition toward Jane,
he walked straight to Lucy and with an "Excuse
me," elbowed the doctor out of the way in his eagerness 
to reach the girl's side. The doctor smiled at
the young man's impetuosity, bent his head to Lucy,
and turned to where Jane was standing awaiting the
arrival of her other guests.

The young man extended his hand. "I'm Bart
Holt," he exclaimed; "you haven't forgotten me,
Miss Lucy, have you? We used to play together.
Mighty glad to see you--been expecting you for a
week."

Lucy colored slightly and arched her head in a
coquettish way. His frankness pleased her; so did
the look of unfeigned admiration in his eyes.

"Why, of course I haven't forgotten you, Mr.
Holt. It was so nice of you to come," and she gave
him the tips of her fingers--her own eyes meanwhile, 
in one comprehensive glance, taking in his
round head with its closely cropped curls, searching
brown eyes, wavering mouth, broad shoulders, and
shapely body, down to his small, well-turned feet.
The young fellow lacked the polish and well-bred
grace of the doctor, just as he lacked his well-cut
clothes and distinguished manners, but there was a
sort of easy effrontery and familiar air about him
that some of his women admirers encouraged and
others shrank from. Strange to say, this had appealed 
to Lucy before he had spoken a word.

"And you've come home for good now, haven't
you?" His eyes were still drinking in the beauty
of the girl, his mind neither on his questions nor
her answers.

"Yes, forever and ever," she replied, with a laugh
that showed her white teeth.

"Did you like it at school?" It was her lips
now that held his attention and the little curves
under her dimpled chin. He thought he had never
seen so pretty a mouth and chin.

"Not always; but we used to have lots of fun,"
answered the girl, studying him in return--the way
his cravat was tied and the part of his hair. She
thought he had well-shaped ears and that his nose
and eyebrows looked like a picture she had in her
room upstairs.

"Come and tell me about it. Let's sit down
here," he continued as he drew her to a sofa and
stood waiting until she took her seat.

"Well, I will for a moment, until they begin to
come in," she answered, her face all smiles. She
liked the way he behaved towards her--not asking
her permission, but taking the responsibility and by
his manner compelling a sort of obedience. "But I
can't stay," she added. "Sister won't like it if I'm
not with her to shake hands with everybody."

"Oh, she won't mind me; I'm a great friend of
Miss Jane's. Please go on; what kind of fun did
you have? I like to hear about girls' scrapes. We
had plenty of them at college, but I couldn't tell
you half of them." He had settled himself beside
her now, his appropriating eyes still taking in her
beauty.

"Oh, all kinds," she replied as she bent her head
and glanced at the blossoms on her breast to be
assured of their protective covering.

"But I shouldn't think you could have much fun
with the teachers watching you every minute," said
Bart, moving nearer to her and turning his body
so he could look squarely into her eyes.

"Yes, but they didn't find out half that was going
on." Then she added coyly, "I don't know whether
you can keep a secret--do you tell everything you
hear?"

"Never tell anything."

"How do I know?"

"I'll swear it." In proof he held up one hand
and closed both eyes in mock reverence as if he were
taking an oath. He was getting more interested now
in her talk; up to this time her beauty had dazzled
him. "Never! So help me--" he mumbled impressively.

"Well, one day we were walking out to the park--
Now you're sure you won't tell sister, she's so easily
shocked?" The tone was the same, but the inflection
was shaded to closer intimacy.

Again Bart cast up his eyes.

"And all the girls were in a string with Miss
Griggs, the Latin teacher, in front, and we all went
in a cake shop and got a big piece of gingerbread
apiece. We were all eating away hard as we could
when we saw Miss Sarah coming. Every girl let her
cake go, and when Miss Sarah got to us the whole
ten pieces were scattered along the sidewalk."

Bart looked disappointed over the mild character
of the scrape. From what he had seen of her he
had supposed her adventures would be seasoned with
a certain spice of deviltry.

"I wouldn't have done that, I'd have hidden it
in my pocket," he replied, sliding down on the sofa
until his head rested on the cushion next her own.

"We tried, but she was too close. Poor old Griggsey 
got a dreadful scolding. She wasn't like Miss
Jones--she wouldn't tell on the girls."

"And did they let any of the fellows come to see
you?" Bart asked.

"No; only brothers and cousins once in a long
while. Maria Collins tried to pass one of her beaux,
Max Feilding, off as a cousin, but Miss Sarah went
down to see him and poor Maria had to stay upstairs."

"I'd have got in," said Bart with some emphasis,
rousing himself from his position and twisting his
body so he could again look squarely in her face.
This escapade was more to his liking.

"How?" asked Lucy in a tone that showed she
not only quite believed it, but rather liked him the
better for saying so.

"Oh I don't know. I'd have cooked up some
story." He was leaning over now, toying with the
lace that clung to Lucy's arms. "Did you ever have
any one of your own friends treated in that way?"

Jane's voice cut short her answer. She had seen
the two completely absorbed in each other, to the
exclusion of the other guests who were now coming
in, and wanted Lucy beside her.

The young girl waved her fan gayly in answer,
rose to her feet, turned her head close to Bart's,
pointed to the incoming guests, whispered something
in his ear that made him laugh, listened while he
whispered to her in return, and in obedience to the
summons crossed the room to meet a group of the
neighbors, among them old Judge Woolworthy, in a
snuff-colored coat, high black stock, and bald head,
and his bustling little wife. Bart's last whisper to
Lucy was in explanation of the little wife's manner
--who now, all bows and smiles, was shaking hands
with everybody about her.

Then came Uncle Ephraim Tipple, and close beside 
him walked his spouse, Ann, in a camel's-hair
shawl and poke-bonnet, the two preceded by Uncle
Ephraim's stentorian laugh, which had been heard
before their feet had touched the porch outside.
Mrs. Cromartin now bustled in, accompanied by her
two daughters--slim, awkward girls, both dressed
alike in high waists and short frocks; and after them
the Bunsbys, father, mother, and son--all smiles,
the last a painfully thin young lawyer, in a low collar
and a shock of whitey-brown hair, "looking like a
patent window-mop resting against a wall," so Lucy
described him afterward to Martha when she was
putting her to bed; and finally the Colfords and Bronsons, 
young and old, together with Pastor Dellenbaugh, 
the white-haired clergyman who preached in
the only church in Warehold.

When Lucy had performed her duty and the several 
greetings were over, and Uncle Ephraim had
shaken the hand of the young hostess in true pump-
handle fashion, the old man roaring with laughter
all the time, as if it were the funniest thing in the
world to find her alive; and the good clergyman in
his mildest and most impressive manner had said she
grew more and more like her mother every day--
which was a flight of imagination on the part of
the dear man, for she didn't resemble her in the
least; and the two thin girls had remarked that it
must be so "perfectly blissful" to get home; and
the young lawyer had complimented her on her wonderful, 
almost life-like resemblance to her grand-
father, whose portrait hung in the court-house--and
which was nearer the truth--to all of which the
young girl replied in her most gracious tones, thanking 
them for their kindness in coming to see her
and for welcoming her so cordially--the whole of
Lucy's mind once more reverted to Bart.

Indeed, the several lobes of her brain had been
working in opposition for the past hour. While one-
half of her mind was concocting polite speeches for
her guests the other was absorbed in the fear that
Bart would either get tired of waiting for her return
and leave the sofa, or that some other girl friend
of his would claim him and her delightful talk be
at an end.

To the young girl fresh from school Bart represented 
the only thing in the room that was entirely
alive. The others talked platitudes and themselves.
He had encouraged her to talk of HERSELF and of the
things she liked. He had, too, about him an assurance 
and dominating personality which, although it
made her a little afraid of him, only added to his
attractiveness.

While she stood wondering how many times the
white-haired young lawyer would tell her it was so
nice to have her back, she felt a slight pressure on
her arm and turned to face Bart.

"You are wanted, please, Miss Lucy; may I offer
you my arm? Excuse me, Bunsby--I'll give her to
you again in a minute."

Lucy slipped her arm into Bart's, and asked simply, 
"What for?"

"To finish our talk, of course. Do you suppose
I'm going to let that tow-head monopolize you?" he
answered, pressing her arm closer to his side with
his own.

Lucy laughed and tapped Bart with her fan in
rebuke, and then there followed a bit of coquetry in
which the young girl declared that he was "too mean
for anything, and that she'd never seen anybody so
conceited, and if he only knew, she might really
prefer the 'tow head' to his own;" to which Bart
answered that his only excuse was that he was so
lonely he was nearly dead, and that he had only come
to save his life--the whole affair culminating in his
conducting her back to the sofa with a great flourish
and again seating himself beside her.

"I've been watching you," he began when he had
made her comfortable with a small cushion behind
her shoulders and another for her pretty feet. "You
don't act a bit like Miss Jane." As he spoke he
leaned forward and flicked an imaginary something
from her bare wrist with that air which always
characterized his early approaches to most women.

"Why?" Lucy asked, pleased at his attentions
and thanking him with a more direct look.

"Oh, I don't know. You're more jolly, I think.
I don't like girls who turn out to be solemn after you
know them a while; I was afraid you might. You
know it's a long time since I saw you."

"Why, then, sister can't be solemn, for everybody
says you and she are great friends," she replied with
a light laugh, readjusting the lace of her bodice.

"So we are; nobody about here I think as much
of as I do of your sister. She's been mighty good
to me. But you know what I mean: I mean those
don't-touch-me kind of girls who are always thinking 
you mean a lot of things when you're only trying
to be nice and friendly to them. I like to be a
brother to a girl and to go sailing with her, and fishing, 
and not have her bother me about her feet getting
a little bit wet, and not scream bloody murder when
the boat gives a lurch. That's the kind of girl that's
worth having."

"And you don't find them?" laughed Lucy, looking 
at him out of the corners of her eyes.

"Well, not many. Do you mind little things like
that?"

As he spoke his eyes wandered over her bare shoulders 
until they rested on the blossoms, the sort of
roaming, critical eyes that often cause a woman to
wonder whether some part of her toilet has not been
carelessly put together. Then he added, with a sudden 
lowering of his voice: "That's a nice posy you've
got. Who sent it?" and he bent his head as if to
smell the cluster on her bosom.

Lucy drew back and a slight flush suffused her
cheek; his audacity frightened her. She was fond
of admiration, but this way of expressing it was new
to her. The young man caught the movement and
recovered himself. He had ventured on a thin spot,
as was his custom, and the sound of the cracking ice
had warned him in time.

"Oh, I see, they're apple blossoms," he added
carelessly as he straightened up. "We've got a lot
in our orchard. You like flowers, I see." The even
tone and perfect self-possession of the young man
reassured her.

"Oh, I adore them; don't you?" Lucy answered
in a relieved, almost apologetic voice. She was sorry
she had misjudged him. She liked him rather the
better now for her mistake.

"Well, that depends. Apple blossoms never
looked pretty to me before; but then it makes a good
deal of difference where they are," answered Bart
with a low chuckle.

Jane had been watching the two and had noticed.
Bart's position and manner. His easy familiarity
of pose offended her. Instinctively she glanced about
the room, wondering if any of her guests had seen it.
That Lucy did not resent it surprised her. She
supposed her sister's recent training would have
made her a little more fastidious.

"Come, Lucy," she called gently, moving toward
her, "bring Bart over here and join the other
girls."

"All right, Miss Jane, we'll be there in a minute,"
Bart answered in Lucy's stead. Then he bent his
head and said in a low voice:

"Won't you give me half those blossoms?"

"No; it would spoil the bunch."

"Please--"

"No, not a single one. You wouldn't care for
them, anyway."

"Yes, I would." Here he stretched out his hand
and touched the blossoms on her neck.

Lucy ducked her head in merry glee, sprang up,
and with a triumphant curtsy and a "No, you don't,
sir--not this time," joined her sister, followed by
art.

The guests were now separated into big and little
groups. Uncle Ephraim and the judge were hob-
nobbing around the fireplace, listening to Uncle
Ephraim's stories and joining in the laughter which
every now and then filled the room. Captain Nat
was deep in a discussion with Doctor John over some
seafaring matter, and Jane and Mrs. Benson were
discussing a local charity with Pastor Dellenbaugh.

The younger people being left to themselves soon
began to pair off, the white-haired young lawyer disappearing 
with the older Miss Cromartin and Bart
soon following with Lucy:--the outer porch and
the long walk down the garden path among the
trees, despite the chilliness of the night, seemed to
be the only place in which they could be comfortable.

During a lull in the discussion of Captain Nat's
maritime news and while Mrs. Benson was talking
to the pastor, Doctor John seized the opportunity
to seat himself again by Jane.

"Don't you think Lucy improved?" she asked,
motioning the doctor to a place beside her.

"She's much more beautiful than I thought she
would be," he answered in a hesitating way, looking
toward Lucy, and seating himself in his favorite
attitude, hands in his lap, one leg crossed over the
other and hanging straight beside its fellow; only a
man like the doctor, of more than usual repose and of
a certain elegance of form, Jane always said, could
sit this way any length of time and be comfortable
and unconscious of his posture. Then he added
slowly, and as if he had given the subject some consideration, 
"You won't keep her long, I'm afraid."

"Oh, don't say that," Jane cried with a nervous
start. "I don't know what I would do if she should
marry."

"That don't sound like you, Miss Jane. You
would be the first to deny yourself. You are too
good to do otherwise." He spoke with a slight quiver
in his voice, and yet with an emphasis that showed
he believed it.

"No; it is you who are good to think so," she
replied in a softer tone, bending her head as she
spoke, her eyes intent on her fan. "And now tell
me," she added quickly, raising her eyes to his as if
to bar any further tribute he might be on the point
of paying to her--"I hear your mother takes greatly
to heart your having refused the hospital appointment."

"Yes, I'm afraid she does. Mother has a good
many new-fashioned notions nowadays." He laughed
--a mellow, genial laugh; more in the spirit of apology 
than of criticism.

"And you don't want to go?" she asked, her eyes
fixed on his.

"Want to go? No, why should I? There would
be nobody to look after the people here if I went
away. You don't want me to leave, do you?" he
added suddenly in an anxious tone.

"Nobody does, doctor," she replied, parrying the
question, her face flushing with pleasure.

Here Martha entered the room hurriedly and
bending over Jane's shoulder, whispered something
in her ear. The doctor straightened himself and
leaned back out of hearing.

"Well, but I don't think she will take cold,"
Jane whispered in return, looking up into Martha's
face. "Has she anything around her?"

"Yes, your big red cloak; but the child's head is
bare and there's mighty little on her neck, and she
ought to come in. The wind's begun to blow and it's
gettin' cold."

"Where is she?" Jane continued, her face showing 
her surprise at Martha's statement.

"Out by the gate with that dare-devil. He don't
care who he gives cold. I told her she'd get her
death, but she won't mind me."

"Why, Martha, how can you talk so!" Jane retorted, 
with a disapproving frown. Then raising her
voice so that the doctor could be brought into the
conversation, she added in her natural tone, "Whom
did you say she was with?"

"Bart Holt," cried Martha aloud, nodding to the
doctor as if to get his assistance in saving her bairn
from possible danger.

Jane colored slightly and turned to Doctor John.

"You go please, doctor, and bring them all in,
or you may have some new patients on your
hands."

The doctor looked from one to the other in doubt
as to the cause of his selection, but Jane's face
showed none of the anxiety in Martha's.

"Yes, certainly," he answered simply; "but I'll
get myself into a hornet's nest. These young people
don't like to be told what's good for them," he added
with a laugh, rising from his seat. "And after that
you'll permit me to slip away without telling anybody,
won't you? My last minute has come," and he
glanced at his watch.

"Going so soon? Why, I wanted you to stay for
supper. It will be ready in a few minutes." Her
voice had lost its buoyancy now. She never wanted
him to go. She never let him know it, but it pained
her all the same.

"I would like to, but I cannot." All his heart
was in his eyes as he spoke.

"Someone ill?" she asked.

"Yes, Fogarty's child. The little fellow may
develop croup before morning. I saw him to-day,
and his pulse was not right, he's a sturdy little
chap with a thick neck, and that kind always suffers
most. If he's worse Fogarty is to send word to my
office," he added, holding out his hand in parting.

"Can I help?" Jane asked, retaining the doctor's
hand in hers as if to get the answer.

"No, I'll watch him closely. Good-night," and
with a smile he bent his head and withdrew.

Martha followed the doctor to the outer door,
and then grumbling her satisfaction went back to
the pantry to direct the servants in arranging upon
the small table in the supper-room the simple refreshments 
which always characterized the Cobdens' entertainments.

Soon the girls and their beaux came trooping in
to join their elders on the way to the supper-room.
Lucy hung back until the last (she had not liked the
doctor's interference), Jane's long red cloak draped
from her shoulders, the hood hanging down her back,
her cheeks radiant, her beautiful blond hair ruffled
with the night wind, an aureole of gold framing her
face. Bart followed close behind, a pleased, almost
triumphant smile playing about his lips.

He had carried his point. The cluster of blossoms 
which had rested upon Lucy's bosom was pinned
to the lapel of his coat.


CHAPTER III


LITTLE TOD FOGARTY


With the warmth of Jane's parting grasp lingering 
in his own Doctor John untied the mare, sprang
into his gig, and was soon clear of the village and
speeding along the causeway that stretched across
the salt marshes leading past his own home to the
inner beach beyond. As he drove slowly through his
own gate, so as to make as little noise as possible,
the cottage, blanketed under its clinging vines,
seemed in the soft light of the low-lying moon to be
fast asleep. Only one eye was open; this was the
window of his office, through which streamed the
glow of a lamp, its light falling on the gravel path
and lilac bushes beyond.

Rex gave a bark of welcome and raced beside the
wheels.

"Keep still, old dog! Down, Rex! Been
lonely, old fellow?"

The dog in answer leaped in the air as his master
drew rein, and with eager springs tried to reach his
hands, barking all the while in short and joyful
yelps.

Doctor John threw the lines across the dash-board,
jumped from the gig, and pushing open the hall
door--it was never locked--stepped quickly into his
office, and turning up the lamp, threw himself into
a chair at his desk. The sorrel made no attempt to
go to the stable--both horse and man were accustomed 
to delays--sometimes of long hours and sometimes 
of whole nights.
 
The appointments and fittings of the office--old-
fashioned and practical as they were--reflected in
a marked degree the aims and tastes of the occupant.
While low bookcases stood against the walls surmounted 
by rows of test-tubes, mortars and pestles,
cases of instruments, and a line of bottles labelled
with names of various mixtures (in those days doctors 
were chemists as well as physicians), there could
also be found a bust of the young Augustus; one or
two lithographs of Heidelberg, where he had studied;
and some line engravings in black frames--one a
view of Oxford with the Thames wandering by,
another a portrait of the Duke of Wellington, and
still another of Nell Gwynn. Scattered about the
room were easy-chairs and small tables piled high
with books, a copy of Tacitus and an early edition
of Milton being among them, while under the wide,
low window stood a narrow bench crowded with flowering 
plants in earthen pots, the remnants of the
winter's bloom. There were also souvenirs of his
earlier student life--a life which few of his friends
in Warehold, except Jane Cobden, knew or cared
anything about--including a pair of crossed foils
and two boxing-gloves; these last hung over a portrait
of Macaulay.

