MATTIACI, a branch of the Catti in Germany. Their capital town was

MATTIUM, supposed now to be _Marpourg_ in _Hesse_.

MAURITANIA, a large region of Africa, extending from east to west
along the Mediterranean, divided by the emperor Claudius into
_Cæsariensis_, the eastern part, and _Tingitana_, the western. It had
Numidia to the east, and Getulia to the south; and was also bounded by
the Atlantic ocean, the straits of Gibraltar, and the Mediterranean to
the north. The natives were called Mauri, and thence the name of
_Mauritania_; now _Barbary_.

MEDIA, a country of the Farther Asia, bounded on the west by Armenia,
on the east by Parthia, on the north by the Caspian Sea, on the south
by Persia. _Ecbatana_ was the capital.

MEDIOLANUM, now _Milan_ in Italy.

MEDIOMATRICI, a people of Gallia Belgica; now the diocese of _Metz_.

MELITENE, a city of Cappadocia.

MEMPHIS, a city of Egypt, famous for its pyramids.

MENAPII, a people of Belgia; now _Brabant_ and _Flanders_.

MESOPOTAMIA, a large country in the middle of Asia; so called, because
it lies, [Greek: mesae potamon], between two rivers, the Euphrates on
the west, and the Tigris on the east.

MESSENA, or MESSANA, an ancient and celebrated city of Sicily, on the
strait between that island and Italy. It still retains the name of
_Messina_.

MEVANIA, a town of Umbria, near the Clitumnus, a river that runs from
east to west into the Tiber.

MILETUS, an ancient city of Ionia, in Asia Minor; now totally
destroyed.

MILVIUS PONS, a bridge over the Tiber, at the distance of two miles
from Rome, on the _Via Flamminia_; now called _Ponte-Molle_.

MINTURNÆ, a town on the confines of Campania, near the river Liris.

MISENUM, a promontory of Campania, with a good harbour, near the
_Sinus Puteolanus_, or the bay of Naples, on the north side. It was
the station for the Roman fleets. Now _Capo di Miseno_.

MITYLENE, the capital city of the isle of Lesbos, and now gives name
to the whole island.

MONA, an island separated from the coast of the Ordovices by a narrow
strait, the ancient seat of the Druids. But when thou tallest me, that it was thy misfortune to love me,
because thy value for me made thee a wickeder man than otherwise
thou wouldst have been; I desire thee to revolve this assertion:
and I am persuaded that thou wilt not find thyself in so right a
train as thou imaginest.

No false colourings, no glosses, does a true penitent aim at.

Debasement, diffidence, mortification, contrition, are all near of a
kin, Jack, and inseparable from a repentant spirit.

If thou knowest not this, thou art not got three steps (out of threescore)
towards repentance and amendment. And let me remind thee, before the
grand accuser come to do it, that thou wert ever above being a
passive follower in iniquity.

Though thou hadst not so good an invention as he to whom thou writest,
thou hadst as active an heart for mischief, as ever I met with in
man.

Then for improving an hint, thou wert always a true Englishman. I
never started a roguery, that did not come out of thy forge in a
manner ready anvilled and hammered for execution, when I have
sometimes been at a loss to make any thing of it myself.

What indeed made me appear to be more wicked than thou was, that I
being a handsome fellow, and thou an ugly one, when we had started
a game, and hunted it down, the poor frighted puss generally threw
herself into my paws, rather than into thine: and then, disappointed,
hast thou wiped thy blubber-lips, and marched off to start a new
game, calling me a wicked fellow all the while.

In short, Belford, thou wert an excellent starter and setter.

The old women were not afraid for their daughters, when they saw
such a face as thine.

But, when I came, whip was the key turned upon the girls.

And yet all signified nothing; for love, upon occasion, will draw an
elephant through a key-hole.

But for thy HEART, Belford, who ever doubted the wickedness
of that?

Nor even in this affair, that sticks most upon me, which my conscience
makes such a handle of against me, art thou so innocent as thou
fanciest thyself.

Thou wilt stare at this: but it is true; and I will convince thee of it
in an instant.

Thou sayest, thou wouldst have saved the lady from the ruin she met
with.

Thou art a pretty fellow for this: For how wouldst thou have saved
her?

What methods didst thou take to save her?

Thou knewest my designs all along.

Hadst thou a mind to make thyself a good title to the merit to which
thou now pretendest to lay claim, thou shouldest, like a true
knight-errant, have sought to set the lady free from the enchanted
castle.

Thou shouldst have apprized her of her danger; have stolen in, when
the giant was out of the way; or, hadst thou had the true spirit
of chivalry upon thee, and nothing else would have done, have killed
the giant; and then something wouldst thou have had to brag of.

'Oh! but the giant was my friend: he reposed a confidence in me:
and I should have betrayed my friend, and his confidence!' This
thou wouldst have pleaded, no doubt.
O.

OCRICULUM, a town of Umbria, near the confluence of the Nar and the
Tiber; now _Otricoli_, in the duchy of _Spoletto_.

ODRYSÆ, a people situated in the western part of Thrace, how a
province of European Turkey.

OEENSES, a people of Africa, who occupied the country between the two
Syrtes on the Mediterranean. Their city was called _Oea_, now
_Tripoli_.

OPITERGIUM, now _Oderzo_, in the territory of Venice.

ORDOVICES, a people who inhabited what we now call _Flintshire,
Denbighshire, Carnarvon_, and _Merionethshire_, in North Wales.

OSTIA, formerly a town of note, at the mouth of the Tiber (on the
south side), whence its name; at this day it lies in ruins.


P.

PADUS, anciently called _Eridanus_ by the Greeks, famous for the
fable of Phæton; it receives several rivers from the Alps and
Apennine, and, running from west to east, discharges itself into the
Adriatic. It is now called the Po.

PAGIDA, a river in Numidia; its modern name is not ascertained.
D'Anville thinks it is now called _Fissato_, in the territory of
_Tripoli_.

PALUS MÆOTIS; see MÆOTIS.

PAMPHYLIA, a country of the Hither Asia, bounded by Pisidia to the
north, and by the Mediterranean to the south.

PANDA, a river of Asia, in the territory of the _Siraci_; not well
known.

PANDATARIA, an island of the Tuscan Sea, in the Sinus Puteolanus (now
_il Golfo di Napoli_), the place of banishment for illustrious exiles,
viz. Julia the daughter of Augustus, Agrippina the wife of Germanicus,
Octavia the daughter of Claudius, and many others. It is now called
_L'lsle Sainte-Marie_, or _Santa Maria_.

PANNONIA, an extensive country of Europe, bounded by Mæsia on the
east, by Noricum on the west, Dalmatia on the south, and by the Danube
to the north; containing part of _Austria_ and _Hungary_.

PANNONIAN ALPS. See ALPS.

PAPHOS: there were two towns of the name, both on the west side of the
island of Cyprus, and dedicated to Venus, who was hence the _Paphian_
and the _Cyprian_ goddess.

PARTHIA, a country of the Farther Asia, with Media on the west, Asia
on the east, and Hyrcania on the north.

PATAVIUM, now _Padua_, in the territory of Venice.

PELIGNI, a people of Samaium, near Naples.

PELOPONNESUS, the large peninsula to the south of Greece, so called
after _Pelops_, viz. _Pelopis Nesus_. It is joined to the rest of
Greece by the isthmus of Corinth, which lies between the Egean and
Ionian seas. It is now called the _Morea_.

PENNINÆ ALPES. See ALPS.

PERGAMOS, an ancient and famous city of _Mysia_, situate on the
Caicus, which runs through it. It was the residence of Attalus and his
successors. This place was famous for a royal library, formed, with
emulation, to vie with that of Alexandria in Egypt. The kings of the
latter, stung with paltry jealousy, prohibited the exportation of
paper. Hence the invention of parchment, called _Pergamana charta_.
Plutarch assures us, that the library at Pergamos contained two
hundred thousand volumes. The whole collection was given by Marc
Antony as a present to Cleopatra, and thus the two libraries were
consolidated into one. In about six or seven centuries afterwards, the
volumes of science, by order of the calif Omar, served for a fire to
warm the baths of Alexandria; and thus perished _all the physic of the
soul_. The town subsists at this day, and retains the name of
_Pergamos_. See Spon's Travels, vol. i.

PERINTHUS, a town of Thrace, situate on the Propontis, now called
_Heraclea_.

PERUSIA, formerly a principal city of Etruria, on the north side of
the Tiber, with the famous _Lacus Trasimenus_ to the east. It was
besieged by Augustus, and reduced by famine. Lucan has, _Perusina
fames_. It is now called _Perugia_, in the territory of the Pope.

PHARSALIA, a town in Thessaly, rendered famous by the last battle
between Pompey and Julius Cæsar.

PHILADELPHIA: there were several ancient towns of this name. That
which Tacitus mentions was in Lydia, built by Attalus Philadelphus; it
is now called by the Turks, _Alah Scheyr_.

PHILIPPI, a city of Macedonia, on the confines of Thrace; built by
Philip of Macedon, and famous for the battle fought on its plains
between Augustus and the republican party. It is now in ruins.

PHILIPPOPOLIS, a city of Thrace, near the river _Hebrus_. It derived
its name from Philip of Macedon, who enlarged it, and augmented the
number of inhabitants.

PICENTIA, the capital of the _Picentini_, on the Tuscan Sea. not far
from Naples.

PICENUM, a territory of Italy, to the east of Umbria, and in some
parts extending from the Apennine to the Adriatic. It is now supposed
to be the _March of Ancona_.

PIRÆEUS, a celebrated port near Athens. It is much frequented at this
day; its name, _Porto Lione_.

PISÆ, a town of Etruria, which gave name to the bay of Pisa, _Sinus
Pisanus_.

PLACENTIA, a town in Italy, now called _Placenza_, in the duchy of
Parma.

PLANASIA, a small island near the coast of Etruria, in the Tuscan Sea;
now _Pianosa_.

POMPEII, a town of Campania, near Herculaneum. It was destroyed by an
earthquake in the reign of Nero.

POMPEIOPOLIS: there were anciently two cities of the name; one in
Cilicia, another in Paphlagonia.

PONTIA, an island in the Tuscan sea; a place of relegation or
banishment.

PONTUS, an extensive country of Asia Minor, lying between Bithynia and
Paphlagonia, and extending along the _Pontus Euxinus_, the Euxine or
the Pontic Sea, from which it took its name. LETTER LIII. Mr. Belford
to Lord M.-- Just returned from attending Mr. Lovelace part of his
way towards Dover.
Their solemn parting.

LETTER LIV. From the same.-- An account of what passed between himself
and Colonel Morden at their next meeting. Their affectionate
parting.

LETTER LV.

Miss Howe to Mr. Belford.-- Gives, at his request, the character of
her beloved friend at large; and an account of the particular
distribution of her time in the twenty-four hours of the natural
day.

LETTER LVI. Lovelace to Belford, from Paris.-- Conscience the conqueror
of souls. He cannot run away from his reflections.

He desires a particular account of all that has passed since he
left England.

LETTER LVII. Belford to Lovelace.-- Answers him as to all the particulars
he writes about.

LETTER LVIII. Lovelace to Belford.-- Has received a letter from Joseph
Leman (who, he says, is conscience-ridden) to inform him that
Colonel Morden resolves to have his will of him. He cannot bear to be
threatened.

He will write to the Colonel to know his purpose.

He cannot get off his regrets on account of the dear lady for the
blood of him.

LETTER LIX. Belford to Lovelace.-- It would be matter of
serious reflection to him, he says, if that very Leman, who had
been his machine, should be the instrument of his fall.

LETTER LX.

Lovelace to Belford.-- Has written to the Colonel to know his intention:
but yet in such a manner that he may handsomely avoid taking it as
a challenge; though, in the like case, he owns that he himself should
not. Copy of his letter to the Colonel.

LETTER LXI. From the same.-- He is now in his way to Trent, in order
to meet Colonel Morden. He is sure of victory: but will not, if he can
help it, out of regard to Clarissa, kill the Colonel.

LETTER LXII. From the same.-- Interview with Colonel Morden. To-morrow,
says he, is the day that will, in all probability, send either one
or two ghosts to attend the manes of my Clarissa.

After a considerable circuit it enters the
_Lake of Geneva_, and in its course visits the city of Lyons, and from
that place traverses a large tract of country, and falls into the
Mediterranean. It is now called the _Rhone_.

RHODUS, a celebrated island in the Mediterranean, near the coast of
Asia Minor, over-against _Caria_. The place of retreat for the
discontented Romans. Tiberius made that use of it.

RHOXOLANI, a people on the north of the _Palus Mæotis_, situate along
the Tanais, now the _Don_.

RICODULUM, a town of the Treviri on the Moselle.


S.

SABRINA, now the _Severn_; a river that rises in _Montgomeryshire_,
and running by _Shrewsbury_, _Worcester_, and _Glocester_, empties
itself into the Bristol Channel, separating Wales from England.

SALA. VII. Letter LXXXI.

She was rather tall than of a middling stature; and had a dignity
in her aspect and air, that bespoke the mind that animated
every feature.

This native dignity, as I may call it, induced some superficial
persons, who knew not how to account for the reverence which
involuntarily filled their hearts on her appearance, to impute pride
to her.

But these were such as knew that they should have been proud of any
one of her perfections: judging therefore by their own narrowness,
they thought it impossible that the lady who possessed so many,
should not think herself superior to them all. Indeed, I have heard
her noble aspect found fault with, as indicating pride and superiority.
SAMARIA, the capital of the country of that name in Palestine; the
residence of the kings of Israel, and afterwards of Herod. Samaritans,
the name of the people. Some magnificent ruins of the place are still
remaining.

SAMBULOS, a mountain in the territory of the Parthians, with the river
_Corma_ near it. The mountain and the river are mentioned by Tacitus
only.

SAMNIS, or SAMNITES, a people of ancient Italy, extending on both
sides of the Apennine, famous in the Roman wars.

SAMOS, an island of Asia Minor, opposite to Ephesus; the birth-place
of Pythagoras, who was thence called the _Samian Sage_.

SAMOTHRACIA, an island of Thrace, in the Egean Sea, opposite to the
mouth of the Hebrus. There were mysteries of initiation celebrated in
this island, held in as high repute as those of Eleusis; with a sacred
and inviolable asylum.

Hale, who was my good Astolfo, [you read Ariosto, Jack,] and has brought
me back my wit-jar, had much ado, by starving, diet, by profuse
phlebotomy, by flaying-blisters, eyelet-hole-cupping, a dark room,
a midnight solitude in a midday sun, to effect my recovery.

It is said that an herb grew there, which, when eaten,
produced a painful grin, called _Sardonius risus_. The island now
belongs to the Duke of Saxony, with the title of king.

