The country bordering the head of the lake from Urundi proper,
on the eastern shore, to Uvira on the western, is divided into the
following districts:
1st. Mugere, governed by Mukamba, through which issued into the lake
the small rivers of Mugere and Mpanda.
2nd. Mukanigi, governed by Warumashanya, which occupied the whole
of the north-eastern head of the lake, through which issued into
the lake the small rivers of Karindwa and Mugera wa Kanigi.
3rd. On the eastern half of the district, at the head of the lake,
was Usumbura, governed by Simveh, ally and friend of Warumashanya,
extending to the eastern bank of the Rusizi.
4th. Commencing from the western bank of the Rusizi, to the extreme
north-western head of the lake, was Mugihewa--Ruhinga's country.
5th. From Uvira on the west, running north past Mugihewa, and
overlapping it on the north side as far as the hills of Chamati,
was Ruwenga, also a country governed by Mukamba.  Beyond Ruwenga,
from the hills of Chamati to the Ruanda River, was the country of
Chamati.  West of Ruwenga, comprising all the mountains for two
days' journey in that direction, was Uashi.  These are the
smaller sub-divisions of what is commonly known as Ruwenga and
Usige.  Ruwenga comprises the countries of Ruwenga and Mugihewa;
Usige, the countries of Usumbura, Mukanigi, and Mugere.  But all
these countries are only part and parcel of Urundi, which
comprises all that country bordering the lake from Mshala River,
on the eastern shore, to Uvira, on the western, extending over
ten days' journey direct north from the head of the lake, and
one month in a northeastern direction to Murukuko, the capital
of Mwezi, Sultan of all Urundi.  Direct north of Urundi is Ruanda;
also a very large country.

The Rusizi River--according to Ruhinga--rose near a lake called
Kivo, which he said is as long as from Mugihawa to Mugere, and
as broad as from Mugihewa to Warumashanya's country, or, say
eighteen miles in length by about eight in breadth.  The lake is
surrounded by mountains on the western and northern sides: on the
south-western side of one of these mountains issues the Rusizi--at
first a small rapid stream; but as it proceeds towards the lake it
receives the rivers Kagunissi, Kaburan, Mohira, Nyamagana,
Nyakagunda, Ruviro, Rofubu, Kavimvira, Myove, Ruhuha, Mukindu,
Sange, Rubirizi, Kiriba, and, lastly, the Ruanda River, which seems
to be the largest of them all.  Kivo Lake is so called from the
country in which it is situated.  On one side is Mutumbi (probably
the Utumbi of Speke and Baker), on the west is Ruanda; on the east
is Urundi.  The name of the chief of Kivo is Kwansibura.

After so many minute details about the River Rusizi, it only
remained for us to see it.  On the second morning of our arrival
at Mugihewa we mustered ten strong paddlers, and set out to explore
the head of the lake and the mouth of the Rusizi.  We found that
the northern head of the lake was indented with seven broad bays,
each from one and a half to three miles broad; that long broad
spits of sand, overgrown with matete, separated each bay from the
other.  The first, starting from west to east, at the broadest part,
to the extreme southern point of Mugihewa, was about three miles
broad, and served as a line of demarcation between Mukamba's district
of Ruwenga and Mugihewa of Ruhinga; it was also two miles deep.
The second bay was a mile from the southern extremity of Mugihewa
to Ruhinga's village at the head of the bay, and it was a mile
across to another spit of sand which was terminated by a small
island.  The third bay stretched for nearly a mile to a long spit,
at the end of which was another island, one and a quarter mile
in length, and was the western side of the fourth bay, at the
head of which was the delta of the Rusizi.  This fourth bay, at
its base, was about three miles in depth, and penetrated half
a mile further inland than any other.  Soundings indicated six
feet deep, and the same depth was kept to within a few hundred
yards of the principal mouth of the Rusizi.  The current was
very sluggish; not more than a mile an hour.  Though we
constantly kept our binocular searching for the river, we
could not see the main channel until within 200 yards of it,
and then only by watching by what outlet the fishing; canoes came
out.  The bay at this point had narrowed from two miles to about
200 yards in breadth.  Inviting a canoe to show us the way, a
small flotilla of canoes preceded us, from the sheer curiosity
of their owners.  We followed, and in a few minutes were ascending
the stream, which was very rapid, though but about ten yards wide,
and very shallow; not more than two feet deep.  We ascended about
half a mile, the current being very strong, from six to eight miles
an hour, and quite far enough to observe the nature of the stream
at its embouchure.  We could see that it widened and spread out in
a myriad of channels, rushing by isolated clumps of sedge and
matete grass; and that it had the appearance of a swamp.  We had
ascended the central, or main channel.  The western channel was
about eight yards broad.  We observed, after we had returned to
the bay, that the easternmost channel was about six yards broad,
and about ten feet deep, but very sluggish.  We had thus examined
each of its three mouths, and settled all doubts as to the Rusizi
being an effluent or influent.  It was not necessary to ascend
higher, there being nothing about the river itself to repay
exploration of it.

The question, "Was the Rusizi an effluent or an influent?" was
answered for ever.  There was now no doubt any more on that point.
In size it was not to be compared with the Malagarazi River,
neither is it, or can it be, navigable for anything but the smallest
canoes.  The only thing remarkable about it is that it abounds in
crocodiles, but not one hippopotamus was seen; which may be taken
as another evidence of its shallowness.  The bays to the east of
the Rusizi are of the same conformation as those on the west.
Carefully judging from the width of the several bays from point
to point, and of the several spits which separate them, the breadth
of the lake may be said to be about twelve or fourteen miles.  Had
we contented ourselves with simply looking at the conformation,
and the meeting of the eastern and western ranges, we should have
said that the lake ended in a point, as Captain Speke has sketched
it on his map.  But its exploration dissolved that idea.  Chamati
Hill is the extreme northern termination of the western range,
and seems, upon a superficial examination, to abut against the Ramata
mountains of the eastern range, which are opposite Chamati; but a
valley about a mile in breadth separates the two ranges, and
through this valley the Rusizi flows towards the lake.*  Though
Chamati terminates the western range, the eastern range continues
for miles beyond, north-westerly.  After its issue from this broad
gorge, the Rusizi runs seemingly in a broad and mighty stream,
through a wide alluvial plain, its own formation, in a hundred
channels, until, approaching the lake, it flows into it by three
channels only, as above described.
______________
*  After the patient investigation of the North end of the Lake,
and satisfying ourselves by personal observation that the Rusizi
ran into the Lake, the native rumor which Sir Samuel Baker brought
home that the Tanganika and the Albert N'Yanza have a water
connection still finds many believers!
______________

I should not omit to state here, that though the Doctor and I have
had to contend against the strong current of the Rusizi River, as
it flowed swift and strong INTO the Tanganika, the Doctor still
adheres to the conviction that, whatever part the Rusizi plays,
there must be an outlet to the Tanganika somewhere, from the fact
that all fresh-water lakes have outlets, The Doctor is able to state
his opinions and reasons far better than I can find for him; and,
lest I misconstrue the subject, I shall leave it until he has an
opportunity to explain them himself; which his great knowledge of
Africa will enable him to do with advantage.

One thing is evident to me, and I believe to the Doctor, that Sir
Samuel Baker will have to curtail the Albert N'Yanza by one, if
not two degrees of latitude.  That well-known traveller has drawn
his lake far into the territory of the Warundi, while Ruanda has
been placed on the eastern side; whereas a large portion of it,
if not all, should be placed north of what he has designated on
his map as Usige.  The information of such an intelligent man as
Ruhinga is not to be despised; for, if Lake Albert came within a
hundred miles of the Tanganika, he would surely have heard of its
existence, even if he had not seen it himself.  Originally he came
from Mutumbi, and he has travelled from that country into Mugihewa,
the district he now governs.  He has seen Mwezi, the great King of
Urundi, and describes him as a man about forty years old, and as a
very good man.

Our work was now done; there was nothing more to detain us at
Mugihewa.  Ruhinga had been exceedingly kind, and given us one
ox after another to butcher and eat.  Mukamba had done the same.
Their women had supplied us with an abundance of milk and butter,
and we had now bounteous supplies of both.

The Doctor had taken a series of observations for latitude and
longitude; and Mugihewa was made out to be in 3 degrees 19 minutes
S. latitude.

On the 7th December, early in the morning, we left Mugihewa, and
rowing past the southern extremity of the Katangara Islands, we
approached the highlands of Uashi near the boundary line between
Mukamba's country and Uvira.  The boundary line is supposed to be
a wide ravine, in the depths of which is a grove of tall, beautiful,
and straight-stemmed trees, out of which the natives make their canoes.

Passing Kanyamabengu River, which issues into the lake close to the
market-ground of Kirabula, the extreme point of Burton and Speke's
explorations of the Tanganika, we steered south along the western
shore of the lake for half an hour longer to Kavimba, where we
halted to cook breakfast.

The village where lived Mruta, the King of Uvira, was in sight of
our encampment, and as we observed parties of men ascending and
descending the mountains much more often than we thought augured
good to ourselves, we determined to continue on our course south.
Besides, there was a party of disconsolate-looking Wajiji here,
who had been plundered only a few days before our arrival, for
attempting, as the Wavira believed, to evade the honga payment.
Such facts as these, and our knowledge of the general state of
insecurity in the country, resulting from the many wars in which
the districts of the Tanganika were engaged, determined us not to
halt at Kavimba.

We embarked quickly in our boat before the Wavira had collected
themselves, and headed south against a strong gale, which came
driving down on us from the south-west.  After a hard pull of about
two hours in the teeth of the storm, which was rapidly rising, we
pointed the head of the boat into a little quiet cove, almost
hidden in tall reeds, and disembarked for the night.

Cognizant of the dangers which surrounded us, knowing, that savage
and implacable man was the worst enemy we had to fear, we employed
our utmost energies in the construction of a stout fence of thorn
bushes, and then sat down to supper after our work was done, and
turned in to sleep; but not before we had posted watchmen to guard
our canoe, lest the daring thieves of Uvira might abstract it, in
which case we should have been in a pretty plight, and in most
unenviable distress.

At daybreak, leaving Kukumba Point after our humble breakfast of
coffee, cheese, and dourra cakes was despatched, we steered south
once more.  Our fires had attracted the notice of the sharp-eyed
and suspicious fishermen of Kukumba; but our precautions and the
vigilant watch we had set before retiring, had proved an effectual
safeguard against the Kivira thieves.

The western shores of the lake as we proceeded were loftier, and
more bold than the wooded heights of Urundi and bearded knolls of
Ujiji.  A back ridge--the vanguard of the mountains which rise
beyond--disclosed itself between the serrated tops of the front
line of mountains, which rose to a height of from 2,500 to 3,000
feet above the lake.  Within the folds of the front line of
mountains rise isolated hills of considerable magnitude, precipitous
and abrupt, but scenically very picturesque.  The greater part of
these hills have the rounded and smooth top, or are tabularly
summited.  The ridge enfolding these hills shoots out, at intervals,
promontorial projections of gradual sloping outlines, which on the
map I have designated capes, or points.  When rounding these points,
up went our compasses for the taking of bearings, and observing
the directions of all prominent objects of interest.  Often these
capes are formed by the alluvial plains, through which we may be
sure a river will be found flowing.  These pretty alluvial plains,
enfolded on the south, the west, and the north by a grand mountain
arc, present most luxurious and enchanting scenery.  The vegetation
seems to be of spontaneous growth.  Groups of the Elaeis Guineansis
palm embowering some dun-brown village; an array of majestic,
superb growth of mvule trees; a broad extent covered with vivid
green sorghum stalks; parachute-like tops of mimosa; a line of white
sand, on which native canoes are drawn far above the reach of the
plangent, uneasy surf; fishermen idly reclining in the shade of a
tree;--these are the scenes which reveal themselves to us as we
voyage in our canoe on the Tanganika.  When wearied with the romance
of wild tropic scenes such as these, we have but to lift our eyes
to the great mountain tops looming darkly and grandly on our right;
to watch the light pencilling of the cirrus, brushing their summits,
as it is drifted toward the north by the rising wind: to watch the
changing forms which the clouds assume, from the fleecy horizontal
bars of the cirrus, to the denser, gloomier cumulus, prognosticator
of storm and rain, which soon settles into a portentous group--Alps
above Alps, one above another--and we know the storm which was
brewing is at hand, and that it is time to seek shelter.

Passing Muikamba, we saw several groves of the tall mvule tree.
As far as Bemba the Wabembe occupy the mountain summits, while
the Wavira cultivate the alluvial plains along the base and lower
slopes of the mountain.  At Bemba we halted to take in pieces of
pipe-clay, in accordance with the superstition of the Wajiji, who
thought us certain of safe passage and good fortune if we complied
with the ancient custom.

Passing Ngovi, we came to a deep bend, which curved off to Cape
Kabogi at the distance of ten miles.  About two-thirds of the way
we arrived at a group of islets, three in number, all very steep
and rocky; the largest about 300 feet in length at the base, and
about 200 feet in breadth.  Here we made preparations to halt for
the night.  The inhabitants of the island were a gorgeously-feathered
old cock, which was kept as a propitiatory offering to the spirit
of the island, a sickly yellow-looking thrush, a hammer-headed
stork, and two fish-hawks, who, finding we had taken possession of
what had been religiously reserved for them, took flight to the
most western island, where from their perches they continued
to eye us most solemnly.  As these islands were with difficulty
pronounced by us as Kavunvweh, the Doctor, seeing that they were
the only objects we were likely to discover, named them the
"'New York Herald' Islets;" and, in confirmation of the new
designation given them, shook hands with me upon it.  Careful
dead-reckoning settled them to be in lat. 3 degrees 41 minutes S.

The summit of the largest island was well adapted to take bearings,
and we improved the opportunity, as most extensive views of the
broad and lengthy lake and surrounding lines of imposing mountains
were attainable.  The Ramata Hills were clearly visible, and bore
N.N.E. from it; Katanga Cape, S.E. by S.; Sentakeyi, E.S.E.;
Magala, E. by N.; south-western point of Muzimu bore S., northern
point of Muzimu island, S.S.E.

At dawn on the 9th December we prepared to resume our voyage.
Once or twice in the night we had been visited by fishermen, but
our anxious watchfulness prevented any marauding.  It seemed to me,
however, that the people of the opposite shore, who were our
visitors, were eagerly watching an opportunity to pounce upon
our canoe, or take us bodily for a prey; and our men were
considerably affected by these thoughts, if we may judge from
the hearty good-will with which they rowed away from our late
encampment.

Arriving at Cape Kabogi, we came to the territory of the Wasansi.
We knew we were abreast of a different tribe by the greeting
"Moholo," which a group of fishermen gave us; as that of the
Wavira was "Wake," like that of Urundi, Usige, and Uhha.

We soon sighted Cape Luvumba--a sloping projection of a mountain
ridge which shot far into the lake.  As a storm was brewing, we
steered for a snug little cove that appeared before a village;
and, drawing our canoe from the water, began to set the tent, and
make other preparations for passing the night.

As the natives appeared quiet and civil enough, we saw no reason
to suspect that they entertained any hostility to Arabs and
Wangwana.  Accordingly we had our breakfast cooked, and as usual
laid down for an afternoon nap.  I soon fell asleep, and was
dreaming away in my tent, in happy oblivion of the strife and
contention that had risen since I had gone to sleep, when I heard
a voice hailing me with, "Master, master! get up, quick.  Here
is a fight going to begin!"  I sprang up, and snatching my revolver
belt from the gun-stand, walked outside.  Surely, there appeared to
be considerable animus between the several factions; between a
noisy, vindictive-looking set of natives of the one part, and our
people of the other part.  Seven or eight of our people had taken
refuge behind the canoe, and had their loaded guns half pointing at
the passionate mob, which was momentarily increasing in numbers,
but I could not see the Doctor anywhere.

"Where is the Doctor?" I asked.

"He has gone over that hill, sir, with his compass," said Selim.

"Anybody with him?"

"Susi and Chumah."

"You, Bombay, send two men off to warn the Doctor, and tell him
to hurry up here."

But just at this period the Doctor and his two men appeared on the
brow of the hill, looking down in a most complacent manner upon the
serio-comic scene that the little basin wherein we were encamped
presented.  For, indeed, despite the serious aspect of it, there
was much that was comical blended with it--in a naked young man
who--perfectly drunk, barely able to stand on his feet--was beating
the ground with his only loin-cloth, screaming and storming away
like a madman; declaring by this, and by that, in his own choice
language, that no Mgwana or Arab should halt one moment on the
sacred soil of Usansi.  His father, the Sultan, was as inebriated
as himself, though not quite so violent in his behaviour.  In the
meantime the Doctor arrived upon the scene, and Selim had slipped
my Winchester rifle, with the magazine full of cartridges, into my
hand.  The Doctor calmly asked what was the matter, and was
answered by the Wajiji guides that the people wished us to leave,
as they were on hostile terms with the Arabs, because the eldest
son of the Sultan of Muzimu, the large island nearly opposite, had
been beaten to death by a Baluch, named Khamis, at Ujiji, because
the young fellow had dared look into his harem, and ever since
peace had been broken between the Wasansi and Arabs.

After consulting with the guides, the Doctor and I came to the
conclusion that it were better that we should endeavour to pacify
the Sultan by a present, rather than take offence at a drunken boy's
extravagant freak.  In his insane fury he had attempted to slash at
one of my men with a billhook he carried.  This had been taken as
a declaration of hostilities, and the soldiers were ready enough
to engage in war; but there was no necessity to commence fighting
with a drunken mob, who could have been cleared off the ground
with our revolvers alone had we desired it.

The Doctor, baring his arm, said to them that he was not a Mgwana,
or an Arab; but a white man; that Arabs and Wangwana had no such
colour as we had.  We were white men, different people altogether
from those whom they were accustomed to see: that no black men
had ever suffered injury from white men.  This seemed to produce
great effect, for after a little gentle persuasion the drunken
youth, and his no less inebriate sire, were induced to sit down
to talk quietly.  In their conversation with us, they frequently
referred to Mombo, the son of Kisesa, Sultan of Muzimu, who was
brutally murdered.  "Yes, brutally murdered!" they exclaimed
several times, in their own tongue; illustrating, by a faithful
pantomime, how the unfortunate youth had died.

Livingstone continued talking with them in a mild, paternal way,
and their loud protestations against Arab cruelty were about to
subside, when the old Sultan suddenly rose up and began to pace
about in an excited manner, and in one of his perambulations
deliberately slashed his leg with the sharp blade of his spear,
and then exclaimed that the Wangwana had wounded him!

At this cry one half of the mob hastily took to flight, but one
old woman, who carried a strong staff with a carved lizard's body
on its top, commenced to abuse the chief with all the power of her
voluble tongue, charging him with a desire to have them all killed,
and other women joined in with her in advising him to be quiet,
and accept the present we were willing to give.

But it is evident that there was little needed to cause all men
present in that little hollow to begin a most sanguinary strife.
The gentle, patient bearing of the Doctor had more effect than
anything else in making all forbear bloodshed, while there was
left the least chance of an amicable settlement, and in the end
it prevailed.  The Sultan and his son were both sent on their way
rejoicing.

While the Doctor conversed with them, and endeavoured to calm their
fierce passions, I had the tent struck, and the canoes launched,
and the baggage stowed, and when the negotiations had concluded
amicably, I begged the Doctor to jump into the boat, as this
apparent peace was simply a lull before a storm; besides, said I,
there are two or three cowardly creatures in the boat, who, in
case of another disturbance, would not scruple to leave both of us
here.

From Cape Luvumba, about 4.30 P.M. we commenced pulling across;
at 8 P.M. we were abreast of Cape Panza, the northern extremity
of the island of Muzimu; at 6 A.M. we were southward of Bikari,
and pulling for Mukungu, in Urundi, at which place we arrived at
10 A.M., having been seventeen hours and a half in crossing the
lake, which, computing at two miles an hour, may be said to be
thirty-five miles direct breadth, and a little more than
forty-three miles from Cape Luvumba.

On the 11th of December, after seven hours' pulling, we arrived at
picturesque Zassi again; on the 12th, at the pretty cove of Niasanga;
and at 11 A.M. we had rounded past Bangwe, and Ujiji was before us.

We entered the port very quietly, without the usual firing of
guns, as we were short of powder and ball.  As we landed, our
soldiers and the Arab magnates came to the water's edge to greet
us.

Mabruki had a rich budget to relate to us, of what had occurred
during our absence.  This faithful man, left behind in charge of
Livingstone's house, had done most excellently.  Kalulu had scalded
himself, and had a frightful raw sore on his chest in consequence.
Mabruki had locked up Marora in chains for wounding one of the
asses.  Bilali, the stuttering coward, a bully of women, had
caused a tumult in the market-place, and had been sharply
belaboured with the stick by Mabruki.  And, above all most
welcome, was a letter I received from the American Consul at
Zanzibar, dated June 11th, containing telegrams from Paris as late
as April 22nd of the same year!  Poor Livingstone exclaimed, "And
I have none.  What a pleasant thing it is to have a real and good
friend!"

Our voyage on the Tanganika had lasted twenty-eight days, during
which time we had traversed over 300 miles of water.


CHAPTER XIV.  OUR JOURNEY FROM UJIJI TO UNYANYEMBE.


We felt quite at home when we sat down on our black bear-skin, gay
Persian carpet and clean new mats, to rest with our backs to the
wall, sipping our tea with the air of comfortable men, and chat
over the incidents of the "picnic," as Livingstone persisted in
calling our journey to the Rusizi.  It seemed as if old times,
which we loved to recall, had come back again, though our house
was humble enough in its aspect, and our servants were only naked
barbarians; but it was near this house that I had met him--
Livingstone--after that eventful march from Unyanyembe; it was on
this same veranda that I listened to that wonderful story of his
about those far, enchanting regions west of the Lake Tanganika;
it was in this same spot that I first became acquainted with him;
and ever since my admiration has been growing for him, and I feel
elated when he informs me that he must go to Unyanyembe under my
escort, and at my expense.  The old mud walls and the bare rafters,
and the ancient thatched roof, and this queer-looking old veranda,
will have an historical interest for me while I live, and so, while
I can, I have taken pains and immortalized the humble old building
by a sketch.

I have just said that my admiration for Livingstone has been
growing.  This is true.  The man that I was about to interview
so calmly and complacently, as I would interview any prominent
man with the view of specially delineating his nature, or detailing
his opinions, has conquered me.  I had intended to interview him,
report in detail what he said, picture his life and his figure,
then bow him my "au revoir," and march back.  That he was specially
disagreeable and brusque in his manner, which would make me quarrel
with him immediately, was firmly fixed in my mind.

But Livingstone--true, noble Christian, generous-hearted, frank
man--acted like a hero, invited me to his house, said he was glad
to see me, and got well on purpose to prove the truth of his
statement, "You have brought new life unto me;" and when I fell
sick with the remittent fever, hovering between life and death,
he attended me like a father, and we have now been together for
more than a month.

