Produced by David Widger


PERSONAL MEMOIRES OF P. H. SHERIDAN, VOLUME 2.

By Philip Henry Sheridan


CHAPTER I.

ORGANIZING SCOUTS--MISS REBECCA WRIGHT--IMPORTANT INFORMATION--DECIDE
TO MOVE ON NEWTOWN--MEETING GENERAL GRANT--ORGANIZATION OF THE UNION
ARMY--OPENING OF THE BATTLE OF THE OPEQUON--DEATH OF GENERAL RUSSELL
--A TURNING MOVEMENT--A SUCCESSFUL CAVALRY CHARGE--VICTORY--THREE
LOYAL GIRLS--APPOINTED A BRIGADIER-GENERAL IN THE REGULAR ARMY
--REMARKS ON THE BATTLE.

While occupying the ground between Clifton and Berryville, referred
to in the last chapter of the preceding volume, I felt the need of an
efficient body of scouts to collect information regarding the enemy,
for the defective intelligence-establishment with which I started out
from Harper's Ferry early in August had not proved satisfactory.  I
therefore began to organize my scouts on a system which I hoped would
give better results than bad the method hitherto pursued in the
department, which was to employ on this service doubtful citizens and
Confederate deserters.  If these should turn out untrustworthy, the
mischief they might do us gave me grave apprehension, and I finally
concluded that those of our own soldiers who should volunteer for the
delicate and hazardous duty would be the most valuable material, and
decided that they should have a battalion organization and be
commanded by an officer, Major H. K. Young, of the First Rhode Island
Infantry.  These men were disguised in Confederate uniforms whenever
necessary, were paid from the Secret-Service Fund in proportion to
the value of the intelligence they furnished, which often stood us in
good stead in checking the forays of Gilmore, Mosby, and other
irregulars.  Beneficial results came from the plan in many other ways
too, and particularly so when in a few days two of my scouts put me
in the way of getting news conveyed from Winchester.  

[26:1] It is manifest that it is on the part of Sweden that the
idea of identical laws has arisen. In Norway they afterwards
complained, especially the Radicals, of that »Massive instrument.»

[27:1] In the debate in the Storthing on April 27:th 1904 Mr CARL
BERNER said he had heard that Mr BLEHR'S explanation in the
Storthing respecting; the Communiqué before its publication was
made known to the Swedish government: that the latter, neither
previously, nor later on, had made any objections to it. To this
State Secretary MICHELSEN sharply replied, that »Mr BLEHR'S explanation
was only the explanation of the Norwegian government on the subject
of the Communiqué.»

[27:2] Further affirmation is given by Mr IBSEN'S declaration in the
Storthing, that the negotiations fell through in consequence of Mr
BOSTRÖM'S opposition to the request of the Norwegian delegates that
in the Communiqué it should be mentioned that the identical laws
were to be valid only »so long as the present system of foreign
administration existed.» When, finally, the Norwegians consented to
omit this condition, it could only have been their intention that
the laws should only be valid until by mutual consent they were
rescinded. Other explanations in the Storthing of the divergencies
of opinions on this point are to all intents unacceptable.

IV.
[Sidenote: _The reception of the Communiqué in Sweden and Norway._]

Even without taking into consideration the indistinctness that was
supposed to characterise the Communiqué, its general contents roused
no unanimous approbation.There upon I told him what I wished to do, and
after a little persuasion he agreed to carry a letter to her on his
next marketing trip.  My message was prepared by writing it on tissue
paper, which was then compressed into a small pellet, and protected
by wrapping it in tin-foil so that it could be safely carried in the
man's mouth.  The probability, of his being searched when he came to
the Confederate picketline was not remote, and in such event he was
to swallow the pellet.  The letter appealed to Miss Wright's loyalty
and patriotism, and requested her to furnish me with information
regarding the strength and condition of Early's army.  The night
before the negro started one of the scouts placed the odd-looking
communication in his hands, with renewed injunctions as to secrecy
and promptitude.  Early the next morning it was delivered to Miss
Wright, with an intimation that a letter of importance was enclosed
in the tin-foil, the negro telling her at the same time that she
might expect him to call for a message in reply before his return
home.  At first Miss Wright began to open the pellet nervously, but
when told to be careful, and to preserve the foil as a wrapping for
her answer, she proceeded slowly and carefully, and when the note
appeared intact the messenger retired, remarking again that in the
evening he would come for an answer.

On reading my communication Miss Wright was much startled by the
perils it involved, and hesitatingly consulted her mother, but her
devoted loyalty soon silenced every other consideration, and the
brave girl resolved to comply with my request, notwithstanding it
might jeopardize her life.  The evening before a convalescent
Confederate officer had visited her mother's house, and in
conversation about the war had disclosed the fact that Kershaw's
division of infantry and Cutshaw's battalion of artillery had started
to rejoin General Lee.  At the time Miss Wright heard this she
attached little if any importance to it, but now she perceived the
value of the intelligence, and, as her first venture, determined to
send it to me at once, which she did with a promise that in the
future she would with great pleasure continue to transmit information
by the negro messenger.


"SEPTEMBER 15, 1864.

"I learn from Major-General Crook that you are a loyal lady, and
still love the old flag.  Can you inform me of the position of
Early's forces, the number of divisions in his army, and the strength
of any or all of them, and his probable or reported intentions?  Have
any more troops arrived from Richmond, or are any more coming, or
reported to be coming?

"You can trust the bearer."

"I am, very respectfully, your most obedient servant,

"P. H. SHERIDAN, Major-General Commanding."


"SEPTEMBER 16, 1864.

"I have no communication whatever with the rebels, but will tell you
what I know.  The division of General Kershaw, and Cutshaw's
artillery, twelve guns and men, General Anderson commanding, have
been sent away, and no more are expected, as they cannot be spared
from Richmond.  I do not know how the troops are situated, but the
force is much smaller than represented.  I will take pleasure
hereafter in learning all I can of their strength and position, and
the bearer may call again.

"Very respectfully yours,"
............


Miss Wright's answer proved of more value to me than she anticipated,
for it not only quieted the conflicting reports concerning Anderson's
corps, but was most important in showing positively that Kershaw was
gone, and this circumstance led, three days later, to the battle of
the Opequon, or Winchester as it has been unofficially called.  Word
to the effect that some of Early's troops were under orders to return
to Petersburg, and would start back at the first favorable
opportunity, had been communicated to me already from many sources,
but we had not been able to ascertain the date for their departure.
Now that they had actually started, I decided to wait before offering
battle until Kershaw had gone so far as to preclude his return,
feeling confident that my prudence would be justified by the improved
chances of victory; and then, besides, Mr. Stanton kept reminding me
that positive success was necessary to counteract the political
dissatisfaction existing in some of the Northern States.  This course
was advised and approved by General Grant, but even with his powerful
backing it was difficult to resist the persistent pressure of those
whose judgment, warped by their interests in the Baltimore and Ohio
railroad, was often confused and misled by stories of scouts (sent
out from Washington), averring that Kershaw and Fitzhugh Lee had
returned to Petersburg, Breckenridge to southwestern Virginia, and at
one time even maintaining that Early's whole army was east of the
Blue Ridge, and its commander himself at Gordonsville.

During the inactivity prevailing in my army for the ten days
preceding Miss Wright's communication the infantry was quiet, with
the exception of Getty's division, which made a reconnoissance to the
Opequon, and developed a heavy force of the enemy at Edwards's
Corners.  The cavalry, however, was employed a good deal in this
interval skirmishing heavily at times to maintain a space about six
miles in width between the hostile lines, for I wished to control
this ground so that when I was released from the instructions of
August 12, I could move my men into position for attack without the
knowledge of Early.  The most noteworthy of these mounted encounters
was that of McIntosh's brigade, which captured the Eighth South
Carolina at Abraham's Creek September 13.

It was the evening of the 16th of September that I received from Miss
Wright the positive information that Kershaw was in march toward
Front Royal on his way by Chester Gap to Richmond.  But he perceives
that it has fallen out entirely otherwise; for he is wasting his
labor in writing Prologues, not for the purpose of relating
the plot, but to answer the slanders of a malevolent old Poet.[20]
Now I beseech you, give your attention to the thing which they impute
as a fault. Menander composed the Andrian[21] and the Perinthian.[22]
He who knows either of them well, will know them both; they are in
plot not very different, and yet they have been composed in different
language and style. What suited, he confesses he has transferred
into the Andrian from the Perinthian, and has employed them as his
own. These parties censure this proceeding; and on this point they
differ {from him}, that Plays ought not to be mixed up together.
By being {thus} knowing, do they not show that they know nothing
at all?

For while they are censuring him, they are censuring Nævius, Plautus,
{and} Ennius,[23] whom our {Poet} has for his precedents; whose
carelessness he prefers to emulate, rather than the mystifying
carefulness[24] of those parties.

Therefore, I advise them to be quiet in future, and to cease to slander;
that they may not be made acquainted with their own misdeeds. Be
well disposed, then; attend with unbiased mind, and consider the
matter, that you may determine what hope is left; whether the Plays
which he shall in future compose anew, are to be witnessed, or are
rather to be driven off {the stage}.

ACT THE FIRST.

SCENE I.

_Enter SIMO and SOSIA, followed by SERVANTS carrying provisions._

SIMO (_to the Servants._) Do you carry those things away in-doors;
begone. (_Beckoning to SOSIA._) Sosia, just step here; I want a few
words with you.

SOSIA. Consider it as said; that these things are to be taken care of,
I suppose.[25]
SIM. No, it's another matter.

SOS. What is there that my ability can effect for you more than
this?

SIM. There's no need of that ability in the matter which I have
in hand; but of those {qualities} which I have ever known as existing
in you, fidelity and secrecy.

SOS. I await your will.

SIM. Since I purchased you, you know that, from a little child, your
servitude with me has always been easy and light. From a slave I
made you my freedman;[26] for this reason, because you served me with
readiness. The greatest recompense that I possessed, I bestowed
upon you.

SOS. I bear it in mind.
SIM. I am not changed.
SOS. If I have done or am doing aught that is pleasing to you, Simo,
I am glad that it has been done; and that the same has been gratifying
to you, I consider {sufficient} thanks. But this is a cause of
uneasiness to me; for the recital is, as it were, a censure[27] to
one forgetful of a kindness. But tell me, in one word, what it is
that you want with me.
SIM. I'll do so. In the first place, in this affair I give you
notice:
this, which you suppose to be such, is not a real marriage.
SOS. Why do you pretend it then?
SIM. You shall hear all the matter from the beginning; by that means
you'll be acquainted with both my son's mode of life and my own
design, and what I want you to do in this affair. For after he had
passed youthfulness,[28] Sosia, and had obtained free scope of
living, (for before, how could you know or understand his disposition,
while _youthful_ age, fear, _and_ a master[29] were checking him?)Wilson's attack was to be supported by the Sixth and Nineteenth
corps, which were ordered to the Berryville crossing, and as the
cavalry gained the open ground beyond the gorge, the two infantry
corps, under command of General Wright, were expected to press on
after and occupy Wilson's ground, who was then to shift to the south
bank of Abraham's Creek and cover my left; Crook's two divisions,
having to march from Summit Point, were to follow the Sixth and
Nineteenth corps to the Opcquon, and should they arrive before the
action began, they were to be held in reserve till the proper moment
came, and then, as a turning-column, be thrown over toward the Valley
pike, south of Winchester.

McIntosh's brigade of Wilson's division drove the enemy's pickets
away from the Berryville crossing at dawn, and Wilson following
rapidly through the gorge with the rest of the division, debouched
from its western extremity with such suddenness as to capture a
small earthwork in front of General Ramseur's main line; and
not-withstanding the Confederate infantry, on recovering from its
astonishment, tried hard to dislodge them, Wilson's troopers
obstinately held the work till the Sixth Corps came up.  I followed
Wilson to select the ground on which to form the infantry.  The Sixth
Corps began to arrive about 8 o'clock, and taking up the line Wilson
had been holding, just beyond the head of the narrow ravine, the
cavalry was transferred to the south side of Abraham's Creek.

The Confederate line lay along some elevated ground about two miles
east of Winchester, and extended from Abraham's Creek north across
the Berryville pike, the left being hidden in the heavy timber on Red
Bud Run.  Between this line and mine, especially on my right, clumps
of woods and patches of underbrush occurred here and there, but the
undulating ground consisted mainly of open fields, many of which were
covered with standing corn that had already ripened.

Much time was lost in getting all of the Sixth and Nineteenth corps
through the narrow defile, Grover's division being greatly delayed
there by a train of ammunition wagons, and it was not until late in
the forenoon that the troops intended for the attack could be got
into line ready to advance.  General Early was not slow to avail
himself of the advantages thus offered him, and my chances of
striking him in detail were growing less every moment, for Gordon and
Rodes were hurrying their divisions from Stephenson's depot
--across-country on a line that would place Gordon in the woods south
of Red Bud Run, and bring Rodes into the interval between Gordon and
Ramseur.

When the two corps had all got through the canyon they were formed
with Getty's division of the Sixth to the left of the Berryville
pike, Rickett's division to the right of the pike, and Russell's
division in reserve in rear of the other two.  Grover's division of
the Nineteenth Corps came next on the right of Rickett's, with Dwight
to its rear in reserve, while Crook was to begin massing near the
Opequon crossing about the time Wright and Emory were ready to
attack.

Just before noon the line of Getty, Ricketts, and Grover moved
forward, and as we advanced, the Confederates, covered by some heavy
woods on their right, slight underbrush and corn-fields along their
Centre, and a large body of timber on their left along the Red Bud,
opened fire from their whole front.  We gained considerable ground at
first, especially on our left but the desperate resistance which the
right met with demonstrated that the time we had unavoidably lost in
the morning had been of incalculable value to Early, for it was
evident that he had been enabled already to so far concentrate his
troops as to have the different divisions of his army in a connected
line of battle, in good shape to resist.

Getty and Ricketts made some progress toward Winchester in connection
with Wilson's cavalry, which was beyond the Senseny road on Getty's
left, and as they were pressing back Ramseur's infantry and Lomax's
cavalry Grover attacked from the right with decided effect.  Grover
in a few minutes broke up Evans's brigade of Gordon's division, but
his pursuit of Evans destroyed the continuity of my general line, and
increased an interval that had already been made by the deflection of
Ricketts to the left, in obedience to instructions that had been
given him to guide his division on the Berryville pike.  As the line
pressed forward, Ricketts observed this widening interval and
endeavored to fill it with the small brigade of Colonel Keifer, but
at this juncture both Gordon and Rodes struck the weak spot where the
right of the Sixth Corps and the left of the Nineteenth should have
been in conjunction, and succeeded in checking my advance by driving
back a part of Ricketts's division, and the most of Grover's.  As
these troops were retiring I ordered Russell's reserve division to be
put into action, and just as the flank of the enemy's troops in
pursuit of Grover was presented, Upton's brigade, led in person by
both Russell and Upton, struck it in a charge so vigorous as to drive
the Confederates back in turn to their original ground.

The success of Russell enabled me to re-establish the right of my
line some little distance in advance of the position from which it
started in the morning, and behind Russell's division (now commanded
by Upton) the broken regiments of Ricketts's division were rallied.
Dwight's division was then brought up on the right, and Grover's men
formed behind it.

The charge of Russell was most opportune, but it cost many men in
killed and wounded.  Among the former was the courageous Russell
himself; killed by a piece of shell that passed through his heart,
although he had previously been struck by a bullet in the left
breast, which wound, from its nature, must have proved mortal, yet of
which he had not spoken.  Russell's death oppressed us all with
sadness, and me particularly.  In the early days of my army life he
was my captain and friend, and I was deeply indebted to him, not only
for sound advice and good example, but for the inestimable service he
had just performed, and sealed with his life, so it may be inferred
how keenly I felt his loss.

As my lines were being rearranged, it was suggested to me to put
Crook into the battle, but so strongly had I set my heart on using
him to take possession of the Valley pike and cut off the enemy, that
I resisted this advice, hoping that the necessity for putting him in
would be obviated by the attack near Stephenson's depot that
Torbert's cavalry was to make, and from which I was momentarily
expecting to hear.  No news of Torbert's progress came, however, so,
yielding at last, I directed Crook to take post on the right of the
Nineteenth Corps and, when the action was renewed, to push his
command forward as a turning-column in conjunction with Emory.  After
some delay in the annoying defile, Crook got his men up, and posting
Colonel Thoburn's division on the prolongation of the Nineteenth
Corps, he formed Colonel Duval's division to the right of Thoburn.
Here I joined Crook, informing him that I had just got word that
Torbert was driving the enemy in confusion along the Martinsburg pike
toward Winchester; at the same time I directed him to attack the
moment all of Duval's men were in line.  Wright was instructed to
advance in concert with Crook, by swinging Emory and the right of the
Sixth Corps to the left together in a half-wheel.  Then leaving
Crook, I rode along the Sixth and Nineteenth corps, the open ground
over which they were passing affording a rare opportunity to witness
the precision with which the attack was taken up from right to left.
Crook's success began the moment he started to turn the enemy's left;
and assured by the fact that Torbert had stampeded the Confederate
cavalry and thrown Breckenridge's infantry into such disorder that it
could do little to prevent the envelopment of Gordon's left, Crook
pressed forward without even a halt.

.

[2:2] How the Norwegian Storthing, made up as it is, of large numbers
of lawyers, has contributed to this, is well known to all.

[2:3] On this account, it has especially been vindicated that the
Act of Union plainly indicates a joint Foreign Policy, which is scarcely
possible without a joint Foreign Administration; that the same Act
of Union only acknowledges the Swedish Foreign Minister of State as
the head of the Foreign Administration for the Union; that in the
»Eidswold Constitution», at the commencement of the Union, the
paragraph referring to the Norwegian Foreign Minister of State was
simply ignored. This last inconvenient fact is interpreted by the
modern Norwegian theory of State Law as implying, that the Norwegian
Constitution has left the administration of Foreign affairs to the
King personally, who, in his turn on the grounds of this authority
has placed it in the hands of the Swedish Minister of Foreign
Affairs.

NANSEN (page 49 and following.) The artfulness of this legal
construction becomes immediately obvious. It is exceedingly remarkable
also to find that Norwegian parliamentarism can commit such a blasphemy
towards the Constitution, that it has confered a position of
importance on the King Himself.

[3:1] The Norwegian Right Side (Conservative) has not either
emphatically disputed the Swedish conception

.

[3:2] Illustrative of the Norwegian way of confusing the Swedish
_legal conception_ and the Swedish _amendment programme_ in the
Union question is an expression of NANSEN (page 61). According to him
»the Swedish government as late as 1891 appeared, as already
mentioned, inclined to deny Norway every right of taking part in
the administration of foreign affairs», while in 1893 the Swedish
Government offered a joint Minister for Foreign Affairs for the
Union. The state of the case was, that the Swedish Government
in 1891 offered Norway _increase_ of influence in Foreign affairs,
but in motioning this offer the Swedish legal point of view was
maintained, that the administration of Foreign (diplomatic) affairs
for the Union by the Swedish Minister for Foreign Affairs was
founded on legal right. Reflections arise of themselves.

[4:1] Sweden has especially tried to annul the paragraph 25 of
Norway's fundamental law which limits the duty of its Union defence.
According to this paragraph, the Yeomanry and other Norwegian troops,
that cannot be reckoned as belonging to the line, may not be
employed outside the boundaries of the Kingdom.

This law has proved so much the more pernicous, as the Norwegians by
their recruiting regulations have illoyally withdrawn from the
Union-defence part of their fighting forces, by outrageously entering
into the line a limited number only of the annual classes of
recruits.

[5:1] Mr HAGERUP also affirmed openly in the Storthing of 1904 that
the Union question had in quite too high a degree come to be
regarded by the Norwegian parties as a workshop of weapons for
elections campaigns

.

[5:2] We get a glimpse of this romance, in the midst of the ultra
modern »glorious» revolution. At a large meeting at Hamar it was
decreed, that the new King should bear a name after one on the
ancient Kings of Norway.
In a festival number of a »Vordens Gang» in honour of the revolution
we find printed a »Psalm on Olaf's Day» written by BJÖRNSON.
[6:1] That Norway in carrying out the law (1899) respecting the
flag, broke an agreement with Sweden made in 1844, was of course
only in conformity with everything else.

II.
[Sidenote: _The Consul question._]
The Consular Question is a red thread running through the history
of the Union struggles during the last fourteen years--
[Sidenote: _The change in the Swedish Constitution of 1885._]
The Norwegians on their part in attempting to defend the way in
which the Left Side started the Union Policy in the beginning of
1890, always allude to what happened in Sweden in 1885[8:1].Our presence was,
to them, an assurance of victory, and their delight being
irrepressible, they indulged in the most unguarded manifestations and
expressions.  When cautioned by Crook, who knew them well, and
reminded that the valley had hitherto been a race-course--one day in
the possession of friends, and the next of enemies--and warned of the
dangers they were incurring by such demonstrations, they assured him
that they had no further fears of that kind now, adding that Early's
army was so demoralized by the defeat it had just sustained that it
would never be in condition to enter Winchester again.  As soon as we
had succeeded in calming the excited girls a little I expressed a
desire to find some place where I could write a telegram to General
Grant informing him of the result of the battle, and General Crook
conducted me to the home of Miss Wright, where I met for the first
time the woman who had contributed so much to our success, and on a
desk in her school-room wrote the despatch announcing that we had
sent Early's army whirling up the valley.

My losses in the battle of the Opequon were heavy, amounting to about
4,500 killed, wounded, and missing.  Among the killed was General
Russell, commanding a division, and the wounded included Generals
Upton, McIntosh and Chapman, and Colonels Duval and Sharpe.  The
Confederate loss in killed, wounded, and prisoners about equaled
mine, General Rodes being of the killed, while Generals Fitzhugh Lee
and York were severely wounded.

We captured five pieces of artillery and nine battle-flags.  The
restoration of the lower valley--from the Potomac to Strasburg--to
the control of the Union forces caused great rejoicing in the North,
and relieved the Administration from further solicitude for the
safety of the Maryland and Pennsylvania borders.  The President's
appreciation of the victory was expressed in a despatch so like Mr.
Lincoln that I give a facsimile of it to the reader:

[In the handwriting of President Lincoln]
"EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT
"WASHINGTON, Sep.  20, 1864

"MAJOR-GENERAL SHERMAN
"WINCHESTER, VA.

"Have just heard of your great victory.  God bless you all, officers
and men.  Strongly inclined to come up and see you.

"A. LINCOLN."


This he supplemented by promoting me to the grade of
brigadier-general in the regular army, and assigning me to the
permanent command of the Middle Military Department, and following that
came warm congratulations from Mr. Stanton and from Generals Grant,
Sherman, and Meade.

The battle was not fought out on the plan in accordance with which
marching orders were issued to my troops, for I then hoped to take
Early in detail, and with Crook's force cut off his retreat.  I
adhered to this purpose during the early part of the contest, but was
obliged to abandon the idea because of unavoidable delays by which I
was prevented from getting the Sixth and Nineteenth corps through the
narrow defile and into position early enough to destroy Ramseur while
still isolated.  So much delay had not been anticipated, and this
loss of time was taken advantage of by the enemy to recall the troops
diverted to Bunker Hill and Martinsburg on the 17th, thus enabling
him to bring them all to the support of Ramseur before I could strike
with effect.  My idea was to attack Ramseur and Wharton,
successively, at a very early hour and before they could get succor,
but I was not in condition to do it till nearly noon, by which time
Gordon and Rodes had been enabled to get upon the ground at a point
from which, as I advanced, they enfiladed my right flank, and gave it
such a repulse that to re-form this part of my line I was obliged to
recall the left from some of the ground it had gained.  It was during
this reorganization of my lines that I changed my plan as to Crook,
and moved him from my left to my right.  This I did with great
reluctance, for I hoped to destroy Early's army entirely if Crook
continued on his original line of march toward the Valley pike, south
of Winchester; and although the ultimate results did, in a measure
vindicate the change, yet I have always thought that by adhering to
the original plan we might have captured the bulk of Early's army.


CHAPTER 11.

PURSUING EARLY--A SECRET MARCH--FISHER'S HILL--A GREAT SUCCESS
--REMOVAL OF AVERELL--THE RETREAT--CAPTURING AN OLD COMRADE
--THE MURDER OF LIEUTENANT MEIGS.

The night of the 19th of September I gave orders for following Early
up the valley next morning--the pursuit to begin at daybreak--and in
obedience to these directions Torbert moved Averell out on the Back
road leading to Cedar Creek, and Merritt up the Valley pike toward
Strasburg, while Wilson was directed on Front Royal by way of
Stevensburg.  Merritt's division was followed by the infantry,
Emory's and Wright's columns marching abreast in the open country to
the right and left of the pike, and Crook's immediately behind them.
It has so often been said that the dynasty tries to look after
its own interests, but this is not true. The Union is not of
paramount interest to the _dynasty_, but it should be so to the
two _peoples_, for it is a vital condition for their happiness and
future.No effort was made to dislodge him, and
later in the day, after Wright and Emory came up, Torbert shifted
Merritt over toward the Back road till he rejoined Averell.  As
Merritt moved to the right, the Sixth and Nineteenth corps crossed
Cedar Creek and took up the ground the cavalry was vacating, Wright
posting his own corps to the west of the Valley pike overlooking
Strasburg, and Emory's on his left so as to extend almost to the road
leading from Strasburg to Front Royal.  Crook, as he came up the same
evening, went into position in some heavy timber on the north bank of
Cedar Creek.

