While unpacking my trunk today I came across my wedding veil and
it was all gray and dingy like the end of my honeymoon. How
many sweet and tremulous illusions I folded into it on that
first night and how soon afterwards did three-fourths of
the world look like ashes to me.
Q.E.D.

 APPENDIX:  In the foregoing I have explained the nature and
properties of God.  I have shown that he  necessarily exists,
that he is one:  that he is, and acts solely by the necessity of
his own  nature; that he is the free cause of all things, and how
he is so; that all things are in God,  and so depend on him, that
without him they could neither exist nor be conceived; lastly,
that all things are predetermined by God, not through his free
will or absolute fiat, but from  the very nature of God or
infinite power.  I have further, where occasion afforded, taken
care to remove the prejudices, which might impede the
comprehension of my  demonstrations.  Yet there still remain
misconceptions not a few, which might and may  prove very grave
hindrances to the understanding of the concatenation of things,
as I have  explained it above.  I have therefore thought it worth
while to bring these misconceptions  before the bar of reason.

All such opinions spring from the notion commonly entertained,
that all things in nature act  as men themselves act, namely,
with an end in view.  It is accepted as certain, that God
himself directs all things to a definite goal (for it is said
that God made all things for man,  and man that he might worship
him).  I will, therefore, consider this opinion, asking first,
why it obtains general credence, and why all men are naturally so
prone to adopt it?Lovingly they cast Their mantle o'er her,
striving to uplift Her thoughts to heavenly sources, and allure
To deeds of charity, that draw the sting From selfishness of
sorrow." But she shrank From social intercourse, nor took her
seat Even in the House of God, lest prying eyes Should gloat upon
her downfall. Books, nor work Enticed her, and the lov'd piano's
tone Waking sad echoes of the days that were, She seem'd to
shun. Her joy was in her child.
The chief delight and solace of her life To adorn his dress,
and trim his shining curls, Dote on his beauty, and conceal his
faults, With weak indulgence.
"Oh, Miranda, love!
Teach your fair boy, obedience. 'Tis the first Lesson of life. To
him, you fill the place Of that Great Teacher who doth will us all
To learn submission." But Miranda will'd In her own private
mind, not to adopt Such old-world theories, deeming the creed
Of the grey-headed Mother, obsolete.
--Her boy was fair; but in those manners fail'd That render beauty
pleasing. Great regard Had he for self, and play, and dainty
food, Unlike those Jewish children, who refused The fare
luxurious of Chaldea's king, And on their simple diet grow more
fair And healthful than their mates, and wiser too, Than the wise
men of Babylon.
I've seen Ill-fortune follow those, whose early tastes Were
pampered and inured to luxury.
Their palates seem'd to overtop the brain, And the rank
Dives-pleasure, to subvert Childhood's simplicity of sweet
content.
--Precocious appetites, when overruled, Or disappointed, lend
imperious strength To evil tempers, and a fierce disdain.
Methought, our Mother-Land, in this respect Had wiser usages. Her
little ones At their own regular, plain table learn'd No culinary
criticism, nor claim'd Admission to the richly furnish'd board
Nor deem'd the viands of their older friends Pertain'd to
them.
A pleasant sight it was At close of day, their simple supper o'er,
To find them in the quiet nursery laid, Like rose-buds
folded in a fragrant sheath To peaceful slumber. Hence their
nerves attain'd Firm texture, and the key-stone of the frame,
This wondrous frame, so often sinn'd against,-- Unwarp'd and
undispeptic, gave to life A higher zest.
Year after year swept by, And Conrad's symmetry of form and face
Grew more conspicuous. Yet he fail'd to win Approval from the
pious, or desire To seek him as companion for their sons.

--At school and college he defied restraint, And round the associates
of his idle hours Threw a mysterious veil. But rumor spake Of them,
as those who would be sure to bring Disgrace and infamy.
Strong thirst for gold Sprang with the weeds of vice.Thus the prejudice developed into
superstition, and took deep root in  the human mind; and for this
reason everyone strove most zealously to understand and  explain
the final causes of things; but in their endeavor to show that
nature does nothing  in vain, i.e. nothing which is useless to
man, they only seem to have demonstrated that  nature, the gods,
and men are all mad together.  Consider, I pray you, the result:
among  the many helps of nature they were bound to find some
hindrances, such as storms,  earthquakes, diseases, &c.:  so they
declared that such things happen, because the gods  are angry at
some wrong done to them by men, or at some fault committed in
their  worship.  Experience day by day protested and showed by
infinite examples, that good  and evil fortunes fall to the lot
of pious and impious alike; still they would not abandon  their
inveterate prejudice, for it was more easy for them to class such
contradictions among  other unknown things of whose use they were
ignorant, and thus to retain their actual and  innate condition
of ignorance, than to destroy the whole fabric of their reasoning
and start  afresh.  They therefore laid down as an axiom, that
God's judgments far transcend human  understanding.  Such a
doctrine might well have sufficed to conceal the truth from the
human race for all eternity, if mathematics had not furnished
another standard of verity in  considering solely the essence and
properties of figures without regard to their final causes.
There are other reasons (which I need not mention here) besides
mathematics, which might  have caused men's minds to be directed
to these general prejudices, and have led them to  the knowledge
of the truth.

I have now sufficiently explained my first point.  There is no
need to show at length, that  nature has no particular goal in
view, and that final causes are mere human figments.  This,  I
think, is already evident enough, both from the causes and
foundations on which I have  shown such prejudice to be based,
and also from Prop. xvi., and the Corollary of Prop.  xxxii.,
and, in fact, all those propositions in which I have shown, that
everything in nature  proceeds from a sort of necessity, and with
the utmost perfection.  However, I will add a  few remarks in
order to overthrow this doctrine of a final cause utterly.  That
which is  really a cause it considers as an effect, and vice
versa:  it makes that which is by nature  first to be last, and
that which is highest and most perfect to be most imperfect.
Passing  over the questions of cause and priority as
self-evident, it is plain from Props. xxi., xxii.,  xxiii. that
the effect is most perfect which is produced immediately by God;
the effect  which requires for its production several
intermediate causes is, in that respect, more  imperfect.  But if
those things which were made immediately by God were made to
enable  him to attain his end, then the things which come after,
for the sake of which the first were  made, are necessarily the
most excellent of all.

Further, this doctrine does away with the perfection of God:
for, if God acts for an object,  he necessarily desires something
which he lacks.  Certainly, theologians and metaphysicians  draw
a distinction between the object of want and the object of
assimilation; still they  confess that God made all things for
the sake of himself, not for the sake of creation.  They  are
unable to point to anything prior to creation, except God
himself, as an object for  which God should act, and are
therefore driven to admit (as they clearly must), that God
lacked those things for whose attainment he created means, and
further that he desired  them.

We must not omit to notice that the followers of this doctrine,
anxious to display their  talent in assigning final causes, have
imported a new method of argument in proof of their
theory--namely, a reduction, not to the impossible, but to
ignorance; thus showing that they  have no other method of
exhibiting their doctrine.  For example, if a stone falls from a
roof  onto someone's head, and kills him, they will demonstrate
by their new method, that the  stone fell in order to kill the
man; for, if it had not by God's will fallen with that object,
how could so many circumstances (and there are often many
concurrent circumstances)  have all happened together by chance?
Perhaps you will answer that the event is due to  the facts that
the wind was blowing, and the man was walking that way.  "But
why," they  will insist, "was the wind blowing, and why was the
man at that very time walking that  way?"  If you again answer,
that the wind had then sprung up because the sea had begun  to be
agitated the day before, the weather being previously calm, and
that the man had  been invited by a friend, they will again
insist:  "But why was the sea agitated, and why was  the man
invited at that time?"  So they will pursue their questions from
cause to cause, till  at last you take refuge in the will of
God--in other words, the sanctuary of ignorance.  So,  again,
when they survey the frame of the human body, they are amazed;
and being  ignorant of the causes of so great a work of art,
conclude that it has been fashioned, not  mechanically, but by
divine and supernatural skill, and has been so put together that
one  part shall not hurt another.

Hence anyone who seeks for the true causes of miracles, and
strives to understand natural  phenomena as an intelligent being,
and not to gaze at them like a fool, is set down and  denounced
as an impious heretic by those, whom the masses adore as the
interpreters of  nature and the gods.  Such persons know that,
with the removal of ignorance, the wonder  which forms their only
available means for proving and preserving their authority would
vanish also.  But I now quit this subject, and pass on to my
third point.

After men persuaded themselves, that everything which is created
is created for their sake,  they were bound to consider as the
chief quality in everything that which is most useful to
themselves, and to account those things the best of all which
have the most beneficial effect  on mankind.  I am so happy, so
proud, so grateful that my mate is as far-seeing as I am, and we
feel a mutual dread for the time when we must forsake our Black
Hills for the fuller and less satisfying life in New York--but
we can't play always, out here in the sunshine.
I will speak of these latter hereafter, when I treat of human
nature; the former I will briefly  explain here.

