It was an evening of surprises.  At six, Adam lighted a big log,
festooned with leaves and berries so that the flames roared and
crackled up the chimney.  The early arrivals were the young people
who had hung the mantel, gas fixtures, curtain poles and draped
the doors with long sprays of bittersweet, northern holly, and
great branches of red spice berries, dogwood with its red leaves
and berries, and scarlet and yellow oak leaves.  The elders
followed and piled the table with heaps of food, then trailed red
vines between dishes.  In a quandary as to what to wear, without
knowing what was expected of him further than saying "I will," at
the proper moment, Robert ended by slipping into Kate's room,
dressed in white flannel.  The ceremony was over at ten minutes
after six.  Kate was lovely, Robert was handsome, everyone was
happy, the supper was a banquet.  The Bates family went home, Adam
disappeared with Milly, while Little Poll went to sleep.

Left to themselves, Robert took Kate in his arms and tried to tell
her how much he loved her, but felt he expressed himself poorly.
As she stood before him, he said:  "And now, dear, tell me what
changed you, and why we are married to-night instead of at
Christmas, or in the spring."

"Oh, yes," said Kate, "I almost forgot!  Why, I wanted you to
answer a letter for me."

"Lucid!" said Robert.  He seated himself beside the table.  "Bring
on the ink and stationary, and let me get it over."

Kate obeyed, and with the writing material, laid down the letter
she had that morning received from John Jardine, telling her that
his wife had died suddenly, and that as soon as he had laid her
away, he was coming to exact a definite promise from her as to the
future; and that he would move Heaven and earth before he would
again be disappointed.  Robert read the letter and laid it down,
his face slowing flushing scarlet.

"You called me out here, and married me expressly to answer this?"
he demanded.

"Of course!" said Kate.  "I thought if you could tell him that his
letter came the day I married you, it would stop his coming, and
not be such a disappointment to him."

Robert pushed the letter from him violently, and arose "By -- --!"
he checked himself and stared at her.  "Kate, you don't MEAN
that!" he cried.  "Tell me, you don't MEAN that!"

"Why, SURE I do," said Kate.  "It gave me a fine excuse.  Never did
I hear any thing more sonorously grand and awful than that
portentous inbreathing of Gog and Magog, resounding through the
Gothic vastness of Guildhall; but, behold! how omnipotent is
the dreaming imagination! I myself had been dozing; the sound of
my own nose, transferred by a metonymy of the fancy to the
nostrils of those wooden idols, had become, as it were, the living
apotheosis of a snore, which had subdued me by its sublimity.
Most fortunate was it that I awoke; for, on attentively inspecting
the faces of the figures, I saw them working and writhing with all
the contortions of the Pythoness or the Sibyl, labouring in the
very throes of inspiration, struggling with the advent of the
prophetical afflatus.The minute Agatha told me
this morning, I began to think how I could take back what I'd been
saying, how I could change, and right then Adam handed me that
letter, and it gave me a fine way out, and so I called you.  Sure,
I married you to answer that, Robert; now go and do it."

"All right," he said.  "In a minute."

Then he walked to her and took her in his arms again, but Kate
could not understand why he was laughing until he shook when he
kissed her.