           and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


THE ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY

BY WILLIAM HARMON NORTON

PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY IN CORNELL COLLEGE

PREFACE

Geology is a science of such rapid growth that no apology is
expected when from time to time a new text-book is added to those
already in the field. The present work, however, is the outcome of
the need of a text-book of very simple outline, in which causes
and their consequences should be knit together as closely as
possible,--a need long felt by the author in his teaching, and
perhaps by other teachers also. The author has ventured,
therefore, to depart from the common usage which subdivides
geology into a number of departments,--dynamical, structural,
physiographic, and historical,--and to treat in immediate
connection with each geological process the land forms and the
rock structures which it has produced.

It is hoped that the facts of geology and the inferences drawn
from them have been so presented as to afford an efficient
discipline in inductive reasoning. Typical examples have been used
to introduce many topics, and it has been the author's aim to give
due proportion to both the wide generalizations of our science and
to the concrete facts on which they rest.

There have been added a number of practical exercises such as the
author has used for several years in the class room. These are not
made so numerous as to displace the problems which no doubt many
teachers prefer to have their pupils solve impromptu during the
recitation, but may, it is hoped, suggest their use.

In historical geology a broad view is given of the development of
the North American continent and the evolution of life upon the
planet. Only the leading types of plants and animals are
mentioned, and special attention is given to those which mark the
lines of descent of forms now living.

By omitting much technical detail of a mineralogical and
paleontological nature, and by confining the field of view almost
wholly to our own continent, space has been obtained to give to
what are deemed for beginners the essentials of the science a
fuller treatment than perhaps is common.

It is assumed that field work will be introduced with the
commencement of the study. The common rocks are therefore briefly
described in the opening chapters. The drift also receives early
mention, and teachers in the northern states who begin geology in
the fall may prefer to take up the chapter on the Pleistocene
immediately after the chapter on glaciers.

Simple diagrams have been used freely, not only because they are
often clearer than any verbal statement, but also because they
readily lend themselves to reproduction on the blackboard by the
pupil. The text will suggest others which the pupil may invent. It
is hoped that the photographic views may also be used for
exercises in the class room.

The generous aid of many friends is recognized with special
pleasure. To Professor W. M. Davis of Harvard University there is
owing a large obligation for the broad conceptions and luminous
statements of geologic facts and principles with which he has
enriched the literature of our science, and for his stimulating
influence in education. It is hoped that both in subject-matter
and in method the book itself makes evident this debt. But besides
a general obligation shared by geologists everywhere, and in
varying degrees by perhaps all authors of recent American text-
books in earth science, there is owing a debt direct and personal.
The plan of the book, with its use of problems and treatment of
land forms and rock structures in immediate connection with the
processes which produce them, was submitted to Professor Davis,
and, receiving his approval, was carried into effect, although
without the sanction of precedent at the time. Professor Davis
also kindly consented to read the manuscript throughout, and his
many helpful criticisms and suggestions are acknowledged with
sincere gratitude.

Parts of the manuscript have been reviewed by Dr. Samuel Calvin
and Dr. Frank M. Wilder of the State University of Iowa; Dr. S. W.
Beyer of the Iowa College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts; Dr. U.
S. Grant of Northwestern University; Professor J. A. Udden of
Augustana College, Illinois; Dr. C. H. Gordon of the New Mexico
State School of Mines; Principal Maurice Ricker of the High
School, Burlington, Iowa; and the following former students of the
author who are engaged in the earth sciences: Dr. W. C. Alden of
the United States Geological Survey and the University of Chicago;
Mr. Joseph Sniffen, instructor in the Academy of the University of
Chicago, Morgan Park; Professor Martin Iorns, Fort Worth
University, Texas; Professor A. M. Jayne, Dakota University;
Professor G. H. Bretnall, Monmouth College, Illinois; Professor
Howard E. Simpson, Colby College, Maine; Mr. E. J. Cable,
instructor in the Iowa State Normal College; Principal C. C. Gray
of the High School, Fargo, North Dakota; and Mr. Charles Persons
of the High School, Hannibal, Missouri. A large number of the
diagrams of the book were drawn by Mr. W. W. White of the Art
School of Cornell College. To all these friends, and to the many
who have kindly supplied the illustrations of the text, whose
names are mentioned in an appended list, the writer returns his
heartfelt thanks.

WILLIAM HARMON NORTON

CORNELL COLLEGE, MOUNT VERNON, IOWA

JULY, 1905


INTRODUCTORY NOTE

During the preparation of this book Professor Norton has
frequently discussed its plan with me by correspondence, and we
have considered together the matters of scope, arrangement, and
presentation.

As to scope, the needs of the young student and not of the expert
have been our guide; the book is therefore a text-book, not a
reference volume.

In arrangement, the twofold division of the subject was chosen
because of its simplicity and effectiveness. The principles of
physical geology come first; the several chapters are arranged in
what is believed to be a natural order, appropriate to the
greatest part of our country, so that from a simple beginning a
logical sequence of topics leads through the whole subject. The
historical view of the science comes second, with many specific
illustrations of the physical processes previously studied, but
now set forth as part of the story of the earth, with its many
changes of aspect and its succession of inhabitants. Special
attention is here given to North America, and care is taken to
avoid overloading with details.

With respect to method of presentation, it must not be forgotten
that the text-book is only one factor in good teaching, and that
in geology, as in other sciences, the teacher, the laboratory, and
the local field are other factors, each of which should play an
appropriate part. The text suggests observational methods, but it
cannot replace observation in field or laboratory; it offers
certain exercises, but space cannot be taken to make it a
laboratory manual as well as a book for study; it explains many
problems, but its statements are necessarily more terse than the
illustrative descriptions that a good and experienced teacher
should supply. Frequent use is made of induction and inference in
order that the student may come to see how reasonable a science is
geology, and that he may avoid the too common error of thinking
that the opinions of "authorities" are reached by a private road
that is closed to him. Rest! What rest? However, he took a couple
of glasses of sherry, and mounted the stairs. Far be it
from us to follow him thither. There are some things
which no novelist, no historian, should attempt; some few scenes
in life's drama which even no poet should dare to paint.

Let that which passed between Dr Proudie and his wife on this night
be understood to be among them.

He came down the following morning a sad and thoughtful man.

He was attenuated in appearance; one might almost say emaciated.

I doubt whether his now grizzled looks had not palpably become more
grey than on the preceding evening.

At any rate he had aged materially.

Years do not make a man old gradually and at an even pace.

Look through the world and see if this is not so always, except in
those rare cases in which the human being lives and dies without
joys and without sorrows, like a vegetable.

     A man shall be possessed of
    florid youthful blooming
   health till it matters
    not what age.
     Thirty--forty--fifty,
    then comes some nipping
   frost, some period of agony,
  that robs the fibres of the body of their succulence, and the hale
and hearty man is counted among the old.

He came down and breakfasted alone; Mrs Proudie being indisposed
took her coffee in her bed-room, and her daughters waited upon her
there.

He ate his breakfast alone, and then, hardly knowing what he did,
he betook himself to his usual seat in his study.

    He tried to solace himself with his
     coming visit
    to the archbishop.
   That effort of his own free will at any rate
  remained to him as an enduring triumph.

But somehow, now that he had achieved it, he did not seem to care
so much about it.

It was his ambition that had prompted him to take his place at the
arch-episcopal table, and his ambition was now quite dead within
him.

   He was thus seated when Mr
    Slope made his appearance
   with breathless
  impatience.
 
   'My lord, the dean is
    dead.'
   'Good heavens,'
  exclaimed the bishop,
 startled out of his apathy by an announcement so sad and so sudden.

'He is either dead or now dying.

He has had an apoplectic fit, and I am told that there is not the
slightest hope; indeed, I do not doubt that by this time he is no
more.'

Bells were rung, and servants were immediately sent to inquire.

In the course of the morning, the bishop, leaning on his chaplain's
arm, himself called at the deanery door. Mrs Proudie sent to
Miss Trefoil all manner of offers of assistance. The Miss Proudies
sent also, and there was immense sympathy between the palace and
the deanery. The answer to all inquiries was unvaried. The dean was
just the same; and Sir Omicron Pie was expected there by the
9.15pm train.

And then Mr Slope began to meditate, as others also had done, as
to who might possibly be the new dean; and it occurred to him,
as it had also occurred to others, that it might be possible that
he should be the new dean himself. And then the question as to
the twelve hundred, or fifteen hundred, or two thousand, ran in
his mind, as it had run through those of the other clergymen in
the cathedral library.

Whether it might be two thousand, of fifteen, or twelve hundred,
it would in any case undoubtedly be a great thing for him, if he
could get it. The gratification to his ambition would be greater
even than that of his covetousness.

How glorious to out-top the archdeacon in his own cathedral city;
to sit above prebendaries and canons, and have the cathedral pulpit
and all the cathedral services altogether at his own disposal!

But it might be easier to wish for this than to obtain it. Mr Slope,
however, was not without some means of forwarding his views, and
he at any rate did not let the grass grow under his feet. In the
first place he thought--and not vainly--that he could count upon
what assistance the bishop could give him.

He immediately changed his views with regard to his patron; he
made up his mind that if he became dean, he would hand his
lordship back to his wife's vassalage; and he thought it possible
that his lordship might not be sorry to rid himself of one of
his mentors. Mr Slope had also taken some steps towards making
his name known to other men in power. There was a certain
chief-commissioner of national schools who at the present moment
was presumed to stand especially high in the good graces of the
government big wigs, and with him Mr Slope had contrived to establish
a sort of epistolary intimacy.

He thought that he might safely apply to Sir Nicholas Fitzhiggin;
and he felt sure that if Sir Nicholas chose to exert himself,
the promise of such a piece of preferment would be had for the
asking for.

Then he also had the press at his bidding, or flattered himself
that he had so. The daily Jupiter had taken his part in a very
thorough manner in those polemical contests of his with Mr Arabin;
he had on more than one occasion absolutely had an interview with
a gentleman on the staff of the paper, who, if not the editor, was
as good as the editor; and had long been in the habit of writing
telling letters with his initials, and sent to his editorial friend
with private notes signed in his own name.

Indeed, he and Mr Towers--such was the name of the powerful
gentleman of the press with whom he was connected--were generally
very amiable with each other. Mr Slope's little productions were
always printed and occasionally commented upon; and thus, in a
small sort of way, he had become a literary celebrity.

This public life had great charms for him, though it certainly also
had its drawbacks. On one occasion, when speaking in the presence
of reporters, he had failed to uphold and praise and swear by
that special line of conduct which had been upheld and praised
and sworn by in the Jupiter, and then he had been much surprised
and at the moment not a little irritated to find himself lacerated
most unmercifully by his old ally.

He was quizzed and bespattered and made a fool of, just as though,
or rather than if, he had been a constant enemy instead of a constant
friend. He had hitherto not learnt that a man who aspires to be
on the staff of the Jupiter must surrender all individuality.

But ultimately this little castigation had broken no bones between
him and his friend Mr Towers. Mr Slope was one of those who
understood the world too well to show himself angry with such a
potentate as the Jupiter. He had kissed the rod that scourged
him, and now thought that he might fairly look for his reward.
He determined that he would at once let Mr Towers know that he was
a candidate for the place which was about to be become vacant.
More than one place of preferment had lately been given away much
in accordance with advice tendered to the government in the columns
of the Jupiter.

But it was in incumbent on Mr Slope first to secure the bishop. He
specially felt that it behoved him to do this before the visit
to the archbishop was made. It was really quite providential that
the dean should have fallen ill just at the very nick of time.
If Dr Proudie could be instigated to take the matter up warmly,
he might manage a good deal while staying at the archbishop's
palace.
Feeling this very strongly Mr Slope determined to sound the bishop
out that very afternoon. He was to start on the following morning
to London, and therefore not a moment could be lost with
safety.

He went into the bishop's study about five o'clock, and found him
still sitting alone. It might have been supposed that he had
hardly moved since the little excitement occasioned by the
walk to the dean's door. He still wore on his face that dull
dead look of half unconscious suffering. He was doing nothing,
reading nothing, thinking of nothing, but simply gazing on vacancy
when Mr Slope for the second time that day entered his room.

'Well, Slope,' said he, somewhat impatiently; for, to tell the
truth, he was not anxious just at present to have much
conversation with Mr Slope.

'Your lordship will be sorry to hear that as yet the poor dean has
shown no signs of amendment.'
'Oh--ah--hasn't he? Poor man! I'm sure I'm very sorry. I suppose
Sir Omicron has not arrived yet?'
'No; not till the 9.15pm train.'
'I wonder they didn't have a special. They say Dr Trefoil is very
rich.'
'Very rich, I believe,' said Mr Slope. 'But the truth is, all the
doctors in London can do no good; no other good than to show that
every possible care has been taken.

Poor Dr Trefoil is not long for this world, my lord.'

'I suppose not--I suppose not.'

'Oh no; indeed, his best friends could not wish that he should
outlive such a shock, for his intellect cannot possibly survive it.'

'Poor man, poor man!'

said the bishop.

'It will naturally be a matter of much moment to your lordship
who is to succeed him,' said Mr Slope. 'It would be a great thing
if you could secure the appointment for some person of your
own way of thinking on important points. The party hostile to us
are very strong here in Barchester--much too strong.'
'Yes, yes. If poor Dr Trefoil is to go, it will be a great thing to
get a good man in his place.'
'It will be everything to your lordship to get a man on whose
co-operation you can reckon.

Only think what trouble we might have if Dr Grantly, or Dr Hyandry,
or any of that way of thinking, were to get it.'
'It is not very probable that Lord--will give it to any of that
school; why should he?'
'No. Not probable; certainly not; but it's possible. Great interest
will probably be made. If I might venture to advise your lordship,
I would suggest that you should discuss the matter with his grace
next week.

I have no doubt that your wishes, if made known and backed by his
grace, would be paramount with Lord--'
'Well, I don't know that; Lord - has always been
very kind to me, very kind. But I am unwilling to interfere in
such matters unless asked.

And indeed, if asked, I don't know whom, at this moment, I should
recommend.'
Mr Slope, even Mr Slope, felt at present rather abashed. He
hardly knew how to frame his little request in language sufficiently
modest. He had recognised and acknowledged, to himself the
necessity of shocking the bishop in the first instance by the
temerity of his application, and his difficulty was how best to
remedy that by his adroitness and eloquence.

'I doubted myself,' said he, 'whether your lordship would have any
one immediately in your eye, and it is on this account that I
venture to submit to you an idea that I have been turning over
in my own mind. If poor Dr Trefoil must go, I really do not see
why, with your lordship's assistance, I should not hold the
preferment myself.'
'You!' exclaimed the bishop, in a manner that Mr Slope could hardly
have considered complimentary.

The ice was now broken, and Mr Slope became fluent enough. 'I have
been thinking of looking for it. If your lordship will press the
matter on the archbishop, I do not doubt but that I shall
succeed.
You see I shall count upon assistance from the public press; my
name is known, I may say, somewhat favourably known to that portion
of the press which is now most influential with the government, and
I have friends also in the government. But, it is from your hands
that I would most willingly receive the benefit. And, which
should ever be the chief consideration in such matters, you must
know better than any other person whatsoever what qualifications
I possess.'

The bishop sat for a while dumfounded. Mr Slope dean of
Barchester!
The idea of such a transformation of character would never have
occurred to his own unaided intellect. At first he went on thinking
why, for what reasons, on what account, Mr Slope should be dean
of Barchester. But by degrees the direction of his thoughts changed,
and he began to think why, for what reasons, on what account,
Mr Slope should not be dean of Barchester. As far as he himself,
the bishop, was concerned, he could well spare the services of his
chaplain.

The little idea of using Mr Slope as a counterpoise to his wife had
well nigh evaporated. He had all but acknowledged the futility of
the scheme. If indeed he could have slept in his chaplain's
bed-room instead of his wife's there might have been something
in it. But---. And thus as Mr Slope as speaking, the bishop
began to recognise the idea that that gentleman might become dean
of Barchester without impropriety; not moved, indeed, by Mr Slope's
eloquence, for he did not follow the tenor of his speech; but led
thereto by his own cogitation.

'I need not say,' continued Mr Slope, 'that it would be my
chief desire to act in all matters connected with cathedral as
far as possible in accordance with your views. I know your
lordship so well (and I hope you know me well enough to have the
same feelings), that I am satisfied that my being in that
position would add materially to your own comfort, and enable you
to extend the sphere of your useful influence. As I said before,
it is not desirable that there should be but one opinion among
the dignitaries in the same diocese. I doubt much whether I would
accept such an appointment in any diocese in which I should be
constrained to differ much from the bishop.

In this case there would be a delightful uniformity of opinion.'

Mr Slope perfectly well perceived that the bishop did not follow a
word that he said, but nevertheless he went on talking.

He knew it was necessary that Dr Proudie should recover from his
surprise, and he knew also that he must give him the opportunity
of appearing to have been persuaded by argument. So he went on,
and produced a multitude of fitting reasons all tending to
show that no one on earth could make so good a dean of Barchester
as himself, that the government and the public would assuredly
coincide in desiring that he, Mr Slope, should be dean of
Barchester; but that for high considerations of ecclesiastical
polity, it would be especially desirable that this piece of
preferment should be so bestowed through the instrumentality of the
bishop of the diocese.

'But I really don't know what I could do in the matter,' said
the bishop.

'If you would mention it to the archbishop; if you would
tell his grace that you consider such an appointment very desirable,
that you have it much at heart with a view of putting an end to
the schism in the diocese; if you did this with your usual energy,
you would probably find no difficulty in inducing his
grace to promise that he would mention it to Lord -. Of course
you would let the archbishop know that I am not looking for the
preferment solely through his intervention; that you do not exactly
require him to ask it as a favour; that you expect I shall get it
through other sources, as is indeed the case; but that you are very
anxious that his grace should express his approval of such an
arrangement to Lord--'
It ended by the bishop promising to do as he was told.

Not that he so promised without a stipulation. 'About that hospital,'
he said, in the middle of the conference.

'I was never so troubled in my life;' which was about the truth.
'You haven't spoken to Mr Harding since I saw you?'
Mr Slope assured his patron that he had not.

'Ah well then--I think upon the whole it will be better to let Mr
Quiverful have it.

It has been half promised to him, and he has a large family and
is very poor. I think on the whole it will be better to make out
the nomination for Mr Quiverful.'
'But, my lord,' said Mr Slope, still thinking that was bound to
make a fight for his own view on this matter, and remembering that
it still behoved him to maintain his lately acquired supremacy over
Mrs Proudie, lest he should fail in his views regarding the deanery,
'but, my lord, I am really much afraid--'
'Remember, Mr Slope, 'I can hold out not sort of hope to you in
this matter of succeeding poor Dr Trefoil.

I will certainly speak to the archbishop, as you wish it, but I
cannot think--'
'Well, my lord,' said Mr Slope, fully understanding the
bishop, and in his turn interrupting him, 'perhaps your lordship
is right about Mr Quiverful. I have no doubt I can easily arrange
matters with Mr Harding, and I will make out the nomination for
your signature as you direct.'
'Yes, Slope, I think that will be best; and you may be sure that
any little that I can do to forward your views shall be done.'

And so they parted.

Limestone, although so little affected by pure water
that five thousand gallons would be needed to dissolve a single
pound, is easily dissolved in water charged with carbon dioxide.
In limestone regions well water is therefore "hard." On boiling
the water for some time the carbon dioxide gas is expelled, the
whole of the lime carbonate can no longer be held in solution, and
much of it is thrown down to form a crust or "scale" in the kettle
or in the tubes of the steam boiler. All waters which flow over
limestone rocks or soak through them are constantly engaged in
dissolving them away, and in the course of time destroy beds of
vast extent and great thickness.

The upper surface of limestone rocks becomes deeply pitted, as we
saw in the limestone quarry, and where the mantle of waste has
been removed it may be found so intricately furrowed that it is
difficult to traverse.

Beds of rock salt buried among the strata are dissolved by seeping
water, which issues in salt springs. Gypsum, a mineral composed of
hydrated sulphate of lime, and so soft that it may be scratched
with the finger nail, is readily taken up by water, giving to the
water of wells and springs a peculiar hardness difficult to
remove.

The dissolving action of moisture may be noted on marble
tombstones of some age, marble being a limestone altered by heat
and pressure and composed of crystalline grains. By assuming that
the date on each monument marks the year of its erection, one may
estimate how many years on the average it has taken for weathering
to loosen fine grains on the polished surface, so that they may be
rubbed off with the finger, to destroy the polish, to round the
sharp edges of tool marks in the lettering, and at last to open
cracks and seams and break down the stone. We may notice also
whether the gravestones weather more rapidly on the sunny or the
shady side, and on the sides or on the top.

The weathered surface of granular limestone containing shells
shows them standing in relief. As the shells are made of
crystalline carbonate of lime, we may infer whether the carbonate
of lime is less soluble in its granular or in its crystalline
condition.

THE FORMATION OF CARBONATES. In attacking minerals water does more
than merely take them into solution. It decomposes them, forming
new chemical compounds of which the carbonates are among the most
important. Thus feldspar consists of the insoluble silicate of
alumina, together with certain alkaline silicates which are broken
up by the action of water containing carbon dioxide, forming
alkaline carbonates. These carbonates are freely soluble and
contribute potash and soda to soils and river waters. By the
removal of the soluble ingredients of feldspar there is left the
silicate of alumina, united with water or hydrated, in the
condition of a fine plastic clay which, when white and pure, is
known as KAOLIN and is used in the manufacture of porcelain.
Feldspathic rocks which contain no iron compounds thus weather to
whitish crusts, and even apparently sound crystals of feldspar,
when ground to thin slices and placed under the microscope, may be
seen to be milky in color throughout because an internal change to
kaolin has begun.

OXIDATION. Rocks containing compounds of iron weather to reddish
crusts, and the seams of these rocks are often lined with rusty
films. Oxygen and water have here united with the iron, forming
hydrated iron oxide. The effects of oxidation may be seen in the
alteration of many kinds of rocks and in red and yellow colors of
soils and subsoils.

Pyrite is a very hard mineral of a pale brass color, found in
scattered crystals in many rocks, and is composed of iron and
sulphur (iron sulphide). Under the attack of the weather it takes
up oxygen, forming iron sulphate (green vitriol), a soluble
compound, and insoluble hydrated iron oxide, which as a mineral is
known as limonite. Several large masses of iron sulphide were
placed some years ago on the lawn in front of the National Museum
at Washington. The mineral changed so rapidly to green vitriol
that enough of this poisonous compound was washed into the ground
to kill the roots of the surrounding grass.

AGENTS OF MECHANICAL DISINTEGRATION

HEAT AND COLD. Rocks exposed to the direct rays of the sun become
strongly heated by day and expand. After sunset they rapidly cool
and contract. When the difference in temperature between day and
night is considerable, the repeated strains of sudden expansion
and contraction at last become greater than the rocks can bear,
and they break, for the same reason that a glass cracks when
plunged into boiling water (Fig. 5).

Rocks are poor conductors of heat, and hence their surfaces may
become painfully hot under the full blaze of the sun, while the
interior remains comparatively cool. By day the surface shell
expands and tends to break loose from the mass of the stone. In
cooling in the evening the surface shell suddenly contracts on the
unyielding interior and in time is forced off in scales.

Many rocks, such as granite, are made up of grains of various
minerals which differ in color and in their capacity to absorb
heat, and which therefore contract and expand in different ratios.
In heating and cooling these grains crowd against their neighbors
and tear loose from them, so that finally the rock disintegrates
into sand.

The conditions for the destructive action of heat and cold are
most fully met in arid regions when vegetation is wanting for lack
of sufficient rain. The soil not being held together by the roots
of plants is blown away over large areas, leaving the rocks bare
to the blazing sun in a cloudless sky. The air is dry, and the
heat received by the earth by day is therefore rapidly radiated at
night into space. There is a sharp and sudden fall of temperature
after sunset, and the rocks, strongly heated by day, are now
chilled perhaps even to the freezing point.

In the Sahara the thermometer has been known to fall 131 degrees
F. within a few hours. In the light air of the Pamir plateau in
central Asia a rise of 90 degrees F. has been recorded from seven
o'clock in the morning to one o'clock in the afternoon. On the
mountains of southwestern Texas there are frequently heard
crackling noises as the rocks of that arid region throw off scales
from a fraction of an inch to four inches in thickness, and loud
reports are made as huge bowlders split apart. Desert pebbles
weakened by long exposure to heat and cold have been shivered to
fine sharp-pointed fragments on being placed in sand heated to 180
degrees F. Beds half a foot thick, forming the floor of limestone
quarries in Wisconsin, have been known to buckle and arch and
break to fragments under the heat of the summer sun.

FROST. By this term is meant the freezing and thawing of water
contained in the pores and crevices of rocks. All rocks are more
or less porous and all contain more or less water in their pores.
Workers in stone call this "quarry water," and speak of a stone as
"green" before the quarry water has dried out. Water also seeps
along joints and bedding planes and gathers in all seams and
crevices. Water expands in freezing, ten cubic inches of water
freezing to about eleven cubic inches of ice. As water freezes in
the rifts and pores of rocks it expands with the irresistible
force illustrated in the freezing and breaking of water pipes in
winter. The first rift in the rock, perhaps too narrow to be seen,
is widened little by little by the wedges of successive frosts,
and finally the rock is broken into detached blocks, and these
into angular chip-stone by the same process.

It is on mountain tops and in high latitudes that the effects of
frost are most plainly seen. "Every summit" says Whymper, "amongst
the rock summits upon which I have stood has been nothing but a
piled-up heap of fragments" (Fig. 7). In Iceland, in Spitsbergen,
in Kamchatka, and in other frigid lands large areas are thickly
strewn with sharp-edged fragments into which the rock has been
shattered by frost.

ORGANIC AGENTS

We must reckon the roots of plants and trees among the agents
which break rocks into pieces. The tiny rootlet in its search for
food and moisture inserts itself into some minute rift, and as it
grows slowly wedges the rock apart. Moreover, the acids of the
root corrode the rocks with which they are in contact. One may
sometimes find in the soil a block of limestone wrapped in a mesh
of roots, each of which lies in a little furrow where it has eaten
into the stone.

Rootless plants called lichens often cover and corrode rocks as
yet bare of soil; but where lichens are destroying the rock less
rapidly than does the weather, they serve in a way as a
protection.

CONDITIONS FAVORING DISINTEGRATION AND DECAY. The
disintegration of rocks under frost and temperature changes
goes on most rapidly in cold and arid climates, and where
vegetation is scant or absent. On the contrary, the decay of rocks
under the chemical action of water is favored by a warm, moist
climate and abundant vegetation. Frost and heat and cold can only
act within the few feet from the surface to which the necessary
temperature changes are limited, while water penetrates and alters
the rocks to great depths.

The pupil may explain.

In what ways the presence of joints and bedding planes assists in
the breaking up and decay of rocks under the action of the
weather.

Why it is a good rule of stone masons never to lay stones on edge,
but always on their natural bedding planes.

Why stones fresh from the quarry sometimes go to pieces in early
winter, when stones which have been quarried for some months
remain uninjured.

Why quarrymen in the northern states often keep their quarry
floors flooded during winter.

Why laminated limestone should not be used for curbstone.

Why rocks composed of layers differing in fineness of grain and in
ratios of expansion do not make good building stone.

Fine-grained rocks with pores so small that capillary attraction
keeps the water which they contain from readily draining away are
more apt to hold their pores ten elevenths full of water than are
rocks whose pores are larger. Which, therefore, are more likely to
be injured by frost?

Which is subject to greater temperature changes, a dark rock or
one of a light color? the north side or the south side of a
valley?

THE MANTLE OF ROCK WASTE

We have seen that rocks are everywhere slowly wasting away. They
are broken in pieces by frost, by tree roots, and by heat and
cold. They dissolve and decompose under the chemical action of
water and the various corrosive substances which it contains,
leaving their insoluble residues as residual clays and sands upon
the surface. As a result there is everywhere forming a mantle of
rock waste which covers the land. It is well to imagine how the
country would appear were this mantle with its soil and vegetation
all scraped away or had it never been formed. The surface of the
land would then be everywhere of bare rock as unbroken as a quarry
floor.

THE THICKNESS OF THE MANTLE. In any locality the thickness of the
mantle of rock waste depends as much on the rate at which it is
constantly being removed as on the rate at which it is forming. On
the face of cliffs it is absent, for here waste is removed as fast
as it is made. Where waste is carried away more slowly than it is
produced, it accumulates in time to great depth.

The granite of Pikes Peak is disintegrated to a depth of twenty
feet. In the city of Washington granite rock is so softened to a
depth of eighty feet that it can be removed with pick and shovel.
About Atlanta, Georgia, the rocks are completely rotted for one
hundred feet from the surface, while the beginnings of decay may
be noticed at thrice that depth. In places in southern Brazil the
rock is decomposed to a depth of four hundred feet.

In southwestern Wisconsin a reddish residual clay has an average
depth of thirteen feet on broad uplands, where it has been removed
to the least extent. The country rock on which it rests is a
limestone with about ten per cent of insoluble impurities. At
least how thick, then, was that portion of the limestone which has
rotted down to the clay?

DISTINGUISHING CHARACTERISTICS OF RESIDUAL WASTE. We must learn to
distinguish waste formed in place by the action of the weather
from the products of other geological agencies. Residual waste is
unstratified. It contains no substances which have not been
derived from the weathering of the parent rock. There is a gradual
transition from residual waste into the unweathered rock beneath.
Waste resting on sound rock evidently has been shifted and was not
formed in place.

In certain regions of southern Missouri the land is covered with a
layer of broken flints and red clay, while the country rock is
limestone. The limestone contains nodules of flint, and we may
infer that it has been by the decay and removal of thick masses of
limestone that the residual layer of clay and flints has been left
upon the surface. Flint is a form of quartz, dull-lustered,
usually gray or blackish in color, and opaque except on thinnest
edges, where it is translucent.

Over much of the northern states there is spread an unstratified
stony clay called the drift. It often rests on sound rocks. It
contains grains of sand, pebbles, and bowlders composed of many
different minerals and rocks that the country rock cannot furnish.
Hence the drift cannot have been formed by the decay of the rock
of the region. A shale or limestone, for example, cannot waste to
a clay containing granite pebbles. The origin of the drift will be
explained in subsequent chapters.

The differences in rocks are due more to their soluble than to
their insoluble constituents. The latter are few in number and are
much the same in rocks of widely different nature, being chiefly
quartz, silicate of alumina, and iron oxide. By the removal of
their soluble parts very many and widely different rocks rot down
to a residual clay gritty with particles of quartz and colored red
or yellow with iron oxide.

In a broad way the changes which rocks undergo in weathering are
an adaptation to the environment in which they find themselves at
the earth's surface,--an environment different from that in which
they were formed under sea or under ground. In open air, where
they are attacked by various destructive agents, few of the rock-
making minerals are stable compounds except quartz, the iron
oxides, and the silicate of alumina; and so it is to one or more
of these comparatively insoluble substances that most rocks are
reduced by long decay.

Which produces a mantle of finer waste, frost or chemical decay?
which a thicker mantle? In what respects would you expect that the
mantle of waste would differ in warm humid lands like India, in
frozen countries like Alaska, and in deserts such as the Sahara?

THE SOIL. The same agencies which produce the mantle of waste are
continually at work upon it, breaking it up into finer and finer
particles and causing its more complete decay. Thus on the
surface, where the waste has weathered longest, it is gradually
made fine enough to support the growth of plants, and is then
known as soil. The coarser waste beneath is sometimes spoken of as
subsoil. Soil usually contains more or less dark, carbonaceous,
decaying organic matter, called humus, and is then often termed
the humus layer. Soil forms not only on waste produced in place
from the rock beneath, but also on materials which have been
transported, such as sheets of glacial drift and river deposits.
Until rocks are reduced to residual clays the work of the weather
is more rapid and effective on the fragments of the mantle of
waste than on the rocks from which waste is being formed. Why?

Any fresh excavation of cellar or cistern, or cut for road or
railway, will show the characteristics of the humus layer. It may
form only a gray film on the surface, or we may find it a layer a
foot or more thick, dark, or even black, above, and growing
gradually lighter in color as it passes by insensible gradations
into the subsoil. In some way the decaying vegetable matter
continually forming on the surface has become mingled with the
material beneath it.

HOW HUMUS AND THE SUBSOIL ARE MINGLED. The mingling of humus and
the subsoil is brought about by several means. The roots of plants
penetrate the waste, and when they die leave their decaying
substance to fertilize it. Leaves and stems falling on the surface
are turned under by several agents. Earthworms and other animals
whose home is in the waste drag them into their burrows either for
food or to line their nests. Trees overthrown by the wind, roots
and all, turn over the soil and subsoil and mingle them together.
Bacteria also work in the waste and contribute to its enrichment.
The animals living in the mantle do much in other ways toward the
making of soil. They bring the coarser fragments from beneath to
the surface, where the waste weathers more rapidly. Their burrows
allow air and water to penetrate the waste more freely and to
affect it to greater depths.

ANTS. In the tropics the mantle of waste is worked over chiefly by
ants. They excavate underground galleries and chambers, extending
sometimes as much as fourteen feet below the surface, and build
mounds which may reach as high above it. In some parts of Paraguay
and southern Brazil these mounds, like gigantic potato hills,
cover tracts of considerable area.

In search for its food--the dead wood of trees--the so-called
white ant constructs runways of earth about the size of gas pipes,
reaching from the base of the tree to the topmost branches. On the
plateaus of central Africa explorers have walked for miles through
forests every tree of which was plastered with these galleries of
mud. Each grain of earth used in their construction is moistened
and cemented by slime as it is laid in place by the ant, and is
thus acted on by organic chemical agents. Sooner or later these
galleries are beaten down by heavy rains, and their fertilizing
substances are scattered widely by the winds.

EARTHWORMS. In temperate regions the waste is worked over largely
by earthworms. In making their burrows worms swallow earth in
order to extract from it any nutritive organic matter which it may
contain. They treat it with their digestive acids, grind it in
their stony gizzards, and void it in castings on the surface of
the ground. It was estimated by Darwin that in many parts of
England each year, on every acre, more than ten tons of earth pass
through the bodies of earthworms and are brought to the surface,
and that every few years the entire soil layer is thus worked over
by them.

In all these ways the waste is made fine and stirred and enriched.
Grain by grain the subsoil with its fresh mineral ingredients is
brought to the surface, and the rich organic matter which plants
and animals have taken from the atmosphere is plowed under. Thus
Nature plows and harrows on "the great world's farm" to make ready
and ever to renew a soil fit for the endless succession of her
crops.

The world processes by which rocks are continually wasting away
are thus indispensable to the life of plants and animals. The
organic world is built on the ruins of the inorganic, and because
the solid rocks have been broken down into soil men are able to
live upon the earth.

SOLAR ENERGY. The source of the energy which accomplishes all this
necessary work is the sun. It is the radiant energy of the sun
which causes the disintegration of rocks, which lifts vapor into
the atmosphere to fall as rain, which gives life to plants and
animals. Considering the earth in a broad way, we may view it as a
globe of solid rock,--the lithosphere,--surrounded by two mobile
envelopes: the envelope of air,--THE ATMOSPHERE, and the envelope
of water,--THE HYDROSPHERE. Under the action of solar energy these
envelopes are in constant motion. Water from the hydrosphere is
continually rising in vapor into the atmosphere, the air of the
atmosphere penetrates the hydrosphere,--for its gases are
dissolved in all waters,--and both air and water enter and work
upon the solid earth. By their action upon the lithosphere they
have produced a third envelope,--the mantle of rock waste.

This envelope also is in movement, not indeed as a whole, but
particle by particle. The causes which set its particles in
motion, and the different forms which the mantle comes to assume,
we will now proceed to study.

MOVEMENTS OF THE MANTLE OF ROCK WASTE

At the sandstone ledges which we first visited we saw not only
that the rocks were crumbling away, but also that grains and
fragments of them were creeping down the slopes of the valley to
the stream and were carried by it onward toward the sea. This
process is going on everywhere. Slowly it may be, and with many
interruptions, but surely, the waste of the land moves downward to
the sea. We may divide its course into two parts,--the path to the
stream, which we will now consider, and its carriage onward by the
stream, which we will defer to a later chapter.

GRAVITY. The chief agent concerned in the movement of waste is
gravity. Each particle of waste feels the unceasing downward pull
of the earth's mass and follows it when free to do so. All
agencies which produce waste tend to set its particles free and in
motion, and therefore cooperate with gravity. On cliffs, rocks
fall when wedged off by frost or by roots of trees, and when
detached by any other agency. On slopes of waste, water freezes in
chinks between stones, and in pores between particles of soil, and
wedges them apart. Animals and plants stir the waste, heat expands
it, cold contracts it, the strokes of the raindrops drive loose
particles down the slope and the wind lifts and lets them fall. Of
all these movements, gravity assists those which are downhill and
retards those which are uphill. On the whole, therefore, the
downhill movements prevail, and the mantle of waste, block by
block and grain by grain, creeps along the downhill path.

A slab of sandstone laid on another of the same kind at an angle
of 17 degrees and left in the open air was found to creep down the
slope at the rate of a little more than a millimeter a month.
Explain why it did so.

RAIN. The most efficient agent in the carriage of waste to the
streams is the rain. It moves particles of soil by the force of
the blows of the falling drops, and washes them down all slopes to
within reach of permanent streams. On surfaces unprotected by
vegetation, as on plowed fields and in arid regions, the rain
wears furrows and gullies both in the mantle of waste and in
exposures of unaltered rock (Fig. 17).

At the foot of a hill we may find that the soil has accumulated by
creep and wash to the depth of several feet; while where the
hillside is steepest the soil may be exceedingly thin, or quite
absent, because removed about as fast as formed. Against the walls
of an abbey built on a slope in Wales seven hundred years ago, the
creeping waste has gathered on the uphill side to a depth of seven
feet. The slow-flowing sheet of waste is often dammed by fences
and walls, whose uphill side gathers waste in a few years so as to
show a distinctly higher surface than the downhill side,
especially in plowed fields where the movement is least checked by
vegetation.

TALUS. At the foot of cliffs there is usually to be found a slope
of rock fragments which clearly have fallen from above. Such a
heap of waste is known as talus. The amount of talus in any place
depends both on the rate of its formation and the rate of its
removal. Talus forms rapidly in climates where mechanical
disintegration is most effective, where rocks are readily broken
into blocks because closely jointed and thinly bedded rather than
massive, and where they are firm enough to be detached in
fragments of some size instead of in fine grains. Talus is removed
slowly where it decays slowly, either because of the climate or
the resistance of the rock. It may be rapidly removed by a stream
flowing along its base.

In a moist climate a soluble rock, such as massive limestone, may
form talus little if any faster than the talus weathers away. A
loose-textured sandstone breaks down into incoherent sand grains,
which in dry climates, where unprotected by vegetation, may be
blown away as fast as they fall, leaving the cliff bare to the
base. Cliffs of such slow-decaying rocks as quartzite and granite
when closely jointed accumulate talus in large amounts.

Talus slopes may be so steep as to reach THE ANGLE OF REPOSE, i.e.
the steepest angle at which the material will lie. This angle
varies with different materials, being greater with coarse and
angular fragments than with fine rounded grains. Sooner or later a
talus reaches that equilibrium where the amount removed from its
surface just equals that supplied from the cliff above. As the
talus is removed and weathers away its slope retreats together
with the retreat of the cliff, as seen in Figure 9.

GRADED SLOPES. Where rocks weather faster than their waste is
carried away, the waste comes at last to cover all rocky ledges.
On the steeper slopes it is coarser and in more rapid movement
than on slopes more gentle, but mountain sides and hills and
plains alike come to be mantled with sheets of waste which
everywhere is creeping toward the streams. Such unbroken slopes,
worn or built to the least inclination at which the waste supplied
by weathering can be urged onward, are known as GRADED SLOPES.

Of far less importance than the silent, gradual creep of waste,
which is going on at all times everywhere about us, are the
startling local and spasmodic movements which we are now to
describe.

AVALANCHES. On steep mountain sides the accumulated snows of
winter often slip and slide in avalanches to the valleys below.
These rushing torrents of snow sweep their tracks clean of waste
and are one of Nature's normal methods of moving it along the
downhill path.

LANDSLIDES. Another common and abrupt method of delivering waste
to streams is by slips of the waste mantle in large masses. After
long rains and after winter frosts the cohesion between the waste
and the sound rock beneath is loosened by seeping water
underground. The waste slips on the rock surface thus lubricated
and plunges down the mountain side in a swift roaring torrent of
mud and stones.

We may conveniently mention here a second type of landslide, where
masses of solid rock as well as the mantle of waste are involved
in the sudden movement. Such slips occur when valleys have been
rapidly deepened by streams or glaciers and their sides have not
yet been graded. A favorable condition is where the strata dip
(i.e. incline downwards) towards the valley (Fig. 11), or are
broken by joint planes dipping in the same direction. The upper
layers, including perhaps the entire mountain side, have been cut
across by the valley trench and are left supported only on the
inclined surface of the underlying rocks. Water may percolate
underground along this surface and loosen the cohesion between the
upper and the underlying strata by converting the upper surface of
a shale to soft wet clay, by dissolving layers of a limestone, or
by removing the cement of a sandstone and converting it into loose
sand. When the inclined surface is thus lubricated the overlying
masses may be launched into the valley below. The solid rocks are
broken and crushed in sliding and converted into waste consisting,
like that of talus, of angular unsorted fragments, blocks of all
sizes being mingled pellmell with rock meal and dust. The
principal effects of landslides may be gathered from the following
examples.

At Gohna, India, in 1893, the face of a spur four thousand feet
high, of the lower ranges of the Himalayas, slipped into the gorge
of the headwaters of the Ganges River in successive rock falls
which lasted for three days. Blocks of stone were projected for a
mile, and clouds of limestone dust were spread over the
surrounding country. The debris formed a dam one thousand feet
high, extending for two miles along the valley. A lake gathered
behind this barrier, gradually rising until it overtopped it in a
little less than a year. The upper portion of the dam then broke,
and a terrific rush of water swept down the valley in a wave
which, twenty miles away, rose one hundred and sixty feet in
height. A narrow lake is still held by the strong base of the dam.

In 1896, after forty days of incessant rain, a cliff of sandstone
slipped into the Yangtse River in China, reducing the width of the
channel to eighty yards and causing formidable rapids.

At Flims, in Switzerland, a prehistoric landslip flung a dam
eighteen hundred feet high across the headwaters of the Rhine. If
spread evenly over a surface of twenty-eight square miles, the
material would cover it to a depth of six hundred and sixty feet.
The barrier is not yet entirely cut away, and several lakes are
held in shallow basins on its hummocky surface.

A slide from the precipitous river front of the citadel hill of
Quebec, in 1889, dashed across Champlain Street, wrecking a number
of houses and causing the death of forty-five persons. The strata
here are composed of steeply dipping slate.

In lofty mountain ranges there may not be a single valley without
its traces of landslides, so common there is this method of the
movement of waste, and of building to grade over-steepened slopes.

ROCK SCULPTURE BY WEATHERING

We are now to consider a few of the forms into which rock masses
are carved by the weather.

BOWLDERS OF WEATHERING. In many quarries and outcrops we may see
that the blocks into which one or more of the uppermost layers
have been broken along their joints and bedding planes are no
longer angular, as are those of the layers below. The edges and
corners of these blocks have been worn away by the weather. Such
rounded cores, known as bowlders of weathering, are often left to
strew the surface.

DIFFERENTIAL WEATHERING. This term covers all cases in which a
rock mass weathers differently in different portions. Any weaker
spots or layers are etched out on the surface, leaving the more
resistant in relief. Thus massive limestones become pitted where
the weather drills out the weaker portions. In these pits, when
once they are formed, moisture gathers, a little soil collects,
vegetation takes root, and thus they are further enlarged until
the limestone may be deeply honeycombed.

On the sides of canyons, and elsewhere where the edges of strata
are exposed, the harder layers project as cliffs, while the softer
weather back to slopes covered with the talus of the harder layers
above them. It is convenient to call the former cliff makers and
the latter slope makers.

Differential weathering plays a large part in the sculpture of the
land. Areas of weak rock are wasted to plains, while areas of hard
rock adjacent are still left as hills and mountain ridges, as in
the valleys and mountains of eastern Pennsylvania. But in such
instances the lowering of the surface of the weaker rock is also
due to the wear of streams, and especially to the removal by them
from the land of the waste which covers and protects the rocks
beneath.

Rocks owe their weakness to several different causes. Some, such
as beds of loose sand, are soft and easily worn by rains; some, as
limestone and gypsum for example, are soluble. Even hard insoluble
rocks are weak under the attack of the weather when they are
closely divided by joints and bedding planes and are thus readily
broken up into blocks by mechanical agencies.

OUTLIERS AND MONUMENTS. As cliffs retreat under the attack of the
weather, portions are left behind where the rock is more resistant
or where the attack for any reason is less severe. Such remnant
masses, if large, are known as outliers. When

Note the rain furrows on the slope at the foot of the monuments.
In the foreground are seen fragments of petrified trunks of trees,
composed of silica and extremely resistant to the weather. On the
removal of the rock layers in which these fragments were imbedded
they are left to strew the surface in the same way as are the
residual flints of southern Missouri. flat-topped, because of the
protection of a resistant horizontal capping layer, they are
termed mesas,--a term applied also to the flat-topped portions of
dissected plateaus (Fig. 129). Retreating cliffs may fall back a
number of miles behind their outliers before the latter are
finally consumed.

_To the Senate:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of State,
respecting the compensation for special electoral messengers
to be appointed under the provisions of existing law.

I earnestly invite the attention of Congress to this
communication and recommend that an appropriation be made without
delay, to be immediately available, for the purposes indicated.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 13, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of War, dated
January 9, 1885, inclosing a copy of one dated January 5, 1885,
from Lieutenant-Colonel William P. Craighill, Corps of Engineers,
who was charged with the building of the monument at Yorktown,
reporting the completion of the monument and recommending that the
balance of the appropriation for building the same be used in paying
the wages of a watchman and erecting a suitable keeper's dwelling
on the site.

The matter is commended to the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 16, 1885_.

_To the United States Senate:_
I transmit herewith a copy of a letter addressed to the Secretary
of War by General W.T.

Sherman, under date of January 6, 1885, as called for by resolution
of the Senate of January 13, 1885, as follows:

That the President of the United States be, and he is hereby,
requested, if in his opinion it be not incompatible with the
public interest, to communicate to the Senate a historical
statement concerning the public policy of the executive department
of the Confederate States during the late War of the Rebellion,
reported to have been lately filed in the War Department by General
William T.

Sherman.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 20, 1885_.

_To the Senate:_
In response to the resolution of the Senate passed December 16,
1884, I transmit herewith a letter of the Secretary of State of
the 19th instant, submitting a report containing certain information
in the Department of State in relation to the foreign trade of
Mexico, Central and South America, the Spanish West Indies, Hayti,
and Santo Domingo, and also in relation to the share of the United
States to the trade in question.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 23, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, in answer to a resolution of the Senate dated
January 5, 1885, a report of the Secretary of State and accompanying
copies of such treaties and conventions between the United States
and foreign powers as are requested by the resolution.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 23, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication of the 20th instant from
the Secretary of the Interior, presenting, with accompanying
papers, a draft of proposed legislation providing for the settlement
of certain claims of Omaha Indians in Nebraska against the Winnebago
Indians on account of horses stolen by members of the latter tribe
from the Omahas.

The subject is commended to the favorable consideration and action
of the Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 23, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State of the 22d
instant, respecting an estimate of an appropriation to enable the
Department of State to cause a preliminary search to be made of the
records of the French prize courts from 1792 to 1801, inclusive,
to ascertain whether any evidence or documents relating to the
claims in question still exist, and, if so, the nature and character
thereof; said preliminary search being intended to aid the Department
of State to carry out the requirements of section 5 of the act
approved January 20, 1885, to provide for the ascertainment of the
claims of American citizens for spoliations committed by the French
prior to the 31st of July, 1801.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 27, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, as desired by the House resolution of the
9th instant, a report, with accompanying papers, from the Secretary
of State, in relation to the arrest and the imprisonment of Thomas
R.

Monahan by the authorities of Mexico.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 27, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a preliminary report of the Secretary of State
of the 26th instant, in response to a resolution of the House of
Representatives passed on the 9th day of January, 1885, calling
for copies of accounts and vouchers of the disbursing officers of
the French and American Claims Commission and certain other
information in relation to the transactions of said commission.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 27, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I have carefully considered the provisions of Senate bill No. 862,
entitled "An act for the relief of Uriel Crocker."

The general statute provides for relief in case of the destruction
of coupon bonds.

In my opinion this provision of law is sufficiently liberal to meet
all cases of missing coupon bonds worthy of favorable action, and
I do not deem it advisable to encourage this class of
legislation.

The bill is not, however, so flagrantly inexpedient as to call
for my formal disapproval, and I have allowed it to become a
law under the constitutional provision, contenting myself with
communicating to the Senate, in which the bill originated,
my disapproval of special legislation of this character.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, January 27, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit to the Senate, for its consideration with a view to
ratification, an additional article, signed on the 23d of June last,
to the treaty of friendship, commerce, and navigation which was
concluded between the United States and the Argentine Confederation
July 27, 1853.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 27, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a letter from the Secretary of State, concerning
the awards made against Venezuela by the mixed commission under
the convention of April 25, 1866.

I earnestly invite the attention of Congress to this communication
and the accompanying documents.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 27, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State and
accompanying papers, furnished in response to a resolution of
the Senate of May 2, 1884, calling for information relative to the
landing of foreign telegraphic cables upon the shores of the
United States.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 27, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I have the honor to transmit communications from the Secretary of
the Navy, recommending certain action by the Government in recognition
of the services, official and personal, extended in Russia to the
survivors of the arctic exploring steamer _Jeannette_ and to the
search parties subsequently sent to Siberia.

The authority of Congress is requested for extending the specific
rewards mentioned in the paper accompanying one of the communications
of the Secretary. The suggestion concerning the thanks of Congress
is also submitted for consideration.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 27, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
In response to the resolution of the Senate of the 22d instant,
setting forth that--
Whereas the United States, in 1866, acquired from the Creek and
Seminole Indians by treaty certain lands situate in the Indian
Territory, a portion of which have remained unoccupied until
the present time; and
Whereas a widely extended belief exists that such unoccupied lands
are public lands of the United States, and as such subject to
homestead and preemption settlement, and pursuant to such belief a
large number of citizens of the United States have gone upon them
claiming the right to settle and acquire title thereto under the
general land laws of the United States; and
Whereas it is understood that the President of the United States
does not regard said lands as open to settlement and believes it
to be his duty to remove all persons who go upon the same claiming
the right to settle thereon, and for that purpose has directed the
expulsion of the persons now on said lands by the use of military
force, and there seems to be a probability of a conflict growing
out of the attempt to expel said persons so claiming right and
attempting to settle: Therefore,
_Resolved_, That the President be requested to advise the Senate
as to the status of the lands in question as viewed by the Executive,
the action taken, if any, to expel persons seeking to settle thereon,
and the reasons for the same, together with any other information
in his possession bearing upon the existing controversy--
I have the honor to state that the matter was referred to the
Secretaries of War and the Interior and to transmit herewith their
respective reports thereon, dated the 26th instant.

The report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs accompanying that
of the Secretary of the Interior recites fully the provisions
of the treaties made with the Indian tribes ceding the lands in
question to the United States, showing the condition and
purposes expressed in said treaties regarding said lands, as
well as the action taken with reference thereto, from which it
will be seen that they are not open to settlement under any laws
of the United States.

The report of the Secretary of War shows the action of the military
authorities at the request of the Interior Department under section
2147 of the Revised Statutes.

The status of these lands was considered by my predecessor, President
Hayes, who on the 26th day of April, 1879, issued a proclamation[25]
warning all persons intending to go upon said lands without proper
permission of the Interior Department that they would be
speedily and immediately removed therefrom according to the laws
made and provided, and that if necessary the aid and assistance of
the military forces of the United States would be invoked to carry
into proper execution the laws of the United States referring
thereto.

A similar proclamation[26] was issued by President Hayes on the
12th day of February, 1880. On the 1st day of July, 1884, I considered
it to be my duty to issue a proclamation[27] of like import.

These several proclamations were at the request of the Secretary
of the Interior.

As will be seen by the report of the Secretary of War, the military
forces of the United States have been repeatedly employed to remove
intruders from the lands in question, and that notwithstanding such
removals and in disregard of law and the Executive proclamations a
large body of intruders is now within the territory in question,
and that an adequate force of troops has been ordered to remove the
intruders and is now being concentrated for that purpose.

None of the land or general laws of the United States have been
extended over these lands except as to the punishment for
crimes and other provisions contained in the intercourse act which
relate to trade and the introduction of spirituous liquors and
arms among Indians, and do not sanction settlement.

It is clear that no authorized settlement can be made by any
person in the territory in question.

Until the existing status of these lands shall have been changed
by agreement with the Indians interested, or in some other manner
as may be determined by Congress, the treaties heretofore made with
the Indians should be maintained and the power of the Government
to the extent necessary should be exercised to keep off intruders
and all unauthorized persons.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

[Footnote 25: See Vol. VII, pp. 547-548.]
[Footnote 26: See Vol. VII, pp. 598-599.]
[Footnote 27: See pp. 224-225.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 29, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
In response to the resolution of the House of Representatives of
the 5th of January, 1885, calling for information as to the Kongo
conference at Berlin, I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary
of State of the 28th instant, in relation to the subject.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 29, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication of 27th instant, with inclosures,
from the Secretary of the Interior, in relation to objections on
the part of the Creek Nation of Indians to pending legislation
providing for the opening up to homestead settlement of certain
lands in the Indian Territory.

The matter is presented to the consideration of the Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 29, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
In compliance with a resolution of the House of Representatives
(which was concurred in by the Senate) of January 28, 1885,
I return herewith the bill (H.R. 1017) relative to the
Inspector-General's Department of the Army.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 30, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
When the expedition for the relief of Lieutenant Greely and his party
was being prepared, in the early part of the year 1884, and a
search for suitable vessels was being made, the _Alert_, then
the property of Great Britain, and which had been the advance
ship of the expedition under Sir George Nares, was found to be
peculiarly fitted for the intended service, and this Government
immediately offered to purchase that vessel, upon which Her Majesty's
Government generously presented her to the United States, refusing
to accept any pay whatever for the vessel.

The _Alert_ rendered important and timely service in the
expedition for the relief of Lieutenant Greely and party, which
in its results proved so satisfactory to the Government and
people of this country.

I am of the opinion that the _Alert_ should now be returned to Her
Majesty's Government, with suitable acknowledgments for its generous
and graceful acts of courtesy in so promptly putting the vessel
at the service of the United States, and I therefore recommend
that authority be given me by Congress to carry out this
purpose.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 30, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, in response to a resolution of the House
of Representatives of the 28th of January, 1885, a report by the
Secretary of State, in relation to the case of Julio R. Santos,
an American citizen imprisoned in Ecuador.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 30, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States:_

I herewith transmit a communication from the Secretary of State,
in regard to the desire of the Government of Korea to obtain
the services of one or more officers of the United States as
military instructors in that country, and recommend the adoption
of a joint resolution authorizing such officers as may be
conveniently spared, and who may be selected for that duty, to
proceed to Korea for the purpose indicated.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 2, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate a communication from the Secretary
of State, submitting, at the request of a delegate from the United
States to the Third International Conference of the Red Cross, held
in September, 1884, a copy of the preliminary report of that
conference.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 2, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, the report
of the National Board of Health for the year 1884.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, February 2, 1885_.

_To the Senate of the United States of America:_
With reference to the resolution of the Senate of the 12th of
June, 1884, declining to advise and consent to the ratification
of an accession of the United States to an international convention
for the protection of industrial property, signed at Paris March
20, 1883, I now return the proposed instrument of accession to the
Senate for reconsideration in connection with the views and
recommendations contained in the accompanying report of the Secretary
of State, dated January 29, 1885.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 2, 1885_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
In response to the resolution of the House of Representatives of
January 28, 1885, "that the President be respectfully requested
to transmit to this House a copy of the recent appeal of Fitz
John Porter, together with the accompanying papers," I transmit
herewith a copy of a communication from Fitz John Porter, addressed
to the President from Morristown, N.J., under date of October
14, 1884, together with copies of the accompanying papers.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 3, 1885_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I take especial pleasure in laying before Congress the generous
offer made by Mrs. Grant to give to the Government, in perpetual
trust, the swords and military (and civil) testimonials lately
belonging to General Grant.

A copy of the deed of trust and of a letter addressed to me by Mr.
William H. Vanderbilt, which I transmit herewith, will explain
the nature and motives of this offer.

Appreciation of General Grant's achievements and recognition of his
just fame have in part taken the shape of numerous mementoes and
gifts which, while dear to him, possess for the nation an
exceptional interest.

These relics, of great historical value, have passed into the
hands of another, whose considerate action has restored the
collection to Mrs.
Grant as a life trust, on the condition that at the death of General
Grant, or sooner, at Mrs. Grant's option, it should become the
property of the Government, as set forth in the accompanying papers.
In the exercise of the option thus given her Mrs. Grant elects
that the trust shall forthwith determine, and asks that the
Government designate a suitable place of deposit and a responsible
custodian for the collection.

The nature of this gift and the value of the relics which the
generosity of a private citizen, joined to the high sense of public
regard which animates Mrs.

Grant, have thus placed at the disposal of the Government, demand
full and signal recognition on behalf of the nation at the hands
of its representatives. I therefore ask Congress to take suitable
action to accept the trust and to provide for its secure
custody, at the same time recording the appreciative gratitude
of the people of the United States to the donors.

In this connection I may pertinently advert to the pending
legislation of the Senate and House of Representatives looking to
a national recognition of General Grant's eminent services by
providing the means for his restoration to the Army on the retired
list.

That Congress, by taking such action, will give expression to
the almost universal desire of the people of this nation is
evident, and I earnestly urge the passage of an act similar to
Senate bill No. 2530, which, while not interfering with the
constitutional prerogative of appointment, will enable the
President in his discretion to nominate General Grant as general
upon the retired list.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

DEED OF TRUST.

Whereas I, William H. Vanderbilt, of the city of New York, by virtue
of a sale made under a judgment in a suit to foreclose a chattel
mortgage in the supreme court of this State, in which I was plaintiff
and Ulysses S. Grant defendant, which judgment was entered on the
6th day of December, 1884, and under an execution in another suit
in said court between the same parties upon a judgment entered
December 9, 1884, have become the owner of the property and the
articles described in the schedule hereto annexed, formerly the
property of Ulysses S. Grant:
Now, therefore, to carry out a purpose formed by me, and in
consideration of $1 to me paid, I do hereby transfer and convey
each and every one of the articles mentioned and itemized in the
said schedule to Julia Dent Grant, to have and hold the same to
her, her executors and administrators, upon the trust and agreement,
nevertheless, hereby accepted and made by her, that on the death
of the said Ulysses S.
Grant, or previously thereto, at her or their option, the same shall
become and be the property of the nation and shall be taken to
Washington and transferred and conveyed by her and them to the
United States of America.
In witness whereof the said William H. Vanderbilt and Julia Dent
Grant have executed these presents, this 10th day of January, A.D.
1885.

Sealed and delivered in presence of-- 
W.H. VANDERBILT.
JULIA DENT GRANT.
_Schedule of swords and medals, paintings, bronzes, portraits,
commissions and addresses, and objects of value and art presented
by various governments in the world to General Ulysses S.
Grant_.
Mexican onyx cabinet, presented to General Grant by the people of
Puebla, Mexico.
Aerolite, part of which passed over Mexico in 1871.
Bronze vases, presented to General Grant by the Japanese citizens
of Yokohama, Japan.
Marble bust and pedestal, presented by workingmen of Philadelphia.
General Grant and family, painted by Coggswell.
Large elephant tusks, presented by the King of Siam.
Small elephant tusks, from the Maharajah of Johore.
Picture of General Scott, by Page, presented by gentlemen of New
York.
Crackleware bowls (very old), presented by Prince Koon, of
China.

Cloisonne jars (old), presented by Li Hung Chang.
Chinese porcelain jars (old), presented by Prince Koon, of
China.

Arabian Bible.
Coptic Bible, presented by Lord Napier, who captured it with King
Theodore, of Abyssinia.

Sporting rifle.
Sword of Donelson, presented to General Grant after the fall of
Fort Donelson, by officers of the Army, and used by him until the
end of the war.
New York sword, voted to General Grant by the citizens of New York
at the fair held in New York.
Sword of Chattanooga, presented to General Grant by the citizens
of Jo Daviess County, Ill. (Galena), after the battle of
Chattanooga.

Roman mug and pitcher.
Silver menu and card, farewell dinner of San Francisco, Cal.
Silver menu of Paris dinner.

Horn and silver snuff box.
Silver match box, used by General Grant.
Gold table, modeled after the table in Mr. McLean's house on which
General R.E. Lee signed the articles of surrender. This was presented
to General Grant by ex-Confederate soldiers.
Gold cigar case (enameled), presented by the Celestial King of
Siam.
Gold cigar case (plain), presented by the Second King of
Siam.

Gold-handled knife, presented by miners of Idaho Territory.
Nine pieces of jade stone, presented by Prince Koon, of China.
Silver trowel, used by General Grant in laying the corner stone of
the American Museum of Natural History, New York.
Knife, made at Sheffield for General Grant.
Gold pen, General Grant's.
Embroidered picture (cock and hen), presented to General Grant by
citizens of Japan.
Field glasses, used by General Grant during the war.
Iron-headed cane, made from the rebel ram _Merrimac_.
Silver-headed cane, made from wood used in the defense of Fort
Sumter.
Gold-headed cane, made out of wood from old Fort Du Quesne,
Pa.
Gold-headed cane, presented to General Grant as a tribute of regard
for his humane treatment of the soldiers and kind consideration of
those who ministered to the sick and wounded during the war.A cavity thus
lined with inward-pointing crystals is called a GEODE.

CONCRETIONS. Ground water seeping through the pores of rocks may
gather minerals disseminated throughout them into nodular masses
called concretions. Thus silica disseminated through limestone is
gathered into nodules of flint. While geodes grow from the outside
inwards, concretions grow outwards from the center. Nor are they
formed in already existing cavities as are geodes. In soft clays
concretions may, as they grow, press the clay aside. In many other
rocks concretions are made by the process of REPLACEMENT. Molecule
by molecule the rock is removed and the mineral of the concretion
substituted in its place. The concretion may in this way preserve
intact the lamination lines or other structures of the rock. Clays
and shales often contain concretions of lime carbonate, of iron
carbonate, or of iron sulphide. Some fossil, such as a leaf or
shell, frequently forms the nucleus around which the concretion
grows.

Why are building stones more easily worked when "green" than after
their quarry water has dried out?

DEPOSITS OF GROUND WATER IN ARID REGIONS. In arid lands where
ground water is drawn by capillarity to the surface and there
evaporates, it leaves as surface incrustations the minerals held
in solution. White limy incrustations of this nature cover
considerable tracts in northern Mexico. Evaporating beneath the
surface, ground water may deposit a limy cement in beds of loose
sand and gravel. Such firmly cemented layers are not uncommon in
western Kansas and Nebraska, where they are known as "mortar
beds."

THERMAL SPRINGS. While the lower limit of surface drainage is sea
level, subterranean water circulates much below that depth, and is
brought again to the surface by hydrostatic pressure. In many
instances springs have a higher temperature than the average
annual temperature of the region, and are then known as thermal
springs. In regions of present or recent volcanic activity, such
as the Yellowstone National Park, we may believe that the heat of
thermal springs is derived from uncooled lavas, perhaps not far
below the surface. But when hot springs occur at a distance of
hundreds of miles from any volcano, as in the case of the hot
springs of Bath, England, it is probable that their waters have
risen from the heated rocks of the earth's interior. The springs
of Bath have a temperature of 120 degrees F., 70 degrees above the
average annual temperature of the place. If we assume that the
rate of increase in the earth's internal heat is here the average
rate, 1 degree F. to every sixty feet of descent, we may conclude
that the springs of Bath rise from at least a depth of forty-two
hundred feet.

Water may descend to depths from which it can never be brought
back by hydrostatic pressure. It is absorbed by highly heated
rocks deep below the surface. From time to time some of this deep-
seated water may be returned to open air in the steam of volcanic
eruptions.

SURFACE DEPOSITS OF SPRINGS. Where subterranean water returns to
the surface highly charged with minerals in solution, on exposure
to the air it is commonly compelled to lay down much of its
invisible load in chemical deposits about the spring. These are
thrown down from solution either because of cooling, evaporation,
the loss of carbon dioxide, or the work of algae.

Many springs have been charged under pressure with carbon dioxide
from subterranean sources and are able therefore to take up large
quantities of lime carbonate from the limestone rocks through
which they pass. On reaching the surface the pressure is relieved,
the gas escapes, and the lime carbonate is thrown down in deposits
called TRAVERTINE. The gas is sometimes withdrawn and the deposit
produced in large part by the action of algae and other humble
forms of plant life.

At the Mammoth Hot Springs in the valley of the Gardiner River,
Yellowstone National Park, beautiful terraces and basins of
travertine are now building, chiefly by means of algae which cover
the bottoms, rims, and sides of the basins and deposit lime
carbonate upon them in successive sheets. The rock, snow-white
where dry, is coated with red and orange gelatinous mats where the
algae thrive in the over-flowing waters.

LEONARD BOYNE; so you will understand the "delightful"), has
worshipped _Caroline_ with an honourable fidelity for ten years,
waiting patiently for the day on which she shall be free. Well,
here is the long-desired day. Affectionate, officious friends come
to congratulate each of the pair before they meet, and each
confesses to a curious chilling sense of dread.

When the embarrassing moment of the _téte-à-téte_ arrives, _Robert_,
obviously ill-at-ease and apparently more as a matter of duty
than of eager conviction, suggests that _Caroline_ shall name the
day.
She gives him a blank refusal.

Both affect dismay at this queer ending of their long-deferred
hopes, but eventually confess, mid peals of their own happy laughter,
their actual relief. So ends the first chapter.

A later hour of the same day finds our heroine on her sofa, languid
from the morning's emotions, and indulging in the luxury of not
feeling at all well.

Her world is crumbling. She cannot do without a slave, and
_Robert_ can no longer fill quite the old _rôle_. Clearly a
matter for counsel with her physician and friend, _Dr. Cornish_
(Mr. DION BOUCICAULT), who pleasantly diagnoses middle-age and
prescribes a young adorer, than which no advice could be more nicely
calculated to restore her lost feeling of queenly complacency. She
sends for young _Rex Cunningham_ (Mr. MARTIN LEWIS), a morbid
egoist, who nourishes a hopeless passion for her (and others),
being well aware of the paramount claims of _Robert_.

She contrives to let him know that she is free, and the youth, whose
pet hobby is hopeless passion, at once sheers off in alarm.
_Caroline_ is learning--is beginning to understand the dark philosophy
of Mr. SOMERSET MAUGHAM. In despair she again turns to
_Robert_.

They become engaged and promptly begin quarrelling about their
houses. He objects to her Futurist bathroom; she to his, which
is so like a tube station that she would bathe in constant
apprehension of the sudden appearance of a young man demanding
tickets. _Robert_ begins to assert his masculine rights to control
these and sundry matters.

She realises (oh, venerable gag of the cynics!) that the fetters
which would unite their bodies would put a barrier between their
souls. The engagement is by mutual consent declared off.

Realising, however, in Chapter III., that she needs _Robert's_
devotion more than anything else, she conceives a plot. _Dr.
Cornish_ makes an opportune call, not this time as a doctor,
but as a whole-hearted admirer. With just such an one for my husband,
thinks _Caroline_, _Robert_ could again assume his accustomed part
of loyal friend and incense-bearer. She accordingly proposes.
Appreciating the difficulty of directly refusing without discourtesy,
he temporises and appears to fall in with her suggestion that
he shall announce their engagement to _Robert_ and her
interfering friends, who are promptly telephoned for to hear
an interesting statement. But _Cornish_ proves himself a WOLFF
in sheep's clothing. Instead of announcing the engagement he
asserts that he has just seen _Stephen Ashley_, the husband:
a lie which obtains credence with the others because of the dead
man's amiable habit of occasionally putting about a rumour of his
decease.

_Caroline_, with superb presence of mind, seeing a glorious way out
of a dilemma, adopts the lie, contrives a more or less plausible
explanation, and thus establishes the _status quo ante_--the grass
widow with the faithful and contented adorer.

In a humid climate the
larger ravines through which the run-off flows soon descend below
the ground-water surface. Here springs discharge along the sides
of the little valleys and permanent streams begin. The water
supplied by the run-off here joins that part of the rainfall which
had soaked into the soil, and both now proceed together by way of
the stream to the sea.

RIVER FLOODS. Streams vary greatly in volume during the year. At
stages of flood they fill their immediate banks, or overrun them
and inundate any low lands adjacent to the channel; at stages of
low water they diminish to but a fraction of their volume when at
flood.

At times of flood, rivers are fed chiefly by the run-off; at times
of low water, largely or even wholly by springs.

How, then, will the water of streams differ at these times in
turbidity and in the relative amount of solids carried in
solution?

In parts of England streams have been known to continue flowing
after eighteen months of local drought, so great is the volume of
water which in humid climates is stored in the rocks above the
drainage level, and so slowly is it given off in springs.

In Illinois and the states adjacent, rivers remain low in winter
and a "spring freshet" follows the melting of the winter's snows.
A "June rise" is produced by the heavy rains of early summer. Low
water follows in July and August, and streams are again swollen to
a moderate degree under the rains of autumn.

THE DISCHARGE OF STREAMS. The per cent of rainfall discharged by
rivers varies with the amount of rainfall, the slope of the
drainage area, the texture of the rocks, and other factors. With
an annual rainfall of fifty inches in an open country, about fifty
per cent is discharged; while with a rainfall of twenty inches
only fifteen per cent is discharged, part of the remainder being
evaporated and part passing underground beyond the drainage area.
Thus the Ohio discharges thirty per cent of the rainfall of its
basin, while the Missouri carries away but fifteen per cent. A
number of the streams of the semi-arid lands of the West do not
discharge more than five per cent of the rainfall.

Other things being equal, which will afford the larger proportion
of run-off, a region underlain with granite rock or with coarse
sandstone? grass land or forest? steep slopes or level land? a
well-drained region or one abounding in marshes and ponds? frozen
or unfrozen ground? Will there be a larger proportion of run-off
after long rains or after a season of drought? after long and
gentle rains, or after the same amount of precipitation in a
violent rain? during the months of growing vegetation, from June
to August, or during the autumn months?

DESERT STREAMS. In arid regions the ground-water surface lies so
low that for the most part stream ways do not intersect it.
Streams therefore are not fed by springs, but instead lose volume
as their waters soak into the thirsty rocks over which they flow.
They contribute to the ground water of the region instead of being
increased by it. Being supplied chiefly by the run-off, they
wither at times of drought to a mere trickle of water, to a chain
of pools, or go wholly dry, while at long intervals rains fill
their dusty beds with sudden raging torrents. Desert rivers
therefore periodically shorten and lengthen their courses,
withering back at times of drought for scores of miles, or even
for a hundred miles from the point reached by their waters during
seasons of rain.

THE GEOLOGICAL WORK OF STREAMS. The work of streams is of three
kinds,--transportation, erosion, and deposition. Streams TRANSPORT
the waste of the land; they wear, or ERODE, their channels both on
bed and banks; and they DEPOSIT portions of their load from time
to time along their courses, finally laying it down in the sea.
Most of the work of streams is done at times of flood.

TRANSPORTATION

THE INVISIBLE LOAD OF STREAMS. Of the waste which a river
transports we may consider first the invisible load which it
carries in solution, supplied chiefly by springs but also in part
by the run-off and from the solution of the rocks of its bed. More
than half the dissolved solids in the water of the average river
consists of the carbonates of lime and magnesia; other substances
are gypsum, sodium sulphate (Glauber's salts), magnesium sulphate
(Epsom salts), sodium chloride (common salt), and even silica, the
least soluble of the common rock-making minerals. The amount of
this invisible load is surprisingly large. The Mississippi, for
example, transports each year 113,000,000 tons of dissolved rock
to the Gulf.

THE VISIBLE LOAD OF STREAMS. This consists of the silt which the
stream carries in suspension, and the sand and gravel and larger
stones which it pushes along its bed. Especially in times of flood
one may note the muddy water, its silt being kept from settling by
the rolling, eddying currents; and often by placing his ear close
to the bottom of a boat one may hear the clatter of pebbles as
they are hurried along. In mountain torrents the rumble of
bowlders as they clash together may be heard some distance away.
The amount of the load which a stream can transport depends on its
velocity. A current of two thirds of a mile per hour can move fine
sand, while one of four miles per hour sweeps along pebbles as
large as hen's eggs. The transporting power of a stream varies as
the sixth power of its velocity. If its velocity is multiplied by
two, its transporting power is multiplied by the sixth power of
two: it can now move stones sixty-four times as large as it could
before.

Stones weigh from two to three times as much as water, and in
water lose the weight of the volume of water which they displace.
What proportion, then, of their weight in air do stones lose when
submerged?

MEASUREMENT OF STREAM LOADS. To obtain the total amount of waste
transported by a river is an important but difficult matter. The
amount of water discharged must first be found by multiplying the
number of square feet in the average cross section of the stream
by its velocity per second, giving the discharge per second in
cubic feet. The amount of silt to a cubic foot of water is found
by filtering samples of the water taken from different parts of
the stream and at different times in the year, and drying and
weighing the residues. The average amount of silt to the cubic
foot of water, multiplied by the number of cubic feet of water
discharged per year, gives the total load carried in suspension
during that time. Adding to this the estimated amount of sand and
gravel rolled along the bed, which in many swift rivers greatly
exceeds the lighter material held in suspension, and adding also
the total amount of dissolved solids, we reach the exceedingly
important result of the total load of waste discharged by the
river. Dividing the volume of this load by the area of the river
basin gives another result of the greatest geological interest,--
the rate at which the region is being lowered by the combined
action of weathering and erosion, or the rate of denudation.

THE RATE OF DENUDATION OF RIVER BASINS. This rate varies widely.
The Mississippi basin may be taken as a representative land
surface because of the varieties of surface, altitude and slope,
climate, and underlying rocks which are included in its great
extent. Careful measurements show that the Mississippi basin is
now being lowered at a rate of one four-thousandth of a foot a
year, or one foot in four thousand years. Taking this as the
average rate of denudation for the land surfaces of the globe,
estimates have been made of the length of time required at this
rate to wash and wear the continents to the level of the sea. As
the average elevation of the lands of the globe is reckoned at
2411 feet, this result would occur in nine or ten million years,
if the present rate of denudation should remain unchanged. But
even if no movements of the earth's crust should lift or depress
the continents, the rate of wear and the removal of waste from
their surfaces will not remain the same. It must constantly
decrease as the lands are worn nearer to sea level and their
slopes become more gentle. The length of time required to wear
them away is therefore far in excess of that just stated.

The drainage area of the Potomac is 11,000 square miles. The silt
brought down in suspension in a year would cover a square mile to
the depth of four feet. At what rate is the Potomac basin being
lowered from this cause alone?

It is estimated that the Upper Ganges is lowering its basin at the
rate of one foot in 823 years, and the Po one foot in 720 years.
Why so much faster than the Potomac and the Mississippi?

HOW STREAMS GET THEIR LOADS. The load of streams is derived from a
number of sources, the larger part being supplied by the
weathering of valley slopes. We have noticed how the mantle of
waste creeps and washes to the stream ways. Watching the run-off
during a rain, as it hurries muddy with waste along the gutter or
washes down the hillside, we may see the beginning of the route by
which the larger part of their load is delivered to rivers.
Streams also secure some of their load by wearing it from their
beds and banks,--a process called erosion.

EROSION

Streams erode their beds chiefly by means of their bottom load,--
the stones of various sizes and the sand and even the fine mud
which they sweep along. With these tools they smooth, grind, and
rasp the rock of their beds, using them in much the fashion of
sandpaper or a file.

WEATHERING OF RIVER BEDS. The erosion of stream beds is greatly
helped by the work of the weather. Especially at low water more or
less of the bed is exposed to the action of frost and heat and
cold, joints are opened, rocks are pried loose and broken up and
made ready to be swept away by the stream at time of flood.

POTHOLES. In rapids streams also drill out their rocky beds. Where
some slight depression gives rise to an eddy, the pebbles which
gather in it are whirled round and round, and, acting like the bit
of an auger, bore out a cylindrical pit called a pothole. Potholes
sometimes reach a depth of a score of feet. Where they are
numerous they aid materially in deepening the channel, as the
walls between them are worn away and they coalesce.

WATERFALLS. One of the most effective means of erosion which the
river possesses is the waterfall. The plunging water dislodges
stones from the face of the ledge over which it pours, and often
undermines it by excavating a deep pit at its base. Slice after
slice is thus thrown down from the front of the cliff, and the
cataract cuts its way upstream leaving a gorge behind it.

NIAGARA FALLS. The Niagara River flows from Lake Erie at Buffalo in
a broad channel which it has cut but a few feet below the level of
the region. Some thirteen miles from the outlet it plunges over a
ledge one hundred and seventy feet high into the head of a narrow
gorge which extends for seven miles to the escarpment of the
upland in which the gorge is cut. The strata which compose the
upland dip gently upstream and consist at top of a massive
limestone, at the Falls about eighty feet thick, and below of soft
and easily weathered shale. Beneath the Falls the underlying shale
is cut and washed away by the descending water and retreats also
because of weathering, while the overhanging limestone breaks down
in huge blocks from time to time.

Niagara is divided by Goat Island into the Horseshoe Falls and the
American Falls. The former is supplied by the main current of the
river, and from the semicircular sweep of its rim a sheet of water
in places at least fifteen or twenty feet deep plunges into a pool
a little less than two hundred feet in depth. Here the force of
the falling water is sufficient to move about the fallen blocks of
limestone and use them in the excavation of the shale of the bed.
At the American Falls the lesser branch of the river, which flows
along the American side of Goat Island, pours over the side of the
gorge and breaks upon a high talus of limestone blocks which its
smaller volume of water is unable to grind to pieces and remove.

This will be refused, and cannot _but_ be refused. The particular
feeling of these men, that they have been hoaxed and swindled,
concurring with the popular rage on finding that this storm also,
like all before it, is to blow over--if there be faith in
human nature, will do more to shake the Repeal speculation
than any possible course of direct English resistance.

All frauds would be forgiven in an hour of plausible success,
or even in a moment of undeniable preparation. But disappointment
coming in the rear of extravagant hopes will be fatal, and strike
a frost to the heart of the conspiracy. For it cannot be doubted
that none of these extra services, whether in money or personal
attendance, would have been rendered without express assurances
from high quarters, and not _merely_ from fond imaginations founded
on appearances, that the pretended regeneration for Ireland was
at land.

Now let us see how these natural sequences, from the very nature of
the showy demonstrations recently organized, and from the very
promises by which they must have been echoed, will operate in
relation to the measures of the Government; either those which
have been adopted, or those which have been declined.

Had the resolution (a fatal resolution, as we _now_ think) been
adopted in the cabinet to disperse the meetings by force, blood
would have flowed; and a plea, though fraudulent in virtue, would
have been established for O'Connell--such as we may suppose to
be built upon a fact so liable to perversion. His hands would
have been prodigiously strengthened. The bloodshed would
have been kept before the eyes of the people for ever, and would
have taken innumerable forms. But the worst, ultimately the
ruinous, operation of this official intervention would have
lain in the plenary excuse from his engagements furnished to Mr
O'Connell, and in the natural solution of all those embarrassments
which for himself he _cannot_ solve.

At present he is at his wits' end to devise any probable scheme for
tranquillizing the universal disappointment, for facing the relapse
from infinite excitement, and for propitiating the particular fury
of those who will now hold themselves to have been defrauded of
their money.

Leave this tempest to itself, and it will go near to overwhelm the
man: or if the local separation of the parties most injured should
be so managed as to intercept that result, assuredly it will overwhelm
the cause.

In the estimate, therefore, of O'Connell, we may rely upon it--that
a battalion of foot, or a squadron of horse, appearing in aid of
the police to clear the ground at Mallow or at Donnybrook, would
have seemed the least questionable godsend that has ever illuminated
his experience.

"O _jubilate_ for a providential deliverance!" that would have been
his cry. "Henceforward be all my difficulties on the heads of my
opponents!" But at least, it is argued, the _fact_ would have
been against him; the dispersion would have disarmed him, whatever
colouring he might have caused it to bear.

Not at all.

We doubt if one meeting the less would have been held. Ready at
all times for such emergencies, the leader would not suffer himself
to be found without every conceivable legal quillet, sharpened and
retouched, against the official orders. He would have had an
interview with the authorities: he would have shown a flaw
in the wording of the instructions: he would have rebaptized his
assembly, and, where no business goes on, any name will answer:
he would have called his mob "a tea-party," or "an agricultural
association;" the sole real object concerned, which is the
exhibition of vast numbers trained and amenable to instant restraint,
would have proceeded under new names. This would no longer have
languished when Government had supplied the failing impulse:
and in the mean time to have urged that, merely by its numbers,
combined with its perilous tendencies, the gathering was unlawful--would
have availed nothing: for the law authorities in parliament, right
or wrong, have affected doubts upon that doctrine; and, when
parliament will not eventually support him, it matters little that
a minister of these days would, for the moment, assume the
responsibility of a strong measure.

Or, if parliament were to legislate anew for this special case,
the Repealer would then split his large mobs into many small ones:
he would lecture, he would preach, he would sing, in default of
other excuses for meeting. No law, he would observe coolly to the
magistrate, against innumerable prayer-meetings or infinite concerts.
The items would still be reported to one central office:
the _facit_ would be the same; and it would tell for the same
cause.

Thus it appears that no fact would have resulted against the
Repealers, had the Government taken a severe course.

Still, may it not be said that a _fact_, and a strong one, survives
on the other side, viz. against the Government, under this forbearing
course which they really have taken?

What fact? Is it the organization of all Ireland? Doubtless that
bears an ominous sound: but it must be considered--that if the
leader cannot wield this vast organization for any purposes of
his own, and plainly he cannot so long as he acquires no fresh
impulses or openings to action from the indiscretion of his
opponents, but on the contrary must be ruined--cause and leader,
party and partisan chief, by the very 'lock' (or as in America
is said, the 'fix') into which he has brought himself, by the
pledge which he cannot redeem--far less can that organization
be used by others or for any other purpose. It is an organization
not secret; not bound by oaths; loose and careless in its cohesion;
not being good for its proper object, it is good for no other,
and we hear of no one attribute by which it threatens the
public peace beyond its numerical extent.

But is _that_ true? Is it numerically so potent as it is represented?
We hardly need to say, that the exaggerations upon this point
have been too monstrous to call for any pointed exposures.
With respect to one of the southern meetings--that at Cork, we
believe--by way of applying some scale or measurement to the
exaggerations, we may mention that a military man, actually
measured the ground after the retirement of the crowd. He
ascertained that the ground could barely accommodate twenty-five
thousand men standing in regimental order. What was the
report of the newspaper? Four to five hundred thousand, as
usual.
Indeed, we may complain of our English Conservative Journals
as, in this point, faithfully reflecting the wildest statements
of the Repeal organs.

So much strength was apparently given, for the moment, to the
Repeal interest by these outrageous fictions, that we, for our
own parts, (whilst hesitating as to other points of the Government
policy,) did not scruple to tax the Home Minister and the Queen's
Lieutenant with some neglect of duty[O] in not sending experienced
officers of the army to reconnoitre the meetings in every instance,
and authentically to make returns of the numbers present.

Since reading the minister's speech, however, we are disposed
to think that this neglect was not altogether without design. It
appears that Sir Robert relies in part upon these frightful
falsehoods for effecting a national service by rousing the fears
of the Roman Catholic landholders. In this there is no false
refinement; for, having very early done all the mischief they could
as incendiary proclamations of power to the working classes, the
exaggerations are now, probably, operating with even more
effect in an opposite direction upon the great body of the Catholic
gentry.

Cordially to unite this body with the government of Ireland would,
by much, overbalance the fickle support of the peasantry, given for
the moment to the cause of disaffection.

That disaffection, under its present form, is already, perhaps, on
the point of unlocking its union. It _cannot_ be permanent as an
organization; for, without hope, no combination can sustain itself,
and a disaffection, founded purely upon _social_ causes, can be
healed by no Government whatever.

But if the Catholic gentry, treated as they now are with
fraternal equality, should heartily coalesce with the party
promoting a closer _British_ connexion, that would be a
permanent gain.

The Irish policy, therefore, the immediate facts of the policy,
pursued by the Government, if we distinguish it from the
general theory and principles of their policy as laid down in the
speech of the Premier, has not been what it is said to have been.
Summing up the heads, let us say that we are _not_ resigned
negligently to the perils of civil war; those perils, though
as great as Mr O'Connell could make them, are not by any means
as great as Mr O'Connell describes them; the popular arrays are
ridiculously below the amounts reported to us: in some instances
they have been multiplied by 20, probably in all by 15; the rumour
and the terror of these arrays have operated both ways; _for_ us
more permanently than against us.

Lastly, it is not true that the Government has proceeded only by
negative steps; the army has been increased in Ireland, the
garrisons have been better arranged; military stations have been
strengthened, and seditious magistrates have been dismissed.

Upon this last point, one word: we have seen nothing more grossly
factious in the conduct of the Whigs, than the assertion, that these
magistrates ought _not_ to have been dismissed.

Well might the Chancellor say, that the discussion had been
conducted by petty lawyerlike quibbles. The case stands thus:
there are two principles concerned in the tenure of the magistrate's
office--theoretic amenability to the letter of the law, and
practical serviceableness for his duties. Either furnishes a
ground of dismissal. To be scandalously indecorous, to be a patron
of gambling in public places, would offer no _legal_ objection
to a magistrate; but he would be dismissed as a person
unsuitable by his habits to the gravity of the commission. If
you hire a watchman to protect your premises, and you discharge
him upon the ground that he has been found drinking with reputed
burglars, no man will hold the watchman to have been hardly used,
because the burglars had not been convicted judicially. That
allegation amounts to this: that he has not committed any offence
known to the laws.

What will you reply? "I know it," you say: "I grant it; and
therefore I charge you with no offence.
But I dismiss you on a principle of expedience.

You have violated no law; but you have shown yourself to be a man
disqualified for the very urgent duties of the post--much more
disqualified than you would have been by sickness, blindness, or
any other physical infirmity."
Mr O'Connell now threatens to pursue his career, by repeating that
same absurd misdemeanour of summoning a mock parliament, which,
some twenty and odd years ago, a Staffordshire baronet expiated by
the penalties of fine and imprisonment.

At that crisis we shall see the tranquil minister unmask his
artillery. But could it be reasonable to look for a faithful
discharge of painful duties, arising in these later stages of the
Repeal cause (and duties applying probably to the cases of gentlemen,
neighbours, fellow partisans,) from one who had already promoted
that cause, in its previous stages, to the extent of sedition and
conspiracy?

He who has already signalized to the nation his readiness to co-operate
in so open a mischief as dismemberment of the empire, wherefore
should he shrink from violating an obscure rule of the common
law, or a black letter statute?

But enough of the policy which _has_ been pursued. _That_,
by its nature is limited, and of necessity, in many points of
recent application, is a policy of watching and negation.
Now, let us turn to the general policy, as it is reviewed in the
very comprehensive speech of the Prime Minister.

This applies equally to the past and the future. The French
journals, and in particular the _Débats_, complain that it is
crowded with details. How should this be otherwise? Can there be
an answer given to charges whose vice is their vagueness,
otherwise than by _circumstantial_ exposures of their
falsehood? Ireland, for instance, has been unfairly treated
as to taxes, partition of indulgences, pecuniary advances. That
is the charge. Can it be met with another answer than by
absolute arithmetic, tax-office proofs, or returns from the
Exchequer?

"But in these a foreigner takes no interest." Doubtless!
and _that_ should be an argument with the foreigner for his
declining to judge upon the question. Want of understanding is not
at all a worse disqualification for acting as a judge
than want of interest in the subject.

We mention this pointedly; because it is not to foreigners chiefly
that this maxim applies: a profound injustice continually
operates in this way amongst the parliamentary foes of Government.

Often in private life we witness the unprincipled case--that,
upon suspecting a man's vindication to be established by any
investigation, men will decline to look into it, as really
possessing too little interest for themselves; though these same
people had not found any want of interest in the allegations--nay,
had mastered all the details--so long as the charges pointed
to some disgraceful issue, and the verdict threatened to be
unfavourable.

An instance of this baseness, truly shocking to the moral sense,
is found in the ridiculous charge against the ministers, founded
upon the mail-coach contract. This was not at all too petty to
be pressed with rancour. However, it was answered. The answer,
on the principle of the case, and coupled with the illustrations
from parallel cases, is decisive.

And then the taunt is--"But why fasten upon charges so
minute and frivolous?" Minute and frivolous, we grant; but not
so in that degree which prevented you gentlemen in opposition
from dwelling on then with genial spite, as being odious in
proportion to their pettiness. "You, you, it was," says Sir
Robert, "that pressed the case!"

Certainly: and they it was who would never have withdrawn the case
had they not found it untenable. It is thus easy for two men to
concert a collusive attack which shall succeed either way,
and be dishonest both ways. "Do you," says the one, "_try on_
this particular case for harassing the minister. If it tells,
if it sticks, then we both pitch into him. If it fails, then
rise I and say:--'How shameful in an official person to throw
dust in the eyes of the House by detaining it upon a miserable
trifle, whilst the criminal gravities of his conduct are
skulking in the rear under this artifice for misleading the
public attention!'"

With this prefatory explanation, called for, perhaps, by the unequal
importance of the points reviewed, we shall now rehearse the heads
of this speech. It is a speech that, by anticipation, we may call
memorable, looking before and after; good, as a history
for half a century gone by since our union with Ireland; good,
we venture to hope, as a rule and as a prophecy for the spirit
of our whole future connexion with that important island. We shall
move rapidly; for our rehearsal will best attain the object
we have in view by its brevity and condensation.

I.--Mr Roebuck had insisted that Ireland was made the victim of
our English parsimony; not once and away, but systematically. This
happens to be a charge peculiarly irritating to all parties--to
the authors of the parsimony, and to its objects. And, says Sir
Robert, I am told to avoid it as secondary; but observe, it is
quite substantial enough, as others say, to justify "an impeachment."
This is the honourable barrister's word; and a "soft" impeachment
it will turn out.

_a._ By the Act of Union, it was provided that, in voting the civil
estimates for Ireland, whatever sum it should appear that Ireland
had averaged for six years before the Union, in her own votes for
a particular purpose, annually that same sum should be voted for
a period prescribed by the United Parliament. The purpose was,
internal improvement in Ireland, and any national uses, whether
pious or charitable.

What, then, had been the extent of the Irish vote? We neglect small
fractions, and state that it had averaged seventy-three thousand a
year. For the first twenty years, therefore, the obligation upon
the Imperial Parliament had been, to vote twenty times that sum,
or L. 1,460,000. This was the contract. What was the performance?
Five millions, three hundred and forty-eight thousand pounds, or
three and a half times the amount of the promise.

_b._ Another extraordinary vote in the Irish Parliament, previous
to the Union, had been upon the miscellaneous estimates. This
vote, when averaged on the same principle, had produced annually
one hundred and twenty-eight thousand pounds. To the same sum
the United Parliament stood pledged for the first period of
twenty-eight years succeeding the Union.

The reader will see at once that the result ought to have been
little more than three and a half millions. That was the debt.
What was the payment?

Something beyond five millions.

The Colorado is still deepening its
gorge. In the Grand Canyon its gradient is seven and one half feet
to the mile, but, as in all ungraded rivers, the descent is far
from uniform. Graded reaches in soft rock alternate with steeper
declivities in hard rock, forming rapids such as, for example, a
stretch of ten miles where the fall averages twenty-one feet to
the mile. Because of these dangerous rapids the few exploring
parties who have traversed the Colorado canyon have done so at the
hazard of their lives.

The canyon has been shaped by several agencies. Its depth is due
to the river which has sawed its way far toward the base of a
lofty rising plateau. Acting alone this would have produced a
slitlike gorge little wider than the breadth of the stream. The
impressive width of the canyon and the magnificent architectural
masses which fill it are owing to two causes.: Running water has
gulched the walls and weathering has everywhere attacked and
driven them back. The horizontal harder beds stand out in long
lines of vertical cliffs, often hundreds of feet in height, at
whose feet talus slopes conceal the outcrop of the weaker strata.
As the upper cliffs have been sapped and driven back by the
weather, broad platforms are left at their bases and the sides of
the canyon descend to the river by gigantic steps. Far up and down
the canyon the eye traces these horizontal layers, like the
flutings of an elaborate molding, distinguishing each by its
contour as well as by its color and thickness.

The Grand Canyon of the Colorado is often and rightly cited as an
example of the stupendous erosion which may be accomplished by a
river. And yet the Colorado is a young stream and its work is no
more than well begun. It has not yet wholly reached grade, and the
great task of the river and its tributaries--the task of leveling
the lofty plateau to a low plain and of transporting it grain by
grain to the sea--still lies almost entirely in the future.

WATERFALLS AND RAPIDS. Before the bed of a stream is reduced to
grade it may be broken by abrupt descents which give rise to
waterfalls and rapids. Such breaks in a river's bed may belong to
the initial surface over which it began its course; still more
commonly are they developed in the rock mass through which it is
cutting its valley. Thus, wherever a stream leaves harder rocks to
flow over softer ones the latter are quickly worn below the level
of the former, and a sharp change in slope, with a waterfall or
rapid, results.

At time of flood young tributaries with steeper courses than that
of the trunk stream may bring down stones and finer waste, which
the gentler current cannot move along, and throw them as a dam
across its way. The rapids thus formed are also ephemeral, for as
the gradient of the tributaries is lowered the main stream becomes
able to handle the smaller and finer load which they discharge.

A rare class of falls is produced where the minor tributaries of a
young river are not able to keep pace with their master stream in
the erosion of their beds because of their smaller volume, and
thus join it by plunging over the side of its gorge. But as the
river approaches grade and slackens its down cutting, the
tributaries sooner or later overtake it, and effacing their falls,
unite with it on a level.

Waterfalls and rapids of all kinds are evanescent features of a
river's youth. Like lakes they are soon destroyed, and if any long
time had already elapsed since their formation they would have
been obliterated already.

LOCAL BASELEVELS. That balanced condition called grade, where a
river neither degrades its bed by erosion nor aggrades it by
deposition, is first attained along reaches of soft rocks,
ungraded outcrops of hard rocks remaining as barriers which give
rise to rapids or falls. Until these barriers are worn away they
constitute local baselevels, below which level the stream, up
valley from them, cannot cut. They are eroded to grade one after
another, beginning with the least strong, or the one nearest the
mouth of the stream. In a similar way the surface of a lake in a
river's course constitutes for all inflowing streams a local
baselevel, which disappears when the basin is filled or drained.

MATURE AND OLD RIVERS

Maturity is the stage of a river's complete development and most
effective work. The river system now has well under way its great
task of wearing down the land mass which it drains and carrying it
particle by particle to the sea. The relief of the land is now at
its greatest; for the main channels have been sunk to grade, while
the divides remain but little worn below their initial altitudes.
Ground water now stands low. The run-off washes directly to the
streams, with the least delay and loss by evaporation in ponds and
marches; the discharge of the river is therefore at its height.
The entire region is dissected by stream ways. The area of valley
slopes is now largest and sheds to the streams a heavier load of
waste than ever before. At maturity the river system is doing its
greatest amount of work both in erosion and in the carriage of
water and of waste to the sea.

LATERAL EROSION. On reaching grade a river ceases to scour its
bed, and it does not again begin to do so until some change in
load or volume enables it to find grade at a lower level. On the
other hand, a stream erodes its banks at all stages in its
history, and with graded rivers this process, called lateral
erosion, or PLANATION, is specially important. The current of a
stream follows the outer side of all curves or bends in the
channel, and on this side it excavates its bed the deepest and
continually wears and saps its banks. On the inner side deposition
takes place in the more shallow and slower-moving water. The inner
bank of bends is thus built out while the outer bank is worn away.
By swinging its curves against the valley sides a graded river
continually cuts a wider and wider floor. The V-valley of youth is
thus changed by planation to a flat-floored valley with flaring
sides which gradually become subdued by the weather to gentle
slopes. While widening their valleys streams maintain a constant
width of channel, so that a wide-floored valley does not signify
that it ever was occupied by a river of equal width.

THE GRADIENT. The gradients of graded rivers differ widely. A
large river with a light load reaches grade on a faint slope,
while a smaller stream heavily burdened with waste requires a
steep slope to give it velocity sufficient to move the load.

Nay, rather in my dream-world's ivory tower I made your image the
high pearly sill, And mounting there in many a wistful hour,
Burdened with love, I trembled and was still, Seeing discovered
from that azure height Remote, untrod horizons of delight.

Sonnet XIV

It may be for the world of weeds and tares And dearth in Nature of
sweet Beauty's rose That oft as Fortune from ten thousand shows
One from the train of Love's true courtiers Straightway on him who
gazes, unawares, Deep wonder seizes and swift trembling grows, Reft
by that sight of purpose and repose, Hardly its weight his fainting
breast upbears.

Then on the soul from some ancestral place Floods back remembrance
of its heavenly birth, When, in the light of that serener
sphere, It saw ideal beauty face to face That through the forms
of this our meaner Earth Shines with a beam less steadfast and less
clear.

Sonnet XV

Above the ruin of God's holy place, Where man-forsaken lay the
bleeding rood, Whose hands, when men had craved substantial food,
Gave not, nor folded when they cried, Embrace, I saw exalted in the
latter days Her whom west winds with natal foam bedewed, Wafted
toward Cyprus, lily-breasted, nude, Standing with arms out-stretched
and flower-like face.

And, sick with all those centuries of tears Shed in the penance
for factitious woe, Once more I saw the nations at her feet, For
Love shone in their eyes, and in their ears Come unto me, Love
beckoned them, for lo!
The breast your lips abjured is still as sweet.

Sonnet XVI

Who shall invoke her, who shall be her priest, With single rites
the common debt to pay?
On some green headland fronting to the East Our fairest boy shall
kneel at break of day.
Naked, uplifting in a laden tray New milk and honey and
sweet-tinctured wine, Not without twigs of clustering apple-spray
To wreath a garland for Our Lady's shrine.
The morning planet poised above the sea Shall drop sweet influence
through her drowsing lid; Dew-drenched, his delicate virginity
Shall scarce disturb the flowers he kneels amid, That, waked so
lightly, shall lift up their eyes, Cushion his knees, and nod
between his thighs.

Kyrenaikos

Lay me where soft Cyrene rambles down In grove and garden to the
sapphire sea; Twine yellow roses for the drinker's crown; Let music
reach and fair heads circle me, Watching blue ocean where the white
sails steer Fruit-laden forth or with the wares and news Of merchant
cities seek our harbors here, Careless how Corinth fares, how
Syracuse; But here, with love and sleep in her caress, Warm night
shall sink and utterly persuade The gentle doctrine Aristippus bare,
-- Night-winds, and one whose white youth's loveliness, In a flowered
balcony beside me laid, Dreams, with the starlight on her fragrant
hair.

Antinous

Stretched on a sunny bank he lay at rest, Ferns at his elbow,
lilies round his knees, With sweet flesh patterned where the cool
turf pressed, Flowerlike crept o'er with emerald aphides.
Single he couched there, to his circling flocks Piping at times
some happy shepherd's tune, Nude, with the warm wind in his golden
locks, And arched with the blue Asian afternoon.
Past him, gorse-purpled, to the distant coast Rolled the clear
foothills. There his white-walled town, There, a blue band, the
placid Euxine lay.

Beyond, on fields of azure light embossed He watched from noon
till dewy eve came down The summer clouds pile up and fade
away.

VivienEach stage of the cycle from infancy
to old age leaves, as we have seen, its characteristic records in
the forms sculptured on the land, such as the shapes of valleys
and the contours of hills and plains. The geologist is thus able
to determine by the land forms of any region the stage in the
erosion cycle to which it now belongs, and knowing what are the
earlier stages of the cycle, to read something of the geological
history of the region.

INTERRUPTED CYCLES. So long a time is needed to reduce a land mass
to baselevel that the process is seldom if ever completed during a
single uninterrupted cycle of erosion. Of all the various
interruptions which may occur the most important are gradual
movements of the earth's crust, by which a region is either
depressed or elevated relative to sea level.

The DEPRESSION of a region hastens its old age by decreasing the
gradient of streams, by destroying their power to excavate their
beds and carry their loads to a degree corresponding to the amount
of the depression, and by lessening the amount of work they have
to do. The slackened river currents deposit their waste in Hood
plains which increase in height as the subsidence continues. The
lower courses of the rivers are invaded by the sea and become
estuaries, while the lower tributaries are cut off from the trunk
stream.

ELEVATION, on the other hand, increases the activity of all
agencies of weathering, erosion, and transportation, restores the
region to its youth, and inaugurates a new cycle of erosion.
Streams are given a steeper gradient, greater velocity, and
increased energy to carry their loads and wear their beds. They
cut through the alluvium of their flood plains, leaving it on
either bank as successive terraces, and intrench themselves in the
underlying rock. In their older and wider valleys they cut narrow,
steep-walled inner gorges, in which they flow swiftly over rocky
floors, broken here and there by falls and rapids where a harder
layer of rock has been discovered. Winding streams on plains may
thus incise their meanders in solid rock as the plains are
gradually uplifted. Streams which are thus restored to their youth
are said to be REVIVED.

As streams cut deeper and the valley slopes are steepened, the
mantle of waste of the region undergoing elevation is set in more
rapid movement. It is now removed particle by particle faster than
it forms. As the waste mantle thins, weathering attacks the rocks
of the region more energetically until an equilibrium is reached
again; the rocks waste rapidly and their waste is as rapidly
removed.

DISSECTED PENEPLAINS. When a rise of the land brings one cycle to
an end and begins another, the characteristic land forms of each
cycle are found together and the topography of the region is
composite until the second cycle is so far advanced that the land
forms of the first cycle are entirely destroyed. The contrast
between the land surfaces of the later and the earlier cycles is
most striking when the earlier had advanced to age and the later
is still in youth. Thus many peneplains which have been elevated
and dissected have been recognized by the remnants of their
ancient erosion surfaces, and the length of time which has elapsed
since their uplift has been measured by the stage to which the new
cycle has advanced.

THE PIEDMONT BELT. As an example of an ancient peneplain uplifted
and dissected we may cite the Piedmont Belt, a broad upland lying
between the Appalachian Mountains and the Atlantic coastal plain.
The surface of the Piedmont is gently rolling. The divides, which
are often smooth areas of considerable width, rise to a common
plane, and from them one sees in every direction an even sky line
except where in places some lone hill or ridge may lift itself
above the general level (Fig. 62). The surface is an ancient one,
for the mantle of residual waste lies deep upon it, soils are
reddened by long oxidation, and the rocks are rotted to a depth of
scores of feet.

At present, however, the waste mantle is not forming so rapidly as
it is being removed. The streams of the upland are actively
engaged in its destruction. They flow swiftly in narrow, rock-
walled valleys over rocky beds. This contrast between the young
streams and the aged surface which they are now so vigorously
dissecting can only be explained by the theory that the region
once stood lower than at present and has recently been upraised.
If now we imagine the valleys refilled with the waste which the
streams have swept away, and the upland lowered, we restore the
Piedmont region to the condition in which it stood before its
uplift and dissection,--a gently rolling plain, surmounted here
and there by isolated hills and ridges.

The surface of the ancient Piedmont plain, as it may be restored
from the remnants of it found on the divides, is not in accordance
with the structures of the country rocks. Where these are exposed
to view they are seen to be far from horizontal. On the walls of
river gorges they dip steeply and in various directions and the
streams flow over their upturned edges. As shown in Figure 67, the
rocks of the Piedmont have been folded and broken and tilted.

It is not reasonable to believe that when the rocks of the
Piedmont were thus folded and otherwise deformed the surface of
the region was a plain. The upturned layers have not always
stopped abruptly at the even surface of the Piedmont plain which
now cuts across them. They are the bases of great folds and tilted
blocks which must once have risen high in air. The complex and
disorderly structures of the Piedmont rocks are those seen in
great mountain ranges, and there is every reason to believe that
these rocks after their deformation rose to mountain height.

The ancient Piedmont plain cuts across these upturned rocks as
independently of their structure as the even surface of the sawed
stump of some great tree is independent of the direction of its
fibers. Hence the Piedmont plain as it was before its uplift was
not a coastal plain formed of strata spread in horizontal sheets
beneath the sea and then uplifted; nor was it a structural plain,
due to the resistance to erosion of some hard, flat-lying layer of
rock. Even surfaces developed on rocks of discordant structure,
such as the Piedmont shows, are produced by long denudation, and
we may consider the Piedmont as a peneplain formed by the wearing
down of mountain ranges, and recently uplifted.

THE LAURENTIAN PENEPLAIN. This is the name given to a denuded
surface on very ancient rocks which extends from the Arctic Ocean
to the St. Lawrence River and Lake Superior, with small areas also
in northern Wisconsin and New York. Throughout this U-shaped area,
which incloses Hudson Bay within its arms, the country rocks have
the complicated and contorted structures which characterize
mountain ranges. But the surface of the area is by no means
mountainous. The sky line when viewed from the divides is unbroken
by mountain peaks or rugged hills. The surface of the arm west of
Hudson Bay is gently undulating and that of the eastern arm has
been roughened to low-rolling hills and dissected in places by
such deep river gorges as those of the Ottawa and Saguenay. This
immense area may be regarded as an ancient peneplain truncating
the bases of long-vanished mountains and dissected after
elevation.

In the examples cited the uplift has been a broad one and to
comparatively little height. Where peneplains have been uplifted
to great height and have since been well dissected, and where they
have been upfolded and broken and uptilted, their recognition
becomes more difficult. Yet recent observers have found evidences
of ancient lowland surfaces of erosion on the summits of the
Allegheny ridges, the Cascade Mountains (Fig. 69), and the western
slope of the Sierra Nevadas.

THE SOUTHERN APPALACHIAN REGION. We have here an example of an
area the latter part of whose geological history may be deciphered
by means of its land forms. The generalized section of Figure 70,
which passes from west to east across a portion of the region in
eastern Tennessee, shows on the west a part of the broad
Cumberland plateau. On the east is a roughened upland platform,
from which rise in the distance the peaks of the Great Smoky
Mountains. The plateau, consisting of strata but little changed
from their original flat-lying attitude, and the platform,
developed on rocks of disordered structure made crystalline by
heat and pressure, both stand at the common level of the line AB.
They are separated by the Appalachian valley, forty miles wide,
cut in strata which have been folded and broken into long narrow
blocks. The valley is traversed lengthwise by long, low ridges,
the outcropping edges of the harder strata, which rise to about
the same level,--that of the line cd. Between these ridges stretch
valley lowlands at the level ef excavated in the weaker rocks,
while somewhat below them lie the channels of the present streams
now busily engaged in deepening their beds.

THE VALLEY LOWLANDS. Were they planed by graded or ungraded
streams? Have the present streams reached grade? Why did the
streams cease widening the floors of the valley lowlands? How long
since? When will they begin anew the work of lateral planation?
What effect will this have on the ridges if the present cycle of
erosion continues long uninterrupted?

THE RIDGES OF THE APPALACHIAN VALLEY. Why do they stand above the
valley lowlands? Why do their summits lie in about the same plane?
Refilling the valleys intervening between these ridges with the
material removed by the streams, what is the nature of the surface
thus restored? Does this surface cd accord with the rock
structures on which' it has been developed? How may it have been
made? At what height did the land stand then, compared with its
present height? What elevations stood above the surface cd? Why?
What name may you use to designate them? How does the length of
time needed to develop the surface cd compare with that needed to
develop the valley lowlands?

THE PLATFORM AND PLATEAU. Why do they stand at a common level ab?
Of what surface may they be remnants? Is it accordant with the
rock structure? How was it produced? What unconsumed masses
overlooked it? Did the rocks of the Appalachian valley stand above
this surface when it was produced? Did they then stand below it?
Compare the time needed to develop this surface with that needed
to develop cd. Which surface is the older?

How many cycles of erosion are represented here? Give the erosion
history of the region by cycles, beginning with the oldest, the
work done in each and the work left undone, what brought each
cycle to a close, and how long relatively it continued.


CHAPTER IV

RIVER DEPOSITS


The characteristic features of river deposits and the forms which
they assume may be treated under three heads: (1) valley deposits,
(2) basin deposits, and (3) deltas.

VALLEY DEPOSITS

FLOOD PLAINS are the surfaces of the alluvial deposits which
streams build along their courses at times of flood. A swift
current then sweeps along the channel, while a shallow sheet of
water moves slowly over the flood plain, spreading upon it a thin
layer of sediment. It has been estimated that each inundation of
the Nile leaves a layer of fertilizing silt three hundredths of an
inch thick over the flood plain of Egypt.

Flood plains may consist of a thin spread of alluvium over the
flat rock floor of a valley which is being widened by the lateral
erosion of a graded stream (Fig. 60). Flood-plain deposits of
great thickness may be built by aggrading rivers even in valleys
whose rock floors have never been thus widened.

A cross section of a flood plain shows that it is highest next the
river, sloping gradually thence to the valley sides. These wide
natural embankments are due to the fact that the river deposit is
heavier near the bank, where the velocity of the silt-laden
channel current is first checked by contact with the slower-moving
overflow.

Thus banked off from the stream, the outer portions of a flood
plain are often ill-drained and swampy, and here vegetal deposits,
such as peat, may be interbedded with river silts.

A map of a wide flood plain, such as that of the Mississippi or
the Missouri (Fig. 77), shows that the courses of the tributaries
on entering it are deflected downstream. Why?

The aggrading streams by which flood plains are constructed
gradually build their immediate banks and beds to higher and
higher levels, and therefore find it easy at times of great floods
to break their natural embankments and take new courses over the
plain. In this way they aggrade each portion of it in turn by
means of their shifting channels,

BRAIDED CHANNELS. A river actively engaged in aggrading its valley
with coarse waste builds a flood plain of comparatively steep
gradient and often flows down it in a fairly direct course and
through a network of braided channels. From time to time a channel
becomes choked with waste, and the water no longer finding room in
it breaks out and cuts and builds itself a new way which reunites
down valley with the other channels. Thus there becomes
established a network of ever-changing channels inclosing low
islands of sand and gravel.

TERRACES. While aggrading streams thus tend to shift their
channels, degrading streams, on the contrary, become more and more
deeply intrenched in their valleys. It often occurs that a stream,
after having built a flood plain, ceases to aggrade its bed
because of a lessened load or for other reasons, such as an uplift
of the region, and begins instead to degrade it. It leaves the
original flood plain out of reach of even the highest floods. When
again it reaches grade at a lower level it produces a new flood
plain by lateral erosion in the older deposits, remnants of which
stand as terraces on one or both sides of the valley. In this way
a valley may be lined with a succession of terraces at different
levels, each level representing an abandoned flood plain.

MEANDERS. Valleys aggraded with fine waste form well-nigh level
plains over which streams wind from side to side of a direct
course in symmetric bends known as meanders, from the name of a
winding river of Asia Minor. The giant Mississippi has developed
meanders with a radius of one and one half miles, but a little
creek may display on its meadow as perfect curves only a rod or so
in radius. On the flood plain of either river or creek we may find
examples of the successive stages in the development of the
meander, from its beginning in the slight initial bend sufficient
to deflect the current against the outer side. Eroding here and
depositing on the inner side of the bend, it gradually reaches
first the open bend whose width and length are not far from equal,
and later that of the horseshoe meander whose diameter transverse
to the course of the stream is much greater than that parallel
with it. Little by little the neck of land projecting into the
bend is narrowed, until at last it is cut through and a "cut-off"
is established. The old channel is now silted up at both ends and
becomes a crescentic lagoon, or oxbow lake, which fills gradually
to an arc-shaped shallow depression.

FLOOD PLAINS CHARACTERISTIC OF MATURE RIVERS. On reaching grade a
stream planes a flat floor for its continually widening valley.
Ever cutting on the outer bank of its curves, it deposits on the
inner bank scroll-like flood-plain patches. For a while the valley
bluffs do not give its growing meanders room to develop to their
normal size, but as planation goes on, the bluffs are driven back
to the full width of the meander belt and still later to a width
which gives room for broad stretches of flood plain on either
side.

Usually a river first attains grade near its mouth, and here first
sinks its bed to near baselevel. Extending its graded course
upstream by cutting away barrier after barrier, it comes to have a
widened and mature valley over its lower course, while its young
headwaters are still busily eroding their beds. Its ungraded
branches may thus bring down to its lower course more waste than
it is competent to carry on to the sea, and here it aggrades its
bed and builds a flood plain in order to gain a steeper gradient
and velocity enough to transport its load.

As maturity is past and the relief of the land is lessened, a
smaller and smaller load of waste is delivered to the river. It
now has energy to spare and again degrades its valley, excavating
its former flood plains and leaving them in terraces on either
side, and at last in its old age sweeping them away.

ALLUVIAL CONES AND FANS. In hilly and mountainous countries one
often sees on a valley side a conical or fan-shaped deposit of
waste at the mouth of a lateral stream. The cause is obvious: the
young branch has not been able as yet to wear its bed to accordant
level with the already deepened valley of the master stream. It
therefore builds its bed to grade at the point of juncture by
depositing here its load of waste,--a load too heavy to be carried
along the more gentle profile of the trunk valley.

Where rivers descend from a mountainous region upon the plain they
may build alluvial fans of exceedingly gentle slope. Thus the
rivers of the western side of the Sierra Nevada Mountains have
spread fans with a radius of as much as forty miles and a slope
too slight to be detected without instruments, where they leave
the rock-cut canyons in the mountains and descend upon the broad
central valley of California.

As a river flows over its fan it commonly divides into a
branchwork of shifting channels called DISTRIBUTARIES, since they
lead off the water from the main stream. In this way each part of
the fan is aggraded and its symmetric form is preserved.

PIEDMONT PLAINS. Mountain streams may build their confluent fans
into widespread piedmont (foot of the mountain) alluvial plains.
These are especially characteristic of arid lands, where the
streams wither as they flow out upon the thirsty lowlands and are
therefore compelled to lay down a large portion of their load. In
humid climates mountain-born streams are usually competent to
carry their loads of waste on to the sea, and have energy to spare
to cut the lower mountain slopes into foothills. In arid regions
foothills are commonly absent and the ranges rise, as from
pedestals, above broad, sloping plains of stream-laid waste.

THE HIGH PLAINS. The rivers which flow eastward from the Rocky
Mountains have united their fans in a continuous sheet of waste
which stretches forward from the base of the mountains for
hundreds of miles and in places is five hundred feet thick (Fig.
80). That the deposit was made in ancient times on land and not in
the sea is proved by the remains which it contains of land animals
and plants of species now extinct. That it was laid by rivers and
not by fresh-water lakes is shown by its structure. Wide stretches
of flat-lying, clays and sands are interrupted by long, narrow
belts of gravel which mark the channels of the ancient streams.
Gravels, and sands are often cross bedded, and their well worn
pebbles may be identified with the rocks of the mountains. After
building this sheet of waste the streams ceased to aggrade and
began the work of destruction. Large uneroded remnants, their
surfaces flat as a floor, remain as the High Plains of western
Kansas and Nebraska.

RIVER DEPOSITS IN SUBSIDING TROUGHS. "Are they far off?" said
Asa, quite quietly, and as if he had been talking of a herd
of deer.

"They are coming over the prairie. In less than half an hour they
will be here."
"How are they marching? With van and rear guard? In what order?"

"No order at all, but all of a heap together."

"Good!" said Asa; "they can know little about bush-fighting or
soldiering of any kind. Now then, the women into the blockhouse."

Righteous galloped up to our fort, to be there first in case the
enemy should find it out. The women soon followed, carrying what
they could with them. When we were all in the blockhouse, we pulled
up the ladder, made the gate fast, and there we were.

We felt strange at first when we found ourselves shut up inside
the palisades, and only able to look out through the slits
we had left for our rifles.

We weren't used to be confined in a place, and it made us right-down
wolfish. There we remained, however, as still as mice.
Scarce a whisper was to be heard. Rachel tore up old shirts and
greased them, for wadding for the guns; we changed our flints,
and fixed every thing about the rifles properly, while the women
sharpened our knives and axes all in silence.

Nearly an hour had passed in this way when we heard a shouting and
screaming, and a few musket-shots; and we saw through our loopholes
some Spanish soldiers running backwards and forwards on the crest
of the slope on which our houses stood.

Suddenly a great pillar of smoke arose, then a second, then a
third.

"God be good to us!" cried Rachel, "they are burning our houses."
We were all trembling and quite pale with rage. Harkye, stranger,
when men have been slaving and sweating for four or five months
to build houses for their wives and for the poor worms of
children, and then a parcel of devils from hell come and burn
them down like maize-stalks in a stubble-field, it is no
wonder that their teeth should grind together, and their fists
clench of themselves. So it was with us; but we said nothing, for
our rage would not let us speak. But presently as we strained
our eyes through the loopholes, the Spaniards showed themselves
at the opening of the forest yonder, coming towards the blockhouse.
We tried to count them, but at first it was impossible, for
they came on in a crowd without any order.

They thought lightly enough of those they were seeking, or they would
have been more prudent. However, when they came within five
hundred paces, they formed ranks, and we were able to count them.
There were eighty-two foot soldiers with muskets and carbines,
and three officers on horseback, with drawn swords in their
hands. The latter dismounted, and their example was followed
by seven other horsemen, amongst whom we recognised three of the
rascally Creoles who had brought all this trouble upon us. He
they called Croupier was among them. The other four were
also Creoles, Acadians or Canadians, a race whom we had already
met with on the Upper Mississippi, fine hunters, but wild, drunken,
debauched barbarians.

The Acadians were coming on in front, and they set up a whoop
when they saw the blockhouse and stockade; but finding that we
were prepared to receive them, they retreated upon the main body.
We saw them speaking to the officers as if advising them; but
the latter shook their heads, and the soldiers continued moving
on. They were in uniforms of all colours, blue, white, and brown,
but each man dirtier than his neighbour. They marched in good
order, nevertheless, the captain and officers coming on in front,
and the Acadians keeping on the flanks. The latter, however,
edged gradually off towards the cotton-trees, and presently
disappeared amongst them.

"Those are the first men to frick off," said Asa, when he saw this
manoeuvre of the Creoles. "They have steady hands and sharp eyes;
but if we once get rid of them we need not mind the others."

The Spaniards were now within an hundred yards of us.

"Shall I let fly at the thieving incendiaries?" said Righteous.

"God forbid!" replied Asa. "We will defend ourselves like men;
but let us wait till we are attacked, and the blood that is
shed will lie at the door of the aggressors."
The Spaniards now saw plainly that they would have to take the
stockade before they could get at us, and the officers seemed
consulting together.

"Halt!" cried Asa, suddenly.

"Messieurs les Americains," said the captain, looking up at our
loopholes.

"What's your pleasure?" demanded Asa.

Upon this the captain stuck a dirty pocket-handkerchief upon the
point of his sword, and laughing with his officers, moved some
twenty paces forward, followed by the troops.

Thereupon Asa again shouted to him to halt.

"This is not according to the customs of war," said he. "The flag
of truce may advance, but if it is accompanied, we fire."
It was evident that the Spaniards never dreamed of our attempting
to resist them; for there they stood in line before us, and, if
we had fired, every shot must have told. The Acadians, who kept
themselves all this time snug behind the cotton-trees, called more
than once to the captain to withdraw his men into the wood; but he
only shook his head contemptuously. When, however, he heard Asa
threaten to fire, he looked puzzled, and as if he thought it just
possible we might do as we said.

He ordered his men to halt, and called out to us not to fire till
he had explained what they cane for.

"Then cut it short," cried Asa sternly. "You'd have done better
to explain before you burned down our houses, like a pack of
Mohawks on the war path."
As he spoke, three bullets whistled from the edge of the
forest, and struck the stockades within a few inches of the loophole
at which he stood. They were fired by the Creoles, who, although
they could not possibly distinguish Asa, had probably seen his
rifle barrel or one of his buttons glitter through the opening.

As soon as they had fired, they sprang behind their trees again,
craning their heads forward to hear if there was a groan or a
cry. They'd have done better to have kept quiet; for Righteous and
I caught a sight of them, and let fly at the same moment. Two of
them fell and rolled from behind the trees, and we saw that they
were the Creole called Croupier, and another of our horse-dealing
friends.

When the Spanish officer heard the shots, he ran back to his men,
and shouted out "Forward! To the assault!" They came on
like mad a distance of thirty paces, and then, as if they
thought we were wild-geese to be frightened by their noise,
they fired a volley against the blockhouse.

"Now then!" cried Asa, "are you loaded, Nathan and Righteous? I
take the captain--you, Nathan, the lieutenant--Righteous, the
third officer--James, the sergeant. Mark your men, and waste
no powder."
The Spaniards were still some sixty yards off, but we were sure of
our mark at a hundred and sixty, and that if they had been squirrels
instead of men. We fired: the captain and lieutenant, the
third officer, two sergeants, and another man writhed for an instant
upon the grass. The next moment they stretched themselves
out--dead.

All was now confusion among the musketeers, who ran in every
direction.

Most of them took to the wood, but about a dozen remained and
lifted up their officers to see if there was any spark of life
left in them.

"Load again, quick!" said Asa in a low voice. We did so, and
six more Spaniards tumbled over. Those who still kept their legs
now ran off as if the soles of their shoes had been of red-hot
iron.

We set to work to pick out our touchholes and clean our rifles,
knowing that we might not have time later, and that a single
miss-fire might cost us all our lives.

We then loaded, and began to calculate what the Spaniards would
do next. It is true they had lost their officers; but there were
five Acadians with them, and those were the men we had most cause
to fear. Meantime the vultures and turkey-buzzards had already
begun to assemble, and presently hundreds of them were circling
and hovering over the carcasses, which they as yet, however,
feared to touch.

Just then Righteous, who had the sharpest eye amongst us all, pointed
to the corner of the wood, yonder where it joins the brushwood
thicket.

I made a sign to Asa, and we all looked and saw there was
something creeping and moving through the underwood. Presently we
distinguished two Acadians heading a score of Spaniards, and
endeavouring, under cover of the bushes, to steal across the open
ground to the east side of the forest.

"The Acadians for you, Nathan and Righteous, the Spaniards for us,"
said Asa. The next moment two Acadians and four Spaniards lay
bleeding in the brushwood. But the bullets were scarce out of
our rifles when a third Acadian, whom we had not seen, started
up. "Now's the time," shouted he, "before they have loaded again.
Follow me! we will have their blockhouse yet." And he sprang
across followed by the Spaniards. We gnashed our teeth with rage
at not having seen the Acadian.

There were still three of these fellows alive, who had now
taken command of the Spaniards. Although we had shot a score
of our enemies, those who remained were more than ten to one of
us, and we were even worse off than at first, for then they were
all together, and now we had them on each side of us. But we did
not let ourselves be discouraged, although we could not help
feeling that the odds against us were fearfully great.

We now had to keep a sharp look-out; for if one of us showed
himself at a loophole, a dozen bullets rattled about his ears.
There were many shot-holes through the palisades, which were covered
with white streaks where the splinters had been torn off by the
lead. The musketeers had spread themselves all along the edge of
the forest, and had learned by experience to keep close to their
cover. We now and then got a shot at them and killed four or five,
but it was slow work, and the time seemed very long.

Suddenly the Spaniards set up a loud shout. At first we could
not make out what was the matter, but presently we heard a hissing
and crackling on the roof of the blockhouse. They had
wrapped tow round their cartridges, and one of the shots had set
light to the fir-boards. Just as we found it out, they gave three
more hurras, and we saw the dry planks beginning to flame, and the
fire to spread.

"We must put that out and at once," said Asa, "if we don't wish
to be roasted alive. Some one must get up the chimney with a
bucket of water.
I'll go myself."
"Let me go, Asa," said Righteous.

"You stop here. It don't matter who goes. The thing will be done
in a minute."
He put a chair on a table and got upon it, and then seizing a bar
which was fixed across the chimney to hang hams upon, he drew
himself up by his arms, and Rachel handed him a pail of water.
All this time the flame was burning brighter, and the Spaniards
getting louder in their rejoicing and hurras. Asa stood upon the
bar, and raising the pail above his head, poured the water
out of the chimney upon the roof.

"More to the left, Asa," said Righteous; "the fire is strongest
more to the left."

"Tarnation seize it!" cried Asa, "I can't see. Hand me up another
pailful."
We did so; and when he had got it, he put his head out at the top
of the chimney to see where the fire was, and threw the water
over the exact spot. But at the very moment that he did so the
report of a dozen muskets was heard.

"Ha!" cried Asa in an altered voice, "I have it." And the hams and
bucket came tumbling down the chimney, and Asa after them all
covered with blood.

"In God's name, man, are you hurt?" cried Rachel.

"Hush!

wife," replied Asa; "keep quiet. I have enough for the rest of my
life, which will not be long: but never mind, lads; defend
yourselves well, and don't fire two at the same man. Save your
lead, for you will want it all. Promise me that."
"Asa! my beloved Asa!" shrieked Rachel; "if you die, I shall
die too."
"Silence! foolish woman; and our child, and the one yet unborn!
Hark! I hear the Spaniards!

Defend yourselves, and, Nathan, be a father to my children."
I had barely time to press his hand and make him the promise he
wished.
The Spaniards, who had doubtless guessed our loss, rushed like
mad wolves up to the mound, twenty on one side, and upwards of
thirty on the other.

"Steady!" cried I. "Righteous, here with me; and you, Rachel, show
yourself worthy to be Hiram Strong's daughter, and Asa's wife;
load this rifle for me while I fire my own."
"O God! O God!" cried Rachel, "the hellhounds have murdered my
Asa!"
She clasped her husband's body in her arms, and there was no
getting her away. I felt sad enough myself, but there was
scanty time for grieving; for a party of Spaniards, headed by one
of the Acadians, was close up to the mound on the side which I was
defending.

I shot the Acadian; but another, the sixth, and last but one,
took his place. "Rachel!" cried I, "the rifle, for God's sake,
the rifle! a single bullet may save all our lives."
But no Rachel came, and the Acadian and Spaniards, who,
from the cessation of our fire, guessed that we were either unloaded,
or had expended our ammunition, now sprang forward, and by climbing,
and scrambling, and getting on one another's shoulders, managed to
scale the side of the mound, almost perpendicular as you see it is.

And in a minute the Acadian and half a dozen Spaniards, with axes,
were chopping away at the palisades, and severing the wattles which
bound them together. To give the devil his due, if there had
been only three like that Acadian, it would have been all up with
us. He handled his axe like a real backwoodsman; but the
Spaniards wanted either the skill or the strength of arm, and they
made little impression.

There were only Righteous and myself to oppose them; for, on
the other side, a dozen more soldiers, with the seventh of
those cursed Acadians, were attacking the stockade.

Righteous shot down one of the Spaniards; but just as he had done
so the Acadian tore up a palisade by the roots, (how he did it I
know not to this hour, there must have been a stump remaining on
it,) held it with the wattles and branches hanging round it like a
shield before him, guarding off a blow I aimed at him, then hurled
it against me with such force that I staggered backwards, and he
sprang past me.

I thought it was all over with us. It is true that
Righteous, with the butt of his rifle, split the skull of the
first Spaniard who entered, and drove his hunting-knife into the
next; but the Acadian alone was man enough to give us abundant
occupation, now he had got in our rear. Just then there was a
crack of a rifle, the Acadian gave a leap into the air and fell
dead, and at the same moment my son Godsend, a boy of ten years
old, sprang forward, Asa's rifle in his hand still smoking from
muzzle and touchhole.

The glorious boy had loaded the piece when he saw that Rachel did
not do it, and in the very nick of time had shot the Acadian through
the heart. This brought me to myself again, and with axe in
one hand and knife in the other, I rushed in among the Spaniards,
hacking and hewing right and left. It was a real butchery,
which lasted a good quarter of an hour; but then the Spaniards
got sick of it, and would have done so sooner had they known
that their leader was shot.

At last they jumped off the mound and ran away, such of them as
could. Righteous and I put the palisade in its place again,
securing it as well as we could, and then, telling my boy to
keep watch, ran over to the other side, where a desperate fight
was going on.

"Three of our party, assisted by the women, were defending the
stockade against a score of Spaniards, who kept poking their
bayonets between the palisades, till all our people were wounded
and bleeding. But Rachel had now recovered from her first grief
at her husband's death, or rather it had turned to a feeling of
revenge, and there she was, like a raging tigress, seizing the
bayonets as they were thrust through the stockade, and wrenching
them off the muskets, and sometimes pulling the muskets themselves
out of the soldiers' hands. But all this struggling had loosened
the palisades, and there were one or two openings in them through
which the thin-bodied Spaniards, pushed on by their comrades, were
able to pass. Just as we came up, two of these copper-coloured Dons
had squeezed themselves through, without their muskets, but with
their short sabres in their hands. They are active dangerous fellows
those Spaniards in a hand-to-hand tussle. One of them sprang at me,
and if it had not been for my hunting-knife, I was done for, for I
had no room to swing my axe; but as he came on I hit him a blow
with my fist, which knocked him down, and then ran my knife into
him, and jumping over his body snatched a musket out of Rachel's
hand, and began laying about me with the but-end of it. I was sorry
not to have my rifle, which was handier than those heavy Spanish
muskets. The women were now in the way--we hadn't room for so
many--so I called out to them to get into the blockhouse and load
the rifles. There was still another Acadian alive, and I knew that
the fight wouldn't end till he was done for. But while we were
fighting, Godsend and the women loaded the rifles, and brought them
out, and firing through the stockade, killed three or four, and,
as luck would have it, the Acadian was amongst them. So when the
Spaniards, who are just like hounds, and only come on if led and
encouraged, saw that their leader had fallen, they sprang off the
mound, with a 'Carajo!
Malditos!' and ran away as if a shell had burst amongst them."
The old squatter paused and drew a deep breath. He had forgotten
his usual drawl and deliberation, and had become animated and eager
while describing the stirring incidents in which he had borne so
active a part. When he had taken breath, he continued.
"I couldn't say how long the fight lasted; it seemed short, we were
so busy, and yet long, deadly long.By
the evaporation of sea water the soil is thus left so salty that
no vegetation can grow upon it, and in places beds of salt several
feet in thickness have accumulated. Under like conditions salt
beds of great thickness have been formed in the past and are now
found buried among the deposits of ancient deltas.

SUBSIDENCE OF GREAT DELTAS. As a rule great deltas are slowly
sinking. In some instances upbuilding by river deposits has gone
on as rapidly as the region has subsided. The entire thickness of
the Ganges delta, for example, so far as it has been sounded,
consists of deposits laid in open air. In other cases interbedded
limestones and other sedimentary rocks containing marine fossils
prove that at times subsidence has gained on the upbuilding and
the delta has been covered with the sea.

It is by gradual depression that delta deposits attain enormous
thickness, and, being lowered beneath the level of the sea, are
safely preserved from erosion until a movement of the earth's
crust in the opposite direction lifts them to form part of the
land. We shall read later in the hard rocks of our continent the
records of such ancient deltas, and we shall not be surprised to
find them as thick as are those now building at the mouths of
great rivers.

LAKE DELTAS. Deltas are also formed where streams lose their
velocity on entering the still waters of lakes. The shore lines of
extinct lakes, such as Lake Agassiz and Lakes Bonneville and
Lahontan, may be traced by the heavy deposits at the mouths of
their tributary streams.

We have seen that the work of streams is to drain the lands of the
water poured upon them by the rainfall, to wear them down, and to
carry their waste away to the sea, there to be rebuilt by other
agents into sedimentary rocks. The ancient strata of which the
continents are largely made are composed chiefly of material thus
worn from still more ancient lands--lands with their hills and
valleys like those of to-day--and carried by their rivers to the
ocean. In all geological times, as at the present, the work of
streams has been to destroy the lands, and in so doing to furnish
to the ocean the materials from which the lands of future ages
were to be made. Before we consider how the waste of the land
brought in by streams is rebuilt upon the ocean floor, we must
proceed to study the work of two agents, glacier ice and the wind,
which cooperate with rivers in the denudation of the land.


CHAPTER V

THE WORK OF GLACIERS


THE DRIFT. The surface of northeastern North America, as far south
as the Ohio and Missouri rivers, is generally covered by the
drift,--a formation which is quite unlike any which we have so far
studied. A section of it, such as that illustrated in Figure 87,
shows that for the most part it is unstratified, consisting of
clay, sand, pebbles, and even large bowlders, all mingled pell-
mell together. The agent which laid the drift is one which can
carry a load of material of all sizes, from the largest bowlder to
the finest clay, and deposit it without sorting.

The stones of the drift are of many kinds. The region from which
it was gathered may well have been large in order to supply these
many different varieties of rocks. Pebbles and bowlders have been
left far from their original homes, as may be seen in southern
Iowa, where the drift contains nuggets of copper brought from the
region about Lake Superior. The agent which laid the drift is one
able to gather its load over a large area and carry it a long way.

The pebbles of the drift are unlike those rounded by running water
or by waves. They are marked with scratches. Some are angular,
many have had their edges blunted, while others have been ground
flat and smooth on one or more sides, like gems which have been
faceted by being held firmly against the lapidary's wheel. In many
places the upper surface of the country rock beneath the drift has
been swept clean of residual clays and other waste. All rock
rotten has been planed away, and the ledges of sound rock to which
the surface has been cut down have been rubbed smooth and
scratched with long, straight, parallel lines. The agent which
laid the drift can hold sand and pebbles firmly in its grasp and
can grind them against the rock beneath, thus planing it down and
scoring it, while faceting the pebbles also.

Neither water nor wind can do these things. Indeed, nothing like
the drift is being formed by any process now at work anywhere in
the eastern United States. To find the agent which has laid this
extensive formation we must go to a region of different climatic
conditions.

THE INLAND ICE OF GREENLAND. Greenland is about fifteen hundred
miles long and nearly seven hundred miles in greatest width. With
the exception of a narrow fringe of mountainous coast land, it is
completely buried beneath a sheet of ice, in shape like a vast
white shield, whose convex surface rises to a height of nine
thousand feet above the sea. The few explorers who have crossed
the ice cap found it a trackless desert destitute of all life save
such lowly forms as the microscopic plant which produces the so-
called "red snow." On the smooth plain of the interior no rock
waste relieves the snow's dazzling whiteness; no streams of
running water are seen; the silence is broken only by howling
storm winds and the rustle of the surface snow which they drive
before them. Sounding with long poles, explorers find that below
the powdery snow of the latest snowfall lie successive layers of
earlier snows, which grow more and more compact downward, and at
last have altered to impenetrable ice. The ice cap formed by the
accumulated snows of uncounted centuries may well be more than a
mile in depth. Ice thus formed by the compacting of snow is
distinguished when in motion as GLACIER ICE.

The inland ice of Greenland moves. It flows with imperceptible
slowness under its own weight, like, a mass of some viscous or
plastic substance, such as pitch or molasses candy, in all
directions outward toward the sea. Near the edge it has so thinned
that mountain peaks are laid bare, these islands in the sea of ice
being known as NUNATAKS. Down the valleys of the coastal belt it
drains in separate streams of ice, or GLACIERS. The largest of
these reach the sea at the head of inlets, and are therefore
called TIDE GLACIERS. Their fronts stand so deep in sea water that
there is visible seldom more than three hundred feet of the wall
of ice, which in many glaciers must be two thousand and more feet
high. From the sea walls of tide glaciers great fragments break
off and float away as icebergs. Thus snows which fell in the
interior of this northern land, perhaps many thousands of years
ago, are carried in the form of icebergs to melt at last in the
North Atlantic.

Greenland, then, is being modeled over the vast extent of its
interior not by streams of running water, as are regions in warm
and humid climates, nor by currents of air, as are deserts to a
large extent, but by a sheet of flowing ice. What the ice sheet is
doing in the interior we may infer from a study of the separate
glaciers into which it breaks at its edge.

THE SMALLER GREENLAND GLACIERS. Many of the smaller glaciers of
Greenland do not reach the sea, but deploy on plains of sand and
gravel. The edges of these ice tongues are often as abrupt as if
sliced away with a knife (Fig. 92), and their structure is thus
readily seen. They are stratified, their layers representing in
part the successive snowfalls of the interior of the country. The
upper layers are commonly white and free from stones; but the
lower layers, to the height of a hundred feet or more, are dark
with debris which is being slowly carried on. So thickly studded
with stones is the base of the ice that it is sometimes difficult
to distinguish it from the rock waste which has been slowly
dragged beneath the glacier or left about its edges. The waste
beneath and about the glacier is unsorted. The stones are of many
kinds, and numbers of them have been ground to flat faces. Where
the front of the ice has retreated the rock surface is seen to be
planed and scored in places by the stones frozen fast in the sole
of the glacier.

We have now found in glacier ice an agent able to produce the
drift of North America. The ice sheet of Greenland is now doing
what we have seen was done in the recent past in our own land. It
is carrying for long distances rocks of many kinds gathered, we
may infer, over a large extent of country. It is laying down its
load without assortment in unstratified deposits. It grinds down
and scores the rock over which it moves, and in the process many
of the pebbles of its load are themselves also ground smooth and
scratched. Since this work can be done by no other agent, we must
conclude that the northeastern part of our own continent was
covered in the recent past by glacier ice, as Greenland is to-day.

VALLEY GLACIERS

The work of glacier ice can be most conveniently studied in the
separate ice streams which creep down mountain valleys in many
regions such as Alaska, the western mountains of the United States
and Canada, the Himalayas, and the Alps. As the glaciers of the
Alps have been studied longer and more thoroughly than any others,
we shall describe them in some detail as examples of valley
glaciers in all parts of the world.

CONDITIONS OF GLACIER FORMATION. The condition of the great
accumulation of snow to which glaciers are due--that more or less
of each winter's snow should be left over unmelted and
unevaporated to the next--is fully met in the Alps. There is
abundant moisture brought by the winds from neighboring seas. The
currents of moist air driven up the mountain slopes are cooled by
their own expansion as they rise, and the moisture which they
contain is condensed at a temperature at or below 32 degrees F.,
and therefore is precipitated in the form of snow. The summers are
cool and their heat does not suffice to completely melt the heavy
snow of the preceding winter. On the Alps the SNOW LINE--the lower
limit of permanent snow--is drawn at about eight thousand five
hundred feet above sea level. Above the snow line on the slopes
and crests, where these are not too steep, the snow lies the year
round and gathers in valley heads to a depth of hundreds of feet.

This is but a small fraction of the thickness to which snow would
be piled on the Alps were it not constantly being drained away.
Below the snow fields which mantle the heights the mountain
valleys are occupied by glaciers which extend as much as a
vertical mile below the snow line. The presence in the midst of
forests and meadows and cultivated fields of these tongues of ice,
ever melting and yet from year to year losing none of their bulk,
proves that their loss is made good in the only possible way. They
are fed by snow fields above, whose surplus of snow they drain
away in the form of ice. The presence of glaciers below the snow
line is a clear proof that, rigid and motionless as they appear,
glaciers really are in constant motion down valley.

THE NEVE FIELD. The head of an Alpine valley occupied by a glacier
is commonly a broad amphitheater deeply filled with snow. Great
peaks tower above it, and snowy slopes rise on either side on the
flanks of mountain spurs. From these heights fierce winds drift
the snows into the amphitheater, and avalanches pour in their
torrents of snow and waste. The snow of the amphitheater is like
that of drifts in late winter after many successive thaws and
freezings. It is made of hard grains and pellets and is called
NEVE. Beneath the surface of the neve field and at its outlet the
granular neve has been compacted to a mass of porous crystalline
ice. Snow has been changed to neve, and neve to glacial ice, both
by pressure, which drives the air from the interspaces of the
snowflakes, and also by successive meltings and freezings, much as
a snowball is packed in the warm hand and becomes frozen to a ball
of ice.

THE BERGSCHRUND. The neve is in slow motion. It breaks itself
loose from the thinner snows about it, too shallow to share its
motion, and from the rock rim which surrounds it, forming a deep
fissure called the bergschrund, sometimes a score and more feet
wide.

SIZE OF GLACIERS. The ice streams of the Alps vary in size
according to the amount of precipitation and the area of the neve
fields which they drain. The largest of Alpine glaciers, the
Aletsch, is nearly ten miles long and has an average width of
about a mile. The thickness of some of the glaciers of the Alps is
as much as a thousand feet. Giant glaciers more than twice the
length of the longest in the Alps occur on the south slope of the
Himalaya Mountains, which receive frequent precipitations of snow
from moist winds from the Indian Ocean. The best known of the many
immense glaciers of Alaska, the Muir, has an area of about eight
hundred square miles (Fig. 95).

GLACIER MOTION. The motion of the glaciers of the Alps seldom
exceeds one or two feet a day. Large glaciers, because of the
enormous pressure of their weight and because of less marginal
resistance, move faster than small ones. The Muir advances at the
rate of seven feet a day, and some of the larger tide glaciers of
Greenland are reported to move at the exceptional rate of fifty
feet and more in the same time. Glaciers move faster by day than
by night, and in summer than in winter. Other laws of glacier
motion may be discovered by a study of Figures 96 and 97. It is
important to remember that glaciers do not slide bodily over their
beds, but urged by gravity move slowly down valley in somewhat the
same way as would a stream of thick mud. Although small pieces of
ice are brittle, the large mass of granular ice which composes a
glacier acts as a viscous substance.

CREVASSES. Slight changes of slope in the glacier bed, and the
different rates of motion in different parts, produce tensions
under which the ice cracks and opens in great fissures called
crevasses. At an abrupt descent in the bed the ice is shattered
into great fragments, which unite again below the icefall.
Crevasses are opened on lines at right angles to the direction of
the tension. TRANSVERSE CREVASSES are due to a convexity in the
bed which stretches the ice lengthwise (Fig. 99). MARGINAL
CREVASSES are directed upstream and inwards; RADIAL CREVASSES are
found where the ice stream deploys from some narrow valley and
spreads upon some more open space. What is the direction of the
tension which causes each and to what is it due?

LATERAL AND MEDIAL MORAINES. The surface of a glacier is striped
lengthwise by long dark bands of rock debris. Those in the center
are called the medial moraines. The one on either margin is a
lateral moraine, and is clearly formed of waste which has fallen
on the edge of the ice from the valley slopes. A medial moraine
cannot be formed in this way, since no rock fragments can fall so
far out from the sides. But following it up the glacial stream,
one finds that a medial moraine takes its beginning at the
junction of the glacier and some tributary and is formed by the
union of their two adjacent lateral moraines. Each branch thus
adds a medial moraine, and by counting the number of medial
moraines of a trunk stream one may learn of how many branches it
is composed.

Surface moraines appear in the lower course of the glacier as
ridges, which may reach the exceptional height of one hundred
feet. The bulk of such a ridge is ice. It has been protected from
the sun by the veneer of moraine stuff; while the glacier surface
on either side has melted down at least the distance of the height
of the ridge. In summer the lowering of the glacial surface by
melting goes on rapidly. In Swiss glaciers it has been estimated
that the average lowering of the surface by melting and
evaporation amounts to ten feet a year. As a moraine ridge grows
higher and more steep by the lowering of the surface of the
surrounding ice, the stones of its cover tend to slip down its
sides. Thus moraines broaden, until near the terminus of a glacier
they may coalesce in a wide field of stony waste.

ENGLACIAL DRIFT. This name is applied to whatever debris is
carried within the glacier. It consists of rock waste fallen on
the neve and there buried by accumulations of snow, and of that
engulfed in the glacier where crevasses have opened beneath a
surface moraine. As the surface of the glacier is lowered by
melting, more or less englacial drift is brought again to open
air, and near the terminus it may help to bury the ice from view
beneath a sheet of debris.

THE GROUND MORAINE. CHAPTER III.

After a quarter of an hour's run across the fields, he arrived
at last at the side of the lake, with the sounds of his rival's
triumphal march for ever sounding in his ears. The evening breeze,
the air from the sea, "the wandering harmonies of earth and sky,"
were all unable to bring rest to the perturbed spirit of the
musician.

He was no longer conscious of the sinful act he was about to
commit. He shut his eyes--he was just going to throw himself into
the water when he felt a hand laid upon his left shoulder. Frederick
turned quickly round. He saw at his side a tall man wrapped up in
large cloak--in spite of the hot weather--which hid every part of
him but his face. His expression was hard, almost repulsive. His
eyes shot sinister glances on the youth from beneath the thick
eyebrows that overshadowed them.

The brewer's son, who had been on the point of facing death
without a tremour, grew pale and trembled. He wished to fly, but
an irresistible power nailed him to the spot. He was fascinated
by the look of the Unknown.

"Madman!" said the stranger in a hollow voice--"madman who cannot
resist the first impulse of anger and false shame!"
"Leave me," answered Frederick in his turn; "I am disgraced, and
have no resource but to die."
"The triumph of Castero, then--the triumph he owes to luck--has
cowed you so that you are afraid to challenge him to another
trial?"--rejoined the stranger in an angry tone.

"Every thing is lost," said Frederick, "don't you hear those
sounds?" he added, holding his hands out towards the city--"my
courage cannot bear up against such mockery--_væ victis_!--my
doom is sealed."
"But you do not yet know the full extent of your rival's
victory. There is a young girl who was to have been your wife--a
girl who loves you--"
"Maïna!"--cried Frederick, to whom these words restored his
recollection.

"Yes, Maïna, the daughter of Jansen Pyl, the burgomaster of
Haarlem.
Well, encouraged by his success, Castero went to the house, and
demanded the hand of her you love."

"What?--what do I hear?"--said Frederick, and looked once more
towards the lake.

"The burgomaster never liked you very well, as you are aware. In
consenting to receive you as his son-in-law, he yielded more to
the wishes of his daughter, to her prayers and tears, than to his
preference of you over the other adorers of the Beauty of Haarlem.
Castero's fame had long predisposed him in his favour; and the
triumph he obtained to-day has entirely won the old man's heart."

"He has promised her?" enquired Frederick in a voice almost inaudible
from anxiety.

"To-morrow he will decide between you. You are ignorant of the
arrangement entered into; and, yielding to a cowardly impulse, you
give up the happiness of your life at the moment it is in your
grasp. Listen.
The Stadtholder, who did not intend to remain at Haarlem, has
accepted the invitation of the burgomaster, and will not leave the
city till to-morrow afternoon.

That illustrious personage has expressed a wish to hear again the
two performers who pleased him so much, and his patronage is
promised to the successful candidate in the next trial. He is a
judge of music--he perceived the fineness of your touch, and
saw that it was a mere accident which was the cause of your
failure. Do you understand me now? Maïna will be the wife of the
protégé of the Stadtholder--and you give up your affianced bride
if you refuse to measure your strength once more against
Castero."

The explanation brought tears into Frederick's eyes. In his
agony as a musician he had forgotten the object of his love--the
fair young girl whose heart was all his own. Absorbed in the one
bitter thought of his defeat--of the disgrace he had endured--he
had never cast a recollection on the being who, next to his art,
was dearer to him than all the world.

The fair maid of Haarlem occupied but the second place in the
musician's heart; but not less true is it, that to kiss off a
tear from the white eyelid of the beautiful Maïna, he would have
sacrificed his life. And now to hear that she was about to be
carried off by his rival--by Castero--that Castero whom he hated
so much--that Maïna was to be the prize of the conqueror! His
courage revived. Hope played once more round his heart--he felt
conscious of his superiority; but--oh misery!

--his fiddle--his Straduarius, which could alone insure his victory--it
was lying in a million pieces on his floor!

The Unknown divined what was passing in his mind; a smile of
strange meaning stole to his lip. He went close up to Frederick,
whose agitated features betrayed the struggle that was going on
within.

"Maïna will be the reward of the protégé of the Stadtholder, and
Castero will be the happy man if you do not contest the prize,"
he whispered in poor Frederick's ear.

"Alas! my fate is settled--I have no arms to fight with," he answered
in a broken voice.

"Does your soul pant for glory?" enquired the stranger.

"More than for life--more than for love--more than for--" 
"Go on."

"More than for my eternal salvation!" exclaimed the youth in his
despair.

A slight tremour went through the stranger as he heard these
words.

"Glory!" he cried, fixing his sparkling eyes on the young man's
face "glory, the passion of noble souls--of exalted natures--of
superior beings!--Go home to your room, you will find your fiddle
restored," he added in a softer tone.

"My fiddle?" repeated Frederick.

"The fiddle of which the wreck bestrewed your chamber when you left
it," replied the stranger.

"But who are you?" said Frederick amazed. "You who know what passes
in my heart--you whose glances chill me with horror--you, who
promise me a miracle which only omnipotence can accomplish. Who
are you?"
"Your master," answered the man in the mantle, in an altered
voice.
"Recollect the words you used a minute or two ago, 'Glory is dearer
to me than life--than love--than eternal salvation!' That is quite
enough for me; and we must understand each other. Adieu. Your
favourite instrument is again whole and entire, and sweeter toned
than ever. You will find it on the table in your room.

Castero, your rival, will be vanquished in this second trial, and
Maïna will be yours--for you are the protégé of a greater than the
Stadtholder.

Adieu--we shall meet again." On finishing this speech the Unknown
advanced to the lake.
Immediately the waves bubbled up, and rose in vast billows; and
opening with dreadful noise, exposed an unfathomable abyss. At
the same moment thunder growled in the sky, the moon hid herself
behind a veil of clouds, and the brewer's son, half choked
with the smell of brimstone, fell insensible on the ground.

CHAPTER IV.

When Frederick came to his senses he found himself in his chamber,
seated on the same sofa of Utrecht brocade which he had watered
with his tears two hours before. On the table before him lay the
fiddle which he had dashed to atoms against the corner of the
chimney. On seeing the object of his affection, the enraptured
musician, the rival of Castero, rushed towards it with a
cry of joyful surprise.

He took the instrument in his hands--he devoured it with his
eyes, and then, at the summit of his felicity, he clasped it
to his bosom. The instrument was perfectly uninjured, without even
a mark of the absurd injustice of its owner. Not a crack,
not a fissure, only the two gracefully shaped § § to give vent
to the double stream of sound. But is he not the victim of some
trick--has no other fiddle been substituted for the broken
Straduarius?

No!--'tis his own well-known fiddle, outside and in--the same delicate
proportions, the same elegant neck, and the same swelling rotundity
of contour that might have made it a model for the Praxiteles of
violins.

He placed the instrument against his shoulder and seized the bow.
But all of a sudden he paused--a cold perspiration bedewed his
face--his limbs could scarcely support him. What if the proof
deceives him. What if--; but incertitude was intolerable, and
he passed the bow over the strings. Oh blessedness! Frederick
recognized the unequalled tones of his instrument--he
recognized its voice, so clear, so melting, and yet so thrilling
and profound,
"The charm is done, Life to the dead returns at last, And to the
corpse a soul has past."

Now, then, with his fiddle once more restored to him, with
love in his heart, and hatred also lending its invigorating energies,
he felt that the future was still before him, and that Castero
should pay dearly for his triumph of the former day.

When these transports had a little subsided, Frederick could reflect
on the causes which gave this new turn to his thoughts. The
defeat he had sustained--his insane anger against his Straduarius--his
attempt at suicide--his meeting with the stranger, and his
extraordinary disappearance amidst the waves of the lake.

But, with the exception of the first of these incidents, had any
of them really happened? He could not believe it. Was it not
rather the sport of a deceitful dream? His fiddle--he
held it in his hands--he never _could_ have broken it. In fact,
the beginning of it all was his despair at being beaten, and he was
indebted to his excited imagination for the rest--the suicide, the
lake, and the mysterious Unknown.

"That must be it," he cried at last, delighted at finding a
solution to the mystery, and walking joyously up and down his
chamber. "I have had a horrible dream--a dream with my eyes open;
that is all."
Two gentle taps at the door made him start; but the visitor was
only one of the brewery boys, who gave him a letter from the
burgomaster.

"Yoran, did you see me go out about two hours ago?" asked Frederick
anxiously.

"No, meinheer," said the boy.

"And you did not see me come in?"

"No, meinheer."
"That's all right," said the youth, signing for Yoran to retire.
"Now, then," he said, "there can be no doubt whatever that it
was all a dream." Opening the burgomaster's letter, he ran through
it in haste.
The first magistrate of Haarlem informed Frederick Katwingen that
he had an important communication to make to him, and requested
him to come to his house.

The musician again placed his lips on his instrument, and again
pressed it gratefully to his heart; and then placed it
with the utmost care within its beautiful case, which he covered
with a rich cloth.

Locking the case, and looking at it as a mother might look at the
cradle of her new-born baby, he betook himself to the mansion of
Jansen Pyl.

That stately gentleman was luxuriously reposing in an immense
armchair, covered with Hungary leather.

His two elbows rested on the arms and enabled him to support in
his hands the largest, the reddest, the fattest face that had
ever ornamented the configuration of a Dutch functionary before.
Mr Jansen Pyl wore at that moment the radiant look of satisfaction
which only a magistrate can assume who feels conscious that he
is in the full sunshine of the approbation of his sovereign. His
whole manner betrayed it--the smile upon his lip, the fidgety motion
of his feet, and the look which he darted from time to time
around the room, as if to satisfy himself that his happiness was
"not a sham but a reality."

But his happiness seemed far from contagious. On his right hand
there was a lovely creature, seated on a footstool, who did not
partake his enjoyment. There was something so sweet and so
harmonious in her expression, that you felt sure at once she was
as good as she was beautiful. There was poetry also in her dejected
attitude, and in the long lashes that shadowed her blue eyes;
nor was the charm diminished by the marble neck bent lowly down,
and covered with long flowing locks of the richest brown. And
the poetry was, perhaps, increased by the contrast offered by
the sorrowing countenance of the girl to the radiant visage of the
plethoric individual in the chair. Whilst the ambitious thoughts
of the burgomaster rose to the regions inhabited by the Stadtholder,
the poor girl's miserable reflections returned upon herself. Her
eyes were dimmed with tears. It was easy to see that that had
long been their occupation, and that some secret sorrow preyed upon
the repose of the fair maid of Haarlem.

It was Maïna, the betrothed of Frederick. On the left of the
burgomaster, negligently leaning on the back of the magistrate's
chair, was a man still young in years, but so wrinkled and careworn,
from study or bad health, that he might have passed for old.
The man's expression was cold and severe; his look proud and fiery;
his language rough and harsh.

On analysing his features you could easily make out that he had
prodigious powers of mind, a character imperious and jealous,
and such indomitable pride that he might do a mischief to any
rival who might be bold enough to cross his path.

Now, we are aware of one at least who ran the risk; for the
man was Laurentius Castero. Frederick Katwingen started back on
entering the burgomaster's room. His eye encountered the glance of
Castero, and in the look then interchanged, they felt that they
were enemies between whom no reconciliation could take place.
From Laurentius, Frederick turned his eye to Maïna. The sorrowful
attitude of the maiden would have revealed to him all that had
happened, if the self-satisfied look of his rival had left any
thing to be learned. The conqueror brow-beat the vanquished.

"Mr Katwingen," said the burgomaster, deliberately weighing every
word, "you are aware of the high compliment paid by the Stadtholder
to our city."
"My dream comes true," thought Frederick as he bowed affirmatively
to the magistrate's enquiry.

"And you are also aware," pursued the burgomaster, "of the Stadtholder's
wishes as far as you are personally concerned?"
Frederick bowed again.

"Thanks to my humble supplications," continued Jansen Pyl, raising
his enormous head with an air of dignity, "our gracious governor
has condescended to honour our good town with his august presence
for twenty-four hours longer. But what ought to fill you with
eternal gratitude is this: that he has determined to hear you a
second time when he returns to-morrow from inspecting the works at
Shravnag.

I hope you will redouble your efforts, and do all you can to
please your illustrious auditor; and, if any thing is
required to stimulate your ambition, and add to your endeavours to
excel, I will add this--the hand of Maïna will be bestowed on the
conqueror at this second trial."
"But, father!----" said the maiden.

"It is all settled," interrupted the burgomaster, looking astonished
at the girl's audacity; "you are the reward I offer to the protégé
of the Stadtholder. You hear what I say, gentlemen?" he added,
turning to the rivals.

"I shall certainly not miss the appointment," said Castero,
throwing back his head proudly.

"If to-morrow is not as glorious to me as to-day has been, I
will break my violin, and never touch a bow again as long as I
live."
"As for me," said Frederick, "if I do not make up for the check
I unluckily met to-day by a glorious victory, I swear I will
renounce the flattering name my countrymen have given me, and will
hide my shame in some foreign land.

The Orpheus of his country must have no rival of his fame."
"To-morrow, then," said the burgomaster.

"To-morrow!" repeated the rivals, casting on each other looks
of proud defiance.

"To-morrow!" whispered Maïna and buried her face in her hands.

CHAPTER V.

I shall not attempt to describe the strange sensations of Frederick
on returning from the burgomaster's house It will have been seen
from the glimpses we have had of him already, that he was of a
quick and sensitive disposition, and that the chance of defeat in
the approaching struggle would sting him into madness. He
pictured to himself the ferocious joy of Castero on being declared
the victor--the agony of Maïna--the misery of his own degradation;
and there is no doubt if the mysterious Unknown, whose appearance
he now felt certain was nothing but a dream, had visited him in
_propriâ personâ_, that he would have accepted his terms--his soul
for triumph over his enemy, for the possession of the girl he
loved.
The morrow rose clear and cloudless. At the appointed hour Frederick
took his violin, and prepared to set out. But just when he was
opening the door, the man in the mantle--the same he had seen the
day before--stood before him.
"You did not expect to see me," said the Unknown, following Frederick
to the end of the room, where he had retreated. "I told you,
nevertheless, that we should meet again," he added, placing himself
face to face with the son of the brewer.
"Then it was no dream," murmured the youth, who appeared to have
lost all his resolution.
"Certainly not," returned the stranger, looking sarcastically at
Frederick from head to foot. "I promised you yesterday, on the banks
of the lake, that you would find your fiddle unharmed, and that I
would enable you to conquer your rival. But I don't feel that I am
bound to do any thing of the kind for nothing; generosity was never
my forte, and I have lived long enough among the burghers of Holland
to insist on being well paid for every thing I do."
"Who are you, then; and what is it you want?" enquired the Dutch
Orpheus, in an agitated voice.
"Who am I!" answered the man in the mantle, with all the muscles
of his face in violent convulsions--"Who am I!--I thought I had
told you yesterday when you asked me--I am your master. What do I
want? I will tell you. But why do you tremble so? you were bold
enough when we met. I saw the thought in your heart--if Satan should
rise before me, and promise me victory over my rival at the price
of my soul, I would agree to the condition!"
"Satan!--you are Satan!" shrieked Frederick, and closed his eyes
in horror.
"Didn't you find me out on the side of the lake, when you told me
you would exchange your salvation for years of love and glory. Yes,
I am that King of Darkness--_your_ master! and that of a great part
of mankind. But, come; the hour is at hand--the Burgomaster and the
Stadtholder await us. Do you accept the offer I make you?"
After a minute's hesitation, during which his features betrayed the
force of the internal contest, the musician made his choice.Why could not a wide-floored valley, such as a glacier trough,
with hanging valleys opening upon it, be produced in the normal
development of a river valley?

THE TROUGHS OF YOUNG AND OF MATURE GLACIERS. The features of a
glacier trough depend much on the length of time the preexisting
valley was occupied with ice. During the infancy of a glacier, we
may believe, the spurs of the valley which it fills are but little
blunted and its bed is but little broken by steps. In youth the
glacier develops icefalls, as a river in youth develops
waterfalls, and its bed becomes terraced with great stairs. The
mature glacier, like the mature river, has effaced its falls and
smoothed its bed to grade. It has also worn back the projecting
spurs of its valley, making itself a wide channel with smooth
sides. The bed of a mature glacier may form a long basin, since it
abrades most in its upper and middle course, where its weight and
motion are the greatest. Near the terminus, where weight and
motion are the least, it erodes least, and may instead deposit a
sheet of ground moraine, much as a river builds a flood plain in
the same part of its course as it approaches maturity. The bed of
a mature glacier thus tends to take the form of a long, relatively
narrow basin, across whose lower end may be stretched the dam of
the terminal moraine. On the disappearance of the ice the basin is
rilled with a long, narrow lake, such as Lake Chelan in Washington
and many of the lakes in the Highlands of Scotland.

Piedmont glaciers apparently erode but little. Beneath their lake-
like expanse of sluggish or stagnant ice a broad sheet of ground
moraine is probably being deposited.

Cirques and glaciated valleys rapidly lose their characteristic
forms after the ice has withdrawn. The weather destroys all
smoothed, polished, and scored surfaces which are not protected
beneath glacial deposits. The oversteepened sides of the trough
are graded by landslips, by talus slopes, and by alluvial cones.
Morainic heaps of drift are dissected and carried away. Hanging
valleys and the irregular bed of the trough are both worn down to
grade by the streams which now occupy them. The length of time
since the retreat of the ice from a mountain valley may thus be
estimated by the degree to which the destruction of the
characteristic features of the glacier trough has been carried.

In Figure 104 what characteristics of a glacier trough do you
notice? What inference do you draw as to the former thickness of
the glacier?

Name all the evidences you would expect to find to prove the fact
that in the recent geological past the valleys of the Alps
contained far larger glaciers than at present, and that on the
north of the Alps the ice streams united in a piedmont glacier
which extended across the plains of Switzerland to the sides of
the Jura Mountains.

THE RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF GLACIERS AND OF RIVERS. The lady then,
in accents kind, accosted Jolly Joe, "They're gone! You're safe!
Come! Rouse yourself! You are not dead, I know; But in a swoon
that very soon away like dreams will pass, Much sooner than the
cold you'll catch by sleeping on the grass.

"Go quickly home and get to bed--don't stop to thank me now,
But come to-morrow to my shrine and make a solemn vow, That when
for friends or fellowship henceforth abroad you roam, You'll never
take a drop more wine than you can carry home."
She spake and vanish'd, and again the night was dark and drear;
Joe gave a grunt and shook himself, then shook again with fear,
For though his body lay inert, to all appearance dead, It seems
his mind was quite awake to what pass'd overhead.

Such near escape from such a scrape was certainly enough To shake
the stoutest nerves, and his were not by nature tough; He got
upon his legs, and then went down upon his knees, Gave thanks, and
said, "Dear Lady, pray do with me what you please."
Then up he rose and shook his clothes, and dripping by the
way, Straight homeward sped, and went to bed, where long he sleepless
lay; But natheless at the peep of dawn rose up again alert, And
as beseem'd a penitent put on a hairy shirt.

With humble air he then repair'd unto the Lady's shrine, And took
the vow, as she advised, concerning taking wine; And
thenceforth, as the legend runs, was never after found In
such a plight as on the night when he was nearly drown'd.

Here ends the tale. May it prevail this moral to impress On good
men all, who're apt to fall at times into excess, To seek the
ladies' company when sins or wine entice, And strive not only for
their smiles, but follow their advice.

Now prosper long our lovely Queen, and Albert whom she loves;
And may they, though at eagles' height, live lovingly as doves,
From youthful prime till father Time may change their locks to
gray, While all their Royal progeny "love, honour, and obey!"

May peace long smile on Britain's isle! may Blackwood's Magazine,
If possible, be better still than it hath ever been; May every
thing that's good increase, and what to goodness tends; And may the
writer always have the ladies for his friends!

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote K: "L'Etat.

C'est moi!" Quoth some French Roi; but which of the "most
Christian" set it was, I do not now recollect, and being from home
at this present writing, have no means of reference.]

THE CRY OF THE CHILDREN.

BY ELIZABETH B. BARRET.

Do ye hear the children weeping, O my brothers!
Ere the sorrow comes with years?
They are leaning their young heads against their mothers, And _that_
cannot stop their tears.

The young lambs are bleating in the meadows, The young birds
are chirping in the nest, The young fawns are playing with the
shadows, The young flowers are blowing from the west; But the young
young children, O my brothers!
They are weeping bitterly!
They are weeping in the playtime of the others-- In the country of
the free.

Do you question the young children in the sorrow, Why their tears
are falling so?
The old man may weep for his to-morrow Which is lost in long
ago.
The old tree is leafless in the forest-- The old year is ending in
the frost; The old wound, if stricken, is the sorest-- The old hope
is hardest to be lost!

But the young young children, O my brothers!

Do ye ask them why they stand Weeping sore before the bosoms of
their mothers, In our happy fatherland?

They look up with their pale and sunken faces, And their looks
are sad to see; For the man's grief untimely draws and presses Down
the cheeks of infancy.
"Your old earth," they say, "is very dreary-- Our young feet," they
say, "are very weak!
Few paces have we taken, yet are weary-- Our grave-rest is
very far to seek!
Ask the old why they weep, and not the children; For the outside
earth is cold-- And we young ones stand without, in our bewild'ring,
And the graves are for the old.

"True," say the young children, "it may happen That we die before
our time!
Little Alice died last year--the grave is shapen Like a
snowball, in the rime.
We look'd into the pit prepared to take her-- Was no room for
any work in the close clay!
From the sleep wherein she lieth none will wake her, Crying--'Get
up, little Alice, it is day!'

If you listen by that grave in sun and shower, With your ear down,
little Alice never cries; Could we see her face, be sure we
should not know her, For the new smile which has grown within
her eyes.
For merry go her moments, lull'd and still'd in The shroud, by the
kirk-chime!
It is good when it happens," say the children, "That we die before
our time!"

Alas, the young children! they are seeking Death in life, as best
to have!
They are binding up their hearts away from breaking, With a
cerement from the grave.
Go out, children, from the mine and from the city-- Sing
out, children, as the little thrushes do!
Pluck your handfuls of the meadow cowslips pretty-- Laugh aloud
to feel your fingers let them through!

But the children say--"Are cowslips of the meadows Like the weeds
anear the mine?[L] Leave us quiet in the dark of our coal-shadows,
From your pleasures fair and fine.

"For oh!" say the children, "we are weary-- And we cannot run
or leap:
If we cared for any meadows, it were merely To drop down in
them and sleep.

Our knees tremble sorely in the stooping-- We fall upon our face,
trying to go; And underneath our heavy eyelids drooping, The reddest
flower would look as pale as snow.

For, all day, we drag our burden tiring, Through the coal-dark
underground-- Or, all day, we drive the wheels of iron In the
factories, round and round.

"All day long, the wheels are droning, turning-- Their wind comes
in our faces!
Till our hearts turn, and our heads with pulses burning, And the
walls turn in their places!
Turns the sky in the high window blank and reeling-- Turns the long
light that droppeth down the wall-- Turn the black flies that crawl
along the ceiling-- All are turning all the day, and we with all!

All day long, the iron wheels are droning-- And sometimes we could
pray-- 'O ye wheels' (breaking off in a mad moaning) Stop! be silent
for to-day!'"
Ay! be silent! let them hear each other breathing, For a moment,
mouth to mouth; Let them touch each other's hands, in a fresh
wreathing Of their tender human youth; Let them feel that this
cold metallic motion Is not all the life God giveth them to use;
Let them prove their inward souls against the notion That they
live in you, or under you, O wheels!
Still, all day, the iron wheels go onward, As if Fate in each were
stark!
And the children's souls, which God is calling sunward, Spin on
blindly in the dark.

Now, tell the weary children, O my brothers!
That they look to Him, and pray For the blessed One, who blesseth
all the others, To bless _them_ another day.
They answer, "Who is God that he should hear us, While this rushing
of the iron wheels is stirr'd?
When we sob aloud, the human creatures near us Pass unhearing--at
least, answer not a word; And _we_ hear not (for the wheels in
their resounding) Strangers speaking at the door.

Is it likely God, with angels singing round him, Hears our weeping
any more?

"Two words, indeed, of praying we remember; And, at midnight's
hour of harm, _Our Father_, looking upward in the chamber, We say
softly for a charm.[M] We say no other words except _our
Father!_ And we think that, in some pause of angels' song, He may
pluck them with the silence sweet to gather, And hold both
within his right hand, which is strong.

_Our Father!_ If he heard us, he would surely (For they call
him good and mild) Answer--smiling down the steep world very
purely-- 'Come and rest with me, my child.'
"But no," say the children, weeping faster; "He is silent as a
stone, And they tell us, of his image is the master Who commands
us to work on.

Go to!" say the children; "up in heaven, Dark, wheel-like, turning
clouds are all we find!
Do not mock us! we are atheists in our grieving-- We look up for
HIM--but tears have made us blind." Do ye hear the children weeping
and disproving, O my brothers, what ye teach?

For God's possible is taught by his world's loving-- And the
children doubt of each!

And well may the children weep before ye-- They are weary ere they
run!
They have never seen the sunshine, nor the glory Which is brighter
than the sun!
They know the grief of men, but not the wisdom-- They sink in the
despair, with hope at calm-- Are slaves, without the liberty in
christdom-- Are martyrs by the pang without the palm!
Are worn as if with age; yet unretrievingly No joy of memory
keep-- Are orphans of the earthly love and heavenly-- Let them
weep--let them weep!

They look up with their pale and sunken faces, And their look
is dread to see; For you think you see their angels in their
places, With eyes meant for Deity.
"How long," they say, "how long, O cruel nation!
Will you stand, to move the world, on a child's heart, Trample
down with a mail'd heel its palpitation, And tread onward to your
throne amid the mart?
Our blood splashes upward, O our tyrants!
And your purple shows your path-- But the child's sob curseth deeper
in the silence, Than the strong man in his wrath!"

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote L: A commissioner mentions the fact of weeds being
thus confounded with the idea of flowers.]
[Footnote M: The report of the commissioners represents instances
of children, whose religious devotion is confined to the repetition
of the two first words of the Lord's Prayer.]

LETTER TO CHRISTOPHER NORTH, ESQ.

RESPECTED CHRISTOPHER,

As an appendage to the "_Whippiad_," so happily rescued from the
fate designed for it by its author, to be embalmed in the never-dying
pages of Maga, the following _jeu d'esprit_, connected with its
hero, may not be unacceptable, especially as both productions were
generally attributed to the same pen.

A note on the line--
"And cuckoo mingle with the thoughts of Bell,"
towards the end of the first canto, alludes to "a young lady of
singular elegance and personal accomplishments," to whom Dr Toe's
attentions were supposed not to have been unacceptable. This elegant
and accomplished young lady, however, (a certain Miss Bell H----,)
is said to have eventually jilted the Doctor, and married her
footman; a circumstance which gave rise to the following stanzas:--

'Twixt footman John and Dr Toe A rivalship befell, Which of the two
should be the Beau To bear away the _Belle_!

The Footman won the Lady's heart, And who can blame her?--No
man.
The _whole_ prevail'd against the _part:_ 'Twas _Foot_-man _versus
Toe_-man.

By the way, Christopher, your compositor has "misused the queen's
press most damnably" in the quotation from Coriolanus prefixed to
the second canto, where he converts the "Great _Toe_ of the Assembly"
into its "Great _Foe_."

Rap his knuckles with your crutch, old Gentleman; and tell him,
too, that the "Shawstone's party" he speaks of was a very jolly
_symposium_, given by a very hearty fellow of the name of
"Rawstorne," whose _cognomen_ stands _sic in orig._
Thine ever.

My dear Christopher,
ERIGENA.

BRAZENOSE QUAD., _July_ 15, 1843.

THE REPEAL AGITATION.

No popularity does, or can exist which is not liable to collapses.

Two-fold infirmity, alike for him who judges, and for him who
suffers judgment, will not allow it to be otherwise. Sir Robert
Peel, a minister more popular by his tenure of office than any
whom this generation will perhaps again behold, has not been able
to escape that ordinary trial of human prosperity.

Suddenly a great cloud of public danger has gathered around him:
upon every path there were seen to lie secret snares: no wisdom
could make an election amongst them absolutely safe: he made
that election which comparison of the cases and private information
seemed to warrant: and immediately, of his own supporters
many are offended. We believe it to be a truth, one amongst those
new truths whose aspiring heads are even now rising above our
horizon, that the office of first minister, either for France or
England, is becoming rapidly more trying by the quality of its
duties. We talk of energy: we invoke the memories of Pitt and of
Chatham: "oh, for one hour," we exclaim, of those great _executive_
statesmen--who "trampled upon impossibilities," or glorified
themselves in a "vigour beyond the law!" Looking backwards, we are
right: in our gratitude we do not err. But those times are past.
For Sir Robert Peel no similar course is open.

Changes in the temper of the age, changes in the constitution of
public bodies, absolute revolutions in the _kind_ of responsibilities
by which a minister is now fettered, forbid us to imagine
that any raptures of national sympathy will ever crowd forward
to the support of extreme or summary measures, such as once might
have been boldly employed. That style of aspiring action
presumes some approach to unity in public opinion. But such unity
we shall hardly witness again, were a hostile invader even landed
on our shores.

Meantime it will add weight to any thing we can offer in behalf of
the Irish policy now formally avowed by Government, if we acknowledge
ingenuously that for some weeks we ourselves shared in the
doubts upon its wisdom, not timidly expressed by weighty
Conservatives.

We believe it, indeed, natural and honourable that the first movement
of feeling upon cases such as those now proceeding in Ireland,
should be one of mere summary indignation.

Not that scurrility and the basest of personalities from Mr
O'Connell are either novelties, or difficult to bear. To hear an
old man, a man whose own approach to the period of physical
decay, is the one great hope and consolation of all good subjects
in Ireland, scoffing at grey hairs in the Duke of Wellington--calling,
and permitting his creatures to call, by the name of "vagabonds"
or "miscreants," the most eminent leaders of a sister nation, who
are also the chosen servants of that mistress whom he professes to
honour: this might have been shocking in any man who had not long
since squandered his own ability to shock.

As it is, these things move only laughter or silent disgust,
according to the temper of readers.

And we are sure that not merely the priests, or men of education
amongst Mr O'Connell's followers, but even the peasantry, must in
their hearts perceive how indispensable is a _general_ habit of
self-restraint and abstinence from abusive language to the effect
of any individual insult These were _not_ the causes of public
indignation.

Not what Mr O'Connell said, but what he did, kindled the general
wrath.

To see him marching and countermarching armies, to find him bandying
menaces with the Government of this great nation, and proclaiming
(openly or covertly) that he would not be the party to
strike the first blow, but that assuredly he would strike the
second--thinking it little to speak as a traitor, unless also he
spoke as an European potentate; this was the spectacle before
which the self-control of so many melted away, and which
raised the clamour for vindictive justice. It quickened the
irritation to know, that hostile foreigners were looking on with
deep interest, and every where misinterpreting the true readings
of the case. Weeks passed before we could thoroughly reconcile
our own feelings to the passive toleration, or apparent apathy,
of the Government.

Our sense of prudence took the alarm, not less than our feelings.
And finally, if both could have acquiesced, our sense of consistency
was revolted by what met the public eye; since, if the weak were
to be punished, why should the strong be connived at?

Magistrates, to the amount of three score, had been dismissed for
giving their countenance to the Repeal meetings; and yet the meetings
themselves, which had furnished the very principle of the reproach,
and the ground of punishment, were neither dispersed nor denounced.

Rarely, however, in politics, has any man final occasion to repent
of forbearance. There may be a tempest of provocation towards
the policy of rigour; that policy may justify itself to the moral
sense of men; modes even of prudence may be won over to sanction
it; and yet, after all the largest spirit of civil prudence,
such as all of us would approve in any historical case removed
from the passions of the times, will suggest a much nobler promise
of success through a steady adherence to the counsels of peace,
than any which could attend the most efficient prosecution of a
hostile intervention.

The exceeding weight of the crisis has forced us into a closer
comparison than usual of the consequences probably awaiting either
course. Usually in such cases, we are content to abide the
solutions of time; the rapid motion of events settling but too
hastily all doubts, and dispensing with the trouble of investigation.
Here, however, the coincidence of feelings, heavily mortified on
our own part, with the serious remonstrances in the way of argument
from journals friendly to Sir Robert Peel's government, would not
suffer us to rest in the uneasy condition of dissatisfied suspense.

We found ourselves almost coerced into pursuing the two rival
policies, down to their separate issues; and the result has satisfied
ourselves, that the minister is right. We shall make an effort
for bringing over the reader to our own convictions.
As a wave comes up the shelving bench the crest topples forward
and the wave "breaks," striking a blow whose force is measured by
the momentum of all its tons of falling water. On the coast of
Scotland the force of the blows struck by the waves of the
heaviest storms has sometimes exceeded three tons to the square
foot. But even a calm sea constantly chafes the shore. It heaves
in gentle undulations known as the ground swell, the result of
storms perhaps a thousand miles distant, and breaks on the shore
in surf.

The blows of the waves are not struck with clear water only, else
they would have little effect on cliffs of solid rock. Storm waves
arm themselves with the sand and gravel, the cobbles, and even the
large bowlders which lie at the base of the cliff, and beat
against it with these hammers of stone.

Where a precipice descends sheer into deep water, waves swash up
and down the face of the rocks but cannot break and strike
effective blows. They therefore erode but little until the talus
fallen from the cliff is gradually built up beneath the sea to the
level at which the waves drag bottom upon it and break.

Compare the ways in which different agents abrade. The wind
lightly brushes sand and dust over exposed surfaces of rock.
Running water sweeps fragments of various sizes along its
channels, holding them with a loose hand. Glacial ice grinds the
stones of its ground moraine against the underlying rock with the
pressure of its enormous weight. The wave hurls fragments of rock
against the sea cliff, bruising and battering it by the blow. It
also rasps the bench as it drags sand and gravel to and fro upon
it.

WEATHERING OF SEA CLIFFS. The sea cliff furnishes the weapons for
its own destruction. They are broken from it not only by the wave
but also by the weather. Indeed the sea cliff weathers more
rapidly, as a rule, than do rock ledges inland. It is abundantly
wet with spray. Along its base the ground water of the neighboring
land finds its natural outlet in springs which under mine it.
Moreover, it is unprotected by any shield of talus. Fragments of
rock as they fall from its face are battered to pieces by the
waves and swept out to sea. The cliff is thus left exposed to the
attack of the weather, and its retreat would be comparatively
rapid for this reason alone.

Sea cliffs seldom overhang, but commonly, as in Figure 134, slope
seaward, showing that the upper portion has retreated at a more
rapid rate than has the base. Which do you infer is on the whole
the more destructive agent, weathering or the wave?

Draw a section of a sea cliff cut in well jointed rocks whose
joints dip toward the land. Draw a diagram of a sea cliff where
the joints dip toward the sea.

SEA CAVES. The wave does not merely batter the face of the cliff.
Like a skillful quarryman it inserts wedges in all natural
fissures, such as joints, and uses explosive forces. As a wave
flaps against a crevice it compresses the air within with the
sudden stroke; as it falls back the air as suddenly expands. On
lighthouses heavily barred doors have been burst outward by the
explosive force of the air within, as it was released from
pressure when a partial vacuum was formed by the refluence of the
wave. Where a crevice is filled with water the entire force of the
blow of the wave is transmitted by hydraulic pressure to the sides
of the fissure. Thus storm waves little by little pry and suck the
rock loose, and in this way, and by the blows which they strike
with the stones of the beach, they quarry out about a joint, or
wherever the rock may be weak, a recess known as a SEA CAVE,
provided that the rock above is coherent enough to form a roof.
Otherwise an open chasm results.

BLOWHOLES AND SEA ARCHES. As a sea cave is drilled back into the
rock, it may encounter a joint or crevice opened to the surface by
percolating water. The shock of the waves soon enlarges this to a
blowhole, which one may find on the breezy upland, perhaps a
hundred yards and more back from the cliff's edge. In quiet
weather the blowhole is a deep well; in storm it plays a fountain
as the waves drive through the long tunnel below and spout their
spray high in air in successive jets. As the roof of the cave thus
breaks down in the rear, there may remain in front for a while a
sea arch, similar to the natural bridges of land caverns.

STACKS AND WAVE-CUT ISLANDS. As the sea drives its tunnels and
open drifts into the cliff, it breaks through behind the
intervening portions and leaves them isolated as stacks, much as
monuments are detached from inland escarpments by the weather; and
as the sea cliff retreats, these remnant masses may be left behind
as rocky islets. Thus the rock bench is often set with stacks,
islets in all stages of destruction, and sunken reefs, all wrecks
of the land testifying to its retreat before the incessant attack
of the waves.

COVES. Where zones of soft or closely jointed rock outcrop along a
shore, or where minor water courses conic down to the sea and aid
in erosion, the shore is worn back in curved reentrants called
coves; while the more resistant rocks on either hand are left
projecting as headlands (Fig. 139). After coves are cut back a
short distance by the waves, the headlands come to protect them,
as with breakwaters, and prevent their indefinite retreat. The
shore takes a curve of equilibrium, along which the hard rock of
the exposed headland and the weak rock of the protected cove wear
back at an equal rate.

RATE OF RECESSION. The rate at which a shore recedes depends on
several factors. In soft or incoherent rocks exposed to violent
storms the retreat is so rapid as to be easily measured. The coast
of Yorkshire, England, whose cliffs are cut in glacial drift,
loses seven feet a year on the average, and since the Norman
conquest a strip a mile wide, with farmsteads and villages and
historic seaports, has been devoured by the sea. The sandy south
shore of Martha's Vineyard wears back three feet a year. But hard
rocks retreat so slowly that their recession has seldom been
measured by the records of history.

SHORE DRIFT

BOWLDER AND PEBBLE BEACHES. About as fast as formed the waste of
the sea cliff is swept both along the shore and out to sea. The
road of waste along shore is the BEACH. We may also define the
beach as the exposed edge of the sheet of sediment formed by the
carriage of land waste out to sea. At the foot of sea cliffs,
where the waves are pounding hardest, one commonly finds the rock
bench strewn on its inner margin with large stones, dislodged by
the waves and by the weather and some-what worn on their corners
and edges. From this BOWLDER BEACH the smaller fragments of waste
from the cliff and the fragments into which the bowlders are at
last broken drift on to more sheltered places and there accumulate
in a PEBBLE BEACH, made of pebbles well rounded by the wear which
they have suffered. Such beaches form a mill whose raw material is
constantly supplied by the cliff. The breakers of storms set it in
motion to a depth of several feet, grinding the pebbles together
with a clatter to be heard above the roar of the surf. In such a
rock crusher the life of a pebble is short. Where ships have
stranded on our Atlantic coast with cargoes of hard-burned brick
or of coal, a year of time and a drift of five miles along the
shore have proved enough to wear brick and coal to powder. At no
great distance from their source, therefore, pebble beaches give
place to beaches of sand, which occupy the more sheltered reaches
of the shore.

SAND BEACHES. The angular sand grains of various minerals into
which pebbles are broken by the waves are ground together under
the beating surf and rounded, and those of the softer minerals are
crushed to powder. The process, however, is a slow one, and if we
study these sand grains under a lens we may be surprised to see
that, though their corners and edges have been blunted, they are
yet far from the spherical form of the pebbles from which they
were derived. The grains are small, and in water they have lost
about half their weiglit in air; the blows which they strike one
another are therefore weak. Besides, each grain of sand of the wet
beach is protected by a cushion of water from the blows of its
neighbors.

The shape and size of these grains and the relative proportion of
grains of the softer minerals which still remain give a rough
measure of the distance in space and time which they have traveled
from their source. The sand of many beaches, derived from the
rocks of adjacent cliffs or brought in by torrential streams from
neighboring highlands, is dark with grains of a number of minerals
softer than quartz. The white sand of other beaches, as those of
the east coast of Florida, is almost wholly composed of quartz
grains; for in its long travel down the Atlantic coast the weaker
minerals have been worn to powder and the hardest alone survive.

How does the absence of cleavage in quartz affect the durability
of quartz sand?

HOW SHORE DRIFT MIGRATES. It is under the action of waves and
currents that shore drift migrates slowly along a coast. Where
waves strike a coast obliquely they drive the waste before them
little by little along the shore. Thus on a north-south coast,
where the predominant storms are from the northeast, there will be
a migration of shore drift southwards.

All shores are swept also by currents produced by winds and tides.
These are usually far too gentle to transport of themselves the
coarse materials of which beaches are made. But while the wave
stirs the grains of sand and gravel, and for a moment lifts them
from the bottom, the current carries them a step forward on their
way. The current cannot lift and the wave cannot carry, but
together the two transport the waste along the shore. The road of
shore drift is therefore the zone of the breaking waves.

THE BAY-HEAD BEACH. As the waste derived from the wear of waves
and that brought in by streams is trailed along a coast it
assumes, under varying conditions, a number of distinct forms.
When swept into the head of a sheltered bay it constitutes the
bay-head beach. By the highest storm waves the beach is often
built higher than the ground immediately behind it, and forms a
dam inclosing a shallow pond or marsh.

THE BAY BAR. As the stream of shore drift reaches the mouth of a
bay of some size it often occurs that, instead of turning in, it
sets directly across toward the opposite headland. The waste is
carried out from shore into the deeper waters of the bay mouth;
where it is no longer supported by the breaking waves, and sinks
to the bottom. The dump is gradually built to the surface as a
stubby spur, pointing across the bay, and as it reaches the zone
of wave action current and wave can now combine to carry shore
drift along it, depositing their load continually at the point of
the spur. An embankment is thus constructed in much the same
manner as a railway fill, which, while it is building, serves as a
roadway along which the dirt from an adjacent cut is carted to be
dumped at the end. When the embankment is completed it bridges the
bay with a highway along which shore drift now moves without
interruption, and becomes a bay bar.

INCOMPLETE BAY BARS. Under certain conditions the sea cannot carry
out its intention to bridge a bay. Rivers discharging in bays
demand open way to the ocean. Strong tidal currents also are able
to keep open channels scoured by their ebb and flow. In such cases
the most that land waste can do is to build spits and shoals,
narrowing and shoaling the channel as much as possible. Incomplete
bay bars sometimes have their points recurved by currents setting
at right angles to the stream of shore drift and are then
classified as HOOKS (Fig. 142).

SAND REEFS. On low coasts where shallow water extends some
distance out, the highway of shore drift lies along a low, narrow
ridge, termed the sand reef, separated from the land by a narrow
stretch of shallow water called the LAGOON. At intervals the reef
is held open by INLETS,--gaps through which the tide flows and
ebbs, and by which the water of streams finds way to the sea.

No finer example of this kind of shore line is to be found in the
world than the coast of Texas. From near the mouth of the Rio
Grande a continuous sand reef draws its even curve for a hundred
miles to Corpus Christi Pass, and the reefs are but seldom
interrupted by inlets as far north as Galveston Harbor. On this
coast the tides are variable and exceptionally weak, being less
than one foot in height, while the amount of waste swept along the
shore is large. The lagoon is extremely shallow, and much of it is
a mud flat too shoal for even small boats. On the coast of New
Jersey strong tides are able to keep open inlets at intervals of
from two to twenty miles in spite of a heavy alongshore drift.

Sand reefs are formed where the water is so shallow near shore
that storm waves cannot run in it and therefore break some
distance out from land. Where storm waves first drag bottom they
erode and deepen the sea floor, and sweep in sediment as far as
the line where they break. Here, where they lose their force, they
drop their load and beat up the ridge which is known as the sand
reef when it reaches the surface.

SHORES OF ELEVATION AND DEPRESSION

Our studies have already brought to our notice two distinct forms
of strand lines,--one the high, rocky coast cut back to cliffs by
the attack of the waves, and the other the low, sandy coast where
the waves break usually upon the sand reef. To understand the
origin of these two types we must know that the meeting place of
sea and land is determined primarily by movements of the earth's
crust. Where a coast land emerges the--shore line moves seaward;
where it is being submerged the shore line advances on the land.

SHORES OF ELEVATION. The retreat of the sea, either because of a
local uplift of the land or for any other reason, such as the
lowering of any portion of ocean bottom, lays bare the inner
margin of the sea floor. Where the sea floor has long received the
waste of the land it has been built up to a smooth, subaqueous
plain, gently shelving from the land. Since the new shore line is
drawn across this even surface it is simple and regular, and is
bordered on the one side by shallow water gradually deepening
seaward, and on the other by low land composed of material which
has not yet thoroughly consolidated to firm rock. A sand reef is
soon beaten up by the waves, and for some time conditions will
favor its growth. The loss of sand driven into the lagoon beyond,
and of that ground to powder by the surf and carried out to sea,
is more than made up by the stream of alongshore drift, and
especially by the drag of sediments to the reef by the waves as
they deepen the sea floor on its seaward side.

Meanwhile the lagoon gradually fills with waste from the reef and
from the land. It is invaded by various grasses and reeds which
have learned to grow in salt and brackish water; the marsh, laid
bare only at low tide, is built above high tide by wind drift and
vegetable deposits, and becomes a meadow, soldering the sand reef
to the mainland.

While the lagoon has been filling, the waves have been so
deepening the sea floor off the sand reef that at last they are
able to attack it vigorously. They now wear it back, and, driving
the shore line across the lagoon or meadow, cut a line of low
cliffs on the mainland. Such a shore is that of Gascony in
southwestern France,--a low, straight, sandy shore, bordered by
dunes and unprotected by reefs from the attack of the waves of the
Bay of Biscay.

We may say, then, that on shores of elevation the presence of sand
reefs and lagoons indicates the stage of youth, while the absence
of these features and the vigorous and unimpeded attack by the sea
upon the mainland indicate the stage of maturity. Where much waste
is brought in by rivers the maturity of such a coast may be long
delayed. The waste from the land keeps the sea shallow offshore
and constantly renews the sand reef. The energy of the waves is
consumed in handling shore drift, and no energy is left for an
effective attack upon the land. Indeed, with an excessive amount
of waste brought down by streams the land may be built out and
encroach temporarily upon the sea; and not until long denudation
has lowered the land, and thus decreased the amount of waste from
it, may the waves be able to cut through the sand reef and thus
the coast reach maturity.

SHORES OF DEPRESSION

Where a coastal region is undergoing submergence the shore line
moves landward. The horizontal plane of the sea now intersects an
old land surface roughened by subaerial denudation. The shore line
is irregular and indented in proportion to the relief of the land
and the amount of the submergence which the land has suffered. It
follows up partially submerged valleys, forming bays, and bends
round the divides, leaving them to project as promontories and
peninsulas. The outlines of shores of depression are as varied as
are the forms of the land partially submerged. We give a few
typical illustrations.

The characteristics of the coast of Maine are due chiefly to the
fact that a mountainous region of hard rocks, once worn to a
peneplain, and after a subsequent elevation deeply dissected by
north-south valleys, has subsided, the depression amounting on its
southern margin to as much as six hundred feet below sea level.
Drowned valleys penetrate the land in long, narrow bays, and
rugged divides project in long, narrow land arms prolonged seaward
by islands representing the high portions of their extremities. Of
this exceedingly ragged shore there are said to be two thousand
miles from the New Brunswick boundary as far west as Portland,--a
straight-line distance of but two hundred miles. Since the time of
its greatest depression the land is known to have risen some three
hundred feet; for the bays have been shortened, and the waste with
which their floors were strewn is now in part laid bare as clay
plains about the bay heads and in narrow selvages about the
peninsulas and islands.

The coast of Dalmatia, on the Adriatic Sea, is characterized by
long land arms and chains of long and narrow islands, all parallel
to the trend of the coast. A region of parallel mountain ranges
has been depressed, and the longitudinal valleys which lie between
them are occupied by arms of the sea.

Chesapeake Bay is a branching bay due to the depression of an
ancient coastal plain which, after having emerged from the sea,
was channeled with broad, shallow valleys. The sea has invaded the
valley of the trunk stream and those of its tributaries, forming a
shallow bay whose many branches are all directed toward its axis
(Fig. 146).

Hudson Bay, and the North, the Baltic, and the Yellow seas are
examples where the sinking of the land has brought the sea in over
low plains of large extent, thus deeply indenting the continental
out-line. The rise of a few hundred feet would restore these
submerged plains to the land.

THE CYCLE OF SHORES OF DEPRESSION. In its infantile stage the
outline of a shore of depression depends almost wholly on the
previous relief of the land, and but little on erosion by the sea.
Sea cliffs and narrow benches appear where headlands and outlying
islands have been nipped by the waves. As yet, little shore waste
has been formed. The coast of Maine is an example of this stage.

In early youth all promontories have been strongly cliffed, and
under a vigorous attack of the sea the shore of open bays may be
cut back also. Sea stacks and rocky islets, caves and coves, make
the shore minutely ragged. The irregularity of the coast, due to
depression, is for a while increased by differential wave wear on
harder and softer rocks. The rock bench is still narrow. The big
swagger about "great principles" eventuates, however, in
denouncing by speech from the throne repeal as high treason, and
O'Connell the repealer as a traitor to the state; and next, with
cap in hand, and most mendicant meanness, supplicating the said
traitor--denounced--repealing O'Connell, to deign acceptance of one
of the highest offices in the realm.

Their practice in the "constitution" line consists in annihilating
rotten borough A because it is Tory; in conserving rotten borough
B because it is Whig. The grand characteristic of each species
is--_vox et preterea nihil._ Need I further proclaim them and
their titles? In the order of Parisian organization they stand
as _faiseurs_ and _phraseurs._ You can make no mistake about the
personality ranged under each banner; they are as
perfectly distinguishable each from the other, though even knit
in close and indissoluble alliance, as Grand Crosses of the
Bath from Knights of the Garter. At the head of the _faiseurs_
you have Lord John Russell, Lord Viscount Palmerston, and Lord
Viscount Howick.

You have only to see them rise in the House of Commons--Lord John,
to wit--
"Pride in his port, defiance in his eye"--
to be led into the belief that
--"Now is the day Big with the fate of Cato and of Rome."
The physical swell of conscious consequence--the eye-distended
"wide awake" insinuation of the inconceivable, unutterable things--the
grand sentiments about to be outpoured--hold you in silent wonderment
and expectation. You conceive nothing less, than either that the
world is about to come to an end, or the _millennium_ declared
to be the "order of the day." You imagine that the orator will
lose self and party in his country.

Nothing of all this follows, however. You have some common-places,
perhaps common truisms, some undefined, mean-all-or-nothing,
declamation about "constitution" and "principles," by way
of exordium; for the rest, Rome is sunk as if it existed not,
down to the peroration it is all about Cato himself, and his
little Whig party about him.

--"Parturiunt montes, Nascitur ridiculus mus."
Chief of the _phraseurs_ stand Mr Babington Macaulay and Mr Lalor
Shiel, the peculiarity of whose craft--a profitable craft of late
years--consists in furbishing up old ideas into new and euphonious
forms of speech.

Of the one it may be said, that
--"He could not ope His mouth, but out there flew a trope."
The other more finished leader of the class mystifies you with
metaphysics, half conned and unmastered by himself--more anxious
still to make his points than to please his party; and, of the
two, would rather sink his country than his climax.

He is a rhetorician, a dealer in set phraseology, an ingenious
gatherer and polisher of "other men's stuff."

Of the _faiseurs,_ may be repeated what Marshal Marmont,
in his _Voyage en Hongrie, en Transylvanie,_ &c., says of the
_faiseurs_ of Paris--"_Subjugués par le gout et cette manie
d'uniformité absolue, qui est la maladie de l'époque, et qui
resulte de principes abstraits, dont l'application est presque
toujours funeste aux peuples qui l'éprouvent, ils ignoraient
combien il est dans la nature des choses et dans le bien des
nations de modifier l'organization sociale suivant le temps, les
lieux, suivant le plus on moins grana degré de civilization, et
d'après mille circonstances, qui ne peuvent être prévues d'avance,
mais que le legislateur capable apprecie au moment où il est appélé
à fonder la société

."_ On the cession of the Illyrian provinces, by Austria, after
the battle of Wagram, the _faiseurs_, or abstract principle
men, of Paris, were prompt with their plans, not for
"constitutions"--Bonaparte had put an end to that branch of their
_métier_--but for reorganizing the laws, administration, &c., of
Transylvania _de fond en comble_, without knowing any thing of the
people or country, without having seen either the one or the other.

Marmont, appointed governor of the ceded provinces, who had studied
on the spot the institutions established by Austria, found these
so perfect and well adapted to the genius and inclination of
the population, and the purposes of government, that he opposed the
_faiseurs_ with success, and, by his representations, induced
Bonaparte to confirm and act upon what existed.

This immense agglomeration, this monstrous over-production of
the tribes of _farceurs_, _faiseurs_, and _phraseurs_ is a
misfortune of the first magnitude--a pest worse than that of the
locusts which lay waste the land of Egypt, as here the substance
of the people is devoured.

Conflagrations may, and do, occasionally diminish the number of
cotton-mills, and lighten the warehoused accumulation of cottons,
or other inert matter; but no lucky plague, pestilence, or cholera,
comes to thin the crowded phalanx, and rid this empire of some
portion of the interminable brood of mongers of all shapes and sizes.

As Horace says--

"'Tis hard, but patience must endure And bear the woes it cannot
cure."
And now, leaving this discursive preliminary sketch, the length
of which was unpremeditated, of the leading influences which are
fast hurrying to social disorganization, it is time that once more
we stand face to face with the one disorganizing doctrine of
_one-sided free trade_; with the banner on which the
_phraseurs_ and _farceurs_ have inscribed the cabalistic
devices, in flaming characters--"Leave the imports alone, the
exports will take care of themselves;" and, "A fixed duty is a
fixed injustice."

One might be tempted to believe the first borrowed from the armorial
bearings of Lord Huntingtower's "bill" friends, whose motto is, or
should be--"Leave the fools alone, and the knaves will take care
of themselves;" the second is clearly no better than a petty-larceny
paraphrase of Newgate felony, in whose code of duties it stands
decreed, from all time, that "a fixed law is a fixed despotism."

The history of industry and commerce in every country, from the
most ancient down to modern times, gives the lie to these
pertly pretending truisms; for there is scarcely one branch of
manufacture to be named which does not owe its rise, progress, and
perfection, to the protective or financial, or both combined, control
exercised over imports. If we look at home only, where, we ask,
would the woollen manufacture be now, but for the early laws
restrictive of the importation of foreign woollens, nay more,
restrictive of the export of British fleeces with which the
manufactories of Belgium were alimented? Where the cotton trade,
even with all Arkwright and Crompton's inventions of mule and
throstle frames, and the steam-engine wonders of Watt, but for
the importation tax of 87 per cent with which the cotton manufactures
of India were weighted and finally crushed? Where the British
iron mines and the iron trade, now so pre-eminent over all the
world, but for the heavy import duties with which the iron
of Swedish, Russian, or other foreign origin was loaded? And so
also, may it be asked, in respect to almost all industry and
production.

If, as contended, the woollen, cotton, and iron industries would
not only have been created, but much more largely have flourished,
without the aids and appliances of friendly tariffs, the
one-sided free traders are, at least, bound to something more
potential than mere assertion and idle declamation in support of
the vague allegation.

They have the evidence of facts patent and abundant to
confront and gainsay them; they shall have more; but is there
to be no reciprocation of facts counter? Is the evidence and
the argument to remain all on one side, and on the other nothing
but wordy nothingness--
"Dat inania verba, Dat sine mente sonum."
Where are the unknown lands of factories and furnaces, of
puddling and power looms, of steam-engines and blowing machines,
all self-created and "self-supporting," scorning the crutches
of patronage, and high-mounted on the stilts of free, or one-sided
free trade? Either they exist in the shape of matter tangible and
substantial; or they exist not except as _chateaux en Espagne_
are dreamt of, or as bubbles blown and chased by idle urchins--modern
philosophers in petticoats.

This bubble-blowing has been, indeed, converted into something of a
mine of industry of late years, most successfully _exploité_ by all
the _chevaliers d'industrie_ of the race of _farceurs_ before
referred to. Let us not forget, however, that one of the most
indefatigable of the class, after various and many voyages by
sea, and travels by land, in quest of the picturesque in
political economy, did, indeed--or says so, and has compiled a
book to prove it--light on this long-sought, never-before discovered
land, in whose Arcadian bowers sits enthroned the very genius of
trade, free and unfettered as the eagle in his eyry on the crowning
crest of St Gotthard.

Would you know this thrice-blest region--"Go climb the Alps," as the
Roman satirist bids--it is Switzerland snugly ensconced in
their bosom.

Nevertheless, before the title of Switzerland Felix be fully conceded,
the legitimacy of its derivation remains to be investigated. The
concession can only be registered upon three conditions fulfilled.

It must be shown, _firstly_, that manufacturing industry was
not fostered in its early stages by the governing power; _secondly_,
that if it had attained a large development unprotected, the
proportions of such development shall have been at the least
equal, as upon the theory of free trade they should be superior,
to the ratio of progression manifested in other countries
where protection has been the ruling principle; _thirdly_, that
free trade was not a necessity imposed by circumstances and position,
not the result of a barter of value for value, but of free and
spontaneous choice, and as the result of the profound conviction
of the superior excellency and adaptability of the abstract principle.

We shall deal briefly with the subject, because it has been
discussed more at length heretofore in those special articles in
which we have treated of the rise and progress of the cotton
manufacture in this and other countries. In regard to the
first condition, it was established on a former occasion, that the
ruling powers of one or more of the Cantons, did advance large
capitals, and offered more, in order to encourage and assist
in the establishment of cotton-spinning mills, with machinery
of the most perfect construction, under the superintendence,
and with a share in the profits, of persons duly skilled from
England. Happily, one of the individuals to whom such offers
(on the basis of a £100,000 capital) were made, and by whom
declined, then and subsequently one of the largest exporting
merchants of Lancashire to Switzerland, and the Continent generally,
still lives, and we have had the statement confirmed by himself
within the last two or three years.

This was somewhere between 1795 and 1800, further our memory does
not serve for the precise date at present, nor is it indispensable.
A manufacture thus, as may be said, artificially created and
bolstered up, we do not say unwisely, does not assuredly answer the
first condition required. With respect to the measure of the
manufacturing development, the data are unfortunately wanting
for precise verification; for Switzerland possesses no returns of
foreign trade at all, nor can any satisfactory approximation
be arrived at from inspection of the official tables of the foreign
and transit commerce now before us of Holland, Belgium, and France,
through which all the transmarine intercourse of Switzerland must
necessarily pass.

The exports and imports of Holland, by the Rhine, are not so classed
as to show what proportion appertains to Germany and what to
Switzerland, as both stand under the one head of Germany and
the Rhine. In the Belgian tables, Switzerland does not enter at
all until 1841, therefore they can afford no materials for
the comparison with former years. From the French tables, more
scientifically constructed, correct information may be gathered,
so far as the commerce with and through France.

But we are wanting nearly altogether in materials for estimating
the land traffic of Switzerland with Germany and Italy.
Taking the French tables alone, it may be collected, however,
that the commerce of Switzerland has been considerably on the
increase with and through France.

In the cotton trade, for example, the imports of raw cotton in
transit through Havre, for Switzerland, had already augmented from
2,973,159 kilogrammes in 1830, to 6,446,703 kilogrammes
in 1836; and again, from the latter term, to 104,842 metrical
quintals in 1840, which declined to 77,534 in 1841.
Our returns do not enable us to state with exactitude whether the
whole, or what portion, of the transit of cotton for the two latter
years was destined for Switzerland, because our French tables do
not, as up to 1836, embrace the details of the separate transit
trade to each country, but only the total quantities.

The increase of imports by way of France must not, however, be
taken to all the extent as an absolute increase, nor can we
conclude, with any assurance, that it was an increase upon
the whole. For, in consequence of some important reductions in the
dues agreed to by France in order to favour and attract the entire
transit trade of Switzerland through its territory, the cottons
formerly passed to Switzerland through Rotterdam and Antwerp by the
Rhine, have been sent by way of Havre.

Thus, on consulting Mr Porter's Tables of Trade, we find that
the twenty-one millions of lbs. of cotton re-exported to Holland
and Belgium in 1837, had decreased, in 1840, to little more
than twelve millions. What proportion of the twenty-one millions
was destined for Switzerland, there are no means of ascertaining,
except from the returns in detail of the Rhine navigation, the
existence of which, in any available shape, may be doubted.

Assuming that the whole of the cotton passing in transit through
France was for Switzerland, we find a quantity equal to about
seventeen millions of pounds, in 1841, as required for the supply
of the cotton manufacture; or say, on a rough average of 1840 and
1841, nineteen and a half millions of pounds.

Now, considering that the cotton manufacture has been established
in Switzerland above a century, these figures certainly demonstrate
any thing but an extraordinary rate of progress. The cotton
manufacture of Russia does not number half the years of existence,
and yet the average consumption of raw cotton, in 1840 and 1841,
was nearly thirteen millions of pounds, and of cotton yarn, rendered
into cotton,[J] about twenty-three millions more.

It must be noted, moreover, that whereas subsequently to the inventions
of Arkwright and Crompton, Switzerland drew nearly the whole of
her yarns for making into cloths from England, not possessing
herself any spinning machinery until the commencement of the
present century, and then but to a trivial extent, with scarcely
any augmentation of importance, until some years after the general
peace of 1815; yet that, within the last twenty years, the use
of machinery has been extensively introduced, cotton factories
have spread on all sides, for working which water-power in
abundance afforded every facility, so that she now spins nearly
all the yarns necessary for her fabrics, and imports from England
but a very slender quantity of the higher counts still required
for her finest muslins.

Those imports do not perhaps exceed, if they reach to, one
million pounds per annum. Of many merchants in Manchester,
thirty or forty years ago, extensively engaged in furnishing that
supply, but one or two at present are to be found. It remains,
therefore, doubtful whether there has been any material progress
in the cotton manufactures of Switzerland, so far as the
quantities of fabrics produced, and the weight of cotton
consumed, for many years past.

Through the commercial arrangements before referred to, her special
trade with France in all commodities has been on the increase;
but, as the usual result of the commercial treaties of France,
all to the advantage of France. Thus, for 1841, the imports
(special trade of internal consumption) of France from Switzerland
are stated at twenty-two millions of francs only, whilst the exports
of France to Switzerland amounted to thirty-nine millions. This,
be it observed, is the result of _one-sided free trade_, which
opens its gates to all, whilst partially favoured only in return,
when at all.

Switzerland, for example, is free to the import of French cottons;
France hermetically sealed against those of Switzerland. The
general trade, that is, inclusive of transit and special, had
also materially improved; the aggregate imports representing
eighty-three millions of imports into, against eighty-nine
millions of exports from Switzerland; or that the general trade
with France had rather more than doubled since 1832, imports and
exports together. The transit portion of this general trade,
representing all the transmarine movement of Switzerland, is that
rather, it may be said, carried on with the United States Spanish
America, Brazil, &c., in which the greatest improvement of
her foreign trade had taken place. She has, on the contrary,
very largely lost ground in Germany, where she enjoyed marts
for her manufactures, before the establishment of the
Commercial Union, of an extensive and profitable description,
from the advantages of her geographical position; and it is probable,
that from the same cause she will have lost no inconsiderable
portion of the share her merchants had in the supply of Turkey,
Persia, and other countries on the shores of the Mediterranean
and the Black Sea.

With Holland and Belgium, her commercial relations would seem to
have been sensibly on the decline, so far as the returns,
available and comparative, enable us to form an opinion. Upon a
balance, therefore, of increase, upon one side, and decrease on the
other, there is reasonable ground to question any progress in
Switzerland, at all commensurate with the general accelerated
movement in manufactures and commerce of other industrial countries
about her, and beyond the seas; in exemplification of which, we
have on other occasions presented, as we shall continue to present,
evidence which may not be questioned.

Therefore, it results, that the second condition in proof of the
superiority of the free, or one-sided free trade principle, as
represented in Switzerland, the embodied _beau idéal_ of the
theory, is not fulfilled. It were easy, indeed, to show the absurdity
of a pretension to the rigorous reign of a principle, in a country
where, though the federal government levies are merely nominal
duties on imported commodities, for other than which it is
and must ever be powerless, whatever the will, yet in the separate
cantons or chief towns with barriers, scarcely any article enters
and escapes without payment of an octroi impost, equal to a moderate
state duty on importation at the ports or frontiers of other states.

What would be said in this country, if wool, cotton, or any commodity
entering free, or at merely nominal rates, at London or Liverpool,
were to be taxed on arrival at Leeds or Manchester, for purposes
of local revenue or local protection?

We may afford to dismiss the third condition in the smallest space.
Free trade in Switzerland, such as it is, is not an affair of
principle, of conviction, therefore of choice, as ridiculously
pretended, but a necessity arising out of her geographical position.

On all sides she is surrounded _enclavée_, amidst states
which hold the gates of ingress and egress. Close the Rhine and
the Seine against her, and she must surrender commercially at
discretion, as she politically does, to such terms as may be dictated.
A heavy _péage_ upon river or land transit, ruins her manufactories,
her industry, root and branch. She is too happy only, therefore,
to be tolerated with a passage to the sea, on the hard terms of
surrendering the just rights of her own industry to the free invasion
of foreign competing products; she makes, _ex necessitate_, the
sacrifice of a large portion, in order to save the remainder. Would
you have the commentary? Read it in the miserable fare, the low
wages, the toil unremitting and uncompensated, of the operative
masses; in the depressed rate of profits, the strict, painful,
but indispensable frugality of master manufacturers and
capitalists, when perchance capitalists may be found, of
Switzerland surnamed Felix, over-borne by foreign competition,
as depicted in the Report of that romance writer, Mr John
Bowring himself, who, of all men, in his own particular case,
would be the last to advocate short commons, shabby salaries, or
petty profits.

Switzerland, therefore, answers none of the conditions required
for the demonstration of the free trade theory upon the
greatest profit, or even upon the greatest happiness principle,
the _verba ardentia_ of anti-corn-law declaimers, and utilitarian
poetasters, notwithstanding.
But if the case of the free and one-sided trade theory breaks
down in its one only deceptive personification, the proofs are
strong and abundant in behalf the cause of the legitimate principle
of protection to industry, or of the reciprocity principle well
understood, which involves essentially the principle of protection.
Let us discursively range over Europe, in further addition to the
evidence, which, in respect of Russia, has already been assigned;
and, as with regard to Spain, and Russia as well, we shall not
hesitate to signalize the abuse of a righteous principle, where in
practice it degenerates into the Japanese barbarism of almost
absolute prohibition and isolation.

A comparison betwixt Switzerland and Japan, two nearly stationary
states, where all around is in progress in the industrial
sense, ruled upon economical principles so opposite and conflicting,
would be a labour both amusing and profitable; but unfortunately
the adequate materials are wanting in the one case as in the other;
state-books of account and custom-house returns, are as rare and
unheard of in Nangasaki as in Helvetia. Fiscal exactions, however,
are not unknown in either, the difference being, that the despotic
majesty of Japan undertakes them upon his own account, whilst
the people of the Alps, as intractable, with better right, impose
and levy for their own use and behoof.

Withal, to the one-idea'd philosophy of your absolute theory,
systematic, uniformity men of the present day, it should seem an
extraordinary paradox, putting all speculation to rout, that
despotic Japan should be as prosperous, more powerful, more free
from intestine convulsion, although more ancient of standing,
therefore to be presumed enjoying at least as much happiness
as free and unfettered Switzerland, rioting betimes in all the
freaks of liberty and revolution.

We do not propose to extend our enquiries into the history of
industrial progress in other lands further on the present occasion,
than to such external demonstrations, as measured by imports and
exports, as may with most convenient brevity and fidelity answer
the purpose in view. The possession of authentic documents in
ample degree, expository of the past and present conditions of
social and material interests in almost all the civilized
states of the world, would enable us to follow out, in minute
detail, the rise, the career, the vicissitudes of each; but
although, on future and suitable occasions, we may be induced to
resume and pursue the task already commenced in former
numbers, it is not necessary now, and would far outstrip any
possible space at our disposal.

Commencing with Austria, it may be shown, that even with an
ill-considered economical _régime_ of, until of late years,
general prohibitions and restrictions, with the incessant and
ill-judged policy of forcing manufacturing industry, for the hasty
development of which the natural foundations were not previously
laid, whilst neglecting the cultivation and encouragement of those
varied agricultural and mining treasures, with which, through the
length and breadth of her territory, she is so abundantly stored,
the advance of Austria, commercial and manufacturing, need not
assuredly fear comparison with that of free-trading Switzerland.

The following are the returns of the foreign trade of the
Austrian empire, excepting for Hungary and Transylvania, which
will be found hereafter for the years cited. Other documents are
in our possession, bringing the information down to 1840, but
as not entirely complete in respect of a portion of the traffic
by the land frontiers, whilst in results they differ little from
the last year of the table here given, it is not worth while
to make the addition.

It
is the insoluble residue of seashells, of the debris of submarine
volcanic eruptions, of volcanic dust wafted by the winds, and of
pieces of pumice drifted by ocean currents far from the volcanoes
from which they were hurled. The red clay builds up with such
inconceivable slowness that the teeth of sharks and the hard ear
bones of whales may be dredged in large numbers from the deep
ocean bed, where they have lain unburied for thousands of years;
and an appreciable part of the clay is also formed by the dust of
meteorites consumed in the atmosphere,--a dust which falls
everywhere on sea and land, but which elsewhere is wholly masked
by other deposits.

The dark, cold abysses of the ocean are far less affected by
change than any other portion of the surface of the lithosphere.
These vast, silent plains of ooze lie far below the reach of
storms. They know no succession of summer and winter, or of night
and day. A mantle of deep and quiet water protects them from the
agents of erosion which continually attack, furrow, and destroy
the surface of the land. While the land is the area of erosion,
the sea is the area of deposition. The sheets of sediment which
are slowly spread there tend to efface any inequalities, and to
form a smooth and featureless subaqueous plain.

With few exceptions, the stratified rocks of the land are proved
by their fossils and composition to have been laid in the sea; but
in the same way they are proved to be offshore, shallow-water
deposits, akin to those now making on continental shelves. Deep-
sea deposits are absent from the rocks of the land, and we may
therefore infer that the deep sea has never held sway where the
continents now are,--that the continents have ever been, as now,
the elevated portions of the lithosphere, and that the deep seas
of the present have ever been its most depressed portions.

THE REEF-BUILDING CORALS

In warm seas the most conspicuous of rock-making organisms are the
corals known as the reef builders. Floating in a boat over a coral
reef, as, for example, off the south coast of Florida or among the
Bahamas, one looks down through clear water on thickets of
branching coral shrubs perhaps as much as eight feet high, and
hemispherical masses three or four feet thick, all abloom with
countless minute flowerlike coral polyps, gorgeous in their colors
of yellow, orange, green, and red. In structure each tiny polyp is
little more than a fleshy sac whose mouth is surrounded with
petal-like tentacles, or feelers. From the sea water the polyps
secrete calcium carbonate and build it up into the stony framework
which supports their colonies. Boring mollusks, worms, and sponges
perforate and honeycomb this framework even while its surface is
covered with myriads of living polyps. It is thus easily broken by
the waves, and white fragments of coral trees strew the ground
beneath. Brilliantly colored fishes live in these coral groves,
and countless mollusks, sea urchins, and other forms of marine
life make here their home. With the debris from all these sources
the reef is constantly built up until it rises to low-tide level.
Higher than this the corals cannot grow, since they are killed by
a few hours' exposure to the air.

When the reef has risen to wave base, the waves abrade it on the
windward side and pile to leeward coral blocks torn from their
foundation, filling the interstices with finer fragments. Thus
they heap up along the reef low, narrow islands (Fig. 160).

Reef building is a comparatively rapid progress. It has been
estimated that off Florida a reef could be built up to the surface
from a depth of fifty feet in about fifteen hundred years.

CORAL LIMESTONES. Limestones of various kinds are due to the reef
builders. The reef rock is made of corals in place and broken
fragments of all sizes, cemented together with calcium carbonate
from solution by infiltrating waters. On the island beaches coral
sand is forming oolitic limestone, and the white coral mud with
which the sea is milky for miles about the reef in times of storm
settles and concretes into a compact limestone of finest grain.
Corals have been among the most important limestone builders of
the sea ever since they made their appearance in the early
geological ages.

The areas on which coral limestone is now forming are large. The
Great Barrier Reef of Australia, which lies off the north-eastern
coast, is twelve hundred and fifty miles long, and has a width of
from ten to ninety miles. Most of the islands of the tropics are
either skirted with coral reefs or are themselves of coral
formation.

CONDITIONS OF CORAL GROWTH. Reef-building corals cannot live
except in clear salt water less, as a rule, than one hundred and
fifty feet in depth, with a winter temperature not lower than 68
degrees F. An important condition also is an abundant food supply,
and this is best secured in the path of the warm oceanic currents.

Coral reefs may be grouped in three classes,--fringing reefs,
barrier reefs, and atolls.

FRINGING REEFS. These take their name from the fact that they are
attached as narrow fringes to the shore. An example is the reef
which forms a selvage about a mile wide along the northeastern
coast of Cuba. The outer margin, indicated by the line of white
surf, where the corals are in vigorous growth, rises from about
forty feet of water. Between this and the shore lies a stretch of
shoal across which one can wade at low water, composed of coral
sand with here and there a clump of growing coral.

BARRIER REEFS. Reefs separated from the shore by a ship channel of
quiet water, often several miles in width and sometimes as much as
three hundred feet in depth, are known as barrier reefs. The
seaward face rises abruptly from water too deep for coral growth.
Low islands are cast up by the waves upon the reef, and inlets
give place for the ebb and flow of the tides. Along the west coast
of the island of New Caledonia a barrier reef extends for four
hundred miles, and for a length of many leagues seldom approaches
within eight miles of the shore.

ATOLLS. These are ring-shaped or irregular coral islands, or
island-studded reefs, inclosing a central lagoon. The narrow zone
of land, like the rim of a great bowl sunken to the water's edge,
rises hardly more than twenty feet at most above the sea, and is
covered with a forest of trees such as the cocoanut, whose seeds
can be drifted to it uninjured from long distances. The white
beach of coral sand leads down to the growing reef, on whose outer
margin the surf is constantly breaking. The sea face of the reef
falls off abruptly, often to depths of thousands of feet, while
the lagoon varies in depth from a few feet to one hundred and
fifty or two hundred, and exceptionally measures as much as three
hundred and fifty feet.

THEORIES OF CORAL REEFS. Fringing reefs require no explanation,
since the depth of water about them is not greater than that at
which coral can grow; but barrier reefs and atolls, which may rise
from depths too great for coral growth demand a theory of their
origin.

Darwin's theory holds that barrier reefs and atolls are formed
from fringing reefs by SUBSIDENCE. The rate of sinking cannot be
greater than that of the upbuilding of the reef, since otherwise
the corals would be carried below their depth and drowned. The
process is illustrated in Figure 161, where v represents a
volcanic island in mid ocean undergoing slow depression, and ss
the sea level before the sinking began, when the island was
surrounded by a fringing reef. As the island slowly sinks, the
reef builds up with equal pace. It rears its seaward face more
steep than the island slope, and thus the intervening space
between the sinking, narrowing land and the outer margin of the
reef constantly widens. In this intervening space the corals are
more or less smothered with silt from the outer reef and from the
land, and are also deprived in large measure of the needful supply
of food and oxygen by the vigorous growth of the corals on the
outer rim. The outer rim thus becomes a barrier reef and the inner
belt of retarded growth is deepened by subsidence to a ship
channel, s's' representing sea level at this time. The final
stage, where the island has been carried completely beneath the
sea and overgrown by the contracting reef, whose outer ring now
forms an atoll, is represented by s"s".

In very many instances, however, atolls and barrier reefs may be
explained without subsidence. Thus a barrier reef may be formed by
the seaward growth of a fringing reef upon the talus of its sea
face. In Figure 162 f is a fringing reef whose outer wall rises
from about one hundred and fifty feet, the lower limit of the
reef-building species. At the foot of this submarine cliff a talus
of fallen blocks t accumulates, and as it reaches the zone of
coral growth becomes the foundation on which the reef is steadily
extended seaward. As the reef widens, the polyps of the
circumference flourish, while those of the inner belt are retarded
in their growth and at last perish. The coral rock of the inner
belt is now dissolved by sea water and scoured out by tidal
currents until it gives place to a gradually deepening ship
channel, while the outer margin is left as a barrier reef.

In much the same way atolls may be built on any shoal which lies
within the zone of coral growth. Such shoals may be produced when
volcanic islands are leveled by waves and ocean currents, and when
submarine plateaus, ridges, and peaks are built up by various
organic agencies, such as molluscous and foraminiferal shell
deposits. The reef-building corals, whose eggs are drifted widely
over the tropic seas by ocean currents, colonize such submarine
foundations wherever the conditions are favorable for their
growth. As the reef approaches the surface the corals of the inner
area are smothered by silt and starved, and their Submarine
Volcanic Peak hard parts are dissolved and scoured away; while
those of the circumference, with abundant food supply, nourish and
build the ring of the atoll. Atolls may be produced also by the
backward drift of sand from either end of a crescentic coral reef
or island, the spits uniting in the quiet water of the lee to
inclose a lagoon. In the Maldive Archipelago all gradations
between crescent-shaped islets and complete atoll rings have been
observed.

In a number of instances where coral reefs have been raised by
movements of the earth's crust, the reef formation is found to be
a thin veneer built upon a foundation of other deposits. Thus
Christmas Island, in the Indian Ocean, is a volcanic pile rising
eleven hundred feet above sea level and fifteen thousand five
hundred feet above the bottom of the sea. The summit is a plateau
surrounded by a rim of hills of reef formation, which represent
the ring of islets of an ancient atoll. Beneath the reef are thick
beds of limestone, composed largely of the remains of
foraminifers, which cover the lavas and fragraental materials of
the old submarine volcano.

Among the ancient sediments which now form the stratified rocks of
the land there occur many thin reef deposits, but none are known
of the immense thickness which modern reefs are supposed to reach
according to the theory of subsidence.

Barrier and fringing reefs are commonly interrupted off the mouths
of rivers. Why?

SUMMARY. We have seen that the ocean bed is the goal to which the
waste of the rocks of the land at last arrives. Their soluble
parts, dissolved by underground waters and carried to the sea by
rivers, are largely built up by living creatures into vast sheets
of limestone. The less soluble portions--the waste brought in by
streams and the waste of the shore--form the muds and sands of
continental deltas. All of these sea deposits consolidate and
harden, and the coherent rocks of the land are thus reconstructed
on the ocean floor. But the destination is not a final one. The
stratified rocks of the land are for the most part ancient
deposits of the sea, which have been lifted above sea level; and
we may believe that the sediments now being laid offshore are the
"dust of continents to be," and will some time emerge to form
additions to the land. We are now to study the movements of the
earth's crust which restore the sediments of the sea to the light
of day, and to whose beneficence we owe the habitable lands of the
present.


PART II

INTERNAL GEOLOGICAL AGENCIES

CHAPTER IX

MOVEMENTS OF THE EARTH'S CRUST


The geological agencies which we have so far studied--weathering,
streams, underground waters, glaciers, winds, and the ocean--all
work upon the earth from without, and all are set in motion by an
energy external to the earth, namely, the radiant energy of the
sun. All, too, have a common tendency to reduce the inequalities
of the earth's surface by leveling the lands and strewing their
waste beneath the sea.

But despite the unceasing efforts of these external agencies, they
have not destroyed the continents, which still rear their broad
plains and great plateaus and mountain ranges above the sea.
Either, then, the earth is very young and the agents of denudation
have not yet had time to do their work, or they have been opposed
successfully by other forces.

We enter now upon a department of our science which treats of
forces which work upon the earth from within, and increase the
inequalities of its surface. It is they which uplift and recreate
the lands which the agents of denudation are continually
destroying; it is they which deepen the ocean bed and thus
withdraw its waters from the shores. At times also these forces
have aided in the destruction of the lands by gradually lowering
them and bringing in the sea. Under the action of forces resident
within the earth the crust slowly rises or sinks; from time to
time it has been folded and broken; while vast quantities of
molten rock have been pressed up into it from beneath and
outpoured upon its surface. We shall take up these phenomena in
the following chapters, which treat of upheavals and depressions
of the crust, foldings and fractures of the crust, earthquakes,
volcanoes, the interior conditions of the earth, mineral veins,
and metamorphism.

OSCILLATIONS OF THE CRUST

Of the various movements of the crust due to internal agencies we
will consider first those called oscillations, which lift or
depress large areas so slowly that a long time is needed to
produce perceptible changes of level, and which leave the strata
in nearly their original horizontal attitude. These movements are
most conspicuous along coasts, where they can be referred to the
datum plane of sea level; we will therefore take our first
illustrations from rising and sinking shores.

NEW JERSEY. Along the coasts of New Jersey one may find awash at
high tide ancient shell heaps, the remains of tribal feasts of
aborigines. Meadows and old forest grounds, with the stumps still
standing, are now overflowed by the sea, and fragments of their
turf and wood are brought to shore by waves. Assuming that the sea
level remains constant, it is clear that the New Jersey coast is
now gradually sinking. The rate of submergence has been estimated
at about two feet per century.

On the other hand, the wide coastal plain of New Jersey is made of
stratified sands and clays, which, as their marine fossils show,
were outspread beneath the sea. Their present position above sea
level proves that the land now subsiding emerged in the recent
past.

The coast of New Jersey is an example of the slow and tranquil
oscillations of the earth's unstable crust now in progress along
many shores. Some are emerging from the sea, some are sinking
beneath it; and no part of the land seems to have been exempt from
these changes in the past.

EVIDENCES OF CHANGES OF LEVEL. Taking the surface of the sea as a
level of reference, we may accept as proofs of relative upheaval
whatever is now found in place above sea level and could have been
formed only at or beneath it, and as proofs of relative subsidence
whatever is now found beneath the sea and could only have been
formed above it.

Thus old strand lines with sea cliffs, wave-cut rock benches, and
beaches of wave-worn pebbles or sand, are striking proofs of
recent emergence to the amount of their present height above tide.
No less conclusive is the presence of sea-laid rocks which we may
find in the neighboring quarry or outcrop, although it may have
been long ages since they were lifted from the sea to form part of
the dry land.

Among common proofs of subsidence are roads and buildings and
other works of man, and vegetal growths and deposits, such as
forest grounds and peat beds, now submerged beneath the sea. In
the deltas of many large rivers, such as the Po, the Nile, the
Ganges, and the Mississippi, buried soils prove subsidences of
hundreds of feet; and in several cases, as in the Mississippi
delta, the depression seems to be now in progress.

Other proofs of the same movement are drowned land forms which are
modeled only in open air. Since rivers cannot cut their valleys
farther below the baselevel of the sea than the depths of their
channels, DROWNED VALLEYS are among the plainest proofs of
depression. To this class belong Narragansett, Delaware,
Chesapeake, Mobile, and San Francisco bays, and many other similar
drowned valleys along the coasts of the United States. Less
conspicuous are the SUBMARINE CHANNELS which, as soundings show,
extend from the mouths of a number of rivers some distance out to
sea. Such is the submerged channel which reaches from New York Bay
southeast to the edge of the continental shelf, and which is
supposed to have been cut by the Hudson River when this part of
the shelf was a coastal plain.

WARPING. In a region undergoing changes of level the rate of
movement commonly varies in different parts. Portions of an area
may be rising or sinking, while adjacent portions are stationary
or moving in the opposite direction. In this way a land surface
becomes WARPED. Thus, while Nova Scotia and New Brunswick are now
rising from the level of the sea, Prince Edward Island and Cape
Breton Island are sinking, and the sea now flows over the site of
the famous old town of Louisburg destroyed in 1758.

Since the close of the glacial epoch the coasts of Newfoundland
and Labrador have risen hundreds of feet, but the rate of
emergence has not been uniform. The old strand line, which stands
at five hundred and seventy-five feet above tide at St. John's,
Newfoundland, declines to two hundred and fifty feet near the
northern point of Labrador.

THE GREAT LAKES is now under-going perceptible warping. Rivers
enter the lakes from the south and west with sluggish currents and
deep channels resembling the estuaries of drowned rivers; while
those that enter from opposite directions are swift and shallow.
At the western end of Lake Erie are found submerged caves
containing stalactites, and old meadows and forest grounds are now
under water. It is thus seen that the water of the lakes is rising
along their southwestern shores, while from their north-eastern
shores it is being withdrawn. The region of the Great Lakes is
therefore warping; it is rising in the northeast as compared with
the southwest.

From old bench marks and records of lake levels it has been
estimated that the rate of warping amounts to five inches a
century for every one hundred miles. It is calculated that the
water of Lake Michigan is rising at Chicago at the rate of nine or
ten inches per century. The divide at this point between the
tributaries of the Mississippi and Lake Michigan is but eight feet
above the mean stage of the lake. If the canting of the region
continues at its present rate, in a thousand years the waters of
the lake will here overflow the divide. In three thousand five
hundred years all the lakes except Ontario will discharge by this
outlet, via the Illinois and Mississippi rivers, into the Gulf of
Mexico. The present outlet by the Niagara River will be left dry,
and the divide between the St. Lawrence and the Mississippi
systems will have shifted from Chicago to the vicinity of Buffalo.

PHYSIOGRAPHIC EFFECTS OF OSCILLATIONS. We have already mentioned
several of the most important effects of movements of elevation
and depression, such as their effects on rivers, the mantle of
waste, and the forms of coasts. Movements of elevation--including
uplifts by folding and fracture of the crust to be noticed later--
are the necessary conditions for erosion by whatever agent. They
determine the various agencies which are to be chiefly concerned m
the wear of any land,--whether streams or glaciers, weathering or
the wind,--and the degree of their efficiency. The lands must be
uplifted before they can be eroded, and since they must be eroded
before their waste can be deposited, movements of elevation are a
prerequisite condition for sedimentation also. Subsidence is a
necessary condition for deposits of great thickness, such as those
of the Great Valley of California and the Indo-Gangetic plain (p.
101), the Mississippi delta (p. 109), and the still more important
formations of the continental delta in gradually sinking troughs
(p. 183). It is not too much to say that the character and
thickness of each formation of the stratified rocks depend
primarily on these crustal movements.

Along the Baltic coast of Sweden, bench marks show that the sea is
withdrawing from the land at a rate which at the north amounts to
between three and four feet per century; Towards the south the
rate decreases. South of Stockholm, until recent years, the sea
has gained upon the land, and here in several seaboard towns
streets by the shore are still submerged. The rate of oscillation
increases also from the coast inland. On the other hand, along the
German coast of the Baltic the only historic fluctuations of sea
level are those which may be accounted for by variations due to
changes in rainfall. In 1730 Celsius explained the changes of
level of the Swedish coast as due to a lowering of the Baltic
instead of to an elevation of the land. Are the facts just stated
consistent with his theory?

At the little town of Tadousac--where the Saguenay River empties
into the St. Lawrence--there are terraces of old sea beaches, some
almost as fresh as recent railway fills, the highest standing two
hundred and thirty feet above the river. Here the Saguenay is
eight hundred and forty feet in depth, and the tide ebbs and flows
far up its stream. Was its channel cut to this depth by the river
when the land was at its present height? What oscillations are
here recorded, and to what amount?

A few miles north of Naples, Italy, the ruins of an ancient Roman
temple lie by the edge of the sea, on a narrow plain which is
overlooked in the rear by an old sea cliff (Fig. 166). Three
marble pillars are still standing. For eleven feet above their
bases these columns are uninjured, for to this height they were
protected by an accumulation of volcanic ashes; but from eleven to
nineteen feet they are closely pitted with the holes of boring
marine mollusks. From these facts trace the history of the
oscillations of the region.

FOLDINGS OF THE CRUST

The oscillations which we have just described leave the strata not
far from their original horizontal attitude. Figure 167 represents
a region in which movements of a very different nature have taken
place. Here, on either side of the valley V, we find outcrops of
layers tilted at high angles. Sections along the ridge r show that
it is composed of layers which slant inward from either side. In
places the outcropping strata stand nearly on edge, and on the
right of the valley they are quite overturned; a shale SH has come
to overlie a limestone LM although the shale is the older rock,
whose original position was beneath the limestone.

It is not reasonable to suppose that these rocks were deposited in
the attitude in which we find them now; we must believe that, like
other stratified rocks, they were outspread in nearly level sheets
upon the ocean floor. Since that time they must have been
deformed. Layers of solid rock several miles in thickness have
been crumpled and folded like soft wax in the hand, and a vast
denudation has worn away the upper portions of the folds, in part
represented in our section by dotted lines.

DIP AND STRIKE. In districts where the strata have been disturbed
it is desirable to record their attitude. This is most easily done
by taking the angle at which the strata are inclined and the
compass direction in which they slant. It is also convenient to
record the direction in which the outcrop of the strata trends
across the country.

The inclination of a bed of rocks to the horizon is its DIP. The
amount of the dip is the angle made with a horizontal plane. The
dip of a horizontal layer is zero, and that of a vertical layer is
90 degrees. The direction of the dip is taken with the compass.
Thus a geologist's notebook in describing the attitude of
outcropping strata contains many such entries as these: dip 32
degrees north, or dip 8 degrees south 20 degrees west,--meaning in
the latter case that the amount of the dip is 8 degrees and the
direction of the dip bears 20 degrees west of south.

The line of intersection of a layer with the horizontal plane is
the STRIKE. The strike always runs at right angles to the dip.

Dip and strike may be illustrated by a book set aslant on a shelf.
The dip is the acute angle made with the shelf by the side of the
book, while the strike is represented by a line running along the
book's upper edge. If the dip is north or south, the strike runs
east and west.

FOLDED STRUCTURES. An upfold, in which the strata dip away from a
line drawn along the crest and called the axis of the fold, is
known as an ANTICLINE. A downfold, where the strata dip from
either side toward the axis of the trough, is called a SYNCLINE.
There is sometimes seen a downward bend in horizontal or gently
inclined strata, by which they descend to a lower level. Such a
single flexure is a MONOCLINE.

DEGREES OF FOLDING. Folds vary in degree from broad, low swells,
which can hardly be detected, to the most highly contorted and
complicated structures. In SYMMETRIC folds the dips of the rocks
on each side the axis of the fold are equal. In UNSYMMETRICAL
folds one limb is steeper than the other, as in the anticline in
Figure 167. In OVERTURNED folds one limb is inclined beyond the
perpendicular. FAN FOLDS have been so pinched that the original
anticlines are left broader at the top than at the bottom.

In folds where the compression has been great the layers are often
found thickened at the crest and thinned along the limbs. Where
strong rocks such as heavy limestones are folded together with
weak rocks such as shales, the strong rocks are often bent into
great simple folds, while the weak rocks are minutely crumpled.

SYSTEMS OF FOLDS. As a rule, folds occur in systems. Over the
Appalachian mountain belt, for example, extending from
northeastern Pennsylvania to northern Alabama and Georgia, the
earth's crust has been thrown into a series of parallel folds
whose axes run from northeast to southwest (Fig. 175). In
Pennsylvania one may count a score or more of these earth waves,--
some but from ten to twenty miles in length, and some extending as
much as two hundred miles before they die away. On the eastern
part of this belt the folds are steeper and more numerous than on
the western side.

CAUSE AND CONDITIONS OF FOLDING. The sections which we have
studied suggest that rocks are folded by lateral pressure. While a
single, simple fold might be produced by a heave, a series of
folds, including overturns, fan folds, and folds thickened on
their crests at the expense of their limbs, could only be made in
one way,--by pressure from the side. Experiment has reproduced all
forms of folds by subjecting to lateral thrust layers of plastic
material such as wax.

Vast as the force must have been which could fold the solid rocks
of the crust as one may crumple the leaves of a magazine in the
fingers, it is only under certain conditions that it could have
produced the results which we see. Rocks are brittle, and it is
only when under a HEAVY LOAD and by GREAT PRESSURE SLOWLY APPLIED,
that they can thus be folded and bent instead of being crushed to
pieces. Under these conditions, experiments prove that not only
metals such as steel, but also brittle rocks such as marble, can
be deformed and molded and made to flow like plastic clay.

ZONE OF FLOW, ZONE OF FLOW AND FRACTURE, AND ZONE OF FRACTURE. We
may believe that at depths which must be reckoned in tens of
thousands of feet the load of overlying rocks is so great that
rocks of all kinds yield by folding to lateral pressure, and flow
instead of breaking. Indeed, at such profound depths and under
such inconceivable weight no cavity can form, and any fractures
would be healed at once by the welding of grain to grain. At less
depths there exists a zone where soft rocks fold and flow under
stress, and hard rocks are fractured; while at and near the
surface hard and soft rocks alike yield by fracture to strong
pressure.

STRUCTURES DEVELOPED IN COMPRESSED ROCKS

Deformed rocks show the effects of the stresses to which they have
yielded, not only in the immense folds into which they have been
thrown but in their smallest parts as well. A hand specimen of
slate, or even a particle under the microscope, may show
plications similar in form and origin to the foldings which have
produced ranges of mountains. A tiny flake of mica in the rocks of
the Alps may be puckered by the same resistless forces which have
folded miles of solid rock to form that lofty range.

SLATY CLEAVAGE. Rocks which have yielded to pressure often split
easily in a certain direction across the bedding planes. This
cleavage is known as slaty cleavage, since it is most perfectly
developed in fine-grained, homogeneous rocks, such as slates,
which cleave to the thin, smooth-surfaced plates with which we are
familiar in the slates used in roofing and for ciphering and
blackboards. In coarse-grained rocks, pressure develops more
distant partings which separate the rocks into blocks.

Slaty cleavage cannot be due to lamination, since it commonly
crosses bedding planes at an angle, while these planes have been
often well-nigh or quite obliterated. Examining slate with a
microscope, we find that its cleavage is due to the grain of the
rock. Its particles are flattened and lie with their broad faces
in parallel planes, along which the rock naturally splits more
easily than in any other direction. The irregular grains of the
mud which has been altered to slate have been squeezed flat by a
pressure exerted at right angles to the plane of cleavage.
Cleavage is found only in folded rocks, and, as we may see in
Figure 176, the strike of the cleavage runs parallel to the strike
of the strata and the axis of the folds. The dip of the cleavage
is generally steep, hence the pressure was nearly horizontal. The
pressure which has acted at right angles to the cleavage, and to
which it is due, is the same lateral pressure which has thrown the
strata into folds.

We find additional proof that slates have undergone compression at
right angles to their cleavage in the fact that any inclusions in
them, such as nodules and fossils, have been squeezed out of shape
and have their long diameters lying in the planes of cleavage.

That pressure is competent to cause cleavage is shown by
experiment. Homogeneous material of fine grain, such as beeswax,
when subjected to heavy pressure cleaves at right angles to the
direction of the compressing force.

RATE OF FOLDING. All the facts known with regard to rock
deformation agree that it is a secular process, taking place so
slowly that, like the deepening of valleys by erosion, it escapes
the notice of the inhabitants of the region. It is only under
stresses slowly applied that rocks bend without breaking. The
folds of some of the highest mountains have risen so gradually
that strong, well-intrenched rivers which had the right of way
across the region were able to hold to their courses, and as a
circular saw cuts its way through the log which is steadily driven
against it, so these rivers sawed their gorges through the fold as
fast as it rose beneath them. Streams which thus maintain the
course which they had antecedent to a deformation of the region
are known as ANTECEDENT streams. Examples of such are the Sutlej
and other rivers of India, whose valleys trench the outer ranges
of the Himalayas and whose earlier river deposits have been
upturned by the rising ridges. On the other hand, mountain crests
are usually divides, parting the head waters of different drainage
systems. In these cases the original streams of the region have
been broken or destroyed by the uplift of the mountain mass across
their paths.

On the whole, which have worked more rapidly, processes of
deformation or of denudation?

LAND FORMS DUE TO FOLDING

As folding goes on so slowly, it is never left to form surface
features unmodified by the action of other agencies. An anticlinal
fold is attacked by erosion as soon as it begins to rise above the
original level, and the higher it is uplifted, and the stronger
are its slopes, the faster is it worn away. Even while rising, a
young upfold is often thus unroofed, and instead of appearing as a
long, Smooth, boat-shaped ridge, it commonly has had opened along
the rocks of the axis, when these are weak, a valley which is
overlooked by the infacing escarpments of the hard layers of the
sides of the fold. Under long-continued erosion, anticlines may be
degraded to valleys, while the synclines of the same system may be
left in relief as ridges.

FOLDED MOUNTAINS. The vastness of the forces which wrinkle the
crust is best realized in the presence of some lofty mountain
range. "They would be welcome to all the brandy she carries to-night,
or to double the freight, if that were all. She has a cargo of
French silks, French claret, ay, and French gold, that she must
fight for while she has a stick standing."
At this moment, the sky, dark as it was before, grew tenfold darker,
and a cloud, that gave me the exact image of a huge black velvet
pall, suddenly dropped down and completely covered both vessels;
no firing was heard for a time, even the yell of the gust had sunk;
nothing was heard but the billow, as it groaned along the hollow
shore.

The same thought occurred to us both at once. "Those brave boys
are all in their coffin together," slowly murmured my companion.
There was neither shout nor even word among the crowd; while every
eye and ear was strained, and the men began to run along the water's
edge to find a fragment of the wrecks, or assist some
struggler for life in the surge. But the cloud, which absolutely
lay upon the water, suddenly burst open, with a roar of thunder,
as if split from top to bottom by the bolt, and both were seen.

A sheet of lightning, which, instead of the momentary flash, hung
quivering from the zenith, showed both vessels with a lurid
distinctness infinitely clearer than day. Every remaining
shroud and rope, every wound of mast or yard, every shot-hole,
nay, every rib and streak of the hulls, was as distinctly
visible as if they had been illuminated from within. But their
decks, as the heave of the surge threw them towards us, showed a
fearful spectacle.

The dying and the dead, flung along the gangways, the wounded clinging
to the gun carriages or masts, a few still loading the guns, which
neither had now hands enough to manoeuvre; yet both ships still
flying on, shattered and torn, and looking, in the wild light,
like two gigantic skeletons.

The lugger now fired a rocket, and sent up a striped flag, the
signal of distress. A cry for "The boats!" was echoed along
the shore, and eight or ten were speedily started from their hiding
places and dragged down the shingle.

Stout hearts and strong hands were in them without loss of time,
and they dashed into the storm. But their efforts were wholly
useless. No strength of oars could stand against such a gale.

Some were swamped at once, the men hardly escaping with their
lives. The rest were tossed like dust upon the wind, and dashed
high on shore. All was hopeless. Another rocket went up, and by
its ghastly blaze I caught a glimpse of the captain. He had
been either forced from his hold on the rocks by the wind, or
fallen through exhaustion.

His bronzed face was was now as pale as the sand on which he lay;
he was the very image of despair. Thinking that he had fainted,
and fearing that, in this helpless state, he might be swept
away by the next surge--for the spray was now bursting over
us at every swell--I laid hold of his hand to drag him higher
up the cliff after me. As if the grasp had given him a renewed life,
he sprang on his feet, and saying, in a distracted tone, which I
alone could hear, "Better be drowned than ruined!" he cried out
with the voice of a maniac, "Boys, sink or swim, here I go!
Five guineas for every man who gets on board."

Tearing off his heavy coat, he rushed forward at the words, and
plunged headlong into the billow. There was a general rush after
him; some were thrown back on the sand, but about half the number
were enabled to reach the lugger. We quickly saw the effect
of even this reinforcement. At the very point of time when the
cruiser was about to lay her on board, she came sharply round
by the head, and discharged her broadside within pistol-shot. I
could see the remaining mast of the cruiser stagger; it made two
or three heaves, like a drunkard trying to recover his steps, then
came a crash, and it went over the side. The vessel recoiled,
and being now evidently unable to steer, the storm had her at its
mercy; and the last we saw of her was a hull, rolling and staggering
away down the Channel, firing guns of distress, and going
headforemost toward the Bay of Biscay.

Need I say in what triumph the lugger was hauled up the sand, or
how her bold commander and hardy crew were received?

But while a carouse was preparing for them--and, it must
be owned that if sailing and fighting were claims, they had
earned their suppers--the business portion of the firm was in
full activity. From the waggon down to the wheelbarrow, every
country means of carriage was in motion without delay. I had been
hitherto by no means aware of what Johnson would probably have
called "the vehicular opulence" of the Sussex shore.

Nor had I ever a more striking illustration of the proverbial lightness
of the work of many hands; a process, which in his solemn lips
would probably have been, "Sir, congregated thousands laugh at
individual difficulty; delay vanishes before united labour;
and time is an element of toil no more."
The clearance of the cargo would have put all the machinery of a
royal dockyard to shame. As for the activity of the custom-house,
it would have been the movement of a tortoise, to the rapidity
of whatever is most rapid in unpacking or pilfering. But pilfering
here we had none; we were all "men of honour;" and,
undoubtedly, if any propensity to mistake the _tuum_ for the _meum_
had been exhibited, there were among us sufficient of the stamp of
my old friend "who had served with Rodney," to have flung the
culprit where men pilfer no more; whatever may be done by porpoises.

But as I had no wish to be a party to what, with all its gaiety
and gallantry, I felt to be a rough infraction of the law; I
now begged permission to make my way homewards.

It was given at once, with even some expressions of
gratitude for my having, as it was termed, stood by them to the
last; and a guide was ordered for me as an additional civility.
"You will have five miles to walk," said the captain, as he
shook hands with me; "but Grapnel here will take you the shortest
way and it will be light in an hour.

You need say nothing of this business to Mordecai, who makes a point
of being deaf and dumb when ever it suits him; though, between
ourselves."--The captain's prudence here checked his
overflow of confidence.

"I merely mean to say, that if you drink any particularly
fine claret, in a day or two, at his table, you will have to
thank the lugger, La Belle Jeannette, for it. _Au revoir_."
My guide and I pushed on into the darkness.

He was a bluff, open-hearted fellow, with all the smuggler's hatred
of the magistracy, and taking great delight in telling how often
they failed in their attempts to stop the "free trade,"
which he clearly regarded as the only trade worthy of a man. His
account of the feats of his comrades; their escapes from the
claws of the customs; their facetious tricks on the too vigilant
among the magistrates; and the real luxury in which, with all their
life of hardship, they found opportunities of indulging, would
have edified a modern tour writer, and possibly relieved even the
dreariness of a county historian.

Among other matters too, he let out, that he paid me a prodigious
compliment in accompanying me, as this night's smuggling was one
of the grand exploits of the year; and casting a "longing, lingering
look, behind," where a distant glimmer marked the scene of operations,
he evidently halted between the two opinions, whether to go on, or
return.

"What a glorious night!" he exclaimed, as he turned his bald
forehead to a sky black as Erebus, and roaring with whirlwind.
"Talk of sunshine, or moonshine, compared with that!" Another
burst of rain, or flash of lightning, would evidently have rendered
the scene too captivating. Both came, and I must have lost my guide,
when he stopped short, and in a half whisper, asked me,
"whether I heard anything?"

Before I could return a word, he had flung himself on the ground,
with his ear to the sward, and after a moment's listening, said,
"here they come!"
"Who come? There is neither sight nor sound between us and
Brighton. Are you thinking of the custom-house officers?"
The look which I had the benefit of seeing by a blue blaze from
the zenith, and the tone of infinite scorn, in which he slowly
repeated the words, "custom-house officers," were incomparable.

"Afraid of _them_!" said he, as he rose from the wet heather, "as
much afraid as the cat is of the mice. No, those are the dragoons
from Lewes."
"Well, what have we to care about them?"
"Care?" said he, with a mixture of frown and grin. "Only
that you are the captain's friend, and I daresay, are going at this
time of night to do a job for him in Brighton yourself--I
should think, young gentleman, you were only laughing at Sam
Grapnel.

Better not! Why, you see, though the fellows with their
pens behind their ears are no more than six-watered gin to us,
the dragoons are another sort of thing. I must go back. So, young
gentleman, I wish you a very good night."
The oddity of the wish in the midst of this elemental uproar, made
me laugh, shivering as I was. Yet, to be left to find my own way
at such a time, was startling. I offered him money.

"At another opportunity, sir," said he, rather pacified by the
offer.
"But, if they come upon the captain unawares, they will find every
thing ready to their hands; all at sixes and sevens just now.

It will take an hour or two before he can clear the cargo off
the ground; and there goes the whole speculation. Don't you
hear them? You have only to drop your ear to the ground, to
know the whole affair. A lubber deserted from us a week
ago, and no doubt he has laid the information."
I lay down, and clearly enough heard the trampling of horses, and
in considerable numbers.

My own situation was now somewhat embarrassing.
They were evidently coming up in our direction; and, to be found
past midnight, armed, (for my gun had been restored to me,) in
company with an unquestionable smuggler, must have made appearances
tell strongly against me. But my companion's mind was made up
with the promptitude of a life which has no time to waste on
thinking.

"I must go back this moment, or all our comrades will be taken in
the fact. And, take my advice, you had better do the same; for
go I will.
The captain shan't have it to say that I let him be caught without
warning."
I still hesitated, and he still urged.

"You can do no better, sir; for if you stand here five minutes
longer, you will either be taken, or you will lose the number of
your mess, by a carbine slug, or the slash of a sabre; while, if
you turn back, you will have ten times the chance of escape along
the shore."

I could now distinctly hear the clatter of hoofs, and the jingling
of bridles. There was no time to deliberate; I certainly felt
no inclination to be the means of the captain's ruin or death,
and I followed my guide, who set off with the swiftness of a deer.

We soon reached the shore, where our intelligence struck considerable
alarm.

"I thought that it would be so," said the captain; "I had
notice from a friend in the customs itself, that a spy was at
work, and it was to this that we owed the chase of the lugger.

For the revenue officers I care not a straw, but the dragoons
are to be avoided when we can. We may fight upon occasion, it
is true, but we choose our time for it. We have now only to get out
of the way; and clever as they are, they may find us not so
easily laid hold of."
Turning to me, he said, "I am sorry, Mr Marston, that you have been
brought into all this bustle; but time and chance happen to us all.

At all events, it will show you something of life, which you would
scarcely have seen in the Jew's villa, though he, too, could show
you a good deal. We shall see each other again, but let this night
be forgotten, and now, good by once more." Then turning to my
guide, he said, "This young gentleman must be seen safe along
the cliff; stay with him until he sends you back again.

"Come, lads, all hands to work!"

he now shouted to a group who stood at a little distance; "are the
tar-barrels ready?" "Ay, ay," was the answer. They trundled three
or four barrels along the shore, dragged them up the face of the
cliff, and I had scarcely left them a hundred yards behind, when
they were in a blaze.

The trampling of the dragoons was now heard coming on at full speed.

"There," said Grapnel, "I'll engage that he tricks them at last;
while they are moving up to the fire, the cargo is moving up
to the store.

He will leave half a dozen kegs for them to make prize of,
while he is carrying away clear and clean as much silk as would
make gowns for all the corporation of London, and as much claret
as would give the gout to"----the gust choked the remainder of
the comparison.

He had probably been accustomed to performances of this order, for
his conjecture was exactly verified. From the spot where we stood,
to get, as he called it, a last peep at "the free-traders bamboozling
the dragoons," we could see cavalry rushing up to the blaze,
evidently sure of having made a capture. A few carts in the
ravine below next caught their eye.

Another beacon on another hill soon threw up its flame, and a party
galloped off to examine the new phenomenon. Two or thee more blazed
in succession, and increased their perplexity.

"I must have one shot at them before I go," said Grapnel, "if I die
for it;" and, before I could utter a word to prevent him, he
discharged his pistol. This was an unlucky shot, as it drew the
attention of a party of dragoons, whom we had not before seen, in
the hollow beneath.

After returning a shot or two, they darted down upon the rear
of the last convoy, which was silently moving under the shadow of
the cliffs, with the captain and some of its stoutest followers
at its head. The business now began to be serious. The captain and
his men, determined not to lose their venture, made a bold
resistance. The dragoons came riding in from all quarters, but
the ground was unfavourable for them, hemmed in as it was on all
sides by the sea, and on the other by the cliff, besides the
encumbrance of the carts and waggons, behind which the cutlasses
of the smugglers were fully a match for the sabre.

If I could have thought of any thing but the hazard of those
unfortunate fellows, the scene from the spot where I stood was
sufficiently striking.

The blaze from the tar-barrels showed a long extent of the Downs,
with the troops scattered and galloping among them on all sides.

Long ridges of light were thrown over the waters, while, immediately
below me, the flashes of the smugglers' muskets and the soldiers'
pistols were incessant. It was a battle on a minor scale.

But it is dangerous to be in the way of bullets even as an amateur;
for, as I stood gazing down, I felt a sudden stroke like a
shock of electricity. I staggered, and was on the point of
rolling over the cliff, when Grapnel darted towards me. I
just felt myself grasped by him, and lost all recollection.

On recovering my senses again, I was in Mordecai's villa, where I
had been brought by some fishermen on the morning of the skirmish;
and who, asking no questions, and being asked none, had
deposited me, bandaged and bruised as I was, at the door of the
villa.

If I was not sensible of this service, it was, at least, a vast
relief to the Jew, who had begun to think that his violence had
urged me on some desperate course. As hasty in his repentance as
in his wrath, he had no sooner become rational enough to hear his
daughter's story, than he was eager to make me the _amende_ by all
the means in his power.

Perhaps he would have even lent me money, if I had met him in the
penitential mood; but I was not to be found. The sight of my corded
trunk convinced him that I had taken mortal offence, and he grew
more uneasy still. As the night fell, a general enquiry was
made amongst the fisherman's cabins; and as, on those occasions,
no one ever desires to send away the enquirer without giving himself,
at least, credit for an answer, every one gave an answer according
to his fashion. Some thought that they had seen me in a skiff
on the shore; where I was, of course, blown out to sea, and, by
that time, probably carried to the chops of the Channel.
But that the trough is a
true valley of fracture is proved by the fact that on either side
it is bounded by fault scarps and monoclinal folds. The keystone
of the arch has subsided. Many geologists believe that the Jordan-
Akabah trough, the long narrow basin of the Red Sea, and the chain
of down-faulted valleys which in Africa extends from the strait of
Bab-el-Mandeb as far south as Lake Nyassa--valleys which contain
more than thirty lakes--belong to a single system of dislocation.

Should you expect the lateral valleys of a rift valley at the time
of its formation to enter it as hanging valleys or at a common
level?

BLOCK MOUNTAINS. Dislocations take place on so grand a scale that
by the upheaval of blocks of the earth's crust or the down-
faulting of the blocks about one which is relatively stationary,
mountains known as block mountains are produced. A tilted crust
block may present a steep slope on the side upheaved and a more
gentle descent on the side depressed.

THE BASIN RANGES. The plateaus of the United States bounded by the
Rocky Mouirtains on the east, and on the west by the ranges which
front the Pacific, have been profoundly fractured and faulted. The
system of great fissures by which they are broken extends north
and south, and the long, narrow, tilted crust blocks intercepted
between the fissures give rise to the numerous north-south ranges
of the region. Some of the tilted blocks, as those of southern
Oregon, are as yet but moderately carved by erosion, and shallow
lakes lie on the waste that has been washed into the depressions
between them. We may therefore conclude that their displacement is
somewhat recent. Others, as those of Nevada, are so old that they
have been deeply dissected; their original form has been destroyed
by erosion, and the intermontane depressions are occupied by wide
plains of waste.

DISLOCATIONS AND RIVER VALLEYS. Before geologists had proved that
rivers can by their own unaided efforts cut deep canyons, it was
common to consider any narrow gorge as a gaping fissure of the
crust. This crude view has long since been set aside. A map of the
plateaus of northern Arizona shows how independent of the immense
faults of the region is the course of the Colorado River. In the
Alps the tunnels on the Saint Gotthard railway pass six times
beneath the gorge of the Reuss, but at no point do the rocks show
the slightest trace of a fault.

RATE OF DISLOCATION. So far as human experience goes, the earth
movements which we have just studied, some of which have produced
deep-sunk valleys and lofty mountain ranges, and faults whose
throw is to be measured in thousands of feet, are slow and
gradual. They are not accomplished by a single paroxysmal effort,
but by slow creep and a series of slight slips continued for vast
lengths of time.

In the Aspen mining district in Colorado faulting is now going on
at a comparatively rapid rate. Although no sudden slips take
place, the creep of the rock along certain planes of faulting
gradually bends out of shape the square-set timbers in horizontal
drifts and has closed some vertical shafts by shifting the upper
portion across the lower. Along one of the faults of this region
it is estimated that there has been a movement of at least four
hundred feet since the Glacial epoch. More conspicuous are the
instances of active faulting by means of sudden slips. In 1891
there occurred along an old fault plane in Japan a slip which
produced an earth rent traced for fifty miles (Fig. 192). The
country on one side was depressed in places twenty feet below that
on the other, and also shifted as much as thirteen feet
horizontally in the direction of the fault line.

In 1872 a slip occurred for forty miles on the great line of
dislocation which runs along the eastern base of the Sierra Nevada
Mountains. In the Owens valley, California, the throw amounted to
twenty-five feet in places, with a horizontal movement along the
fault line of as much as eighteen feet. Both this slip and that in
Japan just mentioned caused severe earthquakes.

For the sake of clearness we have described oscillations,
foldings, and fractures of the crust as separate processes, each
giving rise to its own peculiar surface features, but in nature
earth movements are by no means so simple,--they are often
implicated with one another: folds pass into faults; in a deformed
region certain rocks have bent, while others under the same
strain, but under different conditions of plasticity and load,
have broken; folded mountains have been worn to their roots, and
the peneplains to which they have been denuded have been upwarped
to mountain height and afterwards dissected,--as in the case of
the Alleghany ridges, the southern Carpathians, and other ranges,
--or, as in the case of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, have been
broken and uplifted as mountains of fracture.

Draw the following diagrams, being careful to show the direction
in which the faulted blocks have moved, by the position of the two
parts of some well-defined layer of limestone, sandstone, or
shale, which occurs on each side of the fault plane, as in Figure
184.

1. A normal fault with a hade of 15 degrees, the original fault
scarp remaining.

2. A normal fault with a hade of 50 degrees, the original fault
scarp worn away, showing cliffs caused by harder strata on the
downthrow side.

3. A thrust fault with a hade of 30 degrees, showing cliffs due to
harder strata outcropping on the downthrow.

4. A thrust fault with a hade of 80 degrees, with surface
baseleveled.

5. In a region of normal faults a coal mine is being worked along
the seam of coal AB (Fig. 193). At B it is found broken by a fault
f which hades toward A. To find the seam again, should you advise
tunneling up or down from B?

6. 
To me, a pilgrim on that journey bound Whose stations Beauty's
bright examples are, As of a silken city famed afar Over the sands
for wealth and holy ground, Came the report of one--a woman crowned
With all perfection, blemishless and high, As the full moon amid
the moonlit sky, With the world's praise and wonder clad around.

And I who held this notion of success:
To leave no form of Nature's loveliness Unworshipped, if glad
eyes have access there, -- Beyond all earthly bounds have made my
goal To find where that sweet shrine is and extol The hand that
triumphed in a work so fair.

Sonnet VIII

Oft as by chance, a little while apart The pall of empty, loveless
hours withdrawn, Sweet Beauty, opening on the impoverished
heart, Beams like the jewel on the breast of dawn:
Not though high heaven should rend would deeper awe Fill me than
penetrates my spirit thus, Nor all those signs the Patmian prophet
saw Seem a new heaven and earth so marvelous; But, clad thenceforth
in iridescent dyes, The fair world glistens, and in after days The
memory of kind lips and laughing eyes Lives in my step and lightens
all my face, -- So they who found the Earthly Paradise Still breathed,
returned, of that sweet, joyful place.

Sonnet IX

Amid the florid multitude her face Was like the full moon seen
behind the lace Of orchard boughs where clouded blossoms part When
Spring shines in the world and in the heart.

As the full-moon-beams to the ferny floor Of summer woods through
flower and foliage pour, So to my being's innermost recess
Flooded the light of so much loveliness; She held as in a vase
of priceless ware The wine that over arid ways and bare My youth
was the pathetic thirsting for, And where she moved the veil of
Nature grew Diaphanous and that radiance mantled through Which,
when I see, I tremble and adore.

On any convenient
scale draw a similar section of strata with a dip of 30 degrees
outcropping along a horizontal line normal to the strike one
thousand feet in length, and measure the thickness of the strata
by the scale employed. The thickness may also be calculated by
trigonometry.

UNCONFORMITY

Strata deposited one upon, another in an unbroken succession are
said to be conformable. But the continuous deposition of strata is
often interrupted by movements of the earth's crust, Old sea
floors are lifted to form land and are again depressed beneath the
sea to receive a cover of sediments only after an interval during
which they were carved by subaerial erosion. An erosion surface
which thus parts older from younger strata is known as an
UNCONFORMITY, and the strata above it are said to be UNCONFORMABLE
with the rocks below, or to rest unconformably upon them. An
unconformity thus records movements of the crust and a consequent
break in the deposition of the strata. It denotes a period of land
erosion of greater or less length, which may sometimes be roughly
measured by the stage in the erosion cycle which the land surface
had attained before its burial. Unconformable strata may be
parallel, as in Figure 200, where the record includes the
deposition of strata, their emergence, the erosion of the land
surface, a submergence and the deposit of the strata, and lastly,
emergence and the erosion of the present surface.

Often the earth movements to which the uplift or depression was
due involved tilting or folding of the earlier strata, so that the
strata are now nonparallel as well as unconformable. In Figure
201, for example, the record includes deposition, uplift, and
tilting of a; erosion, depression, the deposit of b; and finally
the uplift which has brought the rocks to open air and permitted
the dissection by which the unconformity is revealed. From this
section infer that during early Silurian times the area was sea,
and thick sea muds were laid upon it. These were later altered to
hard slates by pressure and upfolded into mountains. During the
later Silurian and the Devonian the area was land and suffered
vast denudation. In the Carboniferous period it was lowered
beneath the sea and received a cover of limestone.

THE AGE OF MOUNTAINS. It is largely by means of unconformities
that we read the history of mountain making and other deformations
and movements of the crust. In Figure 203, for example, the
deformation which upfolded the range of mountains took place after
the deposit of the series of strata a of which the mountains are
composed, and before the deposit of the stratified rocks, which
rest unconformably on a and have not shared their uplift.

Most great mountain ranges, like the Sierra Nevada and the Alps,
mark lines of weakness along which the earth's crust has yielded
again and again during the long ages of geological time. The
strata deposited at various times about their flanks have been
infolded by later crumplings with the original mountain mass, and
have been repeatedly crushed, inverted, faulted, intruded with
igneous rocks, and denuded. The structure of great mountain ranges
thus becomes exceedingly complex and difficult to read. A
comparatively simple case of repeated uplift is shown in Figure
204. In the section of a portion of the Alps shown in Figure 179 a
far more complicated history may be deciphered.

UNCONFORMITIES IN THE COLORADO CANYON, ARIZONA. How geological
history may be read in unconformities is further illustrated in
Figures 207 and 208. The dark crystalline rocks a at the bottom of
the canyon are among the most ancient known, and are overlain
unconformably by a mass of tilted coarse marine sandstones b,
whose total thickness is not seen in the diagram and measures
twelve thousand feet perpendicularly to the dip. Both a and b rise
to a common level nn and upon them rest the horizontal sea-laid
strata c, in which the upper portion of the canyon has been cut.

Note that the crystalline rocks a have been crumpled and crushed.
Comparing their structure with that of folded mountains, what do
you infer as to their relief after their deformation? To which
surface were they first worn down, mm' or nm? Describe and account
for the surface mm'. How does it differ from the surface of the
crystalline rocks seen in the Torridonian Mountains, and why? This
surface mm' is one of the oldest land surfaces of which any
vestige remains.

It is a bit of fossil geography buried from view since the
earliest geological ages and recently brought to light by the
erosion of the canyon.

How did the surface mm' come to receive its cover of sandstones b?
From the thickness and coarseness of these sediments draw
inferences as to the land mass from which they were derived. Was
it rising or subsiding? high or low? Were its streams slow or
swift? Was the amount of erosion small or great?

Note the strong dip of these sandstones b. Was the surface mm'
tilted as now when the sandstones were deposited upon it? When was
it tilted? Draw a diagram showing the attitude of the rocks after
this tilting occurred, and their height relative to sea level.

The surface nn' is remarkably even, although diversified by some
low hills which rise into the bedded rocks of c, and it may be
traced for long distances up and down the canyon. Were the layers
of b and the surface mm' always thus cut short by nn' as now? What
has made the surface nn' so even? How does it come to cross the
hard crystalline rocks a and the weaker sandstones b at the same
impartial level? How did the sediments of c come to be laid upon
it? Give now the entire history recorded in the section, and in
addition that involved in the production of the platform P, shown
in Figure 130, and that of the cutting of the canyon. How does the
time involved in the cutting of the canyon compare with that
required for the production of the surfaces mm', nn', and P?


CHAPTER X

EARTHQUAKES


Any sudden movement of the rocks of the crust, as when they tear
apart when a fissure is formed or extended, or slip from time to
time along a growing fault, produces a jar called an earthquake,
which spreads in all directions from the place of disturbance.

THE CHARLESTON EARTHQUAKE. On the evening of August 31, 1886, the
city of Charleston, S.C., was shaken by one of the greatest
earthquakes which has occurred in the United States. A slight
tremor which rattled the windows was followed a few seconds later
by a roar, as of subterranean thunder, as the main shock passed
beneath the city. Houses swayed to and fro, and their heaving
floors overturned furniture and threw persons off their feet as,
dizzy and nauseated, they rushed to the doors for safety. In sixty
seconds a number of houses were completely wrecked, fourteen
thousand chimneys were toppled over, and in all the city scarcely
a building was left without serious injury. In the vicinity of
Charleston railways were twisted and trains derailed. Fissures
opened in the loose superficial deposits, and in places spouted
water mingled with sand from shallow underlying aquifers.

The point of origin, or FOCUS, of the earthquake was inferred from
subsequent investigations to be a rent in the rocks about twelve
miles beneath the surface. From the center of greatest
disturbance, which lay above the focus, a few miles northwest of
the city, the surface shock traveled outward in every direction,
with decreasing effects, at the rate of nearly two hundred miles
per minute. It was felt from Boston to Cuba, and from eastern Iowa
to the Bermudas, over a circular area whose diameter was a
thousand miles.

An earthquake is transmitted from the focus through the elastic
rocks of the crust, as a wave, or series of waves, of compression
and rarefaction, much as a sound wave is transmitted through the
elastic medium of the air. Each earth particle vibrates with
exceeding swiftness, but over a very short path. The swing of a
particle in firm rock seldom exceeds one tenth of an inch in
ordinary earthquakes, and when it reaches one half an inch and an
inch, the movement becomes dangerous and destructive.

The velocity of earthquake waves, like that of all elastic waves,
varies with the temperature and elasticity of the medium. In the
deep, hot, elastic rocks they speed faster than in the cold and
broken rocks near the surface. The deeper the point of origin and
the more violent the initial shock, the faster and farther do the
vibrations run.

Great earthquakes, caused by some sudden displacement or some
violent rending of the rocks, shake the entire planet. Their waves
run through the body of the earth at the rate of about three
hundred and fifty miles a minute, and more slowly round its
circumference, registering their arrival at opposite sides of the
globe on the exceedingly delicate instruments of modern earthquake
observatories.

GEOLOGICAL EFFECTS. Even great earthquakes seldom produce
geological effects of much importance. Landslides may be shaken
down from the sides of mountains and hills, and cracks may be
opened in the surface deposits of plains; but the transient
shiver, which may overturn cities and destroy thousands of human
lives, runs through the crust and leaves it much the same as
before.

EARTHQUAKES ATTENDING GREAT DISPLACEMENTS. Great earthquakes
frequently attend the displacement of large masses of the rocks of
the crust. In 1822 the coast of Chile was suddenly raised three or
four feet, and the rise was five or six feet a mile inland. In
1835 the same region was again upheaved from two to ten feet. In
each instance a destructive earthquake was felt for one thousand
miles along the coast.

THE GREAT CALIFORNIA EARTHQUAKE OF 1906. A sudden dislocation
occurred in 1906 along an ancient fault plane which extends for
300 miles through western California. The vertical displacement
did not exceed four feet, while the horizontal shifting reached a
maximum of twenty feet. Fences, rows of trees, and roads which
crossed the fault were broken and offset. The latitude and
longitude of all points over thousands of square miles were
changed. On each side of the fault the earth blocks moved in
opposite directions, the block on the east moving southward and
that on the west moving northward and to twice the distance. East
and west of the fault the movements lessened with increasing
distance from it.

This sudden slip set up an earthquake lasting sixty-five seconds,
followed by minor shocks recurring for many days. In places the
jar shook down the waste on steep hillsides, snapped off or
uprooted trees, and rocked houses from their foundations or threw
down their walls or chimneys. The water mains of San Francisco
were broken, and the city was thus left defenseless against a
conflagration which destroyed $500,000,000 worth of property. The
destructive effects varied with the nature of the ground.
Buildings on firm rock suffered least, while those on deep
alluvium were severely shaken by the undulations, like water
waves, into which the loose material was thrown. Well-braced steel
structures, even of the largest size, were earthquake proof, and
buildings of other materials, when honestly built and
intelligently designed to withstand earthquake shocks, usually
suffered little injury. The length of the intervals between severe
earthquakes in western California shows that a great dislocation
so relieves the stresses of the adjacent earth blocks that scores
of years may elapse before the stresses again accumulate and cause
another dislocation.

Perhaps the most violent earthquake which ever visited the United
States attended the depression, in 1812, of a region seventy-five
miles long and thirty miles wide, near New Madrid, Mo. Much of the
area was converted into swamps and some into shallow lakes, while
a region twenty miles in diameter was bulged up athwart the
channel of the Mississippi. Slight quakes are still felt in this
region from time to time, showing that the strains to which the
dislocation was due have not yet been fully relieved.

EARTHQUAKES ORIGINATING BENEATH THE SEA. Many earthquakes
originate beneath the sea, and in a number of examples they seem
to have been accompanied, as soundings indicate, by local
subsidences of the ocean bottom. There have been instances where
the displacement has been sufficient to set the entire Pacific
Ocean pulsating for many hours. In mid ocean the wave thus
produced has a height of only a few feet, while it may be two
hundred miles in width. On shores near the point of origin
destructive waves two or three score feet in height roll in, and
on coasts thousands of miles distant the expiring undulations may
be still able to record themselves on tidal gauges.

DISTRIBUTION OF EARTHQUAKES. Every half hour some considerable
area of the earth's surface is sensibly shaken by an earthquake,
but earthquakes are by no means uniformly distributed over the
globe. As we might infer from what we know as to their causes,
earthquakes are most frequent in regions now undergoing
deformation. Such are young rising mountain ranges, fault lines
where readjustments recur from time to time, and the slopes of
suboceanic depressions whose steepness suggests that subsidence
may there be in progress.

Earthquakes, often of extreme severity, frequently visit the lofty
and young ranges of the Andes, while they are little known in the
subdued old mountains of Brazil. The Highlands of Scotland are
crossed by a deep and singularly straight depression called the
Great Glen, which has been excavated along a very ancient line of
dislocation. The earthquakes which occur from time to time in this
region, such as the Inverness earthquake in 1891, are referred to
slight slips along this fault plane.

In Japan, earthquakes are very frequent. More than a thousand are
recorded every year, and twenty-nine world-shaking earthquakes
occurred in the three years ending with 1901. They originate, for
the most part, well down on the eastern flank of the earth fold
whose summit is the mountainous crest of the islands, and which
plunges steeply beneath the sea to the abyss of the Tuscarora
Deep.

MINOR CAUSES OF EARTHQUAKES. Since any concussion within the crust
sets up an earth jar, there are several minor causes of
earthquakes, such as volcanic explosions and even the collapse of
the roofs of caves. The earthquakes which attend the eruption of
volcanoes are local, even in the case of the most violent volcanic
paroxysms known. When the top of a volcano has been blown to
fragments, the accompanying earth shock has sometimes not been
felt more than twenty-five miles away.

DEPTH OF FOCUS. The focus of the Charleston earthquake, estimated
at about twelve miles below the surface, was exceptionally deep.
Volcanic earthquakes are particularly shallow, and probably no
earthquakes known have started at a greater depth than fifteen or
twenty miles. This distance is so slight compared with the earth's
radius that we may say that earthquakes are but skin-deep.

Should you expect the velocity of an earthquake to be greater in a
peneplain or in a river delta?

After an earthquake, piles on which buildings rested were found
driven into the ground, and chimneys crushed at base. From what
direction did the shock come?

Chimneys standing on the south walls of houses toppled over on the
roof. Should you infer that the shock in this case came from the
north or south?

You will find this agreement in your fiddle-case."
"Frederick! Frederick! be quick be quick!" again shouted the
father.

"Frederick! Frederick! Castero is boasting about your absence!"
cried the chorus of impatient friends.

"I agree!"

cried the _artiste_, and affixed his name.

While he was signing, the stranger muttered some words of mysterious
sound, of which he did not know the meaning; and immediately the
pieces of the broken instrument united themselves--rests, bridge,
stops, faces, and sides, all took their proper places, and the
soul of the noble violin re-entered its musical prison, at the
moment when that of the future baby of Maïna was sold to the enemy
of mankind!

"Now, then," said Satan, as he sank beneath the floor, "go where
glory waits thee."

CHAPTER VI
What need is there to tell the success of Frederick Katwingen--how
he triumphed over Castero, captivated the Stadtholder, and was
the pride of his native town? The Stadtholder attached him
to his person, settled a pension on him of fifteen thousand florins,
and treated him as the most cherished of his friends.

The burgomaster was delighted to gain so illustrious a son-in-law,
and hurried forward the marriage with all his might. On the day of
the wedding, when Frederick was leading the bride to church, at
the moment when the party was crossing the market-place, a voice
whispered in his ear--"A piece of the lace she will wear
at the ball this evening."

Frederick recognised the voice, though no one else heard it.

He turned, but saw nobody. After the ceremony, the burgomaster
handed the contract to the bridegroom, to which the Stadtholder
had affixed his signature. A present of a hundred thousand florins
from the governor of the United Provinces, proved the sincerity of
that illustrious personage's friendship, and that his favour had
by no means fallen off. The burgomaster was emulous of so much
generosity, and introduced a clause in the contract, settling his
whole fortune on his son-in-law, in case of Maïna's death.

Behold, then, the _artiste_ praised--fêted--and happy. Possessed
of the wife he loved--rich--honoured--what more had he to
hope than that those advantages should be continued him? Castero
was true to his word--reduced his violin to powder, acknowledged
Frederick's superiority, and betook himself to higher pursuits,
which ended in the great discovery of printing.

The Dutch Orpheus is freed from the annoyance of a rival. He reigns
by the divine right of his violin, the undisturbed monarch of his
native plains.

His name is pronounced with enthusiasm from one flat end of Holland
to the other. In the splendour of his triumphal condition, he has
forgotten his compact with Beelzebub; but Maïna reminded him of
it one day, when she told him he was about to become a father.

A father!--ha!--Frederick! That word which brings such rapture to
the newly married couple--which presents such radiant visions
of the future--that word freezes the heart of the _artiste_ and
stops the blood in his veins.

It is only now when Maïna is so happy that he knows the enormity
of his fault.

He is about to be a father--and he--beforehand--basely,
cowardly--has sold the soul of his son who is yet unborn--before
it can shake off the taint of original sin. Shame! shame! on the
proud in heart who has yielded to the voice of the tempter--to the
wretch who, for a little miserable glory, has shut the gates of
mercy on his own child--shame!
shame!

If Satan would consent to an exchange--if--but no--'tis impossible.
The "archangel fallen" had explained himself too clearly--no hope!
no hope!
From that hour there was no rest, no happiness for the protégé
of the Stadtholder--sleep fled from his eyelids, he was pursued
by perpetual remorse, and in the agonies of his heart deserted
the nuptial bed: while light dreams settled on Maïna's spirit,
and wove bright chaplets for the future, he wandered into the
midnight fields--across the canals--any where, in short, where he
fancied he could procure forgetfulness; but solitude made him only
feel his misery the more.

How often he thought of going to the gloomy lake where he had first
encountered the Unknown! How often he determined to complete
the resolution he had formed on the day of Castero's triumph! But
Satan had said to him, "The suicide is condemned--irrevocably
condemned;" and the condemnation of which _he_ would be sure,
would not bring a ransom for his first-born.

The fatal time draws on--in a few minutes more Maïna will be a
mother.

Frederick, by some invisible impulse, has chosen from among
the laces of his wife a rich Mechlin, which she wore round her neck
on her wedding-day. It is now to be the diabolic standard, and he
goes with it towards the door of his house, pensive and sad. When
he got to the threshold he stopped--he raised his eyes to heaven,
and from his heart and from his lips, there gushed out prayers,
warm, deep, sincere--the first for many years. A ray of light has
rushed into his soul. He uttered a cry of joy, he dashed across
the street into the neighbouring church; he dipped the lace into
the basin of consecrated water, and returned immediately to hang
it at the door of his apartment.

At that moment Maïna gave birth to a son, and Satan rushed impatiently
to claim his expected prey. But the tempter was unprepared for the
trap that was laid for him. On placing his foot on the first step
of the stair, he found himself pushed back by a superior
power. The Mechlin, dripping with holy water, had amazing effect.
It was guardian of the house and protected the entrance against
the fallen angel.

Satan strove again and again; but was always repulsed. There rises
now an impenetrable barrier between him and the innocent
being he had destined for his victim. Forced by the pious
stratagem of Frederick Katwingen to give up his purpose, he roamed
all night round the house like a roaring lion, bellowing in a
most awful manner.

In the morning, when they wrapt up the babe in the precious
lace to carry him to be baptized, they perceived that it had been
torn in several places. The holes showed the determination with
which Satan had tried to force a passage.

The enemy of mankind had not retreated without leaving the mark
of his talons on the lace.

On coming back from church, Frederick ran to his fiddle; and found
in a corner of the case the deed of compact he had signed.

With what joy he tossed it into the fire, and heard it go crackling
up the chimney!

All was over now; Satan was completely floored. He confessed, by
giving up the contract, that he had no further right on the soul
of the newly born, when once it had been purified by the waters
of baptism.

The father had recovered the soul which the musician had
bartered away!
Since that time, whenever a young woman in Haarlem is about to
become a mother, the husband never fails to hang at the door the
richest pieces of lace he can find in her trousseau. That standard
bids defiance to the evil one, and recalls the noble victory won
over the prince of darkness by Frederick Katwingen, surnamed the
Dutch Orpheus. And that is the reason that, in passing
through Haarlem, the visitor sees little frames suspended from
certain houses, ornamented with squares of Mechlin, or Valenciennes,
or Brussels point. And that is the reason that, when he asks an
explanation of the singular custom, he gets only the one short,
unvarying answer--"These are the Devil's Frills!"

ADVENTURES IN LOUISIANA.

PART II.

THE BLOCKHOUSE.

Supper over, and clenched by a pull at Nathan's whisky flask, we
prepared for departure. The Americans threw the choicest parts of
the buck over their shoulders, and the old squatter again taking
the lead, we resumed our march.

The way led us first across a prairie, then through a wood, which
was succeeded by a sort of thicket, upon the branches and thorny
shrubs of which we left numerous fragments of our dress. We had
walked several miles almost in silence, when Nathan suddenly made
a pause, and let the but-end of his rifle fall heavily on the ground.

I took the opportunity to ask him where we were.

"In Louisiana," replied he, "between the Red River, the Gulf
of Mexico, and the Mississippi; on French ground, and yet in a
country where French power is worth little. Do you see that?" added
he suddenly, seizing my arm, and pulling me a few paces aside, while
he pointed to a dark object, that at the distance and in the
moonlight, had the appearance of an earthen wall. "Do you know
what that is?" repeated the squatter.

"An Indian grave, perhaps," replied I.

"A grave it is," was the answer; "but not of the Redskins. As brave
a backwoodsman as ever crossed the Mississippi lies buried
there. You are not altogether wrong, though. I believe it was
once an Indian mound."
While he spoke we were walking on, and I now distinguished a hillock
or mound of earth, with nearly perpendicular sides, on which was
erected a blockhouse, formed of unhewn cypress trunks, of a solidity
and thickness upon which four-and-twenty pounders would have had
some difficulty in making an impression.

Its roof rose about ten feet above a palisade enclosing the
building, and consisting of stout saplings sharpened at the top,
and stuck in the ground at a very short distance from each
other, being moreover strengthened and bound together with wattles
and branches. The building had evidently been constructed more
for a refuge and place of defence than an habitual residence.

A ladder was now lowered, by which we ascended to the top of the
mound.
There was a small door in the palisades, which Nathan opened and
passed through, we following.

The blockhouse was of equal length and breadth, about forty feet
square.
On entering it we found nothing but the bare walls, with the
exception of a wide chimney of sun-baked brick, and in one corner
a large wooden slab partly imbedded in the ground.

"Don't tread upon that board," said the old man solemnly, as we
approached the slab to examine it; "it is holy ground."
"How holy ground?"
"There lies under it as brave a fellow as ever handled axe or
rifle. He it was built this blockhouse, and christened it the
Bloody Blockhouse--and bloody it proved to be to him.

But you shall hear more of it if you like. You shall hear how
six American rifles were too many for ninety French and Spanish
muskets."
Carleton and I shook our heads incredulously. The Yankee took us
both by the arm, led us out of the blockhouse, and through the
stockade to a grassy projection of the hillock.

"Ninety French and Spanish muskets," repeated he in a firm voice,
and weighing on each word.

"Opposed to them were Asa Nolins, with his three brothers, his
brother-in-law, a cousin, and their wives. He fell like a brave
American as he was, but not alone, for the dead bodies of thirty
foes were lying round the blockhouse when he died.

They are buried there," added he, pointing to a row of cotton-trees
a short distance off, that in the pale moonlight might have been
taken for the spectres of the departed; "under those cotton-trees
they fell, and there they are buried."
The old squatter remained for a short space in his favourite attitude,
his hands crossed on his rifle, and his chin resting on them. He
seemed to be calling together the recollections of a time long
gone by.

We did not care to interrupt him. The stillness of the night,
the light of the moon and stars, that gave the prairie lying
before us the appearance of a silvery sea, the sombre forest on
either side of the blockhouse, of which the edges only were lighted
up by the moonbeams, the vague allusions our guide had made to
some fearful scene of strife and slaughter that had been
enacted in this now peaceful glade--all these circumstances
combined, worked upon our imaginations, and we felt unwilling to
break the stillness which added to the impressive beauty
of the forest scene.

"Did you ever float down the Mississippi?"

asked Nathan abruptly. As he spoke he sat down upon the bank, and
made sign to us to sit beside him.

"Did you ever float down the Mississippi?"
"No; we came up it from New Orleans hither."
"That is nothing; the stream is not half so dangerous there as above
Natchez."

_We_ came down, six men, four women, and twice as many children,
all the way from the mouths of the Ohio to the Red River; and bad
work we had of it, in a crazy old boat, to pass the rapids and
avoid the sand-banks, and snakes, and sawyers, and whatever the
devil they call them, that are met with. I calculate we weren't
sorry when we left the river and took to dry land again. The first
thing we did was to make a wigwam, Injun fashion, with branches of
trees. This was to shelter the women and children. Two men
remained to protect them, and the other four divided into two
parties, and set off, one south and t'other west, to look for a
good place for a settlement. I and Righteous, one of Asa's
brothers, took the southerly track.

It was no pleasuring party that journey, but a right-down hard and
dangerous expedition, through cypress swamps, where snapping turtles
were plenty as mosquitoes, and at every step the congo and mocassin
snakes twisted themselves round our ankles.

We persevered, however. We had a few handfuls of corn in our
hunting-pouches, and our calabashes well filled with whisky.
With that and our rifles we did not want for provender.

At length, on the fourth day, we came to an upland, or rolling
prairie as we call it, from the top of which we had a view that
made our hearts leap for joy. A lovely strip of land lay before
us, bounded at the further end by a forest of evergreen oaks,
honey locusts, and catalpas.
Towards the north was a good ten mile of prairie; on the right hand
a wood of cotton-trees, and on the left the forest in which you now
are.

We decided at once that we should find no better place than this to
fix ourselves; and we went back to tell Asa and the others of
our discovery, and to show them the way to it. Asa and one of his
brothers returned with us, bringing part of our traps.

They were as pleased with the place as we were, and we went back
again to fetch the rest.

But it was no easy matter to bring our plunder and the
women and children through the forests and swamps. We had to
cut paths through the thickets, and to make bridges and rafts to
cross the creeks and marshes.

After ten days' labour, however, and with the help of our axes,
we were at our journey's end.

We began directly clearing and cutting down trees, and in three weeks
we had built a loghouse, and were able to lie down to rest
without fear of being disturbed by the wolves or catamounts.
We built two more houses, so as to have one for each two
families and then set to work to clear the land. We had soon
shaped out a couple of fields, a ten-acre one for maize, and another
half the size for tobacco.

These we began to dig and hoe; but the ground was hard, and though
we all worked like slaves, we saw there was nothing to be made
of it without ploughing. A ploughshare we had, and a plough was
easily made--but horses were wanting: so Asa and I took fifty
dollars, which was all the money we had amongst us, and set
out to explore the country forty miles round, and endeavour to
meet with somebody who would sell us a couple of horses, and two
or three cows. Not a clearing or settlement did we find, however,
and at last we returned discouraged, and again began digging. On
the very first day after our return, as we were toiling away in
the field, a trampling of horses was heard, and four men mounted,
and followed by a couple of wolf-hounds, came cantering over the
prairie.

It struck us that this would be a famous chance for buying a pair
of horses, and Asa went to meet them, and invited them to alight
and refresh themselves. At the same time we took our rifles, which
were always lying beside us when we worked in the fields, and
advanced towards the strangers.

But when they saw our guns, they put spurs to their horses and rode
off to a greater distance. Asa called out to them not to fear,
for our rifles were to use against bears and wolves and Redskins,
and not against Christian men.
Upon this, down they came again; we brought out a calabash of real
Monongahela; and after they had taken a dram, they got off their
horses, and came in and ate some venison, which the women
set before them. They were Creoles, half Spanish, half French,
with a streak of the Injun; and they spoke a sort of gibberish not
easy to understand.

But Asa, who had served in Lafayette's division in the time of the
war, knew French well; and when they had eaten and drunk, he
began to make a bargain with them for two of their horses.

It was easy to see they were not the sort of men with whom
decent folk could trade. First they would, then they wouldn't:
which horses did we want, and what would we give. We offered them
thirty-five dollars for their two best horses--and a heavy price
it was, for at that time money was scarce in the settlements.
They wanted forty, but at last took the thirty-five; and after
getting three parts drunk upon taffia, which they asked for to wet
the bargain as they said, they mounted two upon each of the remaining
horses and rode away.

We now got on famously with our fields, and soon sowed fifteen
acres of maize and tobacco, and then began clearing another
ten-acre field. We were one day hard at work at this, when one
of my boys came running to us, crying out, "Father!

Father! The Redskins!" We snatched up our rifles and hastened
to the top of the little rising ground on which our houses were
built, and thence we saw, not Injuns, but fourteen or fifteen
Creoles, galloping towards our clearing, halloing and huzzaing like
mad.

When they were within fifty yards of us, Asa stepped forward to
meet them. As soon as they saw him one of them called out, "There
is the thief! There is the man who stole my brown horse!" Asa
made no answer to this, but waited till they came nearer, when one
of them rode up to him and asked who was the chief in the settlement.

"There is no chief here," answered Asa; "we are all equals and
free citizens."
"You have stolen a horse from our friend Monsieur Croupier,"
replied the other. "You must give it up."
"Is that all?" said Asa quietly.

"No: you must show us by what right you hunt on this territory."

"Yes," cried half a dozen others, "we'll have no strangers on our
hunting-grounds; the bears and caguars are getting scarcer than
ever, and as for buffaloes, they are clean exterminated." And all
the time they were talking, they kept leaping and galloping about
like madmen.
"The sooner the bears and caguars are killed the better," said Asa.
"The land is not for dumb brutes, but for men."
The Creoles, however, persisted that we had no right to hunt where
we were, and swore we should go away. Then Asa asked them what right
they had to send us away. This seemed to embarrass them, and they
muttered and talked together; so that it was easy to see there was
no magistrate or person in authority amongst them, but that they
were a party of fellows who had come in hopes to frighten us. At
last they said they should inform the governor, and the commandant
at Natchitoches, and the Lord knows who besides, that we had come
and squatted ourselves down here, and built houses, and cleared
fields, and all without right or permission; and that then we might
look out. So Asa began to lose patience, and told them they might
all go to the devil, and that, if they were not off soon, he should
be apt to hasten their movements.
"I must have my horse back," screamed the Creole whom they called
Croupier.
"You shall," replied Asa, "both of them, if you return the
five-and-thirty dollars."
"It was only fifteen dollars," cried the lying Creole.COLUMNAR STRUCTURE. Just as wet starch contracts on drying to
prismatic forms, so lava often contracts on cooling to a mass of
close-set, prismatic, and commonly six-sided columns, which stand
at right angles to the cooling surface. The upper portion of a
flow, on rapid cooling from the surface exposed to the air, may
contract to a confused mass of small and irregular prisms; while
the remainder forms large and beautifully regular columns, which
have grown upward by slow cooling from beneath.

FRAGMENTAL MATERIALS

Rocks weighing many tons are often thrown from a volcano at the
beginning of an outburst by the breaking up of the solidofied
floor of the crater; and during the progress of an eruption large
blocks may be torn from the throat of the volcano by the outrush
of steam. But the most important fragmental materials are those
derived from the lava itself. As lava rises in the pipe, the steam
which permeates it is released from pressure and explodes, hurling
the lava into the air in fragments of all sizes,--large pieces of
scoria, LAPILLI (fragments the size of a pea or walnut), volcanic
"sand" and volcanic "ashes." The latter resemble in appearance the
ashes of wood or coal, but they are not in any sense, like them, a
residue after combustion.

Volcanic ashes are produced in several ways: lava rising in the
volcanic duct is exploded into fine dust by the steam which
permeates it; glassy lava, hurled into the air and cooled
suddenly, is brought into a state of high strain and tension, and,
like Prince Rupert's drops, flies to pieces at the least
provocation. The clash of rising and falling projectiles also
produces some dust, a fair sample of which may be made by grating
together two pieces of pumice.

Beds of volcanic ash occur widely among recent deposits in the
western United States. In Nebraska ash beds are found in twenty
counties, and are often as white as powdered pumice. The beds grow
thicker and coarser toward the southwestern part of the state,
where their thickness sometimes reaches fifty feet. In what
direction would you look for the now extinct volcano whose
explosive eruptions are thus recorded?

TUFF. This is a convenient term designating any rock composed of
volcanic fragments. Coarse tuffs of angular fragments are called
VOLCANIC BRECIA, and when the fragments have been rounded and
sorted by water the rock is termed a VOLCANIC CONGLOMERATE. Even
when deposited in the open air, as on the slopes of a volcano,
tuffs may be rudely bedded and their fragments more or less
rounded, and unless marine shells or the remains of land plants
and animals are found as fossils in them, there is often
considerable difficulty in telling whether they were laid in water
or in air. In either case they soon become consolidated. Chemical
deposits from percolating waters fill the interstices, and the bed
of loose fragments is cemented to hard rock.

The materials of which tuffs are composed are easily recognized as
volcanic in their origin. The fragments are more or less cellular,
according to the degree to which they were distended with steam
when in a molten state, and even in the finest dust one may see
the glass or the crystals of lava from which it was derived. Tuffs
often contain VOCLANIC BOMBS,--balls of lava which took shape
while whirling in the air, and solidified before falling to the
ground.

ANCIENT VOLCANIC ROCKS. It is in these materials and structures
which we have described that volcanoes leave some of their most
enduring records. Even the volcanic rocks of the earliest geological
ages, uplifted after long burial beneath the sea and exposed to view
by deep erosion, are recognized and their history read despite the
many changes which they may have undergone. A sheet of ancient lava
may be distinguished by its composition from the sediments among
which it is imbedded. The direction of its flow lines may be noted.
The cellular and slaggy surface where the pasty lava was distended
by escaping steam is recognized by the amygdules which now fill the
ancient steam blebs. In a pile of successive sheets of lava each
flow may be distinguished and its thickness measured; for the
surface of each sheet is glassy and scoriaceous, while beneath its
upper portions the lava of each flow is more dense and stony. The
length of time which elapsed before a sheet was buried beneath the
materials of succeeding eruptions may be told by the amount of
weathering which it had undergone, the depth of ancient soil--now
baked to solid rock--upon it, and the erosion which it had suffered
in the interval.

If the flow occurred from some submarine volcano, we may recognize
the fact by the sea-laid sediments which cover it, filling the
cracks and crevices of its upper surface and containing pieces of
lava washed from it in their basal layers.

Long-buried glassy lavas devitrify, or pass to a stony condition,
under the unceasing action of underground waters; but their flow
lines and perlitic and spherulitic structures remain to tell of
their original state.

Ancient tuffs are known by the fragmental character of their
volcanic material, even though they have been altered to firm
rock. Some remains of land animals and plants may be found
imbedded to tell that the beds were laid in open air; while the
remains of marine organisms would prove as surely that the tuffs
were deposited in the sea.

In these ways ancient volcanoes have been recognized near Boston,
in southeastern Pennsylvania, about Lake Superior, and in other
regions of the United States.

THE LIFE HISTORY OF A VOLCANO

The invasion of a region by volcanic forces is attended by
movements of the crust heralded by earthquakes. A fissure or a
pipe is opened and the building of the cone or the spreading of
wide lava sheets is begun.

VOLCANIC CONES. The shape of a volcanic cone depends chiefly on
the materials erupted. Cones made of fragments may have sides as
steep as the angle of repose, which in the case of coarse scoria
is sometimes as high as thirty or forty degrees. About the base of
the mountain the finer materials erupted are spread in more gentle
slopes, and are also washed forward by rains and streams. The
normal profile is thus a symmetric cone with a flaring base.

Cones built of lava vary in form according to the liquidity of the
lava. Domes of gentle slope, as those of Hawaii, for example, are
formed of basalt, which flows to long distances before it
congeals. When superheated and emitted from many vents, this
easily melted lava builds great plateaus, such as that of Iceland.
On the other hand, lavas less fusible, or poured out at a lower
temperature, stiffen when they have flowed but a short distance,
and accumulate in a steep cone. Trachyte has been extruded in a
state so viscid that it has formed steepsided domes like that of
Sarcoui.

Most volcanoes are built, like Vesuvius, both of lava flows and of
tuffs, and sections show that the structure of the cone consists
of outward-dipping, alternating layers of lava, scoria, and ashes.

From time to time the cone is rent by the violence of explosions
and by the weight of the column of lava in the pipe. The fissures
are filled with lava and some discharge on the sides of the
mountain, building parasitic cones, while all form dikes, which
strengthen the pile with ribs of hard rock and make it more
difficult to rend.

Great catastrophes are recorded in the shape of some volcanoes
which consist of a circular rim perhaps miles in diameter,
inclosing a vast crater or a caldera within which small cones may
rise. We may infer that at some time the top of the mountain has
been blown off, or has collapsed and been engulfed because some
reservoir beneath had been emptied by long-continued eruptions.

The cone-building stage may be said to continue until eruptions of
lava and fragmental materials cease altogether. Sooner or later
the volcanic forces shift or die away, and no further eruptions
add to the pile or replace its losses by erosion during periods of
repose. Gases however are still emitted, and, as sulphur vapors
are conspicuous among them, such vents are called SOLFATARAS.
Mount Hood, in Oregon, is an example of a volcano sunk to this
stage. From a steaming rift on its side there rise sulphurous
fumes which, half a mile down the wind, will tarnish a silver
coin.

GEYSERS AND HOT SPRINGS. The hot springs of volcanic regions are
among the last vestiges of volcanic heat. Periodically eruptive
boiling springs are termed geysers. In each of the geyser regions
of the earth--the Yellowstone National Park, Iceland, and New
Zealand--the ground water of the locality is supposed to be heated
by ancient lavas that, because of the poor conductivity of the
rock, still remain hot beneath the surface.

OLD FAITHFUL, one of the many geysers of the Yellowstone National
Park, plays a fountain of boiling water a hundred feet in air;
while clouds of vapor from the escaping steam ascend to several
times that height. The eruptions take place at intervals of from
seventy to ninety minutes. In repose the geyser is a quiet pool,
occupying a craterlike depression in a conical mound some twelve
feet high. The conduit of the spring is too irregular to be
sounded. The mound is composed of porous silica deposited by the
waters of the geyser.

Geysers erupt at intervals instead of continuously boiling,
because their long, narrow, and often tortuous conduits do not
permit a free circulation of the water. After an eruption the tube
is refilled and the water again gradually becomes heated. Deep in
the tube where it is in contact with hot lavas the water sooner or
later reaches the boiling point, and bursting into steam shoots
the water above it high in air.

CARBONATED SPRINGS. After all the other signs of life have gone,
the ancient volcano may emit carbon dioxide as its dying breath.
The springs of the region may long be charged with carbon dioxide,
or carbonated, and where they rise through limestone may be
expected to deposit large quantities of travertine. We should
remember, however, that many carbonated springs, and many hot
springs, are wholly independent of volcanoes.

THE DESTRUCTION OF THE CONE. As soon as the volcanic cone ceases
to grow by eruptions the agents of erosion begin to wear it down,
and the length of time that has elapsed since the period of active
growth may be roughly measured by the degree to which the cone has
been dissected. We infer that Mount Shasta, whose conical shape is
still preserved despite the gullies one thousand feet deep which
trench its sides, is younger than Mount Hood, which erosive
agencies have carved to a pyramidal form. The pile of materials
accumulated about a volcanic vent, no matter how vast in bulk, is
at last swept entirely away. The cone of the volcano, active or
extinct, is not old as the earth counts time; volcanoes are short-
lived geological phenomena.

CRANDALL VOLCANO. This name is given to a dissected ancient
volcano in the Yellowstone National Park, which once, it is
estimated, reared its head thousands of feet above the surrounding
country and greatly exceeded in bulk either Mount Shasta or Mount
Etna. Not a line of the original mountain remains; all has been
swept away by erosion except some four thousand feet of the base
of the pile. This basal wreck now appears as a rugged region about
thirty miles in diameter, trenched by deep valleys and cut into
sharp peaks and precipitous ridges. In the center of the area is
found the nucleus (N, Fig. 237),--a mass of coarsely crystalline
rock that congealed deep in the old volcanic pipe. From it there
radiate in all directions, like the spokes of a wheel, long dikes
whose rock grows rapidly finer of grain as it leaves the vicinity
of the once heated core. The remainder of the base of the ancient
mountain is made of rudely bedded tuffs and volcanic breccia, with
occasional flows of lava, some of the fragments of the breccia
measuring as much as twenty feet in diameter. On the sides of
canyons the breccia is carved by rain erosion to fantastic
pinnacles. At different levels in the midst of these beds of tuff
and lava are many old forest grounds. The stumps and trunks of the
trees, now turned to stone, still in many cases stand upright
where once they grew on the slopes of the mountain as it was
building (Fig. 238). The great size and age of some of these trees
indicate, the lapse of time between the eruption whose lavas or
tuffs weathered to the soil on which they grew and the subsequent
eruption which buried them beneath showers of stones and ashes.

Near the edge of the area lies Death Gulch, in which carbon
dioxide is given off in such quantities that in quiet weather it
accumulates in a heavy layer along the ground and suffocates the
animals which may enter it.


CHAPTER XII

UNDERGROUND STRUCTURES OF IGNEOUS ORIGIN


It is because long-continued erosion lays bare the innermost
anatomy of an extinct volcano, and even sweeps away the entire
pile with much of the underlying strata, thus leaving the very
roots of the volcano open to view, that we are able to study
underground volcanic structures. With these we include, for
convenience, intrusions of molten rock which have been driven
upward into the crust, but which may not have succeeded in
breaking way to the surface and establishing a volcano. The Spaniard,
in his own language, is inimitable. I cannot come nearer the soft
Southern than these ballad lines--
"Alas,--how sweet, yet strange!
Joy in the lap of woe!
Love, all a change!

Like roses laid on snow, Nipt by the cruel wind; Love, all unkind!

"Yet, close those eyes of thine, Else, though no accents fall, These
stealing tears from mine Will tell thee all!
Strange, that what lips deny, Is spoken by the telltale eye."
Whether the little seguidilla meant any thing in the lips of the
songstress, I do not presume to say. But the hearts of women, perhaps
I should say of all pretty women, expect admiration as
naturally as an idol receives incense; and as a part of the incense
now and then descends upon the worshippers themselves, the sentiment
becomes in some degree mutual.

However, with all my perceptions alive to her merits, and she had
many; the cause of my gallant French friend was perfectly safe
in my hands.

I never had much vanity in these matters, and even if I had, the
impression already made by another had made me impregnable, for the
time, to the whole artillery of eyes.

Yet the evening which I thus spent, gave me the first genuine
idea of domestic happiness which I had ever received. I
had certainly seen but little of it at home. There all was either
crowds, or solitude; the effort to seem delighted, or
palpable discontent; extravagant festivity, or bitterness and frowns.
My haughty father was scarcely approachable, unless when some lucky
job shed a few drops of honey into his natural gall; and my gentle
mother habitually took refuge in her chamber, with a feebleness of
mind which only embittered her vexations.

In short, the "family fireside" had become with me a name for
every thing dull and discomforting; and a _tête-à-tête_ little
less than an absolute terror.

But in this apartment I saw how perfectly possible it might be
to make one's way through life, even with so small a share of
that world as the woman before me. I had now spent some hours without
a care, without a wish, or even a thought beyond the room in which
we sat.

My imagination had not flagged, no sense of weariness had touched
me, our conversation had never wanted a topic; yet the Jew was
one certainly of no peculiar charm of manner, though a man
of an originally vigorous mind, and well acquainted
with general life; and even his daughter was too foreign and
fantastic to realize my _beau idéal_. Still with the one being
of my choice, I felt that it would be possible to be happy on a
desert island.

Our supper was as animated as our evening. My remarks on the passing
world--a world of which I then knew not much more than the
astronomer does of the inhabitants of the moon, by inspecting
it

"With his glazed optic tube, At midnight from the top of Fesolé,
Or in Val d'Arno, to descry new seas, Rivers, and mountains on
her spotty globe"--
were received with an acquiescence, which showed that I had already
gained some ground, even in the rough, though undoubtedly subtle
and powerful mind of the Jew: as for Mariamne, she was all delight,
and until she took her leave of us for the night, all smiles.

As she closed the door Mordecai laid his muscular hand on my
shoulder.
"A word with you, Mr Marston; you have rendered me the highest of
services in saving that girl from a dreadful death. You have been
of use to me in other matters also, unconsciously I aver--but
we shall talk of that another time. To come to the point at once.
If you can make yourself my daughter's choice, for I shall never
control her, I shall not throw any obstacles in the way.

What say you?"
I never felt more difficulty in an answer. My voice actually died
within my lips. I experienced a feverish sensation which must
have mounted to my face, and given me the look of a clown or a
criminal, if the Jew had but looked at me: but he was waiting my
reply with his eyes fixed on the ground.

But the hesitation was soon over; I was almost pledged to
Lafontaine, as a man of honour; I knew that Mariamne, however she
might play the coquette for the day, was already bound in heart
to the gallant Frenchman; and if neither impediment had existed,
there was a chain, cold as ice, but strong as adamant--a chain of
which she who had bound it was altogether ignorant, but which I had
neither the power nor the will to sever.

Still it was not for me to divulge Mariamne's secret, and I could
not even touch upon my own. I escaped from the dilemma under cover
of another reason, and also a true one.

Thanking him for his kindness and candour, I observed, "that I was
nothing and had nothing, that to offer myself to the acceptance
of one entitled to wed so opulently as his daughter, would be to
pain my feelings, and place me in a humiliating point of view, in
the presence of one whose respect I ought to deserve."

Our conversation extended far into the night; and I freely entered
into the disappointment which I had sustained in the unfortunate
loss of my commission.

I added, that I was determined not to lead a life of idleness, even
if I had possessed the means; and that as the army was the
profession which gave the fairest prospect of being known to the
world, I must pursue it if possible.

The idea was fully approved of by my energetic hearer. "Right!" said
he.
"It is exactly the thing which I should have expected from you. You
have been ill-treated, I own, but there is no use in kicking at
power, unless you can kick it before you.

The machinery of government is too huge for any one of us to
resist, and unless we run along with it, our only wisdom is, to
get out of its way. But you shall have a commission, ay, even
if it cost a thousand guineas. Never refuse; I am not in
the habit of throwing away my money; but you saved Mariamne's life,
and I would not have lost my child for all the bullion in the Bank
of England, or on the globe."

I was surprised by this burst of generosity, but it was real;
and the Jew, as if to put his sincerity beyond all doubt, had
torn a leaf out of his pocket-book, and was writing an order for
the sum on his banker: he laid it on the table.

I returned it to him at once, perhaps not less to his surprise
than his offer had been to mine. But I reminded him, that I had
still a balance at my banker's; and I told him besides that I
had made up my mind to enter the regiment from which I had been
so unceremoniously dismissed, or none. He stared. "If," said
I, "I shall not be commissioned in the Coldstream, it will
be utterly beyond my power to persuade even my own relatives,
much less the world, that I have not been dismissed for some act
of impropriety. Or, if men will not hazard saying this to my
face, they will only be more likely to say it where I cannot defend
myself."
"True!" said Mordecai, as if the opinion had cast a new light on him.

"Perfectly to the point. This is a world of scandal; and,
like the wolves, the whole pack fall on the wounded. You must
recover your commission in the Coldstream; or be ready to tell your
story every day of your life, and be only half believed after
all. Yes, you must enter that very corps, or be sneered at as long
as you live; and if you have a heart to be stung, it will be
stung. Our people know that well."

"I should give my last shilling to be carrying its colours at this
moment," said I, "but unfortunately money is useless there. The
Guards are the favourite of royalty, and their commissions
naturally go to men of rank and fortune."
"We must go to town and see what is to be done.

When will you be ready?" asked my host.

"To-night--this moment--if possible, I should set out."
"No, no, Mr Marston, my movements cannot be quite so expeditious.
I must wait for my London letters in the morning. On their arrival
we may start, and, by taking four horses, reach town before the
Horse Guards closes for the day."
At breakfast next morning Mariamne was not to be seen: she excused
herself by a violent headach; and by the countenance of her Abigail,
generally a tolerable reflexion of the temper of the female
authority of a house, it was evident that I had fallen into
disfavour. But how was this to be accounted for? Mordecai, from
the lateness of the hour at which we parted, could not have seen
her; even if she should condescend to take my matrimonial chillness
as an offence.

But the mystery was soon, cleared by her answer to the note which
contained my farewell. It was simply the enclosure of a few
hapless lines of verse, in which the name of Clotilde occurred,
and which had been found in the clearance of my chamber preparatory
to my journey. This was decisive. Mariamne was a sovereign, who,
choose as she might her prime minister, would not suffer her royal
attendance to be diminished by the loss of a single slave. I
petitioned for a parting word, it was declined; and I had
only to regret my poetic error, or my still greater error in not
keeping my raptures under lock and key.

As the carriage drew up to the door, Mordecai casually asked me
"have you left your card at the Steyne?"
"No," was the reply. "Was it necessary?"

"Absolutely so; the prince has sent frequently to enquire for you
during your illness, and of course your leaving the neighbourhood
without acknowledging the honour would be impossible."
"Then let us drive there at once," said I.

On reaching the prince's cottage--for cottage it was, and nothing
more--the gentleman in waiting who received my card, told
me that his Royal highness had desired that whenever I called
he should be apprized of my coming, "as he wished to hear the
history of the accident from myself." The prince's fondness for
hearing every thing out of the common course, was well
known; and I had only to obey. I had the honour of an introduction
accordingly; was received with all the customary graces of his
manner, and even with what attracts still more--with kindness.
He enquired into the circumstances, and was evidently taking an
interest in such parts of the narrative as I chose to give,
when he was interrupted by the arrival of a courier from London.

The letters happened to be of importance, and must be answered
immediately.

"But," said he, with his irresistible smile, "I must not lose
your story; we dine at seven. You will probably meet some whom you
would be gratified by seeing.
Adieu--remember, seven."
This was equivalent to a command, and there was no resource,
but to defer my journey for twelve hours more. Mordecai was not
unwilling to exchange a dreary drive in which he had no immediate
concern, for the comforts of his own home; or perhaps the honour
among his neighbours of having for an inmate a guest of the
heir-apparent, qualified the delay.
Mariamne at our approach fled from the drawing-room like
a frightened doe. And at the appointed hour I was at the pretty
trellised porch of the prince's residence.

THE DEVIL'S FRILLS.

A DUTCH ILLUSTRATION OF THE WATER CURE.

CHAPTER I.

A stranger who visits Haarlem is not a little astonished
to see, hung out from various houses, little frames coquettishly
ornamented with squares of the finest lace. His curiosity will
lead him to ask the reason of so strange a proceeding. But, however
he may push his questions--however persevering he may be in getting
at the bottom of the mystery--if he examine and cross-examine fifty
different persons, he will get no other answer than--
"These are the devil's frills."

The frills of the devil! Horrible! What possible connexion can
there be between those beautiful Valenciennes, those splendid
Mechlins, those exquisite Brussels points, and his cloven-footed
majesty? Is Haarlem a city of idolaters? Are all these
gossamer oblations an offering to Beelzebub?

And are we to believe, in spite of well-authenticated tale
and history, that instead of horns and claws, the gentleman in
black sports frills and ruffles, as if he were a young dandy in
Bond Street?

"These are the devil's frills."
It is my own private opinion that these mystic words contain some
prodigiously recondite meaning; or, perhaps, arise from one of
those awful incidents, of which Hoffman encountered so many among
the ghost-seeing, all-believing Germans.

But don't take it on my simple assertion, but judge for yourself.
I shall tell you, word for word, the story as it was told to me,
and as it is believed by multitudes of people, who believe nothing
else, in the good town of Haarlem.

CHAPTER II.

Yes,--one other thing everybody in Haarlem believes--and that is,
that Guttenberg, and Werner, and Faust, in pretending that they
were the discoverers of the art of printing, were egregious specimens
of the art of lying; for that that noble discovery was made by no
human being save and except an illustrious citizen of Haarlem, and
an undeniable proof of it exists in the fact, that his statue is
still to be seen in front of the great church.

He rejoiced, while living, in the name of Laurentius Castero;
and, however much you may be surprised at the claims advanced in
his favour, you are hereby strictly cautioned to offer no
contradiction to the boastings of his overjoyed compatriots--they
are prouder of his glory than of their beer.

But his merits did not stop short at casting types. In addition
to his enormous learning and profound information, he possessed
an almost miraculous mastery of the fiddle. He was a Dutch
Paganini, and drew such notes from his instrument, that the
burgomaster, in smoking his pipe and listening to the sounds, thought
it had a close resemblance to the music of the spheres.

There was only one man in all Haarlem, in all Holland, who did not
yield the palm at fiddle-playing to Castero. That one man was no
other than Frederick Katwingen, the son of a rich brewer, whom his
admirers--more numerous than those of his rival--had called the
Dutch Orpheus.

If the laurels of Miltiades disturbed the sleep of Themistocles;
if the exploits of Macedonia's madman interfered with the comfort
of Julius Cæsar, the glory of Katwingen would not let Castero
get a wink of sleep.

What! a man of genius--a philosopher like the _doctus_
Laurentius, not be contented with his fame as discoverer of
the art of printing; but to leave his manuscripts, and pica, and
pie, to strive for a contemptible triumph, to look with an eye
of envy on a competitor for the applauses of a music room!

Alas! too true. Who is the man, let me ask you, who can put bounds
to his pretensions?

Who is the man that does not feel as if the praises of his
neighbour were an injury to himself? And if I must speak the whole
truth, I am bound to confess that these jealous sentiments were
equally entertained by both the musicians. Yes,--if Castero would
acknowledge no master, Frederick could not bear that any one should
consider himself his rival, and insisted at any rate in treating
with him on equal terms.

Laurentius, therefore, and the son of the brewer were declared
enemies; and the inhabitants of Haarlem were divided into two
parties, each ruled over with unlimited power by the fiddlestick
of its chief.

It was announced one morning that the Stadtholder would pass
through the town in the course of the day. The burgomaster
determine to receive the illustrious personage in proper style,
and ordered the two rivals to hold themselves in readiness. Here,
then, was a contest worthy of them an opportunity of bringing
the great question to issue of which of them played the first
fiddle in Holland--perhaps in Europe. It fell to Frederick's
chance to perform first--in itself a sort of triumph over
Laurentius. The Stadtholder entered by the Amsterdam road, attended
by his suite--they passed along the street, and stopped under a
triumphal arch which had been hastily prepared. The burgomaster
made a speech very much like the speeches of burgomasters
before and since on similar tremendous occasions; and Frederick
finally advanced and made his salaam to the chief magistrate of
the United Provinces.

The performer knew that the Stadtholder was a judge of music,
and this gave him courage to do his best. He began without
more ado, and every thing went on at first as he could wish;
fountains of harmony gushed out from under his bow. There
seemed a soul at the end of each of his fingers, and the countenance
of the chief magistrate showed how enchanted he was with his powers.

His triumph was on the point of being complete; a few more bars of
a movement composed for the occasion--a few magnificent flourishes
to show his mastery of the instrument, and Castero will be driven
to despair by the superiority of his rival;--but crash! crash!--at
the very moment when his melody is steeping the senses of the
Stadtholder in Elysium, a string breaks with hideous sound, and
the whole effect of his composition is destroyed. A smile
jumped instantaneously to the protruding lip of the learned
Laurentius, and mocked his mishap: the son of the brewer observed
the impertinent smile, and anger gave him courage--the broken string
is instantly replaced.

The artist rushes full speed into the allegretto--and under
the pressure of his hands, burning with rage and genius, the
chord breaks again! The fiddle must be bewitched--Frederick became
deadly pale--he trembled from head to foot--he was nearly wild.

But the piece he had composed was admirable; he knew it--for
in a moment of inspiration he had breathed it into existence from
the recesses of his soul.

And was he doomed never to play this cherished work to the
governor of his country?--An approving motion from that august
individual encouraged him to proceed, and he fitted a string for
the third time.

Alas, alas! the result is the same--the chord is too much
tightened, and breaks in the middle of a note!

Humbled and ashamed, Frederick gives up his allegretto. He retires,
abashed and heartbroken, and Castero takes his place. Mixed
up in the crowd, his eyes swam in tears of rage and disappointment
when the frantic applauses of the assemblage--to whom the Stadtholder
had set the example--announced to him the triumph of his rival.
He is vanquished--vanquished without having had the power to
fight--oh, grief!

oh, shame! oh, despair!

His friends tried in vain to console him in promising him a brilliant
revenge. The son of the brever believed himself eternally disgraced.
He rushed into his room, double locked the door and would see
nobody.

He required solitude--but the wo of the _artiste_ had not
yet reached its height. He must drink the cup of humiliation to
the dregs. Suddenly innumerable voices penetrated the thick
walls of the brewery, and reached the chamber of the defeated
candidate. Those voices--Frederick recognized them too
well--were those of the faction which acknowledged Castero for
their chief. A triumphal march, performed by twenty instruments,
in honour of his rival, succeeded in overturning the reason of
the unhappy youth. His fiddle was before him on the table--that
fiddle which had disappointed his hopes. Exasperated, out of his
senses, the brewer's son seized the instrument--a moment he held
it aloft at the corner of the chimney, and yielding to the
rage that gnawed his soul, he dashed it into a thousand
pieces. Faults, like misfortunes, never come single. "Blood calls
for blood," says Machiavel--"ruin for ruin."--By that fatal
tendency of the human mind never to stop when once we have gone
wrong, but to go on from bad to worse, instead of blushing at our
folly--Frederick, after that act of vandalism, dashed like a madman
out of the brewery.

The sight of his instrument in a thousand fragments had completed
the business--life was a torment to him. He hurried towards
the lake of Haarlem, determined to seek in its gloomy depths a
refuge from disgrace.--Poor Frederick!

Thus extensive lava flows accompanied the
upheaval of the block mountains of western North America and the
uplift of the Colorado plateau. A line of recent volcanoes may be
traced along the system of rift valleys which extends from the
Jordan and Dead Sea through eastern Africa to Lake Nyassa. The
volcanoes of the Andes show how conspicuous volcanic action may be
in young rising ranges. Folded mountains often show a core of
igneous rock, which by long erosion has come to form the axis and
the highest peaks of the range, as if the molten rock had been
squeezed up under the rising upfolds. As we decipher the records
of the rocks in historical geology we shall see more fully how, in
all the past, volcanic action has characterized the periods of
great crustal movements, and how it has been absent when and where
the earth's crust has remained comparatively at rest.

THE CAUSES OF DEFORMATION. As the earth's interior, or nucleus, is
highly heated it must be constantly though slowly losing its heat
by conduction through the crust and into space; and since the
nucleus is cooling it must also be contracting. The nucleus has
contracted also because of the extrusion of molten matter, the
loss of constituent gases given off in volcanic eruptions, and
(still more important) the compression and consolidation of its
material under gravity. As the nucleus contracts, it tends to draw
away from the cooled and solid crust, and the latter settles,
adapting itself to the shrinking nucleus much as the skin of a
withering apple wrinkles down upon the shrunken fruit. The
unsupported weight of the spherical crust develops enormous
tangential pressures, similar to the stresses of an arch or dome,
and when these lateral thrusts accumulate beyond the power of
resistance the solid rock is warped and folded and broken.

Since the planet attained its present mass it has thus been
lessening in volume. Notwithstanding local and relative upheavals
the earth's surface on the whole has drawn nearer and nearer to
the center. The portions of the lithosphere which have been
carried down the farthest have received the waters of the oceans,
while those portions which have been carried down the least have
emerged as continents.

Although it serves our convenience to refer the movements of the
crust to the sea level as datum plane, it is understood that this
level is by no means fixed. Changes in the ocean basins increase
or reduce their capacity and thus lower or raise the level of the
sea. But since these basins are connected, the effect of any
change upon the water level is so distributed that it is far less
noticeable than a corresponding change would be upon the land.


CHAPTER XIII

METAMORPHISM AND MINERAL VEINS


Under the action of internal agencies rocks of all kinds may be
rendered harder, more firmly cemented, and more crystalline. These
processes are known as METAMORPHISM, and the rocks affected,
whether originally sedimentary or igneous, are called METAMORPHIC
ROCKS. We may contrast with metamorphism the action of external
agencies in weathering, which render rocks less coherent by
dissolving their soluble parts and breaking down their crystalline
grains.

CONTACT METAMORPHISM. Rocks beneath a lava flow or in contact with
igneous intrusions are found to be metamorphosed to various
degrees by the heat of the cooling mass. The adjacent strata may
be changed only in color, hardness, and texture. Thus, next to a
dike, bituminous coal may be baked to coke or anthracite, and
chalk and limestone to crystalline marble. Sandstone may be
converted into quartzite, and shale into ARGILLITE, a compact,
massive clay rock. New minerals may also be developed. In
sedimentary rocks there may be produced crystals of mica and of
GARNET (a mineral as hard as quartz, commonly occurring in red,
twelve-sided crystals). Where the changes are most profound, rocks
may be wholly made over in structure and mineral composition.

In contact metamorphism, thin sheets of molten rock produce less
effect than thicker ones. The strongest heat effects are naturally
caused by bosses and regional intrusions, and the zone of change
about them may be several miles in width. In these changes heated
waters and vapors from the masses of igneous rocks undoubtedly
play a very important part.

Which will be more strongly altered, the rocks about a closed dike
in which lava began to cool as soon as it filled the fissure, or
the rocks about a dike which opened on the surface and through
which the molten rock flowed for some time?

Taking into consideration the part played by heated waters, which
will produce the most far-reaching metamorphism, dikes which cut
across the bedding planes or intrusive sheets which are thrust
between the strata?

REGIONAL METAMORPHISM. Metamorphic rocks occur wide-spread in many
regions, often hundreds of square miles in area, where such
extensive changes cannot be accounted for by igneous intrusions.
Such are the dissected cores of lofty mountains, as the Alps, and
the worn-down bases of ancient ranges, as in New England, large
areas in the Piedmont Belt, and the Laurentian peneplain.

In these regions the rocks have yielded to immense pressure. They
have been folded, crumpled, and mashed, and even their minute
grains, as one may see with a microscope, have often been
puckered, broken, and crushed to powder. It is to these mechanical
movements and strains which the rocks have suffered in every part
that we may attribute their metamorphism, and the degree to which
they have been changed is in direct proportion to the degree to
which they have been deformed and mashed.

Other factors, however, have played important parts. Rock crushing
develops heat, and allows a freer circulation of heated waters and
vapors. Thus chemical reactions are greatly quickened; minerals
are dissolved and redeposited in new positions, or their chemical
constituents may recombine in new minerals, entirely changing the
nature of the rock, as when, for example, feldspar recrystallizes
as quartz and mica.

Early stages of metamorphism are seen in SLATE. Pressure has
hardened the marine muds, the arkose, or the volcanic ash from
which slates are derived, and has caused them to cleave by the
rearrangement of their particles.

Under somewhat greater pressure, slate becomes PHYLLITE, a clay
slate whose cleavage surfaces are lustrous with flat-lying mica
flakes. The same pressure which has caused the rock to cleave has
set free some of its mineral constituents along the cleavage
planes to crystallize there as mica.

FOLIATION. Under still stronger pressure the whole structure of
the rock is altered. The minerals of which it is composed, and the
new minerals which develop by heat and pressure, arrange
themselves along planes of cleavage or of shear in rudely parallel
leaves, or FOLIA. Of this structure, called FOLIATION, we may
distinguish two types,--a coarser feldspathic type, and a fine
type in which other minerals than feldspar predominate.

GNEISS is the general name under which are comprised coarsely
foliated rocks banded with irregular layers of feldspar and other
minerals. The gneisses appear to be due in many cases to the
crushing and shearing of deep-seated igneous rocks, such as
granite and gabbro.

THE CRYSTALLINE SCHISTS, representing the finer types of
foliation, consist of thin, parallel, crystalline leaves, which
are often remarkably crumpled. These folia can be distinguished
from the laminae of sedimentary rocks by their lenticular form and
lack of continuity, and especially by the fact that they consist
of platy, crystalline grains, and not of particles rounded by
wear.

MICA SCHIST, the most common of schists, and in fact of all
metamorphic rocks, is composed of mica and quartz in alternating
wavy folia. All gradations between it and phyllite may be traced,
and in many cases we may prove it due to the metamorphism of
slates and shales. It is widespread in New England and along the
eastern side of the Appalachians. TALC SCHIST consists of quartz
and TALC, a light-colored magnesian mineral of greasy feel, and so
soft that it can be scratched with the thumb nail.

HORNBLENDE SCHIST, resulting in many cases from the foliation of
basic igneous rocks, is made of folia of hornblende alternating
with bands of quartz and feldspar. Hornblende schist is common
over large areas in the Lake Superior region.

QUARTZ SCHIST is produced from quartzite by the development of
fine folia of mica along planes of shear. All gradations may be
found between it and unfoliated quartzite on the one hand and mica
schist on the other.

Under the resistless pressure of crustal movements almost any
rocks, sandstones, shales, lavas of all kinds, granites, diorites,
and gabbros may be metamorphosed into schists by crushing and
shearing. Limestones, however, are metamorphosed by pressure into
marble, the grains of carbonate of lime recrystallizing freely to
interlocking crystals of calcite.

These few examples must suffice of the great class of metamorphic
rocks. As we have seen, they owe their origin to the alteration of
both of the other classes of rocks--the sedimentary and the
igneous--by heat and pressure, assisted usually by the presence of
water. The fact of change is seen in their hardness arid
cementation, their more or less complete recrystallization, and
their foliation; but the change is often so complete that no trace
of their original structure and mineral composition remains to
tell whether the rocks from which they were derived were
sedimentary or igneous, or to what variety of either of these
classes they belonged.

In many cases, however, the early history of a metamorphic rock
can be deciphered. Fossils not wholly obliterated may prove it
originally water-laid. Schists may contain rolled-out pebbles,
showing their derivation from a conglomerate. Dikes of igneous
rocks may be followed into a region where they have been foliated
by pressure. The most thoroughly metamorphosed rocks may sometimes
be traced out into unaltered sedimentary or igneous rocks, or
among them may be found patches of little change where their
history maybe read.

Metamorphism is most common among rocks of the earlier geological
ages, and most rare among rocks of recent formation. No doubt it
is now in progress where deep-buried sediments are invaded
by heat either from intrusive igneous masses or from the earth's
interior, or are suffering slow deformation under the thrust of
mountain-making forces.

Suggest how rocks now in process of metamorphism may sometimes be
exposed to view. Why do metamorphic rocks appear on the surface
to-day?

MINERAL VEINS

In regions of folded and broken rocks fissures are frequently
found to be filled with sheets of crystalline minerals deposited
from solution by underground water, and fissures thus filled are
known as mineral veins. Much of the importance of mineral veins is
due to the fact that they are often metalliferous, carrying
valuable native metals and metallic ores disseminated in fine
particles, in strings, and sometimes in large masses in the midst
of the valueless nonmetallic minerals which make up what is known
as the VEIN STONE.

The most common vein stones are QUARTZ and CALCITE. FLUORITE
(calcium fluoride), a mineral harder than calcite and
crystallizing in cubes of various colors, and BARITE (barium
sulphate), a heavy white mineral, are abundant in many veins.

The gold-bearing quartz veins of California traverse the
metamorphic slates of the Sierra Nevada Mountains. Below the zone
of solution (p. 45) these veins consist of a vein stone of quartz
mingled with pyrite (p. 13), the latter containing threads and
grains of native gold. But to the depth of about fifty feet from
the surface the pyrite of the vein has been dissolved, leaving a
rusty, cellular quartz with grains of the insoluble gold scattered
through it.

The PLACER DEPOSITS of California and other regions are gold-
bearing deposits of gravel and sand in river beds. The heavy gold
is apt to be found mostly near or upon the solid rock, and its
grains, like those of the sand, are always rounded. How the gold
came in the placers we may leave the pupil to suggest.

Copper is found in a number of ores, and also in the native metal.
Below the zone of surface changes the ore of a copper vein is
often a double sulphide of iron and copper called CHALCOPYRITE, a
mineral softer than pyrite--it can easily be scratched with a
knife--and deeper yellow in color. For several score of feet below
the ground the vein may consist of rusty quartz from which the
metallic ores have been dissolved; but at the base of the zone of
solution we may find exceedingly rich deposits of copper ores,--
copper sulphides, red and black copper oxides, and green and blue
copper carbonates, which have clearly been brought down in
solution from the leached upper portion of the vein.

ORIGIN OF MINERAL VEINS. Both vein stones and ores have been
deposited slowly from solution in water, much as crystals of salt
are deposited on the sides of a jar of saturated brine. In our
study of underground water we learned that it is everywhere
circulating through the permeable rocks of the crust, descending
to profound depths under the action of gravity and again driven to
the surface by hydrostatic pressure. Now fissures, wherever they
occur, form the trunk channels of the underground circulation.
Water descends from the surface along these rifts; it moves
laterally from either side to the fissure plane, just as ground
water seeps through the surrounding rocks from every direction to
a well; and it ascends through these natural water ways as in an
artesian well, whenever they intersect an aquifer in which water
is under hydrostatic pressure.

The waters which deposit vein stones and ores are commonly hot,
and in many cases they have derived their heat from intrusions of
igneous rock still uncooled within the crust. The solvent power of
the water is thus greatly increased, and it takes up into solution
various substances from the igneous and sedimentary rocks which it
traverses. For various reasons these substances stances are
deposited in the vein as ores and vein stones. On rising through
the fissure the water cools and loses pressure, and its capacity
to hold minerals in solution is therefore lessened. Besides, as
different currents meet in the fissure, some ascending, some
descending, and some coming in from the sides, the chemical
reaction of these various weak solutions upon one another and upon
the walls of the vein precipitates the minerals of vein stuffs and
ores.

As an illustration of the method of vein deposits we may cite the
case of a wooden box pipe used in the Comstock mines, Nevada, to
carry the hot water of the mine from one level to another, which
in ten years was lined with calcium carbonate more than half an
inch thick.

The Steamboat Springs, Nevada, furnish examples of mineral veins
in process of formation. The steaming water rises through fissures
in volcanic rocks and is now depositing in the rifts a vein stone
of quartz, with metallic ores of iron, mercury, lead, and other
metals.

RECONCENTRATION. Near the base of the zone of solution veins are
often stored with exceptionally large and valuable ore deposits.
This local enrichment of the vein is due to the reconcentration of
its metalliferous ores. As the surface of the land is slowly
lowered by weathering and running water, the zone of solution is
lowered at an equal rate and encroaches constantly on the zone of
cementation. The minerals of veins are therefore constantly being
dissolved along their upper portions and carried down the fissures
by ground water to lower levels, where they are redeposited.

Many of the richest ore deposits are thus due to successive
concentrations: the ores were leached originally from the rocks to
a large extent by laterally seeping waters; they were concentrated
in the ore deposits of the vein chiefly by ascending currents;
they have been reconcentrated by descending waters in the way just
mentioned.

THE ORIGINAL SOURCE OF THE METALS. It is to the igneous rocks that
we may look for the original source of the metals of veins. Lavas
contain minute percentages of various metallic compounds, and no
doubt this was the case also with the igneous rocks which formed
the original earth crust. By the erosion of the igneous rocks the
metals have been distributed among sedimentary strata, and even
the sea has taken into solution an appreciable amount of gold and
other metals, but in this widely diffused condition they are
wholly useless to man. The concentration which has made them
available is due to the interaction of many agencies. Earth
movements fracturing deeply the rocks of the crust, the intrusion
of heated masses, the circulation of underground waters, have all
cooperated in the concentration of the metals of mineral veins.

While fissure veins are the most important of mineral veins, the
latter term is applied also to any water way which has been filled
by similar deposits from solution. Thus in soluble rocks, such as
limestones, joints enlarged by percolating water are sometimes
filled with metalliferous deposits, as, for example, the lead and
zinc deposits of the upper Mississippi valley. Even a porous
aquifer may be made the seat of mineral deposits, as in the case
of some copper-bearing and silver-bearing sandstones of New
Mexico.


PART III

HISTORICAL GEOLOGY

CHAPTER XIV

THE GEOLOGICAL RECORD


WHAT A FORMATION RECORDS. We have already learned that each
individual body of stratified rock, or formation, constitutes a
record of the time when it was laid. The structure and the
character of the sediments of each formation tell whether the area
was land or sea at the time when they were spread; and if the
former, whether the land was river plain, or lake bed, or was
covered with wind-blown sands, or by the deposits of an ice sheet.
If the sediments are marine, we may know also whether they were
laid in shoal water near the shore or in deeper water out at sea,
and whether during a period of emergence, or during a period of
subsidence when the sea transgressed the land. By the same means
each formation records the stage in the cycle of erosion of the
land mass from which its sediments were derived. An unconformity
between two marine formations records the fact that between the
periods when they were deposited in the sea the area emerged as
land and suffered erosion. The attitude and structure of the
strata tell also of the foldings and fractures, the deformation
and the metamorphism, which they have suffered; and the igneous
rocks associated with them as lava flows and igneous intrusions
add other details to the story. Each formation is thus a separate
local chapter in the geological history of the earth, and its
strata are its leaves. It contains an authentic record of the
physical conditions--the geography--of the time and place when and
where its sediments were laid.

PAST CYCLES OF EROSION. These chapters in the history of the
planet are very numerous, although much of the record has been
destroyed in various ways. A succession of different formations is
usually seen in any considerable section of the crust, such as a
deep canyon or where the edges of upturned strata are exposed to
view on the flanks of mountain ranges; and in any extensive area,
such as a state of the Union or a province of Canada, the number
of formations outcropping on the surface is large.

It is thus learned that our present continent is made up for. the
most part of old continental deltas. Some, recently emerged as the
strata of young coastal plains, are the records of recent cycles
of erosion; while others were deposited in the early history of
the earth, and in many instances have been crumpled into
mountains, which afterwards were leveled to their bases and
lowered beneath the sea to receive a cover of later sediments
before they were again uplifted to form land.

The cycle of erosion now in progress and recorded in the layers of
stratified rock being spread beneath the sea in continental deltas
has therefore been preceded by many similar cycles. Again and
again movements of the crust have brought to an end one cycle--
sometimes when only well under way, and sometimes when drawing
toward its close--and have begun another. Again and again they
have added to the land areas which before were sea, with all their
deposition records of earlier cycles, or have lowered areas of
land beneath the sea to receive new sediments.

THE AGE OF THE EARTH. The thickness of the stratified rocks now
exposed upon the eroded surface of the continents is very great.
In the Appalachian region the strata are seven or eight miles
thick, and still greater thicknesses have been measured in several
other mountain ranges. The aggregate thickness of all the
formations of the stratified rocks of the earth's crust, giving to
each formation its maximum thickness wherever found, amounts to
not less than forty miles. Knowing how slowly sediments accumulate
upon the sea floor, we must believe that the successive cycles
which the earth has seen stretch back into a past almost
inconceivably remote, and measure tens of millions and perhaps
even hundreds of millions of years.

HOW THE FORMATIONS ARE CORRELATED AND THE GEOLOGICAL RECORD MADE
UP. Arranged in the order of their succession, the formations of
the earth's crust would constitute a connected record in which the
geological history of the planet may be read, and therefore known
as the GEOLOGICAL RECORD. But to arrange the formations in their
natural order is not an easy task. A complete set of the volumes
of the record is to be found in no single region. Their leaves and
chapters are scattered over the land surface of the globe. In one
area certain chapters may be found, though perhaps with many
missing leaves, and with intervening chapters wanting, and these
absent parts perhaps can be supplied only after long search
through many other regions.

Adjacent strata in any region are arranged according to the LAW OF
SUPERPOSITION, i.e. any stratum is younger than that on which it
was deposited, just as in a pile of paper, any sheet was laid
later than that on which it rests. Where rocks have been
disturbed, their original attitude must be determined before the
law can be applied. Nor can the law of superposition be used in
identifying and comparing the strata of different regions where
the formations cannot be traced continuously from one region to
the other.

The formations of different regions are arranged in their true
order by the LAW OF INCLUDED ORGANISMS; i.e. formations, however
widely separated, which contain a similar assemblage of fossils
are equivalent and belong to the same division of geological time.

The correlation of formations by means of fossils may be explained
by the formations now being deposited about the north Atlantic.
Lithologically they are extremely various. And Howley saw them
coming and he tied his handkerchief to the top of his stick, and
when Cromwell saw that, he halted the army, 'For there is some
poor man in distress,' he said. Then Howley showed him
the docket his father had written. 'I will do some good thing
for you on account of that,' said Cromwell; 'and go now to the
top of that high cliff,' he said, 'and I'll give as much land
as you can see from it.' And so he did give it to him. It was
no wonder Howley to have known the shoemaker's son would be in
command and all would happen him, because of his mother that
got knowledge in the years she was in the forth. That is the
trace of Cromwell. I heard it at a wake, and I would believe
it, and if I had time to put my mind to it, and if I was not
on the road from Loughrea to Ballyvaughan, I could give you the
foundations of it better."

CROMWELL'S LAW
"I'll tell you about Cromwell and the White Friars. There was
a White Friar at that time was known to have knowledge, and
Cromwell sent word to him to come see him. It was of a
Saturday he did that, of an Easter Saturday, but the Friar never
came.

On the Sunday Cromwell sent for him again, and he didn't come. And
on the Monday he sent for him the third time, and he did
come. 'Why is it you did not come to me when I sent before?' said
Cromwell. 'I'll tell you that,' said the White Friar. 'I
didn't come on Saturday,' he said, 'because your passion was on
you. And I didn't come on the Sunday,' he said, 'because your
passion was not gone down enough, and I thought you would not
give me my steps. But I came to-day,' he said, 'because your
passion is cool.' When Cromwell heard his answer, 'That is true,'
he said, 'and tell me how long my law will last in Ireland.'

'It will last,' says the White Friar, 'till yesterday will
come (that was Easter Sunday) the same day as our Lady Day.' Cromwell
was satisfied then, and he gave him a free leg, and he went
away. And so that law did last till now, and it's well it did, for
without that law in the country you wouldn't be safe walking
the road having so much as the price of a pint of porter in your
pocket."

CROMWELL IN CONNACHT
"Cromwell cleared the road before him. If any great man stood
against him he would pull down his castle the same as he pulled
down that castle of your own, Ballinamantane, that is down the
road.

He never got more
than two hours
sleep or three,
or at the most four, but starting up fearing his life would be
peppered.

There was a word he sounded out to the Catholics, 'To hell or
Connacht,' and the reason he did that was that Connacht was
burned bare, and he that thought to pass the winter there would get
no lodging at all.

Himself and his men travelled it, and they never met with anything
that had human breath put in it by God till they came to
Breffny, and they saw smoke from a chimney, and they surrounded
the house and went into it. And what they saw was a skeleton over
the fire roasting, and the people of the house picking flesh
off it with the bits of a hook. And when they saw that, they
left them there.

It was a Clare man that burned Connacht so bare; he was worse than
Cromwell, and he made a great slaughter in the house of God at
Clonmel.

               The people have it against
his family yet, and against the whole County
               
               of Clare."
                                
                                A WORSE
               THAN CROMWELL

               "Cromwell was very bad, but the drink is worse.

                                For a good
               many that Cromwell killed should
               go to heaven, but those that are
drunken never see heaven.
               And as to
               drink, a man
               that takes the first glass is as quiet and as merry as a pet lamb;
and after the second glass he is as knacky as a monkey; and after
the third glass he is as ready for battle as a lion; and after the
fourth glass he is like a swine as he is.

'I am
thirsty' [IRISH: Ta Tart Orm], that was one of our Lord's seven
words on the Cross, where he was dry.

And a man far off would have given him drink; but there was a
drunkard at the foot of the Cross, and he prevented him."

THE BATTLE OF AUGHRIM
"That was a great slaughter at Aughrim. St. Ruth wanted to do all
himself, he being a foreigner. He gave no plan of the battle to
Sarsfield, but a written command to stop where he was, and Sarsfield
knew no more than yourself or myself in the evening before it
happened.

It was Colonel Merell's wife bade him not go to the battle, where
she knew it would go bad with him through a dream. But he said
that meant that he would be crowned, and he went out and was
killed. That is what the poem says:

If Caesar listened to Calpurnia's dream He had not been by Pompey's
statue slain.

All great men gave attention to dreams, though the Church
is against them now. It is written in Scripture that Joseph
gave attention to his dream. But Colonel Merell did not, and so
he went to his death. Aughrim would have been won if it wasn't
for the drink. There was too much of it given to the Irish
soldiers that day--drink and spies and traitors.
The English never won a battle in Ireland in fair fight, but
getting spies and setting the people against one another. I
saw where Aughrim was fought, and I turned aside from the road to
see the tree where St Ruth was killed.

The half of it is gone like snuff. That was spies too, a
Colonel's daughter that told the English in what place St. Ruth
would be washing himself at six o'clock in the morning. And it
was there he was shot by one O'Donnell, an Englishman. He shot him
from six miles off. The Danes were dancing in the raths around
Aughrim the night after the battle. Their ancestors were driven
out of Ireland before; and they were glad when they saw those
that had put them out put out themselves, and every one of them
skivered."

[ILLUSTRATION: WILLIAM III]

THE STUARTS
"As to the Stuarts, there are no songs about them and no praises
in the West, whatever there may be in the South. Why would there,
and they running away and leaving the country the way they did?
And what good did they ever do it? James the Second was a coward.
Why didn't he go into the thick of the battle like the Prince
of Orange? He stopped on a hill three miles away, and rode off to
Dublin, bringing the best of his troops with him. There was
a lady walking in the street at Dublin when he got there, and he
told her the battle was lost, and she said 'Faith you made good
haste; you made no delay on the road.'

So he said no more after that. The people liked James well enough
before he ran; they didn't like him after that."

ANOTHER STORY

"Seumus Salach, Dirty James, it is he brought all down. At the
time of the battle there was one of his men said, 'I have my eye
cocked, and all the nations will be done away with,' and he
pointing his cannon. 'Oh!' said James, 'Don't make a widow of
my daughter.' If he didn't say that, the English would have
been beat. It was a very poor thing for him to do."

PATRICK SARSFIELD
"Sarsfield was a great general the time he turned the shoes on his
horse. The English it was were pursuing him, and he got off and
changed the shoes the way when they saw the tracks they would think
he went another road. That was a great plan.

He got to Limerick then, and he killed thousands of the English. He
was a great general."

QUEEN ANNE
"The Georges were fair; they left all to the Government; but Anne
was very bad and a tyrant.

She tyrannised over the Irish. She died broken-hearted with
all the bad things that were going on about her. For Queen Anne
was very wicked; oh, very wicked, indeed!"

CAROLAN'S SONG
"Carolan that could play the fiddle and the harp used to be going
about with Cahil-a-Corba, that was a tambourine man. But they got
tired of one another and parted, and Carolan went to the
house of the King of Mayo, and he stopped there, and the King asked
him to stop for his lifetime.
There came a grand visitor one time, and when he heard Carolan
singing and playing and his fine pleasant talk, he asked him to
go with him on a visit to Dublin. So Carolan went, and he promised
the King of Mayo he would come back at the end of a month. But
when he was at the gentleman's house he liked it so well that
he stopped a year with him, and it wasn't till the Christmas he
came back to Mayo. And when he got there the doors were shut, and
the King was at his dinner, and Queen Mary and the three
daughters, and he could see them through the windows.
But when the King saw him he said he would not let him in.

He was vexed with him and angry he had broken his promise and his
oath. So Carolan began to give out a song he had made about the
King of Mayo and all his family, and he brought Queen Mary into
it and the three daughters.

Then the Queen asked leave of the King to bring him in, because
he made so good a song, but the King would not give in to it. Then
Carolan began to draw down the King of Mayo's father and his
grandfather into the song.

And Queen Mary asked again for forgiveness for him, and the King
gave it that time because of the song that had in it the old
times, and the old generations went through him. But as to
Cahil-a-Corba, he went to another gentleman's house and he stopped
too long in it and was driven out. But he came back, having
changed his form, that the gentleman did not know him, and he let
him in again, and then he was forgiven."

'NINETY-EIGHT
"In the year '98 there were the Yeomanry that were the worst
of all. The time Father Murphy was killed there was one of them
greased his boots in his heart. There was one of them was called
Micky the Devil in Irish; he never went out without the pitchcap
and the triangle, and any rebel he would meet he would put gunpowder
in his hair and set a light to it.

The North Cork Militia were the worst; there are places in Ireland
where you would not get a drink of water if they knew you
came from Cork. And it was the very same, the North Cork, that
went of their own free will to the Boer war, volunteered, asked
to go that is. They had the same sting in them always. A great
many of them were left dead in that war, and a great many better
men than themselves. There was one battle in that war there was
no quarter given, the same as Aughrim; and the English would
kill the wounded that would be left upon the field of battle.
There is no Christianity in war."

DENIS BROWNE
"There is a tree near Denis Browne's house that used to be
used for hanging men in the time of '98, he being a great man
in that time, and High Sheriff of Mayo, and it is likely
the gentlemen were afeared, and that there was bad work at nights.
But one night Denis Browne was lying in his bed, and the Lord
put it in his mind that there might be false information given
against some that were innocent. So he went out and he
brought out one of his horses into the lawn before the house, and
he shot it dead and left it there.

In the morning one of the butlers came up to him and said, 'Did you
see that one of your horses was shot in the night?' 'How would I
see that?' says he, 'and I not rose up or dressed?' So when he
went out they showed him the horse, and he bade the men to bury
it, and it wasn't two hours after before two of them came to
him.
'We can tell you who it was shot the horse,' they said. 'It
was such a one and such a one in the village, that were often
heard to speak bad of you.

And besides that,' they said, 'we saw them shooting it ourselves.'
So the two that gave that false witness were the last two Denis
Browne ever hung. He rose out of it after, and washed his hands
of it all. And his big house is turned into a convent, and the tree
is growing there yet. It is in the time of '98 that happened, a
hundred years ago."

THE UNION
"As to the Union, it was bought with titles. Look at the Binghams
and the rest, they went to bed nothing, and rose up lords in
the morning.
The day it was passed Lady Castlereagh was in the House of Parliament,
and she turned three colours, and she said to her husband, 'You
have passed your treaty, but you have sold your country.'

He went and cut his throat after that. And it is what I heard
from the old people, there was no priest in Ireland but voted for
it, the way they would get better rights, for it was only among
poor persons they were going at that time.
And it was but at the time of the Parliament leaving College Green
they began to wear the Soutane that they wear now. Up to
that it was a bodycoat they wore and knee-breeches. It was
their vote sent the Parliament to England, and when there is a row
between them or that the people are vexed with the priest, you will
hear them saying in the house in Irish 'Bad luck on them, it was
they brought misfortune to Ireland.'

They wore the Soutane ever since that time."

ROBERT EMMET
"The Government had people bribed to swear against Robert Emmet,
and the same men said after, they never saw him till he was in
the dock. He might have got away but for his attention to that
woman. She went away after with a sea captain. There
are some say she gave information.
Curran's daughter she was. But I don't know. He made one
request, his letters that she wrote to him in the gaol
not to be meddled with, but the Government opened them and took
the presents she sent in them, and whatever was best of them they
kept for themselves. He made the greatest speech from the dock
ever was made, and Lord Norbury on the bench, checking and clogging
him all the time. Ten hours he was in the dock, and they gave him
no more than one dish of water all that time; and they executed
him in a hurry, saying it was an attack they feared on the prison.

There is no one knows where is his grave."

O'CONNELL'S BIRTH
"O'Connell was a grand man, and whatever cause he took in hand,
it was as good as won. But what wonder? He was the gift of
God. His father was a rich man, and one day he was out walking
he took notice of a house that was being built.

Well, a week later he passed by the same place, and he saw the
walls of the house were no higher than before. So he asked the
reason, and he was told it was a priest that was building it, and
he hadn't the money to go on with. So a few days after he went
to the priest's house and he asked was that true, and the priest
said it was. 'Would you pay back the money to the man that would
lend it to you?' says O'Connell. 'I would,' says the priest. So
with that O'Connell gave him the money that was wanting--£50--for
it was a very grand house.
Well, after some time the priest came to O'Connell's house, and he
found only the wife at home, so says he, 'I have some money that
himself lent me.'

But he had never told the wife of what he had done, so she
knew nothing about it, and says she, 'Don't be troubling yourself
about it, he'll bestow it on you.' 'Well,' says the priest, I'll
go away now and I'll come back again.' So when O'Connell came, the
wife told him all that had happened, and how a priest had come
saying he owed him money, and how she had said he would bestow it
on him.

'Well,' says O'Connell, 'if you said I would bestow it, I will
bestow it.' And so he did. Then the priest said, 'Have you any
children?' 'Ne'er a child,' said O'Connell. 'Well you will have
one,' said he. And that day nine months their young son was
born. So what wonder if he was inspired, being, as he was, the
Gift of God."

[Illustration: O'CONNELL]
THE TINKER
"O'Connell was a great man.

I never saw him, but I heard of his name.
One time I saw his picture in a paper, where they were giving out
meal, where Mrs. Gaynor's is and I kissed the picture of him.
They were laughing at me for doing that, but I had heard of
his good name. There was some poor man, a tinker, asked help
of him one time in Dublin, and he said, 'I will put you in a place
where you will get some good thing.' So he brought him to a
lodging in a very grand house and put him in it.
And in the morning he began to make saucepans, and he was making
them there, and the shopkeeper that owned the house was mad
at him to be doing that, and making saucepans in so grand a
house, and he wanted to get him out of it, and he gave him a good
sum of money to go out. He went back and told that to
O'Connell, and O'Connell said, 'Didn't I tell you I would
put you in the way to get some good thing?'"

A PRESENT
"There was a gentleman sent him a present one time, and he bade a
little lad to bring it to him.

Shut up in a box it was, and he bade the boy to give it to himself,
and not to open the box. So the little lad brought it to O'Connell
to give it to him. 'Let you open it yourself,' says
O'Connell. So he opened it, and whatever was in it blew up and
made an end of the boy, and it would have been the same with
O'Connell if he had opened it."

HIS STRATEGY
"O'Connell was a grand man; the best within the walls of the world.
He never led anyone astray. Did you hear that one time he turned
the shoes on his horses? There were bad members following him. I
cannot say who they were, for I will not tell what I don't know.
He got a smith to turn the shoes, and when they came upon his track,
he went east and they went west. Parnell was no bad man, but
Dan O'Connell's name went up higher in praises."

THE MAN WAS GOING TO BE HANGED
"I saw O'Connell in Galway one time, and I couldn't get anear him.
All the nations of the world were gathered there to see him. There
were a great many he hung and a great many he got off from death,
the dear man.
He went into a town one time, and into a hotel, and he asked for his
dinner. And he had a frieze dress, for he was very simple, and
always a clerk along with him. And when the dinner was
served to him, 'Is there no one here,' says he, 'to sit along with
me; for it is seldom I ever dined without company.'

'If you think myself good enough to sit with you,' says the
man of the hotel, 'I will do it.' So the two of them sat to the
dinner together, and O'Connell asked was there any news in
the town. 'There is,' says the hotel man, 'there is a man to be
hung to-morrow.' 'Oh, my!' says O'Connell, 'what was it he did
to deserve that?' 'Himself and another that had been out fowling,'
says he, 'and they came in here and they began to dispute, and
the one of them killed the other, and he will be hung to-morrow.'
'He will not,' says O'Connell. 'I tell you he will,' says the
other, 'for the Judge is come to give the sentence.' Well, O'Connell
kept to it that he would not, and they made a bet, and the hotel
man bet all he had on the man being hung.

In the morning O'Connell was in no hurry out of bed, and when the
two of them walked into the Court, the Judge was after giving
the sentence, and the man was to be hung. '_Maisead_,' says the
judge when he saw O'Connell, 'I wish you had been here a half
an hour ago, where there is a man going to be hung.' 'He is not,'
says O'Connell. 'He is,' says the judge. 'If he is,' says O'Connell,
'that one will never let anyone go living out of his hotel, and
he making money out of the hanging.' 'What do you mean saying that?'
says the judge. Then O'Connell took the instrument out of
his pocket where it was written down all the hotel-keeper had
put on the hanging. And when the judge saw that, he set the man
free, and he was not hanged."

THE CUP OF THE SASSANACH
"He was over in England one time, and he was brought to a party, and
tea was made ready and cups. And as they were sitting at the table,
a servant girl that was in it, and that was Irish, came to O'Connell
and she said, 'Do you understand Irish?'

[IRISH: 'An tuigeann tu Gaedilge, O'Connell?'

'Tuigim,'] says he, 'I understand it.'

'Have a care,' says she, 'for there is in your cup what would poison
the whole nation!' 'If that is true, girl, you will get a good
fortune,' said he. It was in Irish they said all that, and the
people that were in it had no ears.
Then O'Connell quenched the candle, and he changed his cup for the
cup of the man that was next him. And it was not long till the man
fell dead.

They were always trying to kill O'Connell, because he was a good
man. The Sassanach it was were against him. Terrible wicked they
were, and God save us, I believe they are every bit as wicked yet!"

THE THOUSAND FISHERS
"O'Connell came to Galway one time, and he sent for all the
trades to come out with the sign of their trade in their hand, and
he would see which was the best. And there came ten hundred fishers,
having all white flannel clothes and black hats and white scarves
about them, and he gave the sway to them. It wasn't a
year after that, the half of them were lost, going through
the fogs at Newfoundland, where they went for a better way of
living."

WHAT THE OLD WOMEN SAW
"The greatest thing I ever saw was O'Connell driving through Gort,
very plain, and an oiled cap on him, and having only one horse;
and there was no house in Gort without his picture in it." "O'Connell
rode up Crow Lane and to Church Street on a single horse, and
he stopped there and took a view of Gort." "I saw O'Connell after
he left Gort going on the road to Kinvara, and seven horses in
the coach--they could not get in the eighth. He stopped,
and he was talking to Hickman that was with me.
Shiel was in the coach along with him."

O'CONNELL'S HAT

"O'Connell wore his hat in the English House of Commons, what no
man but the King can do. He wore it for three days because he had
a sore head, and at the end of that they bade him put it off,
and he said he would not, where he had worn it three days."

THE CHANGE HE MADE
"O'Connell was a great councillor. At that time if there was a
Catholic, no matter how high or great or learned he was, he
could not get a place.
But if a Protestant came that was a blockhead and ignorant,
the place would be open to him.

There was a revolution rising because of that, and O'Connell brought
it into the House of Commons and got it changed. He was the greatest
man ever was in Ireland. He was a very clever lawyer; he would
win every case, he would put it so strong and clear and
clever.
If there were fifteen lawyers against him--five and ten--he
would win it against them all, whether the case was bad or good."

THE MAN HE BROUGHT TO JUSTICE
"Corly, that burned his house in Burren, was very bad, and it was
O'Connell brought him to the gallows. The only case O'Connell lost
was against the Macnamaras, and he told them he would be even with
them, and so when Corly, that was a friend of theirs, was brought
up he kept his word. There was no doubt about him burning the house,
it was to implicate the Hynes he did it, to lay it on them. There
was a girl used to go out milking at daybreak, and she awoke, and
the moon was shining, and she thought it was day, and got up and
looked out, and she saw him doing it." 

THE BINDING
"O'Connell was a great man, wide big arms he had. It was he left
us the cheap tea; to cheapen it he did, that was at that time a
shilling for one bare ounce. His heart is in Rome and his body in
Glasnevin. A lovely man, he would put you on your guard; he was for
the country, he was all for Ireland." 

HIS MONUMENT
"There is a nice monument put up to O'Connell in Ennis, in a corner
it is of the middle of a street, and himself high up on it, holding
a book.
It was a poor shoe-maker set that going. I saw him in Gort one time,
a coat of O'Connell's he had that he chanced in some place. Only
for him there would be no monument; it was he gathered money for
it, and there was none would refuse him."
A PRAISE MADE FOR DANIEL O'CONNELL BY OLD WOMEN AND THEY BEGGING
AT THE DOOR
"Dan O'Connell was the best man in the world, and a great man surely;
and there could not be better than what O'Connell was.
"It was from him I took the pledge and I a child, and kept it ever
after. He would give it to little lads and children, but not to any
aged person. Pilot trousers he had and a pilot coat, and a grey and
white waistcoat.
"O'Connell was all for the poor. See what he did at Saint Patrick's
Island--he cast out every bad thing and every whole thing, to England
and to America and to every part. He fought it well for every whole
body.
"A splendid monument there is to him in Ennis, and his fine top
coat upon him. A lovely man; you'd think he was alive and all, and
he having his hat in his hand. Everyone kneels down on the steps
of it and says a few prayers and walks away. It is as high as that
tree below. If he was in Ireland now the pension would go someway
right.We pass now from the dim realm of speculation to the earliest era
of the recorded history of the earth, where some certain facts may
be observed and some sure inferences from them may be drawn.

THE ARCHEAN.

The oldest known sedimentary strata, wherever they are exposed by
uplift and erosion, are found to be involved with a mass of
crystalline rocks which possesses the same characteristics in all
parts of the world. It consists of foliated rocks, gneisses, and
schists of various kinds, which have been cut with dikes and other
intrusions of molten rock, and have been broken, crumpled, and
crushed, and left in interlocking masses so confused that their
true arrangement can usually be made out only with the greatest
difficulty if at all. The condition of this body of crystalline
rocks is due to the fact that they have suffered not only from the
faultings, foldings, and igneous intrusions of their time, but
necessarily, also, from those of all later geological ages.

At present three leading theories are held as to the origin of
these basal crystalline rocks.

1. They are considered by perhaps the majority of the geologists
who have studied them most carefully to be igneous rocks intruded
in a molten state among the sedimentary rocks involved with them.
In many localities this relation is proved by the phenomena of
contact; but for the most part the deformations which the rocks
have since suffered again and again have been sufficient to
destroy such evidence if it ever existed.

2. An older view regards them as profoundly altered sedimentary
strata, the most ancient of the earth.

3. According to a third theory they represent portions of the
earth's original crust; not, indeed, its original surface, but
deeper portions uncovered by erosion and afterwards mantled with
sedimentary deposits. All these theories agree that the present
foliated condition of these rocks is due to the intense
metamorphism which they have suffered.

It is to this body of crystalline rocks and the stratified rocks
involved with it, which form a very small proportion of its mass,
that the term ARCHEAN (Greek, ARCHE, beginning) is applied by many
geologists.

THE ALGONKIAN

In some regions there rests unconformably on the Archean an
immense body of stratified rocks, thousands and in places even
scores of thousands of feet thick, known as the ALGONKIAN. Great
unconformities divide it into well-defined systems, but as only
the scantiest traces of fossils appear here and there among its
strata, it is as yet impossible to correlate the formations of
different regions and to give them names of more than local
application. We will describe the Algonkian rocks of two typical
areas.

THE GRAND CANYON OF THE COLORADO. We have already studied a very
ancient peneplain whose edge is exposed to view deep on the walls
of the Colorado Canyon. The formation of flat-lying sandstone
which covers this buried land surface is proved by its fossils to
belong to the Cambrian,--the earliest period of the Paleozoic era.
The tilted rocks on whose upturned edges the Cambrian sandstone
rests are far older, for the physical break which separates them
from it records a time interval during which they were upheaved to
mountainous ridges and worn down to a low plain. They are
therefore classified as Algonkian. They comprise two immense
series. The upper is more than five thousand feet thick and
consists of shales and sandstones with some limestones. Separated
from it by an unconformity which does not appear in Figure 207,
the lower division, seven thousand feet thick, consists chiefly of
massive reddish sandstones with seven or more sheets of lava
interbedded. The lowest member is a basal conglomerate composed of
pebbles derived from the erosion of the dark crumpled schists
beneath,--schists which are supposed to be Archean. As shown in
Figure 207, a strong unconformity parts the schists and the
Algonkian. The floor on which the Algonkian rests is remarkably
even, and here again is proved an interval of incalculable length,
during which an ancient land mass of Archean rocks was baseleveled
before it received the cover of the sediments of the later age.

THE LAKE SUPERIOR REGION. In eastern Canada an area of pre-
Cambrian rocks, Archean and Algonkian, estimated at two million
square miles, stretches from the Great Lakes and the St. Lawrence
River northward to the confines of the continent, inclosing Hudson
Bay in the arms of a gigantic U. This immense area, which we have
already studied as the Laurentian peneplain, extends southward
across the Canadian border into northern Minnesota, Wisconsin, and
Michigan. The rocks of this area are known to be pre-Cambrian; for
the Cambrian strata, wherever found, lie unconformably upon them.

The general relations of the formations of that portion of the
area which lies about Lake Superior are shown in Figure 262. Great
unconformities, UU' separate the Algonkian both from the Archean
and from the Cambrian, and divide it into three distinct systems,
--the LOWER HURONIAN, the UPPER HURONIAN, and the KEWEENAWAN. The
Lower and the Upper Huronian consist in the main of old sea muds
and sands and limy oozes now changed to gneisses, schists,
marbles, quartzites, slates, and other metamorphic rocks. The
Keweenawan is composed of immense piles of lava, such as those of
Iceland, overlain by bedded sandstones. What remains of these rock
systems after the denudation of all later geologic ages is
enormous. The Lower Huronian is more than a mile thick, the Upper
Huronian more than two miles thick, while the Keweenawan exceeds
nine miles in thickness. The vast length of Algonkian time is
shown by the thickness of its marine deposits and by the cycles of
erosion which it includes. In Figure 262 the student may read an
outline of the history of the Lake Superior region, the
deformations which it suffered, their relative severity, the times
when they occurred, and the erosion cycles marked by the
successive unconformities.

OTHER PRE-CAMBRIAN AREAS IN NORTH AMERICA. Pre-Cambrian rocks are
exposed in various parts of the continent, usually by the erosion
of mountain ranges in which their strata were infolded. Large
areas occur in the maritime provinces of Canada. The core of the
Green Mountains of Vermont is pre-Cambrian, and rocks of these
systems occur in scattered patches in western Massachusetts. Here
belong also the oldest rocks of the Highlands of the Hudson and of
New Jersey. The Adirondack region, an outlier of the Laurentian
region, exposes pre-Cambrian rocks, which have been metamorphosed
and tilted by the intrusion of a great boss of igneous rock out of
which the central peaks are carved. The core of the Blue Ridge and
probably much of the Piedmont Belt are of this age. In the Black
Hills the irruption of an immense mass of granite has caused or
accompanied the upheaval of pre-Cambrian strata and metamorphosed
them by heat and pressure into gneisses, schists, quartzites, and
slates. In most of these mountainous regions the lowest strata are
profoundly changed by metamorphism, and they can be assigned to
the pre-Cambrian only where they are clearly overlain
unconformably by formations proved to be Cambrian by their
fossils. In the Belt Mountains of Montana, however, the Cambrian
is underlain by Algonkian sediments twelve thousand feet thick,
and but little altered.

MINERAL WEALTH OF THE PRE-CAMBRIAN ROCKS. The pre-Cambrian rocks
are of very great economic importance, because of their extensive
metamorphism and the enormous masses of igneous rock which they
involve. In many parts of the country they are the source of
supply of granite, gneiss, marble, slate, and other such building
materials. Still more valuable are the stores of iron and copper
and other metals which they contain.

At the present time the pre-Cambrian region about Lake Superior
leads the world in the production of iron ore, its output for 1903
being more than five sevenths of the entire output of the whole
United States, and exceeding that of any foreign country. The ore
bodies consist chiefly of the red oxide of iron (hematite) and
occur in troughs of the strata, underlain by some impervious rock.
A theory held by many refers the ultimate source of the iron to
the igneous rocks of the Archean. When these rocks were upheaved
and subjected to weathering, their iron compounds were decomposed.
Their iron was leached out and carried away to be laid in the
Algonkian water bodies in beds of iron carbonate and other iron
compounds. During the later ages, after the Algonkian strata had
been uplifted to form part of the continent, a second
concentration has taken place. Descending underground waters
charged with oxygen have decomposed the iron carbonate and
deposited the iron, in the form of iron oxide, in troughs of the
strata where their downward progress was arrested by impervious
floors.

The pre-Cambrian rocks of the eastern United States also are rich
in iron. In certain districts, as in the Highlands of New Jersey,
the black oxide of iron (magnetite) is so abundant in beds and
disseminated grains that the ordinary surveyor's compass is
useless.

The pre-Cambrian copper mines of the Lake Superior region are
among the richest on the globe. In the igneous rocks copper, next
to iron, is the most common of all the useful metals, and it was
especially abundant in the Keweenawan lavas. After the Keweenawan
was uplifted to form land, percolating waters leached out much of
the copper diffused in the lava sheets and deposited it within
steam blebs as amygdules of native copper, in cracks and fissures,
and especially as a cement, or matrix, in the interbedded gravels
which formed the chief aquifers of the region. The famous Calumet
and Hecla mine follows down the dip of the strata to the depth of
nearly a mile and works such an ancient conglomerate whose matrix
is pure copper.

THE APPEARANCE OF LIFE. Sometime during the dim ages preceding the
Cambrian, whether in the Archean or in the Algonkian we know not,
occurred one of the most important events in the history of the
earth. Life appeared for the first time upon the planet. Geology
has no evidence whatever to offer as to whence or how life came.
All analogies lead us to believe that its appearance must have
been sudden. Its earliest forms are unknown, but analogy suggests
that as every living creature has developed from a single cell, so
the earliest organisms upon the globe--the germs from which all
later life is supposed to have been evolved--were tiny,
unicellular masses of protoplasm, resembling the amoeba of to-day
in the simplicity of their structure.

Such lowly forms were destitute of any hard parts and could leave
no evidence of their existence in the record of the rocks. And of
their supposed descendants we find so few traces in the pre-
Cambrian strata that the first steps in organic evolution must be
supplied from such analogies in embryology as the following. The
fertilized ovum, the cell with which each animal begins its life,
grows and multiplies by cell division, and develops into a hollow
globe of cells called the BLASTOSPHERE. This stage is succeeded by
the stage of the GASTRULA,--an ovoid or cup-shaped body with a
double wall of cells inclosing a body cavity, and with an opening,
the primitive mouth. Each of these early embryological stages is
represented by living animals,--the undivided cell by the
PROTOZOA, the blastosphere by some rare forms, and the gastrula in
the essential structure of the COELENTERATES,--the subkingdom to
which the fresh-water hydra and the corals belong. All forms of
animal life, from the coelenterates to the mammals, follow the
same path in their embryological development as far as the
gastrula stage, but here their paths widely diverge, those of each
subkingdom going their own separate ways.

We may infer, therefore, that during the pre-Cambrian periods
organic evolution followed the lines thus dimly traced. The
earliest one-celled protozoa were probably succeeded by many-
celled animals of the type of the blastosphere, and these by
gastrula-like organisms. From the gastrula type the higher sub-
divisions of animal life probably diverged, as separate branches
from a common trunk. Much or all of this vast differentiation was
accomplished before the opening of the next era; for all the
subkingdoms are represented in the Cambrian except the
vertebrates.

EVIDENCES OF PRE-CAMBRIAN LIFE. An indirect evidence of life
during the pre-Cambrian periods is found in the abundant and
varied fauna of the next period; for, if the theory of evolution
is correct, the differentiation of the Cambrian fauna was a long
process which might well have required for its accomplishment a
large part of pre-Cambrian time.

Other indirect evidences are the pre-Cambrian limestones, iron
ores, and graphite deposits, since such minerals and rocks have
been formed in later times by the help of organisms. If the
carbonate of lime of the Algonkian limestones and marbles was
extracted from sea water by organisms, as is done at present by
corals, mollusks, and other humble animals and plants, the life of
those ancient seas must have been abundant. Graphite, a soft black
mineral composed of carbon and used in the manufacture of lead
pencils and as a lubricant, occurs widely in the metamorphic pre-
Cambrian rocks. It is known to be produced in some cases by the
metamorphism of coal, which itself is formed of decomposed vegetal
tissues. Seams of graphite may therefore represent accumulations
of vegetal matter such as seaweed. But limestone, iron ores, and
graphite can be produced by chemical processes, and their presence
in the pre-Cambrian makes it only probable, and not certain, that
life existed at that time.

PRE-CAMBRIAN FOSSILS. Very rarely has any clear trace of an
organism been found in the most ancient chapters of the geological
record, so many of their leaves have been destroyed and so far
have their pages been defaced. Omitting structures whose organic
nature has been questioned, there are left to mention a tiny
seashell of one of the most lowly types,--a DISCINA from the pre-
Cambrian rocks of the Colorado Canyon,--and from the pre-Cambrian
rocks of Montana trails of annelid worms and casts of their
burrows in ancient beaches, and fragments of the tests of
crustaceans. These diverse forms indicate that before the
Algonkian had closed, life was abundant and had widely
differentiated. We may expect that other forms will be discovered
as the rocks are closely searched.

PRE-CAMBRIAN GEOGRAPHY. Our knowledge is far too meager to warrant
an attempt to draw the varying outlines of sea and land during the
Archean and Algonkian eras. Pre-Cambrian time probably was longer
than all later geological time down to the present, as we may
infer from the vast thicknesses of its rocks and the
unconformities which part them. The sea, to the horizon, was
white with its own dashings, and every mountain surge that swept
to the shore was edged with light--the whole, one magnificent sheet
of phosphor and foam. Yet, awful as all was, all was so
exciting that I actually enjoyed the scene. But the excitement
grew stronger still, when the sudden report of two guns from
seaward, the signal for the approach of the lugger, followed almost
immediately by a broadside, told us that we were likely to see an
action before her arrival.

As she rose rapidly upon the horizon, her signals showed that she
was chased by a Government cruiser, and one of double her size.
Of the superior weight of metal in the pursuer we saw sufficient
proofs in the unremitting fire. Except by superior
manoeuvering there was clearly no chance for the lugger. But in the
mean time all that could be done on shore was done. A huge fire
sprang up instantly on the cliff, muskets were discharged, and
shouts were given, to show that her friends were on the alert. The
captain's countenance fell, and as he strode backwards and forwards
along the shore, I could hear his wrath in continued grumblings.

"Fool and brute!" he cried, "this all comes of his being unable to
hold his tongue.

He has clearly blabbed, otherwise we should not have had any
thing better than a row-boat in our wake. He will be captured to
a certainty. Well, he will find the comfort of being a cabin-boy
or a foremast-man on board the fleet for the rest of his days. I
would not trust him with a Thames lighter, if ever he gets on shore
again."
The cannonade began now to be returned by the lugger, and the
captain's spirits revived.

Coming up to me, he said, wiping the thick perspiration from his
brow, "This, sir, is a bad night's job, I am afraid; but if the
fellow in command of that lugger had only sea room, I doubt whether
he would not give the revenue craft enough to do yet.

If he would but stand off and try a fair run for it, but in this
bay, in this beggarly nook, where a man cannot steer without rubbing
his elbows upon either shore, he gives his seamanship no chance."

He now stood with his teeth firm set, and his night-glass to his
eye, bluff against the storm. A broadside came rolling along.

"By Jove! one would think that he had heard me," he exclaimed. "Well
done, Dick Longyarn! The Shark has got that in his teeth. He is
leading the cruiser a dance. What sort of report will the revenue
gentleman have to make to my Lords Commissioners to-morrow or
the next day, I should wish to know?"
The crowd on shore followed the Manoeuvres with not less
interest.
Every glass was at the eye; and I constantly heard their
grumblings and disapprovals, as some luckless turn of the helm
exposed the lugger to the cruiser's fire.

It is according to the successive stages in the
advance of life that the Paleozoic formations are arranged in five
systems,--the CAMBRIAN, the ORDOVICIAN, the SILURIAN, the
DEVONIAN, and the CARBONIFEROUS. On the same basis the first three
systems are grouped together as the older Paleozoic, because they
alike are characterized by the dominance of the invertebrates;
while the last two systems are united in the later Paleozoic, and
are characterized, the one by the dominance of fishes, and the
other by the appearance of amphibians and reptiles.

Each of these systems is world-wide in its distribution, and may
be recognized on any continent by its own peculiar fauna. The
names first given them in Great Britain have therefore come into
general use, while their subdivisions, which often cannot be
correlated in different countries and different regions, are
usually given local names.

The first three systems were named from the fact that their strata
are well displayed in Wales. The Cambrian carries the Roman name
of Wales, and the Ordovician and Silurian the names of tribes of
ancient Britons which inhabited the same country. The Devonian is
named from the English county Devon, where its rocks were early
studied. The Carboniferous was so called from the large amount of
coal which it was found to contain in Great Britain and
continental Europe.

THE CAMBRIAN

DISTRIBUTION OF STRATA. The Cambrian rocks outcrop in narrow belts
about the pre-Cambrian areas of eastern Canada and the Lake
Superior region, the Adirondacks and the Green Mountains. Strips
of Cambrian formations occupy troughs in the pre-Cambrian rocks of
New England and the maritime provinces of Canada; a long belt
borders on the west the crystalline rocks of the Blue Ridge; and
on the opposite side of the continent the Cambrian reappears in
the mountains of the Great Basin and the Canadian Rockies. In the
Mississippi valley it is exposed in small districts where uplift
has permitted the stripping off of younger rocks. Although the
areas of outcrop are small, we may infer that Cambrian rocks were
widely deposited over the continent of North America.

PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. The Cambrian system of North America comprises
three distinct series, the LOWER CAMBRIAN, the MIDDLE CAMBRIAN,
and the UPPER CAMBRIAN, each of which is characterized by its own
peculiar fauna. In sketching the outlines of the continent as it
was at the beginning of the Paleozoic, it must be remembered that
wherever the Lower Cambrian formations now are found was certainly
then sea bottom, and wherever the Lower Cambrian are wanting, and
the next formations rest directly on pre-Cambrian rocks, was
probably then land.

EARLY CAMBRIAN GEOGRAPHY. In this way we know that at the opening
of the Cambrian two long, narrow mediterranean seas stretched from
north to south across the continent. The eastern sea extended from
the Gulf of St. Lawrence down the Champlain-Hudson valley and
thence along the western base of the Blue Ridge south at least to
Alabama. The western sea stretched from the Canadian Rockies over
the Great Basin and at least as far south as the Grand Canyon of
the Colorado in Arizona.

Between these mediterraneans lay a great central land which
included the pre-Cambrian U-shaped area of the Laurentian
peneplain, and probably extended southward to the latitude of New
Orleans. To the east lay a land which we may designate as
APPALACHIA, whose western shore line was drawn along the site of
the present Blue Ridge, but whose other limits are quite unknown.
The land of Appalachia must have been large, for it furnished a
great amount of waste during the entire Paleozoic era, and its
eastern coast may possibly have lain even beyond the edge of the
present continental shelf. On the western side of the continent a
narrow land occupied the site of the Sierra Nevada Mountains.

Thus, even at the beginning of the Paleozoic, the continental
plateau of North America had already been left by crustal
movements in relief above the abysses of the great oceans on
either side. The mediterraneans which lay upon it were shallow, as
their sediments prove. They were EPICONTINENTAL SEAS; that is,
they rested UPON (Greek, EPI) the submerged portion of the
continental plateau. We have no proof that the deep ocean ever
occupied any part of where North America now is.

The Middle and Upper Cambrian strata are found together with the
Lower Cambrian over the area of both the eastern and the western
mediterraneans, so that here the sea continued during the entire
period. The sediments throughout are those of shoal water. Coarse
cross-bedded sandstones record the action of strong shifting
currents which spread coarse waste near shore and winnowed it of
finer stuff. Frequent ripple marks on the bedding planes of the
strata prove that the loose sands of the sea floor were near
enough to the surface to be agitated by waves and tidal currents.
Sun cracks show that often the outgoing tide exposed large muddy
flats to the drying action of the sun. The fossils, also, of the
strata are of kinds related to those which now live in shallow
waters near the shore.

The sediments which gathered in the mediterranean seas were very
thick, reaching in places the enormous depth of ten thousand feet.
Hence the bottoms of these seas were sinking troughs, ever filling
with waste from the adjacent land as fast as they subsided.

LATE CAMBRIAN GEOGRAPHY. The formations of the Middle and Upper
Cambrian are found resting unconformably on the pre-Cambrian rocks
from New York westward into Minnesota and at various points in the
interior, as in Missouri and in Texas. Hence after earlier
Cambrian time the central land subsided, with much the same effect
as if the Mississippi valley were now to lower gradually, and the
Gulf of Mexico to spread northward until it entered Lake Superior.
The Cambrian seas transgressed the central land and strewed far
and wide behind their advancing beaches the sediments of the later
Cambrian upon an eroded surface of pre-Cambrian rocks.

The succession of the Cambrian formations in North America records
many minor oscillations and varying conditions of physical
geography; yet on the whole it tells of widening seas and lowering
lands. Basal conglomerates and coarse sandstones which must have
been laid near shore are succeeded by shaly sandstones, sandy
shales, and shales. Toward the top of the series heavy beds of
limestone, extending from the Blue Ridge to Missouri, speak of
clear water, and either of more distant shores or of neighboring
lands which were worn or sunk so low that for the most part their
waste was carried to the sea in solution.

In brief, the Cambrian was a period of submergence. It began with
the larger part of North America emerged as great land masses. It
closed with most of the interior of the continental plateau
covered with a shallow sea.

THE LIFE OF THE CAMBRIAN PERIOD

It is now for the first time that we find preserved in the
offshore deposits of the Cambrian seas enough remains of animal
life to be properly called a fauna. Doubtless these remains are
only the most fragmentary representation of the life of the time,
for the Cambrian rocks are very old and have been widely
metamorphosed. Yet the five hundred and more species already
discovered embrace all the leading types of invertebrate life, and
are so varied that we must believe that their lines of descent
stretch far back into the pre-Cambrian past.

PLANTS. No remains of plants have been found in Cambrian strata,
except some doubtful markings, as of seaweed.

SPONGES. The sponges, the lowest of the multicellular animals,
were represented by several orders. Their fossils are recognized
by the siliceous spicules, which, as in modern sponges, either
were scattered through a mass of horny fibers or were connected in
a flinty framework.

COELENTERATES. This subkingdom includes two classes of interest to
the geologist,--the HYDROZOA, such as the fresh-water hydra and
the jellyfish, and the CORALS. Both classes existed in the
Cambrian.

The Hydrozoa were represented not only by jellyfish but also by
the GRAPTOLITE, which takes its name from a fancied resemblance of
some of its forms to a quill pen. It was a composite animal with a
horny framework, the individuals of the colony living in cells
strung on one or both sides along a hollow stem, and communicating
by means of a common flesh in this central tube. Some graptolites
were straight, and some curved or spiral; some were single
stemmed, and others consisted of several radial stems united.
Graptolites occur but rarely in the Upper Cambrian. CHESTER
A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 28, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit to Congress a communication from the Secretary of
War, in relation to the necessity of an immediate appropriation
of not less than $42,000 to enable the engineer in charge to make
next autumn the explosion required for the removal of Flood Rock,
in the East River, New York.

The importance of the work is well known, and as it appears that
without a speedy appropriation a delay of a year must follow,
accompanied by large expenses to protect from injury the work
already done, I commend the subject to the early and
favorable consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, January 30, 1884_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
In further response to the resolution of the Senate of the
8th instant, calling for the correspondence on file upon the
subject of discriminating duties upon commerce between the United
States and Cuba and Puerto Rico, I transmit certain papers additional
to the papers which accompanied the report sent to you on the
15th instant.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 31, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication of the 29th instant from the
Secretary of the Interior, submitting, with accompanying papers, a
report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs upon the subject
of the right of way of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railway
Company through the Lake Traverse Indian Reservation, in
Dakota.

The subject is commended to the consideration of the Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 31, 1884_.

_To the House of Representatives of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, in response to the resolutions of the House
of Representatives, the following report of the Secretary of
State, with accompanying papers, relative to the restrictions
upon the importation of American hog products into Germany
and France.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 6, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication,
under date of the 2d instant, from the Secretary of the Interior,
transmitting the last annual report of the Government directors of
the Union Pacific Railway Company.

The report accompanying the Secretary's communication has been
sent to the House of Representatives.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, February 7, 1884_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State, in response
to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the 16th ultimo,
respecting the arrest and imprisonment of John E.

Wheelock in Venezuela in 1879.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, February 7, 1884_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, in response to a resolution of the House
of Representatives of the 15th instant [ultimo], a report of the
Secretary of State, with accompanying papers, in relation to the
reported arrest at Lodz, in Russian Poland, of Reinhardt Wagner, a
citizen of the United States.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

WASHINGTON, _February 7, 1884_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, for its consideration with a
view to its ratification, an agreement concerning trade-marks
between the United States and Italy, signed June 1, 1882, provided
the terms thereof commend themselves to the Senate.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 11, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit a communication, under date of the 8th instant, addressed
to me by the Secretary of the Navy, covering a report of Professor
Simon Newcomb, United States Navy, on the subject of recent
improvements in astronomical observatories, instruments, and methods
of observations, as noted during his visit to the principal
observatories of Europe in the year 1883, made in pursuance of
orders of the Navy Department.

The request of the Secretary is commended to the consideration of
Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, February 12, 1884_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of the Senate in
connection with the commercial convention of January 20,
1883, between the United States and Mexico, now pending before the
Senate, a protocol of an agreement, signed on the 11th instant by
the Secretary of State and the representative of Mexico at this
capital, explaining and correcting an error of translation found
in the Spanish text of said convention.

CHESTER A.

ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 12, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication of the 8th ultimo from the
Secretary of the Interior, and the accompanying papers, relating
to the establishment of the boundary line between the United States
and the State of Texas.

The matter is presented for the consideration of the Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

    
    EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 13,
    1884_.
    
    _To the Senate of the United States:_

In compliance with the resolution of the Senate of February
6, 1884, directing "that the President be requested, if in his
judgment not incompatible with the public interests, to communicate
to the Senate the record of the proceedings, testimony, and
findings of the court of inquiry in relation to the events
connected with the loss of the steamer _Proteus_ in the Arctic
Ocean," I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy of the record,
etc., called for in said resolution, together with the letter of
the Secretary of War, dated the 12th instant, submitting the same
to me.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, February 13, 1884_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
In reply to the resolution of the Senate of the 11th instant,
I have the honor to inclose a communication[16] from the
Secretary of State.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

[Footnote 16: Relating to the demand of Mexico for the extradition
of Alexander Trimble.]

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 18, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith the report of a board of Army and Navy officers
appointed by me in accordance with the act of Congress
approved March 3, 1883, "for the purpose of examining and
reporting to Congress which of the navy-yards or arsenals owned by
the Government has the best location and is best adapted for the
establishment of a Government foundry, or what other method, if
any, should be adopted for the manufacture of heavy ordnance
adapted to modern warfare, for the use of the Army and Navy of the
United States, the cost of all buildings, tools, and implements
necessary to be used in the manufacture thereof, including the cost
of a steam hammer or apparatus of sufficient size for the manufacture
of the heaviest guns."

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 21, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State of the 21st
instant, whereby your honorable body, and through you the people
of the United States, may become apprised of the generous
contribution made by Her Britannic Majesty's Government
toward the efforts for the relief of Lieutenant Greely's arctic
exploring party by presenting to the United States the arctic
steamship _Alert_.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE, _Washington, February 21, 1884_.

The PRESIDENT:

In the search for vessels suitable for the expedition now
preparing to relieve Lieutenant Greely and his party, attention
was early directed to the _Alert_, which is the property of
the British Government, and was the advance ship of the expedition
under Sir George Nares.

It was desirable to secure this vessel, as she is peculiarly fitted
for the intended service, and as the inspecting officers recommended
her Mr.
Lowell was therefore instructed to ask whether she could be spared
for the service.

Information of the wish of this Government having previously and
informally reached the British admiralty, a private intimation was
conveyed to the United States minister to the effect that the British
Government had not forgotten the very considerate conduct of this
Government on the occasion of the recovery of the _Resolute_, and
that should any suggestion be made that the vessel would be of use
to the expedition she would be presented.

The _Resolute_, a vessel, as the President remembers, formerly
belonging to Her Majesty's navy, having been abandoned in the
arctic region, was discovered and brought to the United States
by American seamen, and thereupon was purchased by this
Government of her sailors, repaired, and returned to Great Britain.

On her arrival in England the vessel was received by the Queen
in person, and the officers of the United States Navy who took the
ship thither were treated with every official and personal
courtesy.

The Government of Her Majesty has now given the _Alert_
to the United States unconditionally, with her anchors,
chains, and such of her equipment as can be utilized.

Recognizing this graceful and opportune act of courtesy on the
part of Her Majesty's Government, the undersigned to-day instructed
Mr. Lowell as follows, by telegraph:

"Her Majesty's Government having presented to the Government of the
United States the ship _Alert_ to aid in the relief of Lieutenant
Greely and his party, you will inform the secretary of state for
foreign affairs that the spirit which prompts this act of generosity,
and this evidence of sympathy with the object in view, receives the
highest appreciation of the President, as it will that of the people
of the United States.

The President sends his cordial thanks for the opportune gift of
this vessel, which he accepts in the name of the United States,
and which will be used in the humane enterprise for which it is
so peculiarly adapted."
Respectfully submitted.

FREDK. T. FRELINGHUYSEN.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 21, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_

I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a
letter from the Secretary of War, dated the 19th instant,
submitting a letter from the Chief Signal Officer of the Army, dated
the 2d instant, and its accompanying plan of a proposed meteorological
observatory at Fort Myer, Va., together with an estimate of the
cost of the same in the sum of $4,000 and a statement giving various
reasons why the said observatory should be established.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 25, 1884_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
In answer to so much of the resolution of the House of Representatives
of the 17th ultimo as calls for the correspondence with the
Mexican Government respecting the payment of claims specified
in the fifth section of the act of Congress approved June 17, 1878,
I transmit herewith the report of the Secretary of State and its
accompanying papers.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _February 29, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
In compliance with the act of Congress approved January 16, 1883,
entitled "An act to regulate and improve the civil service of the
United States," the Civil Service Commission has made to the President
its first annual report.

That report is herewith transmitted, together with communications
from the heads of the several Executive Departments of the
Government respecting the practical workings of the law under
which the Commission has been acting.

Upon the good results which that law has already accomplished I
congratulate Congress and the people, and I avow my conviction
that it will henceforth prove to be of still more signal benefit
to the public service.

I heartily commend the zeal and fidelity of the Commissioners and
their suggestion for further legislation, and I advise the making
of such an appropriation as shall be adequate for their needs.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, February 29, 1884_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a report of
the Secretary of State, accompanying a report made by the commission
lately designated by me to examine and report upon the asserted
unhealthfulness of the swine products of this country. The views
and conclusions of the commission deserve the most careful
consideration of Congress, to the end that if any path be legitimately
open for removing the prohibition which closes important foreign
markets to those products it may be followed and appropriate
legislation devised.

I earnestly recommend that Congress provide for reimbursing the
expenses incurred by the commissioners in this praiseworthy
service, and I should be glad also if some remunerative
recognition of their public-spirited action in accepting the
onerous and responsible duties imposed on them were to suggest
itself to Congress. At all events, in view of the conflicting
theories touching the origin and propagation of trichiniasis
and the means of isolating and extirpating it among domestic swine,
and considering the important bearing which precise knowledge
on these points would have on the commercial aspects of the matter,
I recommend provision for special research in this direction.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, March 5, 1884_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
In further response to the resolution of the House of Representatives
of the 15th January last, calling for copies of correspondence on
file in the Department of State in relation to the reported arrest
at Lodz, in Russia, of Reinhardt Wagner, a citizen of the United
States, I transmit, in addition to the papers sent you on the 7th
ultimo, a copy of a dispatch subsequently received.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, March 6, 1884_.

_To the House of Representatives of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the House of Representatives a report from
the Secretary of State, in response to a resolution of that body
of the 5th ultimo, calling for correspondence concerning the
representations made to this Government in relation to the existing
tariff discrimination against the works of foreign artists.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, March 10, 1884_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith the following documents, received from the
Secretary of State, relative to the resolution of the House of
Representatives upon the death of Mr. Edward Lasker.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, March 11, 1884_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
I submit herewith, for the consideration of the Senate with a view
to obtaining its advice and consent thereto, a draft of a proclamation
whereby the United States accede and adhere to an international
convention for the protection of industrial property, signed at
Paris March 20, 1883, and in explanation of the purport of that
convention and the proposed mode of effecting the adhesion of the
United States thereto I subjoin a report of the Secretary of
State.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 14, 1884_.
_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of War of the 12th instant, and accompanying
papers, requesting an appropriation of $230,869.44 for the erection
at the Presidio of San Francisco of additional buildings at
headquarters Military Division of the Pacific, rendered necessary
in consequence of the proposed increase of the garrison by removal
of troops from points in San Francisco Harbor.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 18, 1884_.
_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretaries of War and the Navy, concerning the expediency
of offering rewards for the rescue of Lieutenant Greely and party
by the independent efforts of private vessels, in addition to sending
the three ships constituting the national relief expedition.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, March 18, 1884_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
In answer to the resolution of the Senate of the 15th of January
last, respecting the discovery of phosphates upon the coast of
Brazil by a citizen of the United States, I transmit herewith a
report from the Secretary of State upon the subject, together with
the accompanying papers.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 20, 1884_.
_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
In accordance with the provisions of the act making appropriations
for the diplomatic and consular service for the year ending June
30, 1883, I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary
of State in relation to the consular service.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 20, 1884_.
_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of War of
the 18th instant, submitting a letter from Colonel A.F. Rockwell,
United States Army, in charge of public buildings and grounds,
embodying an estimate in the sum of $30,000 for a pedestal for the
statue of General James A. Garfield, to be erected in the city of
Washington by the Society of the Army of the Cumberland, together
with a letter upon the subject from General Anson G. McCook, on
behalf of the Society of the Army of the Cumberland, the object in
view being the procurement of an appropriation by Congress of the
amount of the accompanying estimate.
I commend the subject to the favorable consideration of Congress.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _March 26, 1884_.But it is probable that vertebrates had been on the
earth for ages before this in lowly types, which, being destitute
of hard parts, would leave no record.

THE SILURIAN

The narrowing of the seas and the emergence of the lands which
characterized the closing epoch of the Ordovician in eastern North
America continue into the succeeding period of the Silurian. New
species appear and many old species now become extinct.

THE APPALACHIAN REGION. Where the Silurian system is most fully
developed, from New York southward along the Appalachian
Mountains, it comprises four series:

    4 Salina  . . . shales, impure limestones, gypsum, salt
    3 Niagara . . . chiefly limestones
    2 Clinton . . . sandstones, shales, with some limestones
    1 Medina  . . . conglomerates, sandstones

The rocks of these series are shallow-water deposits and reach the
total thickness of some five thousand feet. Evidently they were
laid over an area which was on the whole gradually subsiding,
although with various gentle oscillations which are recorded in
the different formations. The coarse sands of the heavy Medina
formations record a period of uplift of the oldland of Appalachia,
when erosion went on rapidly and coarse waste in abundance was
brought down from the hills by swift streams and spread by the
waves in wide, sandy flats. As the lands were worn lower the waste
became finer, and during an epoch of transition--the Clinton--
there were deposited various formations of sandstones, shales, and
limestones. The Niagara limestones testify to a long epoch of
repose, when low-lying lands sent little waste down to the sea.

The gypsum and salt deposits of the Salina show that toward the
close of the Silurian period a slight oscillation brought the sea
floor nearer to the surface, and at the north cut off extensive
tracts from the interior sea. In these wide lagoons, which now and
then regained access to the open sea and obtained new supplies of
salt water, beds of salt and gypsum were deposited as the briny
waters became concentrated by evaporation under a desert climate.
Along with these beds there were also laid shales and impure
limestones.

In New York the "salt pans" of the Salina extended over an area
one hundred and fifty miles long from east to west and sixty miles
wide, and similar salt marshes occurred as far west as Cleveland,
Ohio, and Goderich on Lake Huron. At Ithaca, New York, the series
is fifteen hundred feet thick, and is buried beneath an equal
thickness of later strata. It includes two hundred and fifty feet
of solid salt, in several distinct beds, each sealed within the
shales of the series.

Would you expect to find ancient beds of rock salt inclosed in
beds of pervious sandstone?

The salt beds of the Salina are of great value. They are reached
by well borings, and their brines are evaporated by solar heat and
by boiling. The rock salt is also mined from deep shafts.

Similar deposits of salt, formed under like conditions, occur in
the rocks of later systems down to the present. The salt beds of
Texas are Permian, those of Kansas are Permian, and those of
Louisiana are Tertiary.

THE MISSISSIPPI VALLEY. The heavy near-shore formations of the
Silurian in the Appalachian region thin out toward the west. The
Medina and the Clinton sandstones are not found west of Ohio,
where the first passes into a shale and the second into a
limestone. The Niagara limestone, however, spreads from the Hudson
River to beyond the Mississippi, a distance of more than a
thousand miles. During the Silurian period the Mississippi valley
region was covered with a quiet, shallow, limestone-making sea,
which received little waste from the low lands which bordered it.

The probable distribution of land and sea in eastern North America
and western Europe is shown in Figure 287. The fauna of the
interior region and of eastern Canada are closely allied with that
of western Europe, and several species are identical. We can
hardly account for this except by a shallow-water connection
between the two ancient epicontinental seas. It was perhaps along
the coastal shelves of a northern land connecting America and
Europe by way of Greenland and Iceland that the migration took
place, so that the same species came to live in Iowa and in
Sweden.

THE WESTERN UNITED STATES. So little is found of the rocks of the
system west of the Missouri River that it is quite probable that
the western part of the United States had for the most part
emerged from the sea at the close of the Ordovician and remained
land during the Silurian. At the same time the western land was
perhaps connected with the eastern land of Appalachia across
Arkansas and Mississippi; for toward the south the Silurian
sediments indicate an approach to shore.

LIFE OF THE SILURIAN

In this brief sketch it is quite impossible to relate the many
changes of species and genera during the Silurian.

CORALS. Some of the more common types are familiarly known as cup
corals, honeycomb corals, and chain corals. In the CUP CORALS the
most important feature is the development of radiating vertical
partitions, or SEPTA, in the cell of the polyp. Some of the cup
corals grew in hemispherical colonies (Fig. 288), while many were
separate individuals (Fig. 289), building a single conical, or
horn-shaped cell, which sometimes reached the extreme size of a
foot in length and two or three inches in diameter.

HONEYCOMB CORALS consist of masses of small, close-set prismatic
cells, each crossed by horizontal partitions, or TABULAE, while
the septa are rudimentary, being represented by faintly projecting
ridges or rows of spines.

CHAIN CORALS are also marked by tabulae. Their cells form
elliptical tubes, touching each other at the edges, and appearing
in cross section like the links of a chain. They became extinct at
the end of the Silurian.

The corals of the SYRINGOPORA family are similar in structure to
chain corals, but the tubular columns are connected only in
places.

To the echinoderms there is now added the BLASTOID (bud-shaped).
The blastoid is stemmed and armless, and its globular "head" or
"calyx," with its five petal-like divisions, resembles a flower
bud. The blastoids became more abundant in the Devonian,
culminated in the Carboniferous, and disappeared at the end of the
Paleozoic.

The great eurypterids--some of which were five or six feet in
length--and the cephalopods were still masters of the seas. Fishes
were as yet few and small; trilobites and graptolites had now
passed their prime and had diminished greatly in numbers.
Scorpions are found in this period both in Europe and in America.
The limestone-making seas of the Silurian swarmed with corals,
crinoids, and brachiopods.

With the end of the Silurian period the AGE OF INVERTEBRATES comes
to a close, giving place to the Devonian, the AGE OF FISHES.


CHAPTER XVIII

THE DEVONIAN


In America the Silurian is not separated from the Devonian by any
mountain-making deformation or continental uplift. The one period
passed quietly into the other. Their conformable systems are so
closely related, and the change in their faunas is so gradual,
that geologists are not agreed as to the precise horizon which
divides them.

SUBDIVISIONS AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. The Devonian is represented
in New York and southward by the following five series. We add the
rocks of which they are chiefly composed.

    5 Chemung     . . . . . . sandstones and sandy shales
    4 Hamilton    . . . . . . shales and sandstones
    3 Corniferous . . . . . . limestones
    2 Oriskany    . . . . . . sandstones
    1 Helderberg  . . . . . . limestones

The Helderberg is a transition epoch referred by some geologists
to the Silurian. The thin sandstones of the Oriskany mark an epoch
when waves worked over the deposits of former coastal plains. The
limestones of the Corniferous testify to a warm and clear wide sea
which extended from the Hudson to beyond the Mississippi. Corals
throve luxuriantly, and their remains, with those of mollusks and
other lime-secreting animals, built up great beds of limestone.
The bordering continents, as during the later Silurian, must now
have been monotonous lowlands which sent down little of even the
finest waste to the sea.

In the Hamilton the clear seas of the previous epoch became
clouded with mud. The immense deposits of coarse sandstones and
sandy shales of the Chemung, which are found off what was at the
time the west coast of Appalachia, prove an uplift of that ancient
continent.

The Chemung series extends from the Catskill Mountains to
northeastern Ohio and south to northeastern Tennessee, covering an
area of not less than a hundred thousand square miles. In eastern
New York it attains three thousand feet in thickness; in
Pennsylvania it reaches the enormous thickness of two miles; but
it rapidly thins to the west. Everywhere the Chemung is made of
thin beds of rapidly alternating coarse and fine sands and clays,
with an occasional pebble layer, and hence is a shallow-water
deposit. The fine material has not been thoroughly winnowed from
the coarse by the long action of strong waves and tides. The sands
and clays have undergone little more sorting than is done by
rivers. We must regard the Chemung sandstones as deposits made at
the mouths of swift, turbid rivers in such great amount that they
could be little sorted and distributed by waves.

Over considerable areas the Chemung sandstones bear little or no
trace of the action of the sea. The Catskill Mountains, for
example, have as their summit layers some three thousand feet of
coarse red sandstones of this series, whose structure is that of
river deposits, and whose few fossils are chiefly of fresh-water
types. The Chemung is therefore composed of delta deposits, more
or less worked over by the sea. The bulk of the Chemung equals
that of the Sierra Nevada Mountains. To furnish this immense
volume of sediment a great mountain range, or highland, must have
been upheaved where the Appalachian lowland long had been. To what
height the Devonian mountains of Appalachia attained cannot be
told from the volume of the sediments wasted from them, for they
may have risen but little faster than they were worn down by
denudation. We may infer from the character of the waste which
they furnished to the Chemung shores that they did not reach an
Alpine height. The grains of the Chemung sandstones are not those
which would result from mechanical disintegration, as by frost on
high mountain peaks, but are rather those which would be left from
the long chemical decay of siliceous crystalline rocks; for the
more soluble minerals are largely wanting. The red color of much
of the deposits points to the same conclusion. Red residual clays
accumulated on the mountain sides and upland summits, and were
washed as ocherous silt to mingle with the delta sands. The iron-
bearing igneous rocks of the oldland also contributed by their
decay iron in solution to the rivers, to be deposited in films of
iron oxide about the quartz grains of the Chemung sandstones,
giving them their reddish tints.

LIFE OF THE DEVONIAN

PLANTS. The lands were probably clad with verdure during Silurian
times, if not still earlier; for some rare remains of ferns and
other lowly types of vegetation have been found in the strata of
that system. But it is in the Devonian that we discover for the
first time the remains of extensive and luxuriant forests. This
rich flora reached its climax in the Carboniferous, and it will be
more convenient to describe its varied types in the next chapter.

RHIZOCARPS. In the shales of the Devonian are found microscopic
spores of rhizocarps in such countless numbers that their weight
must be reckoned in hundreds of millions of tons. It would seem
that these aquatic plants culminated in this period, and in widely
distant portions of the earth swampy flats and shallow lagoons
were filled with vegetation of this humble type, either growing
from the bottom or floating free upon the surface. Mex., and for
an appropriation for the support, civilization, etc., of the
Apaches at the Mescalero and Jicarilla agencies, together with an
estimate for the same, in the form of a proposed clause for insertion
in the sundry civil bill now pending for consideration in
committee.

The subject is presented for the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _May 22, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior of the 18th instant, with accompanying papers, submitting
the draft of a proposed clause for insertion in one of the pending
appropriation bills, to provide for the payment for improvements
made by certain settlers on the Round Valley Indian Reservation,
in California, as appraised under the act approved March 3,
1873.

The subject is presented for the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _May 22, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives_:
I transmit herewith a letter from the Secretary of State and
accompanying documents, submitted in compliance with resolution of
the House of Representatives of the 20th ultimo, calling for
additional information respecting cases of American citizens under
arrest in Ireland.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _May 22, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a letter from the Secretary of War, dated the
18th instant, and accompanying papers from the Acting Chief Signal
Officer, representing the necessity of a special appropriation
being made not later than the 1st of June proximo for the purpose
of dispatching a vessel, with men and supplies, for the relief of
the expedition which was last year sent to Lady Franklin Bay,
Grinnell Land.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _May 24, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States_:

In compliance with a resolution of the Senate of the 1st of
March last, I transmit a communication from the Secretary of the
Navy, accompanied by the report (with the exception of such parts
thereof as it is deemed incompatible with the public interests to
furnish) of Commodore R.W.
Shufeldt, United States Navy, of his cruise around the world
in the United States steamer _Ticonderoga_.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, May 25, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:
I transmit herewith a letter from the Secretary of State, concerning
the awards made against Venezuela by the mixed commission under the
convention of April 25, 1866.

I earnestly invite the attention of Congress to this communication
and the accompanying inclosures. In case neither House takes action
upon it during the present Congress I shall feel it my duty to
direct that this prolonged discussion be definitely terminated by
recognizing the absolute validity of all the awards.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _May 26, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives_:

In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives
of the 10th of April ultimo, calling upon the Secretary of State
for information in regard to the restrictions imposed by the French
Government upon pork exported from the United States, I transmit
herewith a report of that officer and its accompanying papers.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 5, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior of the 24th ultimo, with accompanying papers, submitting
the draft of a proposed clause for insertion in one of the pending
appropriation bills, to provide for the payment of certain legal
services rendered to the Cherokee Indians in North Carolina in 1881,
amounting to $150.

The subject is presented for the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, June 5, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States_:

In further answer to the Senate's resolution of the 12th of
December last, I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary
of State and its accompanying paper, in regard to the modification
of the Clayton-Bulwer treaty.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 14, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives_:

I transmit herewith a letter from the Secretary of the Interior,
respecting the Louisiana private land claim of Antonio Vaca,
deceased, to which, with the accompanying papers, I invite the
attention of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, June 14, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States_:

I transmit herewith, in response to the resolution of the Senate
of the 5th instant, a report from the Secretary of State,
submitting copies of the full correspondence between the Department
of State and Hon. William Henry Trescot, special envoy extraordinary
to the Republics of Peru, Chile, and Bolivia, and Walker Elaine,
Third Assistant Secretary of State.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 16, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I submit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a communication
from the Secretary of the Interior, in which he recommends that the
sum of $245,000, the amount which the Superintendent estimates
will be required to complete the work of the Tenth Census,
be appropriated for the purpose.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 16, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith, for the consideration of Congress, a letter
from the Secretary of War, dated the 14th instant, covering
plans and estimates for repairs, additions, and alterations to
public buildings at the depot of the mounted recruiting service,
Jefferson Barracks, Mo., and in which he recommends that the sum
of $24,938.44 be appropriated for the purpose, in accordance with
the estimates, during the present session of Congress.

CHESTER A.

ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 16, 1882_.

_To the Senate:_

I transmit herewith a report from the Secretary of State and its
accompanying papers, concerning the Smoke Abatement Exhibition
which was held at South Kensington, London, last winter.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

WASHINGTON, _June 16, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_

I transmit herewith to the Senate, for its consideration with a
view to ratification, a convention between the United States and
His Majesty the King of the Belgians, touching the reciprocal
surrender of fugitives from justice, signed on the 13th day of
June, 1882, and intended to supersede the convention for extradition
of criminals between both countries which was concluded on the 19th
day of March, 1874.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 19, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication, dated the 16th instant, from
the Secretary of the Interior, inclosing, with accompanying papers,
a draft of a bill "to enlarge the Pawnee Indian Reservation in
Indian Territory."

The subject is presented for the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 19, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a letter from the Secretary of State, referring
a communication from the Mexican minister at this capital touching
the arrest and imprisonment in Mexico of Thomas Shields and two
other American citizens, to which the resolution of the House
of Representatives of the 6th day of February last relates.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

                                          
    
    WASHINGTON, _June 23, 1882_.
    
    _To the Senate of the United States:_
    I transmit herewith to the Senate, with a
    view to ratification, a convention between
    the United States and His Majesty the
    King of Spain, for securing reciprocal
    protection for the trade-marks and manufactured articles of their
respective citizens and subjects within the dominions or territories
of the other country, signed on the 19th day of June, 1882.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 26, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of War, dated
the 9th instant, and its accompanying copy of the telegram from the
general commanding the Military Division of the Pacific and Department
of California, relative to the construction of additional quarters,
barracks, storehouses, etc., within the limits of the Military
Department of Arizona.

The Secretary of War recommends that for the purpose of constructing
the additional buildings referred to the sum of their estimated
cost, $205,000, be appropriated during the present session of
Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _June 28, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_

                       I transmit herewith a communication
from the
                   Secretary of the Interior of the
22d
    instant, with accompanying papers, submitting the draft of a
    proposed clause for insertion in one of the pending appropriation
    bills, to provide for the payment for improvements made by certain
    settlers on the Jicarilla Apache Indian Reservation, in New Mexico.

The subject is presented for the consideration of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _July 3, 1882_.

_To the House of Representatives:_
In answer to the resolution of the House of Representatives of the
25th of April last, calling for information in regard to the
reassembling of the Paris Monetary Conference during the current
year and other matters connected therewith, I transmit herewith
a report on the subject and its accompanying papers.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 20, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State and accompanying
papers, furnished in response to the resolution of the Senate of
December 21, 1881, calling for the correspondence with the Mexican
Government in regard to the claims of Benjamin Weil and La Abra
Silver Mining Company against Mexico.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 20, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, for its consideration with a
view to ratification, a convention between the United States and
Mexico, providing for the reopening and retrying of the claims of
Benjamin Weil and La Abra Silver Mining Company against Mexico,
which was signed on the 13th instant.

A report of the Secretary of State, with its accompanying
correspondence, transmitted to the Senate this day in response to
the resolution of December 21, 1881, will show the antecedents of
the negotiation which resulted in the accompanying convention.

In view of the accumulation of testimony presented by Mexico
relative to these two claims, I have deemed it proper to avail
myself of the authority given to the Executive by the
Constitution, and of which authority the act of Congress of
June 18, 1878, is declarative, to effect a rehearing of these cases.
I therefore empowered the Secretary of State to negotiate with the
minister of Mexico a convention to that end.

The more important correspondence preliminary to the treaty is
herewith transmitted.

It will be seen by the stipulations of the treaty that the rehearing
will have no retroactive effect as to payments already
distributed, that the _bona fide_ interests of third parties are
amply secured, and that the Government of the United States is fully
guarded against any liability resulting from the rehearing.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 26, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, for consideration with a
view to ratification, a supplementary convention between the United
States and the French Republic, signed at Washington on the 19th
instant, extending the term of duration of the commission
organized under the convention of January 15, 1880, between the
two countries.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 29, 1882_.

_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith, in response to the Senate resolution of the
15th instant, a report of the Secretary of State and accompanying
papers, relating to the Clayton-Bulwer treaty.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, July 29, 1882_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, for consideration with a view
to ratification, a treaty between the United States and the Kingdom
of Korea, or Chosen, concluded on the 22d May last. For the information
of the Senate the accompanying letter of the Secretary of State is
also transmitted.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, August 1, 1882_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, for consideration with a view
to ratification, a convention concluded on the 29th of July, 1882,
between the United States and Mexico, providing for an international
boundary survey to relocate the existing frontier line between the
two countries west of the Rio Grande.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
_Washington, August 4, 1882_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
In reply to a resolution of the Senate passed April 25, 1882, I
transmit herewith a communication, with accompanying papers, from
the Secretary of the Navy, in relation to the title by which the
United States holds the land now occupied as a navy-yard at Boston,
Mass.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _August 5, 1882_.
_To the House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a report of the Secretary of State, submitted
in compliance with the resolution of the House of Representatives
of the 28th of June, calling for additional information respecting
the case of American citizens under arrest in Ireland.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, August 7, 1882_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
I transmit herewith to the Senate, with a view to ratification, a
convention concluded this day between the United States of America
and His Majesty the King of Spain, supplementary to the extradition
convention concluded between said countries on the 5th day of
January, 1877.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

VETO MESSAGES.
EXECUTIVE MANSION, _Washington, April 4, 1882_.
_To the Senate of the United States:_
After careful consideration of Senate bill No. 71, entitled "An act
to execute certain treaty stipulations relating to Chinese," I
herewith return it to the Senate, in which it originated, with my
objections to its passage.
A nation is justified in repudiating its treaty obligations only
when they are in conflict with great paramount interests. Even then
all possible reasonable means for modifying or changing those
obligations by mutual agreement should be exhausted before resorting
to the supreme right of refusal to comply with them.
These rules have governed the United States in their past intercourse
with other powers as one of the family of nations. I am persuaded
that if Congress can feel that this act violates the faith of the
nation as pledged to China it will concur with me in rejecting this
particular mode of regulating Chinese immigration, and will endeavor
to find another which shall meet the expectations of the people of
the United States without coming in conflict with the rights of
China.
The present treaty relations between that power and the United
States spring from an antagonism which arose between our paramount
domestic interests and our previous relations.
The treaty commonly known as the Burlingame treaty conferred upon
Chinese subjects the right of voluntary emigration to the United
States for the purposes of curiosity or trade or as permanent
residents, and was in all respects reciprocal as to citizens of the
United States in China. It gave to the voluntary emigrant coming
to the United States the right to travel there or to reside there,
with all the privileges, immunities, or exemptions enjoyed by the
citizens or subjects of the most favored nation.
Under the operation of this treaty it was found that the institutions
of the United States and the character of its people and their means
of obtaining a livelihood might be seriously affected by the
unrestricted introduction of Chinese labor. Congress attempted to
alleviate this condition by legislation, but the act which it passed
proved to be in violation of our treaty obligations, and, being
returned by the President with his objections, failed to become a
law.
Diplomatic relief was then sought. A new treaty was concluded with
China. Without abrogating the Burlingame treaty, it was agreed to
modify it so far that the Government of the United States might
regulate, limit, or suspend the coming of Chinese laborers to the
United States or their residence therein, but that it should not
absolutely prohibit them, and that the limitation or suspension
should be reasonable and should apply only to Chinese who might go
to the United States as laborers, other classes not being included
in the limitations. This treaty is unilateral, not reciprocal. It
is a concession from China to the United States in limitation of
the rights which she was enjoying under the Burlingame treaty. It
leaves us by our own act to determine when and how we will enforce
those limitations. China may therefore fairly have a right to expect
that in enforcing them we will take good care not to overstep the
grant and take more than has been conceded to us.THE APPALACHIAN REGION skirts the Appalachian oldland on the west
from the southern boundary of New York to northern Alabama,
extending west into eastern Ohio. The Cincinnati anticline was now
a peninsula, and the broad gulf which had lain between it and
Appalachia was transformed at the beginning of the Pennsylvanian
into wide marshy plains, now sinking beneath the sea and now
emerging from it. This area subsided during the Carboniferous
period to a depth of nearly ten thousand feet.

THE CENTRAL REGION lay west of the peninsula of the Cincinnati
anticline, and extended from Indiana west into eastern Nebraska,
and from central Iowa and Illinois southward about the ancient
island in Missouri and Arkansas into Oklahoma and Texas. On the
north the subsidence in this area was comparatively slight, for
the Carboniferous strata scarcely exceed two thousand feet in
thickness. But in Arkansas and Indian Territory the downward
movement amounted to four and five miles, as is proved by shoal
water deposits of that immense thickness.

The coal fields of Indiana, and Illinois are now separated by
erosion from those lying west of the Mississippi River. At the
south the Appalachian land seems still to have stretched away to
the west across Louisiana and Mississippi into Texas, and this
westward extension formed the southern boundary of the coal
marshes of the continent.

The three regions just mentioned include the chief Carboniferous
coal fields of North America. Including a field in central
Michigan evidently formed in an inclosed basin (Fig. 260), and one
in Rhode Island, the total area of American coal fields has been
reckoned at not less than two hundred thousand square miles. We
can hardly estimate the value of these great stores of fossil fuel
to an industrial civilization. The forests of the coal swamps
accumulated in their woody tissues the energy which they received
from the sun in light and heat, and it is this solar energy long
stored in coal seams which now forms the world's chief source of
power in manufacturing.

THE WESTERN AREA. On the Great Plains beyond the Missouri River
the Carboniferous strata pass under those of more recent systems.
Where they reappear, as about dissected mountain axes or on
stripped plateaus, they consist wholly of marine deposits and are
devoid of coal. The rich coal fields of the West are of later
date.

On the whole the Carboniferous seems to have been a time of
subsidence in the West. Throughout the period a sea covered the
Great Basin and the plateaus of the Colorado River. At the time of
the greatest depression the sites of the central chains of the
Rockies were probably islands, but early in the period they may
have been connected with the broad lands to the south and east.
Thousands of feet of Carboniferous sediments were deposited where
the Sierra Nevada Mountains now stand.

THE PERMIAN. As the Carboniferous period drew toward its close the
sea gradually withdrew from the eastern part of the continent.
Where the sea lingered in the deepest troughs, and where inclosed
basins were cut off from it, the strata of the Permian were
deposited. Such are found in New Brunswick, in Pennsylvania and
West Virginia, in Texas, and in Kansas. In southwestern Kansas
extensive Permian beds of rock salt and gypsum show that here lay
great salt lakes in which these minerals were precipitated as
their brines grew dense and dried away.

In the southern hemisphere the Permian deposits are so
extraordinary that they deserve a brief notice, although we have
so far omitted mention of the great events which characterized the
evolution of other continents than our own. The Permian fauna-
flora of Australia, India, South Africa, and the southern part of
South America are so similar that the inference is a reasonable
one that these widely separated regions were then connected
together, probably as extensions of a great antarctic continent.

Interbedded with the Permian strata of the first three countries
named are extensive and thick deposits of a peculiar nature which
are clearly ancient ground moraines. Clays and sand, now hardened
to firm rock, are inset with unsorted stones of all sizes, which
often are faceted and scratched. Moreover, these bowlder clays
rest on rock pavements which are polished and scored with glacial
markings. Hence toward the close of the Paleozoic the southern
lands of the eastern hemisphere were invaded by great glaciers or
perhaps by ice sheets like that which now shrouds Greenland.

These Permian ground moraines are not the first traces of the work
of glaciers met with in the geological record. Similar deposits
prove glaciation in Norway succeeding the pre-Cambrian stage of
elevation, and Cambrian glacial drift has recently been found in
China.

THE APPALACHIAN DEFORMATION. We have seen that during Paleozoic
times a long, narrow trough of the sea lay off the western coast
of the ancient land of Appalachia, where now are the Appalachian
Mountains. During the long ages of this era the trough gradually
subsided, although with many stillstands and with occasional
slight oscillations upward. Meanwhile the land lying to the east
was gradually uplifted at varying rates and with long pauses. The
waste of the rising land was constantly transferred to the sinking
marginal sea bottom, and on the whole the trough was filled with
sediments as rapidly as it subsided. The sea was thus kept
shallow, and at times, especially toward the close of the era,
much of the area was upbuilt or raised to low, marshy, coastal
plains. When the Carboniferous was ended the waste which had been
removed from the land and laid along its margin in the successive
formations of the Paleozoic had reached a thickness of between
thirty and forty thousand feet.

Both by sedimentation and by subsidence the trough had now become
a belt of weakness in the crust of the earth. Here the crust was
now made of layers to the depth of six or seven miles. In
comparison with the massive crystalline rocks of Appalachia on the
east, the layered rock of the trough was weak to resist lateral
pressure, as a ream of sheets of paper is weak when compared with
a solid board of the same thickness. It was weaker also than the
region to the west, since there the sediments were much thinner.
Besides, by the long-continued depression the strata of the trough
had been bent from the flat-lying attitude in which they were laid
to one in which they were less able to resist a horizontal thrust.

There now occurred one of the critical stages in the history of
the planet, when the crust crumples under its own weight and
shrinks down upon a nucleus which is diminishing in volume and no
longer able to support it. Under slow but resistless pressure the
strata of the Appalachian trough were thrust against the rigid
land, and slowly, steadily bent into long folds whose axes ran
northeast-southwest parallel to the ancient coast line. It was on
the eastern side next the buttress of the land that the
deformation was the greatest, and the folds most steep and close.
In central Pennsylvania and West Virginia the folds were for the
most part open. South of these states the folds were more closely
appressed, the strata were much broken, and the great thrust
faults were formed which have been described already. In eastern
Pennsylvania seams of bituminous coal were altered to anthracite,
while outside the region of strong deformation, as in western
Pennyslvania, they remained unchanged. An important factor in the
deformation was the massive limestones of the Cambrian-Ordovician.
Because of these thick, resistant beds the rocks were bent into
wide folds and sheared in places with great thrust faults. Had the
strata been weak shales, an equal pressure would have crushed and
mashed them.

Although the great earth folds were slowly raised, and no doubt
eroded in their rising, they formed in all probability a range of
lofty mountains, with a width of from fifty to a hundred and
twenty-five miles, which stretched from New York to central
Alabama.

From their bases lowlands extended westward to beyond the Missouri
River. At the same time ranges were upridged out of thick
Paleozoic sediments both in the Bay of Fundy region and in the
Indian Territory. The eastern portion of the North American
continent was now well-nigh complete.

The date of the Appalachian deformation is told in the usual way.
The Carboniferous strata, nearly two miles thick, are all infolded
in the Appalachian ridges, while the next deposits found in this
region--those of the later portion of the first period (the Trias)
of the succeeding era--rest unconformably on the worn edges of the
Appalachian folded strata. The deformation therefore took place
about the close of the Paleozoic. It seems to have begun in the
Permian, in, eastern Pennsylvania,--for here the Permian strata
are wanting,--and to have continued into the Trias, whose earlier
formations are absent over all the area.

With this wide uplift the subsidence of the sea floor which had so
long been general in eastern North America came to an end.
Deposition now gave place to erosion. The sedimentary record of
the Paleozoic was closed, and after an unknown lapse of time, here
unrecorded, the annals of the succeeding era were written under
changed conditions.

In western North America the closing stages of the Paleozoic were
marked by important oscillations. The Great Basin, which had long
been a mediterranean sea, was converted into land over western
Utah and eastern Nevada, while the waves of the Pacific rolled
across California and western Nevada.

The absence of tuffs and lavas among the Carboniferous strata of
North America shows that here volcanic action was singularly
wanting during the entire period. Even the Appalachian deformation
was not accompanied by any volcanic outbursts.

LIFE OF THE CARBONIFEROUS

PLANTS. The gloomy forests and dense undergrowths of the
Carboniferous jungles would appear unfamiliar to us could we see
them as they grew, and even a botanist would find many of their
forms perplexing and hard to classify. None of our modern trees
would meet the eye. Plants with conspicuous flowers of fragrance
and beauty were yet to come. Even mosses and grasses were still
absent.

Tree ferns lifted their crowns of feathery fronds high in air on
trunks of woody tissue; and lowly herbaceous ferns, some belonging
to existing families, carpeted the ground. Many of the fernlike
forms, however, have distinct affinities with the cycads, of which
they may be the ancestors, and some bear seeds and must be classed
as gymnosperms.

Dense thickets, like cane or bamboo brakes, were composed of thick
clumps of CALAMITES, whose slender, jointed stems shot up to a
height of forty feet, and at the joints bore slender branches set
with whorls of leaves. These were close allies of the Equiseta or
"horsetails," of the present; but they bore characteristics of
higher classes in the woody structures of their stems.

There were also vast monotonous forests, composed chiefly of trees
belonging to the lycopods, and whose nearest relatives to-day are
the little club mosses of our eastern woods. Two families of
lycopods deserve special mention,--the Lepidodendrons and the
Sigillaria.

The LEPIDODENDRON, or "scale tree," was a gigantic club moss fifty
and seventy-five feet high, spreading toward the top into stout
branches, at whose ends were borne cone-shaped spore cases. The
younger parts of the tree were clothed with stiff needle-shaped
leaves, but elsewhere the trunk and branches were marked with
scalelike scars, left by the fallen leaves, and arranged in spiral
rows.

The SIGILLARIA, or "seal tree," was similar to the Lepidodendron,
but its fluted trunk divided into even fewer branches, and was
dotted with vertical rows of leaf scars, like the impressions of a
seal.

Both Lepidodendron and Sigillaria were anchored by means of great
cablelike underground stems, which ran to long distances through
the marshy ground. The trunks of both trees had a thick woody
rind, inclosing loose cellular tissue and a pith. Their hollow
stumps, filled with sand and mud, are common in the Coal Measures,
and in them one sometimes finds leaves and stems, land shells, and
the bones of little reptiles of the time which made their home
there.

It is important to note that some of these gigantic lycopods,
which are classed with the CRYPTOGAMS, or flowerless plants, had
pith and medullary rays dividing their cylinders into woody
wedges. These characters connect them with the PHANEROGAMS, or
flowering plants. Like so many of the organisms of the remote
past, they were connecting types from which groups now widely
separated have diverged.

Gymnosperms, akin to the cycads, were also present in the
Carboniferous forests. Such were the different species of
CORDAITES, trees pyramidal in shape, with strap-shaped leaves and
nutlike fruit. Other gymnosperms were related to the yews, and it
was by these that many of the fossil nuts found in the Coal
Measures were borne. It is thought by some that the gymnosperms
had their station on the drier plains and higher lands.

The Carboniferous jungles extended over parts of Europe and of
Asia, as well as eastern North America, and reached from the
equator to within nine degrees of the north pole. Even in these
widely separated regions the genera and species of coal plants are
close akin and often identical.

INVERTEBRATES. Among the echinoderms, crinoids are now exceedingly
abundant, sea urchins are more plentiful, and sea cucumbers are
found now for the first time. Trilobites are rapidly declining,
and pass away forever with the close of the period. Eurypterids
are common; stinging scorpions are abundant; and here occur the
first-known spiders.

We have seen that the arthropods were the first of all animals to
conquer the realm of the air, the earliest insects appearing in
the Ordovician. Insects had now become exceedingly abundant, and
the Carboniferous forests swarmed with the ancestral types of
dragon flies,--some with a spread of wing of more than two feet,--
May flies, crickets, and locusts. Cockroaches infested the swamps,
and one hundred and thirty-three species of this ancient order
have been discovered in the Carboniferous of North America. The
higher flower-loving insects are still absent; the reign of the
flowering plants has not yet begun. The Paleozoic insects were
generalized types connecting the present orders. Their fore wings
were still membranous and delicately veined, and used in flying;
they had not yet become thick, and useful only as wing covers, as
in many of their descendants.

FISHES still held to the Devonian types, with the exception that
the strange ostracoderms now had perished.

AMPHIBIANS. The vertebrates had now followed the arthropods and
the mollusks upon the land, and had evolved a higher type adapted
to the new environment. Amphibians--the class to which frogs and
salamanders belong--now appear, with lungs for breathing air and
with limbs for locomotion on the land. Most of the Carboniferous
amphibians were shaped like the salamander, with weak limbs
adapted more for crawling than for carrying the body well above
the ground. Some legless, degenerate forms were snakelike in
shape.

The earliest amphibians differ from those of to-day in a number of
respects. They were connecting types linking together fishes, from
which they were descended, with reptiles, of which they were the
ancestors. They retained the evidence of their close relationship
with the Devonian fishes in their cold blood, their gills and
aquatic habit during their larval stage, their teeth with dentine
infolded like those of the Devonian ganoids but still more
intricately, and their biconcave vertebrae which never completely
ossified. These, the highest vertebrates of the time, had not yet
advanced beyond the embryonic stage of the more or less
cartilaginous skeleton and the persistent notochord.

On the other hand, the skull of the Carboniferous amphibians was
made of close-set bony plates, like the skull of the reptile,
rather than like that of the frog, with its open spaces (Figs. 313
and 314). Unlike modern amphibians, with their slimy skin, the
Carboniferous amphibians wore an armor of bony scales over the
ventral surface and sometimes over the back as well.

It is interesting to notice from the footprints and skeletons of
these earliest-known vertebrates of the land what was the
primitive number of digits. The Carboniferous amphibians had five-
toed feet, the primitive type of foot, from which their
descendants of higher orders, with a smaller number of digits,
have diverged.

The Carboniferous was the age of lycopods and amphibians, as the
Devonian had been the age of rhizocarps and fishes.

LIFE OF THE PERMIAN. The close of the Paleozoic was, as we have
seen, a time of marked physical changes. The upridging of the
Appalachians had begun and a wide continental uplift--proved by
the absence of Permian deposits over large areas where
sedimentation had gone on before--opened new lands for settlement
to hordes of air-breathing animals. Changes of climate compelled
extensive migrations, and the fauna of different regions were thus
brought into conflict. The Permian was a time of pronounced
changes in plant and animal life, and a transitional period
between two great eras. The somber forests of the earlier
Carboniferous, with their gigantic club mosses, were now replaced
by forests of cycads, tree ferns, and conifers. Even in the lower
Permian the Lepidodendron and Sigillaria were very rare, and
before the end of the epoch they and the Calamites also had become
extinct. Even among the most uncultivated Indian tribes there is
reported to be a general and urgent desire on the part of the
chiefs and older members for the education of their children. It
is unfortunate, in view of this fact, that during the past year
the means which have been at the command of the Interior Department
for the purpose of Indian instruction have proved to be utterly
inadequate.

The success of the schools which are in operation at Hampton,
Carlisle, and Forest Grove should not only encourage a more generous
provision for the support of those institutions, but should prompt
the establishment of others of a similar character.

They are doubtless much more potent for good than the day schools
upon the reservation, as the pupils are altogether separated
from the surroundings of savage life and brought into constant
contact with civilization.

There are many other phases of this subject which are of great
interest, but which can not be included within the becoming limits
of this communication.

They are discussed ably in the reports of the Secretary of the
Interior and the Commissioner of Indian Affairs.

For many years the Executive, in his annual message to Congress,
has urged the necessity of stringent legislation for the suppression
of polygamy in the Territories, and especially in the Territory of
Utah.

The existing statute for the punishment of this odious crime, so
revolting to the moral and religious sense of Christendom, has
been persistently and contemptuously violated ever since its
enactment.
Indeed, in spite of commendable efforts on the part of the
authorities who represent the United States in that Territory, the
law has in very rare instances been enforced, and, for a
cause to which reference will presently be made, is practically a
dead letter.

The fact that adherents of the Mormon Church, which rests upon
polygamy as its corner stone, have recently been peopling in large
numbers Idaho, Arizona, and other of our Western Territories is
well calculated to excite the liveliest interest and apprehension.

It imposes upon Congress and the Executive the duty of arraying
against this barbarous system all the power which under the
Constitution and the law they can wield for its
destruction.

Reference has been already made to the obstacles which the
United States officers have encountered in their efforts to
punish violations of law.
Prominent among these obstacles is the difficulty of procuring
legal evidence sufficient to warrant a conviction even in the case
of the most notorious offenders.

Your attention is called to a recent opinion of the Supreme Court
of the United States, explaining its judgment of reversal in the
case of Miles, who had been convicted of bigamy in Utah. The
court refers to the fact that the secrecy attending the celebration
of marriages in that Territory makes the proof of polygamy very
difficult, and the propriety is suggested of modifying the law of
evidence which now makes a wife incompetent to testify against her
husband.

This suggestion is approved.

I recommend also the passage of an act providing that in the
Territories of the United States the fact that a woman has been
married to a person charged with bigamy shall not disqualify her
as a witness upon his trial for that offense. I further recommend
legislation by which any person solemnizing a marriage in any
of the Territories shall be required, under stringent penalties
for neglect or refusal, to file a certificate of such marriage
in the supreme court of the Territory.

Doubtless Congress may devise other practicable measures for
obviating the difficulties which have hitherto attended the efforts
to suppress this iniquity. I assure you of my determined purpose
to cooperate with you in any lawful and discreet measures which
may be proposed to that end.

Although our system of government does not contemplate that the
nation should provide or support a system for the education
of our people, no measures calculated to promote that general
intelligence and virtue upon which the perpetuity of our
institutions so greatly depends have ever been regarded with
indifference by Congress or the Executive.

A large portion of the public domain has been from time to time
devoted to the promotion of education.

There is now a special reason why, by setting apart the proceeds
of its sales of public lands or by some other course, the
Government should aid the work of education. Many who now exercise
the right of suffrage are unable to read the ballot which they cast.
Upon many who had just emerged from a condition of slavery were
suddenly devolved the responsibilities of citizenship in that
portion of the country most impoverished by war.

I have been pleased to learn from the report of the Commissioner
of Education that there has lately been a commendable increase
of interest and effort for their instruction; but all that can be
done by local legislation and private generosity should
be supplemented by such aid as can be constitutionally
afforded by the National Government.

I would suggest that if any fund be dedicated to this purpose it may
be wisely distributed in the different States according to
the ratio of illiteracy, as by this means those localities which
are most in need of such assistance will reap its special
benefits.

The report of the Commissioner of Agriculture exhibits the results
of the experiments in which that Department has been engaged during
the past year and makes important suggestions in reference to the
agricultural development of the country.

The steady increase of our population and the consequent addition
to the number of those engaging in the pursuit of husbandry are
giving to this Department a growing dignity and importance. The
Commissioner's suggestions touching its capacity for greater
usefulness deserve attention, as it more and more commends itself
to the interests which it was created to promote.

It appears from the report of the Commissioner of Pensions
that since 1860 789,063 original pension claims have been filed;
450,949 of these have been allowed and inscribed on the pension
roll; 72,539 have been rejected and abandoned, being 13+ per
cent of the whole number of claims settled.

There are now pending for settlement 265,575 original pension
claims, 227,040 of which were filed prior to July 1, 1880. These,
when allowed, will involve the payment of arrears from the date
of discharge in case of an invalid and from date of death or
termination of a prior right in all other cases.

From all the data obtainable it is estimated that 15 per cent of the
number of claims now pending will be rejected or abandoned. This
would show the probable rejection of 34,040 cases and the
probable admission of about 193,000 claims, all of which involve
the payment of arrears of pension.

With the present force employed, the number of adjudications
remaining the same and no new business intervening, this number
of claims (193,000) could be acted upon in a period of six years;
and taking January 1, 1884, as a near period from which to estimate
in each case an average amount of arrears, it is found that every
case allowed would require for the first payment upon it the sum
of $1,350.

Multiplying this amount by the whole number of probable admissions
gives $250,000,000 as the sum required for first payment. This
represents the sum which must be paid upon claims which were
filed before July 1, 1880, and are now pending and entitled to the
benefits of the arrears act.

From this amount ($250,000,000) may be deducted from ten to fifteen
millions for cases where, the claimant dying, there is no
person who under the law would be entitled to succeed to the
pension, leaving $235,000,000 as the probable amount to be paid.

In these estimates no account has been taken of the 38,500 cases
filed since June 30, 1880, and now pending, which must receive
attention as current business, but which do not involve the payment
of any arrears beyond the date of filing the claim. Of this
number it is estimated that 86 per cent will be allowed.

As has been stated, with the present force of the Pension
Bureau (675 clerks) it is estimated that it will take six
years to dispose of the claims now pending.

It is stated by the Commissioner of Pensions that by an addition
of 250 clerks (increasing the adjudicating force rather than the
mechanical) double the amount of work could be accomplished, so
that these cases could be acted upon within three years.

Aside from the considerations of justice which, may be urged
for a speedy settlement of the claims now on the files of the Pension
Office, it is no less important on the score of economy, inasmuch
as fully one-third of the clerical force of the office is now
wholly occupied in giving attention to correspondence with
the thousands of claimants whose cases have been on the files
for the past eighteen years. The fact that a sum so enormous must
be expended by the Government to meet demands for arrears of
pensions is an admonition to Congress and the Executive to give
cautious consideration to any similar project in the future.

The great temptation to the presentation of fictitious claims afforded
by the fact that the average sum obtained upon each application
is $1,300 leads me to suggest the propriety of making some special
appropriation for the prevention of fraud.

I advise appropriations for such internal improvements as the
wisdom of Congress may deem to be of public importance. The
necessity of improving the navigation of the Mississippi River
justifies a special allusion to that subject. I suggest the
adoption of some measure for the removal of obstructions which
now impede the navigation of that great channel of commerce.

In my letter accepting the nomination for the Vice-Presidency I
stated that in my judgment--
No man should be the incumbent of an office the duties of which he
is for any cause unfit to perform; who is lacking in the ability,
fidelity, or integrity which a proper administration of such office
demands.

This sentiment would doubtless meet with general acquiescence, but
opinion has been widely divided upon the wisdom and practicability
of the various reformatory schemes which have been suggested and
of certain proposed regulations governing appointments to public
office.

The efficiency of such regulations has been distrusted mainly
because they have seemed to exalt mere educational and abstract
tests above general business capacity and even special fitness
for the particular work in hand. It seems to me that the rules
which should be applied to the management of the public service
may properly conform in the main to such as regulate the conduct
of successful private business:
Original appointments should be based upon ascertained fitness.

The tenure of office should be stable.

Positions of responsibility should, so far as practicable, be
filled by the promotion of worthy and efficient officers.

The investigation of all complaints and the punishment of all
official misconduct should be prompt and thorough.

The views expressed in the foregoing letter are those which will
govern my administration of the executive office. They are
doubtless shared by all intelligent and patriotic citizens,
however divergent in their opinions as to the best methods of
putting them into practical operation.

For example, the assertion that "original appointments should
be based upon ascertained fitness" is not open to dispute.

But the question how in practice such fitness can be most effectually
ascertained is one which has for years excited interest and
discussion.

The measure which, with slight variations in its details, has lately
been urged upon the attention of Congress and the Executive
has as its principal feature the scheme of competitive
examination.

Save for certain exceptions, which need not here be specified, this
plan would allow admission to the service only in its lowest grade,
and would accordingly demand that all vacancies in higher positions
should be filled by promotion alone. In these particulars it is
in conformity with the existing civil-service system of Great
Britain; and indeed the success which has attended that system
in the country of its birth is the strongest argument which has
been urged for its adoption here.

The fact should not, however, be overlooked that there are certain
features of the English system which have not generally been
received with favor in this country, even among the foremost
advocates of civil-service reform.

Among them are:

1. A tenure of office which is substantially a life tenure.

2. A limitation of the maximum age at which an applicant can
enter the service, whereby all men in middle life or older are,
with some exceptions, rigidly excluded.

3. A retiring allowance upon going out of office.

These three elements are as important factors of the problem as
any of the others. To eliminate them from the English system would
effect a most radical change in its theory and practice.

The avowed purpose of that system is to induce the educated young
men of the country to devote their lives to public employment by
an assurance that having once entered upon it they need never leave
it, and that after voluntary retirement they shall be the recipients
of an annual pension.

That this system as an entirety has proved very successful in
Great Britain seems to be generally conceded even by those who
once opposed its adoption.

To a statute which should incorporate all its essential
features I should feel bound to give my approval; but whether it
would be for the best interests of the public to fix upon an
expedient for immediate and extensive application which
embraces certain features of the English system, but excludes
or ignores others of equal importance, may be seriously doubted,
even by those who are impressed, as I am myself, with the grave
importance of correcting the evils which inhere in the present
methods of appointment.

If, for example, the English rule which shuts out persons
above the age of 25 years from a large number of public employments
is not to be made an essential part of our own system, it is
questionable whether the attainment of the highest number
of marks at a competitive examination should be the criterion by
which all applications for appointment should be put to test.
And under similar conditions it may also be questioned whether
admission to the service should be strictly limited to its lowest
ranks.

There are very many characteristics which go to make a model
civil servant. Prominent among them are probity, industry, good
sense, good habits, good temper, patience, order, courtesy, tact,
self-reliance, manly deference to superior officers, and manly
consideration for inferiors. The absence of these traits is not
supplied by wide knowledge of books, or by promptitude in answering
questions, or by any other quality likely to be brought to light
by competitive examination.

To make success in such a contest, therefore, an indispensable
condition of public employment would very likely result in the
practical exclusion of the older applicants, even though they might
possess qualifications far superior to their younger and more
brilliant competitors.

These suggestions must not be regarded as evincing any spirit of
opposition to the competitive plan, which has been to some extent
successfully employed already, and which may hereafter vindicate
the claim of its most earnest supporters; but it ought to be
seriously considered whether the application of the same
educational standard to persons of mature years and to young men
fresh from school and college would not be likely to exalt mere
intellectual proficiency above other qualities of equal or
greater importance.

Another feature of the proposed system is the selection by
promotion of all officers of the Government above the lowest
grade, except such as would fairly be regarded as exponents of
the policy of the Executive and the principles of the dominant
party.

To afford encouragement to faithful public servants by exciting
in their minds the hope of promotion if they are found to merit
it is much to be desired.

But would it be wise to adopt a rule so rigid as to permit no other
mode of supplying the intermediate walks of the service?

There are many persons who fill subordinate positions with great
credit, but lack those qualities which are requisite for higher
posts of duty; and, besides, the modes of thought and action of
one whose service in a governmental bureau has been long continued
are often so cramped by routine procedure as almost to disqualify
him from instituting changes required by the public interests.

An infusion of new blood from time to time into the middle ranks
of the service might be very beneficial in its results.

The subject under discussion is one of grave importance. The evils
which are complained of can not be eradicated at once; the work
must be gradual.

The present English system is a growth of years, and was not
created by a single stroke of executive or legislative action.

Its beginnings are found in an order in council promulgated in 1855,
and it was after patient and cautious scrutiny of its workings
that fifteen years later it took its present shape.

Five years after the issuance of the order in council, and at a
time when resort had been had to competitive examinations as an
experiment much more extensively than has yet been the case
in this country, a select committee of the House of Commons made a
report to that House which, declaring its approval of the competitive
plan, deprecated, nevertheless, any precipitancy in its general
adoption as likely to endanger its ultimate success.

During this tentative period the results of the two methods of pass
examination and competitive examination were closely watched and
compared. It may be that before we confine ourselves upon this
important question within the stringent bounds of statutory
enactment we may profitably await the result of further inquiry
and experiment.

The submission of a portion of the nominations to a central board
of examiners selected solely for testing the qualifications of
applicants may perhaps, without resort to the competitive test, put
an end to the mischiefs which attend the present system of appointment,
and it may be feasible to vest in such a board a wide discretion
to ascertain the characteristics and attainments of candidates in
those particulars which I have already referred to as being no less
important than mere intellectual attainment.

If Congress should deem it advisable at the present session to
establish competitive tests for admission to the service, no doubts
such as have been suggested shall deter me from giving the measure
my earnest support.

And I urgently recommend, should there be a failure to pass any other
act upon this subject, that an appropriation of $25,000 per year
may be made for the enforcement of section 1753 of the Revised
Statutes.

With the aid thus afforded me I shall strive to execute the provisions
of that law according to its letter and spirit.

I am unwilling, in justice to the present civil servants
of the Government, to dismiss this subject without declaring my
dissent from the severe and almost indiscriminate censure with
which they have been recently assailed. That they
are as a class indolent, inefficient, and corrupt is a statement
which has been often made and widely credited; but when the extent,
variety, delicacy, and importance of their duties are considered
the great majority of the employees of the Government are, in my
judgment, deserving of high commendation.

The continuing decline of the merchant marine of the United States
is greatly to be deplored. In view of the fact that we furnish so
large a proportion of the freights of the commercial world and
that our shipments are steadily and rapidly increasing, it is cause
of surprise that not only is our navigation interest diminishing,
but it is less than when our exports and imports were not half
so large as now, either in bulk or value. There must be some
peculiar hindrance to the development of this interest, or the
enterprise and energy of American mechanics and capitalists
would have kept this country at least abreast of our rivals in the
friendly contest for ocean supremacy.

The substitution of iron for wood and of steam for sail have wrought
great revolutions in the carrying trade of the world; but these
changes could not have been adverse to America if we had given
to our navigation interests a portion of the aid and protection
which have been so wisely bestowed upon our manufactures.

I commend the whole subject to the wisdom of Congress, with
the suggestion that no question of greater magnitude or farther
reaching importance can engage their attention.

In 1875 the Supreme Court of the United States declared unconstitutional
the statutes of certain States which imposed upon shipowners
or consignees a tax of $1.50 for each passenger arriving from a
foreign country, or in lieu thereof required a bond to indemnify
the State and local authorities against expense for the future
relief or support of such passenger.

Since this decision the expense attending the care and
supervision of immigrants has fallen on the States at whose ports
they have landed. As a large majority of such immigrants, immediately
upon their arrival, proceed to the inland States and the Territories
to seek permanent homes, it is manifestly unjust to impose upon
the State whose shores they first reach, the burden which it now
bears.

For this reason, and because of the national importance of the
subject, I recommend legislation regarding the supervision and
transitory care of immigrants at the ports of debarkation.

I regret to state that the people of Alaska have reason to
complain that they are as yet unprovided with any form of
government by which life or property can be protected. While the
extent of its population does not justify the application of the
costly machinery of Territorial administration, there is immediate
necessity for constituting such a form of government as will promote
the education of the people and secure the administration of
justice.

The Senate at its last session passed a bill providing for the
construction of a building for the Library of Congress, but it
failed to become a law.

The provision of suitable protection for this great collection of
books and for the copyright department connected with it has
become a subject of national importance and should receive prompt
attention.

The report of the Commissioners of the District of Columbia
herewith transmitted will inform you fully of the condition of the
affairs of the District.

They urge the vital importance of legislation for the reclamation
and improvement of the marshes and for the establishment of the
harbor lines along the Potomac River front.

It is represented that in their present condition these marshes
seriously affect the health of the residents of the
adjacent parts of the city, and that they greatly mar the general
aspect of the park in which stands the Washington Monument.

Like the squids and cuttlefish, of which it was the
prototype, it had an internal calcareous shell. This consisted of
a chambered and siphuncled cone, whose point was sheathed in a
long solid guard somewhat like a dart. The animal carried an ink
sac, and no doubt used it as that of the modern cuttlefish is
used,--to darken the water and make easy an escape from foes.
Belemnites have sometimes been sketched with fossil sepia, or
india ink, from their own ink sacs. In the belemnites and their
descendants, the squids and cuttlefish, the cephalopods made the
radical change from external to the internal shell. They abandoned
the defensive system of warfare and boldly took up the offensive.
No doubt, like their descendants, the belemnites were exceedingly
active and voracious creatures.

FISHES AND AMPHIBIANS. In the Triassic and Jurassic, little
progress was made among the fishes, and the ganoid was still the
leading type. In the Cretaceous the teleosts, or bony fishes, made
their appearance, while ganoids declined toward their present
subordinate place.

The amphibians culminated in the Triassic, some being formidable
creatures as large as alligators. They were still of the primitive
Paleozoic types. Their pygmy descendants of more modern types are
not found until later, salamanders appearing first in the
Cretaceous, and frogs at the beginning of the Cenozoic.

No remains of amphibians have been discovered in the Jurassic. Do
you infer from this that there were none in existence at that
time?

REPTILES OF THE MESOZOIC

The great order of Reptiles made its advent in the Permian,
culminated in the Triassic and Jurassic, and began to decline in
the Cretaceous. The advance from the amphibian to the reptile was
a long forward step in the evolution of the vertebrates. In the
reptile the vertebrate skeleton now became completely ossified.
Gills were abandoned and breathing was by lungs alone. The
development of the individual from the egg to maturity was
uninterrupted by any metamorphosis, such as that of the frog when
it passes from the tadpole stage. Yet in advancing from the
amphibian to the reptile the evolution of the vertebrate was far
from finished. The cold-blooded, clumsy and sluggish, small-
brained and unintelligent reptile is as far inferior to the higher
mammals, whose day was still to come, as it is superior to the
amphibian and the fish.

The reptiles of the Permian, the earliest known, were much like
lizards in form of body. Constituting a transition type between
the amphibians on the one hand, and both the higher reptiles and
the mammals on the other, they retained the archaic biconcave
vertebra of the fish and in some cases the persistent notochord,
while some of them, the theromorphs, possessed characters allying
them with mammals. In these the skull was remarkably similar to
that of the carnivores, or flesh-eating mammals, and the teeth,
unlike the teeth of any later reptiles, were divisible into
incisors, canines, and molars, as are the teeth of mammals.

At the opening of the Mesozoic era reptiles were the most highly
organized and powerful of any animals on the earth. New ranges of
continental extent were opened to them, food was abundant, the
climate was congenial, and they now branched into very many
diverse types which occupied and ruled all fields,--the land, the
air, and the sea. The Mesozoic was the Age of Reptiles.

THE ANCESTRY OF SURVIVING REPTILIAN TYPES. We will consider first
the evolution of the few reptilian types which have survived to
the present.

Crocodiles, the highest of existing reptiles, are a very ancient
order, dating back to the lower Jurassic, and traceable to earlier
ancestral, generalized forms, from which sprang several other
orders also.

Turtles and tortoises are not found until the early Jurassic, when
they already possessed the peculiar characteristics which set them
off so sharply from other reptiles. They seem to have lived at
first in shallow water and in swamps, and it is not until after
the end of the Mesozoic that some of the order became adapted to
life on the land.

The largest of all known turtles, Archelon, whose home was the
great interior Cretaceous sea, was fully a dozen feet in length
and must have weighed at least two tons. The skull alone is a yard
long.

Lizards and snakes do not appear until after the close of the
Mesozoic, although their ancestral lines may be followed back into
the Cretaceous.

We will now describe some of the highly specialized orders
peculiar to the Mesozoic.

LAND REPTILES. The DINOSAURS (terrible reptiles) are an extremely
varied order which were masters of the land from the late Trias
until the close of the Mesozoic era. Some were far larger than
elephants, some were as small as cats; some walked on all fours,
some were bipedal; some fed on the luxuriant tropical foliage, and
others on the flesh of weaker reptiles. They may be classed in
three divisions,--the FLESH-EATING DINOSAURS, the REPTILE-FOOTED
DINOSAURS, and the BEAKED DINOSAURS,--the latter two divisions
being herbivorous.

The FLESH-EATING DINOSAURS are the oldest known division of the
order, and their characteristics are shown in Figure 329. As a
class, reptiles are egg layers (oviparous); but some of the flesh-
eating dinosaurs are known to have been VIVIPAROUS, i.e. to have
brought forth their young alive. This group was the longest-lived
of any of the three, beginning in the Trias and continuing to the
close of the Mesozoic era.

Contrast the small fore limbs, used only for grasping, with the
powerful hind limbs on which the animal stalked about. Some of the
species of this group seem to have been able to progress by
leaping in kangaroo fashion. Notice the sharp claws, the ponderous
tail, and the skull set at right angles with the spinal column.
The limb bones are hollow. The ceratosaurs reached a length of
some fifteen feet, and were not uncommon in Colorado and the
western lands in Jurassic times.

The REPTILE-FOOTED DINOSAURS (Sauropoda) include some of the
biggest brutes which ever trod the ground. One of the largest,
whose remains are found entombed in the Jurassic rocks of Wyoming
and Colorado, is shown in Figure 330.

Note the five digits on the hind feet, the quadrupedal gait, the
enormous stretch of neck and tail, the small head aligned with the
vertebral column. Diplodocus was fully sixty-five feet long and
must have weighed about twenty tons. The thigh bones of the
Sauropoda are the largest bones which ever grew. That of a genus
allied to the Diplodocus measures six feet and eight inches, and
the total length of the animal must have been not far from eighty
feet, the largest land animal known.

The Sauropoda became extinct when their haunts along the rivers
and lakes of the western plains of Jurassic times were invaded by
the Cretaceous interior sea.

The BEAKED DINOSAURS(Predentata) were distinguished by a beak
sheathed with horn carried in front of the tooth-set jaw, and
used, we may imagine, in stripping the leaves and twigs of trees
and shrubs. We may notice only two of the most interesting types.

STEGOSAURUS (plated reptile) takes its name from the double row of
bony plates arranged along its back. The powerful tail was armed
with long spines, and the thick skin was defended with irregular
bits of bone implanted in it. The brain of the stegosaur was
smaller than that of any land vertebrate, while in the sacrum the
nerve canal was enlarged to ten times the capacity of the brain
cavity of the skull. Despite their feeble wits, this well-armored
family lived on through millions of years which intervened between
their appearance, at the opening of the Jurassic, and the close of
the Cretaceous, when they became extinct.

A less stupid brute than the stegosaur was TRICERATOPS, the
dinosaur of the three horns,--one horn carried on the nose, and a
massive pair set over the eyes. Note the enormous wedge-shaped
skull, with its sharp beak, and the hood behind resembling a
fireman's helmet. Triceratops was fully twenty-five feet long, and
of twice the bulk of an elephant. The family appeared in the Upper
Cretaceous and became extinct at its close. Their bones are found
buried in the fresh-water deposits of the time from Colorado to
Montana and eastward to the Dakotas.

MARINE REPTILES. In the ocean, reptiles occupied the place now
held by the aquatic mammals, such as whales and dolphins, and
their form and structure were similarly modified to suit their
environment. In the Ichthyosaurus (fish reptile), for example, the
body was fishlike in form, with short neck and large, pointed head
(Fig. 333).

A powerful tail, whose flukes were set vertical, and the lower one
of which was vertebrated, served as propeller, while a large
dorsal fin was developed as a cutwater. The primitive biconcave
vertebrae of the fish and of the early land vertebrates were
retained, and the limbs degenerated into short paddles. The skin
of the ichthyosaur was smooth like that of a whale, and its food
was largely fish and cephalopods, as the fossil contents of its
stomach prove.

These sea monsters disported along the Pacific shore over northern
California in Triassic times, and the bones of immense members of
the family occur in the Jurassic strata of Wyoming. Like whales
and seals, the ichthyosaurs were descended from land vertebrates
which had become adapted to a marine habitat.

PLESIOSAURS were another order which ranged throughout the
Mesozoic. Descended from small amphibious animals, they later
included great marine reptiles, characterized in the typical genus
by long neck, snakelike head, and immense paddles. They swam in
the Cretaceous interior sea of western North America.

MOSASAURS belong to the same order as do snakes and lizards, and
are an offshoot of the same ancestral line of land reptiles. These
snakelike creatures--which measured as much as forty-five feet in
length--abounded in the Cretaceous seas. They had large conical
teeth, and their limbs had become stout paddles.

The lower jaw of the mosasaur was jointed; the quadrate bone,
which in all reptiles connects the bone of the lower jaw with the
skull, was movable, and as in snakes the lower jaw could be used
in thrusting prey down the throat. The family became extinct at
the end of the Mesozoic, and left no descendants. One may imitate
the movement of the lower jaw of the mosasaur by extending the
arms, clasping the hands, and bending the elbows.

FLYING REPTILES. The atmosphere, which had hitherto been tenanted
only by insects, was first conquered by the vertebrates in the
Mesozoic. Pterosaurs, winged reptiles, whose whole organism was
adapted for flight through the air, appeared in the Jurassic and
passed off the stage of existence before the end of the
Cretaceous. The bones were hollow, as are those of birds. The
sternum, or breastbone, was given a keel for the attachment of the
wing muscles. The fifth finger, prodigiously lengthened, was
turned backward to support a membrane which was attached to the
body and extended to the base of the tail. The other fingers were
free, and armed with sharp and delicate claws, as shown in Figures
336 and 337.

These "dragons of the air" varied greatly in size; some were as
small as sparrows, while others surpassed in stretch of wing the
largest birds of the present day. They may be divided into two
groups. The earliest group comprises genera with jaws set with
teeth, and with long tails sometimes provided with a rudderlike
expansion at the end. In their successors of the later group the
tail had become short, and in some of the genera the teeth had
disappeared. Among the latest of the flying reptiles was
ORNITHOSTOMA (bird beak), the largest creature which ever flew,
and whose remains are imbedded in the offshore deposits of the
Cretaceous sea which held sway over our western plains.
Ornithostoma's spread of wings was twenty feet. Its bones were a
marvel of lightness, the entire skeleton, even in its petrified
condition, not weighing more than five or six pounds. The sharp
beak, a yard long, was toothless and bird-like, as its name
suggests

BIRDS. The earliest known birds are found in the Jurassic, and
during the remainder of the Mesozoic they contended with the
flying reptiles for the empire of the air. The first feathered
creatures were very different from the birds of to-day. Their
characteristics prove them an offshoot of the dinosaur line of
reptiles. ARCHAEOPTERYX (ANCIENT BIRD) (Fig. 338) exhibits a
strange mingling of bird and reptile. Like birds, it was fledged
with perfect feathers, at least on wings and tail, but it retained
the teeth of the reptile, and its long tail was vertebrated, a
pair of feathers springing from each joint. Throughout the
Jurassic and Cretaceous the remains of birds are far less common
than those of flying reptiles, and strata representing hundreds of
thousands of years intervene between Archaeopteryx and the next
birds of which we know, whose skeletons occur in the Cretaceous
beds of western Kansas.

MAMMALS. So far as the entries upon the geological record show,
mammals made their advent in a very humble way during the Trias.
These earliest of vertebrates which suckle their young were no
bigger than young kittens, and their strong affinities with the
theromorphs suggest that their ancestors are to be found among
some generalized types of that order of reptiles.

During the long ages of the Mesozoic, mammals continued small and
few, and were completely dominated by the reptiles. Their remains
are exceedingly rare, and consist of minute scattered teeth,--with
an occasional detached jaw,--which prove them to have been flesh
or insect eaters. In the same way their affinities are seen to be
with the lowest of mammals,--the MONOTREMES and MARSUPIALS. The
monotremes,--such as the duckbill mole and the spiny ant-eater of
Australia, reproduce by means of eggs resembling those of
reptiles; the marsupials, such as the opossum and the kangaroo,
bring forth their young alive, but in a very immature condition,
and carry them for some time after birth in the marsupium, a pouch
on the ventral side of the body.


CHAPTER XXI

THE TERTIARY


THE CENOZOIC ERA. The last stages of the Cretaceous are marked by
a decadence of the reptiles. By the end of that period the
reptilian forms characteristic of the time had become extinct one
after another, leaving to represent the class only the types of
reptiles which continue to modern times. The day of the ammonite
and the belemnite also now drew to a close, and only a few of
these cephalopods were left to survive the period. It is therefore
at the close of the Cretaceous that the line is drawn which marks
the end of the Middle Age of geology and the beginning of the
Cenozoic era, the era of modern life,--the Age of Mammals.

In place of the giant reptiles, mammals now become masters of the
land, appearing first in generalized types which, during the long
ages of the era, gradually evolve to higher forms, more
specialized and ever more closely resembling the mammals of the
present. In the atmosphere the flying dragons of the Mesozoic give
place to birds and bats. In the sea, whales, sharks, and teleost
fishes of modern types rule in the stead of huge swimming
reptiles. The lower vertebrates, the invertebrates of land and
sea, and the plants of field and forest take on a modern aspect,
and differ little more from those of to-day than the plants and
animals of different countries now differ from one another. From
the beginning of the Cenozoic era until now there is a steadily
increasing number of species of animals and plants which have
continued to exist to the present time.

The Cenozoic era comprises two divisions,--the TERTIARY period and
the QUATERNARY period.

In the early days of geology the formations of the entire
geological record, so far as it was then known, were divided into
three groups,--the PRIMARY, the SECONDARY (now known as the
Mesozoic), and the TERTIARY, When the third group was subdivided
into two systems, the term Tertiary was retained for the first
system of the two, while the term QUATERNARY was used to designate
the second.

DIVISIONS OF THE TERTIARY. The formations of the Tertiary are
grouped in three divisions,--the PLIOCENE (more recent), the
MIOCENE (less recent), and the EOCENE (the dawn of the recent).
Each of these epochs is long and complex. Their various sub-
divisions are distinguished each by its own peculiar organisms,
and the changes of physical geography recorded in their strata. In
the rapid view which we are compelled to take we can note only a
few of the most conspicuous events of the period.

PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY OF THE TERTIARY IN EASTERN NORTH AMERICA. The
Tertiary rocks of eastern North America are marine deposits and
occupy the coastal lowlands of the Atlantic and Gulf states (Fig.
260). In New England, Tertiary beds occur on the island of
Martha's Vineyard, but not on the mainland; hence the shore line
here stood somewhat farther out than now. From New Jersey
southward the earliest Tertiary sands and clays, still
unconsolidated, leave only a narrow strip of the edge of the
Cretaceous between them and the Triassic and crystalline rocks of
the Piedmont oldland; hence the Atlantic shore here stood farther
in than now, and at the beginning of the period the present
coastal plain was continental delta. A broad belt of Tertiary sea-
laid limestones, sandstones, and shales surrounds the Gulf of
Mexico and extends northward up the Mississippi embayment to the
mouth of the Ohio River; hence the Gulf was then larger than at
present, and its waters reached in a broad bay far up the
Mississippi valley.

Along the Atlantic coast the Mesozoic peneplain may be traced
shoreward to where it disappears from view beneath an
unconformable cover of early Tertiary marine strata. The beginning
of the Tertiary was therefore marked by a subsidence. The wide
erosion surface which at the close of the Mesozoic lay near sea
level where the Appalachian Mountains and their neighboring
plateaus and uplands now stand was lowered gently along its
seaward edge beneath the Tertiary Atlantic to receive a cover of
its sediments.

As the period progressed slight oscillations occurred from time to
time. Strips of coastal plain were added to the land, and as early
as the close of the Miocene the shore lines of the Atlantic and
Gulf states had reached well-nigh their present place. Louisiana
and Florida were the last areas to emerge wholly from the sea,--
Florida being formed by a broad transverse upwarp of the
continental delta at the opening of the Miocene, forming first an
island, which afterwards was joined to the mainland.

THE PACIFIC COAST. Tertiary deposits with marine fossils occur
along the western foothills of the Sierra Nevadas, and are
crumpled among the mountain masses of the Coast Ranges; it is
hence inferred that the Great Valley of California was then a
border sea, separated from the ocean by a chain of mountainous
islands which were upridged into the Coast Ranges at a still later
time. Tertiary marine strata are spread over the lower Columbia
valley and that of Puget Sound, showing that the Pacific came in
broadly there.

THE INTERIOR OF THE WESTERN UNITED STATES. The closing stages of
the Mesozoic were marked, as we have seen, by the upheaval of the
Rocky Mountains and other western ranges. The bases of the
mountains are now skirted by widespread Tertiary deposits, which
form the highest strata of the lofty plateaus from the level of
whose summits the mountains rise. Like the recent alluvium of the
Great Valley of California, these deposits imply low-lying lands
when they were laid, and therefore at that time the mountains rose
from near sea level. But the height at which the Tertiary strata
now stand--five thousand feet above the sea at Denver, and twice
that height in the plateaus of southern Utah--proves that the
plateaus of which the Tertiary strata form a part have been
uplifted during the Cenozoic. During their uplift, warping formed
extensive basins both east and west of the Rockies, and in these
basins stream-swept and lake-laid waste gathered to depths of
hundreds and thousands of feet, as it is accumulating at present
in the Great Valley of California and on the river plains of
Turkestan. The Tertiary river deposits of the High Plains have
already been described. How widespread are these ancient river
plains and beds of fresh-water lakes may be seen in the map of
Figure 260.

THE BAD LANDS. In several of the western states large areas of
Tertiary fresh-water deposits have been dissected to a maze of
hills whose steep sides are cut with innumerable ravines. The
deposits of these ancient river plains and lake beds are little
cemented and because of the dryness of the climate are unprotected
by vegetation; hence they are easily carved by the wet-weather
rills of scanty and infrequent rains. These waterless, rugged
surfaces were named by the early French explorers the BAD LANDS
because they were found so difficult to traverse. The strata of
the Bad Lands contain vast numbers of the remains of the animals
of Tertiary times, and the large amount of barren surface exposed
to view makes search for fossils easy and fruitful. These desolate
tracts are therefore frequently visited by scientific collecting
expeditions.

MOUNTAIN MAKING IN THE TERTIARY. The Tertiary period included
epochs when the earth's crust was singularly unquiet. From time to
time on all the continents subterranean forces gathered head, and
the crust was bent and broken and upridged in lofty mountains.

The Sierra Nevada range was formed, as we have seen, by strata
crumpling at the end of the Jurassic. But since that remote time
the upfolded mountains had been worn to plains and hilly uplands,
the remnants of whose uplifted erosion surfaces may now be traced
along the western mountain slopes. Beginning late in the Tertiary,
the region was again affected by mountain-making movements. A
series of displacements along a profound fault on the eastern side
tilted the enormous earth block of the Sierras to the west,
lifting its eastern edge to form the lofty crest and giving to the
range a steep eastern front and a gentle descent toward the
Pacific.

The Coast Ranges also have had a complex history with many
vicissitudes. The earliest foldings of their strata belong to the
close of the Jurassic, but it was not until the end of the Miocene
that the line of mountainous islands and the heavy sediments which
had been deposited on their submerged flanks were crushed into a
continuous mountain chain. Thick Pliocene beds upon their sides
prove that they were depressed to near sea level during the later
Tertiary. At the close of the Pliocene the Coast Ranges rose along
with the upheaval of the Sierra, and their gradual uplift has
continued to the present time.

The numerous north-south ranges of the Great Basin and the Mount
Saint Elias range of Alaska were also uptilted during the
Tertiary.

During the Tertiary period many of the loftiest mountains of the
earth--the Alps, the Apennines, the Pyrenees, the Atlas, the
Caucasus, and the Himalayas--received the uplift to which they owe
most of their colossal bulk and height, as portions of the
Tertiary sea beds now found high upon their flanks attest. In the
Himalayas, Tertiary marine limestones occur sixteen thousand five
hundred feet above sea level.

VOLCANIC ACTIVITY IN THE TERTIARY. The vast deformations of the
Tertiary were accompanied on a corresponding scale by outpourings
of lava, the outburst of volcanoes, and the intrusion of molten
masses within the crust. In the Sierra Nevadas the Miocene river
gravels of the valleys of the western slope, with their placer
deposits of gold, were buried beneath streams of lava and beds of
tuff. Volcanoes broke forth along the Rocky Mountains and on the
plateaus of Utah, New Mexico, and Arizona.

Mount Shasta and the immense volcanic piles of the Cascades date
from this period. The mountain basin of the Yellowstone Park was
filled to a depth of several thousand feet with tuffs and lavas,
the oldest dating as far back as the beginning of the Tertiary.
Crandall volcano was reared in the Miocene and the latest
eruptions of the Park are far more recent.

THE COLUMBIA AND SNAKE RIVER LAVAS. Still more important is the
plateau of lava, more than two hundred thousand square miles in
area, extending from the Yellowstone Park to the Cascade
Mountains, which has been built from Miocene times to the present.

Over this plateau, which occupies large portions of Idaho,
Washington, and Oregon, and extends into northern California and
Nevada, the country rock is basaltic lava. For thousands of square
miles the surface is a lava plain which meets the boundary
mountains as a lake or sea meets a rugged and deeply indented
coast. The floods of molten rock spread up the mountain valleys
for a score of miles and more, the intervening spurs rising above
the lava like long peninsulas, while here and there an isolated
peak was left to tower above the inundation like an island off a
submerged shore.

The rivers which drain the plateau--the Snake, the Columbia, and
their tributaries--have deeply trenched it, yet their canyons,
which reach the depth of several thousand feet, have not been worn
to the base of the lava except near the margin and where they cut
the summits of mountains drowned beneath the flood. Here and there
the plateau has been deformed. It has been upbent into great
folds, and broken into immense blocks of bedded lava, forming
mountain ranges, which run parallel with the Pacific coast line.
On the edges of these tilted blocks the thickness of the lava is
seen to be fully five thousand feet. The plateau has been built,
like that of Iceland, of innumerable overlapping sheets of lava.
On the canyon walls they weather back in horizontal terraces and
long talus slopes. One may distinguish each successive flow by its
dense central portion, often jointed with large vertical columns,
and the upper portion with its mass of confused irregular columns
and scoriaceous surface. The average thickness of the flows seems
to be about seventy-five feet.

The plateau was long in building. Between the layers are found in
places old soil beds and forest grounds and the sediments of
lakes. Hence the interval between the flows in any locality was
sometimes long enough for clays to gather in the lakes which
filled depressions in the surface. Again and again the surface of
the black basalt was reddened by oxidation and decayed to soil,
and forests had time to grow upon it before the succeeding
inundation sealed the sediments and soils away beneath a sheet of
stone. Near the edges of the lava plain, rivers from the
surrounding mountains spread sheets of sand and gravel on the
surface of one flow after another. These pervious sands,
interbedded with the lava, become the aquifers of artesian wells.

In places the lavas rest on extensive lake deposits, one thousand
feet deep, and Miocene in age as their fossils prove. It is to the
middle Tertiary, then, that the earliest flows and the largest
bulk of the great inundation belong. So ancient are the latest
floods in the Columbia basin that they have weathered to a
residual yellow clay from thirty to sixty feet in depth and
marvelously rich in the mineral substances on which plants feed.

In the Snake River valley the latest lavas are much younger. Their
surfaces are so fresh and undecayed that here the effusive
eruptions may well have continued to within the period of human
history. Low lava domes like those of Iceland mark where last the
basalt outwelled and spread far and wide before it chilled (Fig.
341). In places small mounds of scoria show that the eruptions
were accompanied to a slight degree by explosions of steam. So
fluid was this superheated lava that recent flows have been traced
for more than fifty miles.

The rocks underlying the Columbia lavas, where exposed to view,
are seen to be cut by numerous great dikes of dense basalt, which
mark the fissures through which the molten rock rose to the
surface.

The Tertiary included times of widespread and intense volcanic
action in other continents as well as in North America. In Europe,
Vesuvius and Etna began their career as submarine volcanoes in
connection with earth movements which finally lifted Pliocene
deposits in Sicily to their present height,--four thousand feet
above the sea. By the President:
JAMES G. BLAINE, _Secretary of State_.

FIRST ANNUAL MESSAGE.

WASHINGTON, _December 6, 1881_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States_:

An appalling calamity has befallen the American people since their
chosen representatives last met in the halls where you are
now assembled. We might else recall with unalloyed content
the rare prosperity with which throughout the year the nation has
been blessed.

Its harvests have been plenteous; its varied industries have
thriven; the health of its people has been preserved; it has
maintained with foreign governments the undisturbed relations
of amity and peace. For these manifestations of His favor we owe
to Him who holds our destiny in His hands the tribute of our
grateful devotion.

To that mysterious exercise of His will which has taken from us
the loved and illustrious citizen who was but lately the head of
the nation we bow in sorrow and submission.

The memory of his exalted character, of his noble achievements,
and of his patriotic life will be treasured forever as a sacred
possession of the whole people.

The announcement of his death drew from foreign governments
and peoples tributes of sympathy and sorrow which history will
record as signal tokens of the kinship of nations and the
federation of mankind.

The feeling of good will between our own Government and that of Great
Britain was never more marked than at present. In recognition of
this pleasing fact I directed, on the occasion of the late centennial
celebration at Yorktown, that a salute be given to the British flag.

Save for the correspondence to which I shall refer hereafter
in relation to the proposed canal across the Isthmus of Panama,
little has occurred worthy of mention in the diplomatic
relations of the two countries.

Early in the year the Fortune Bay claims were satisfactorily settled
by the British Government paying in full the sum of £15,000, most
of which has been already distributed.

As the terms of the settlement included compensation for injuries
suffered by our fishermen at Aspee Bay, there has been retained
from the gross award a sum which is deemed adequate for those
claims.

The participation of Americans in the exhibitions at Melbourne
and Sydney will be approvingly mentioned in the reports of the two
exhibitions, soon to be presented to Congress. They will disclose
the readiness of our countrymen to make successful competition in
distant fields of enterprise.

Negotiations for an international copyright convention are in
hopeful progress.

The surrender of Sitting Bull and his forces upon the Canadian
frontier has allayed apprehension, although bodies of British Indians
still cross the border in quest of sustenance.

Upon this subject a correspondence has been opened which promises
an adequate understanding.

Our troops have orders to avoid meanwhile all collisions with
alien Indians.

The presence at the Yorktown celebration of representatives of
the French Republic and descendants of Lafayette and of his
gallant compatriots who were our allies in the Revolution has
served to strengthen the spirit of good will which has always
existed between the two nations.

You will be furnished with the proceedings of the Bimetallic
Conference held during the summer at the city of Paris. No accord
was reached, but a valuable interchange of views was had, and
the conference will next year be renewed.

At the Electrical Exhibition and Congress, also held at Paris, this
country was creditably represented by eminent specialists, who,
in the absence of an appropriation, generously lent their
efficient aid at the instance of the State Department. While
our exhibitors in this almost distinctively American field of
achievement have won several valuable awards, I recommend that
Congress provide for the repayment of the personal expenses
incurred in the public interest by the honorary commissioners and
delegates.

No new questions respecting the status of our naturalized
citizens in Germany have arisen during the year, and the causes of
complaint, especially in Alsace and Lorraine, have practically
ceased through the liberal action of the Imperial Government
in accepting our often-expressed views on the subject.

The application of the treaty of 1868 to the lately acquired Rhenish
provinces has received very earnest attention, and a definite and
lasting agreement on this point is confidently expected. The
participation of the descendants of Baron von Steuben in the
Yorktown festivities, and their subsequent reception by their
American kinsmen, strikingly evinced the ties of good will which
unite the German people and our own.

Our intercourse with Spain has been friendly. An agreement concluded
in February last fixes a term for the labors of the Spanish
and American Claims Commission. The Spanish Government
has been requested to pay the late awards of that Commission, and
will, it is believed, accede to the request as promptly and courteously
as on former occasions.

By recent legislation onerous fines have been imposed upon American
shipping in Spanish and colonial ports for slight irregularities
in manifests. One case of hardship is specially worthy of
attention. The bark _Masonic_, bound for Japan, entered Manila
in distress, and is there sought to be confiscated under Spanish
revenue laws for an alleged shortage in her transshipped cargo.

Though efforts for her relief have thus far proved unavailing,
it is expected that the whole matter will be adjusted in a friendly
spirit.

The Senate resolutions of condolence on the assassination
of the Czar Alexander II were appropriately communicated to the
Russian Government, which in turn has expressed its
sympathy in our late national bereavement. It is desirable that
our cordial relations with Russia should be strengthened by
proper engagements assuring to peaceable Americans who visit the
Empire the consideration which is due to them as citizens of a
friendly state. This is especially needful with respect to
American Israelites, whose classification with the native Hebrews
has evoked energetic remonstrances from this Government.

A supplementary consular agreement with Italy has been sanctioned
and proclaimed, which puts at rest conflicts of jurisdiction in the
case of crimes on shipboard.

Several important international conferences have been held in
Italy during the year. At the Geographical Congress of Venice, the
Beneficence Congress of Milan, and the Hygienic Congress of Turin
this country was represented by delegates from branches of the
public service or by private citizens duly accredited in an
honorary capacity. It is hoped that Congress will give such
prominence to the results of their participation as they may
seem to deserve.

The abolition of all discriminating duties against such colonial
productions of the Dutch East Indies as are imported hither from
Holland has been already considered by Congress. I trust
that at the present session the matter may be favorably concluded.

The insecurity of life and property in many parts of Turkey has
given rise to correspondence with the Porte looking particularly
to the better protection of American missionaries in the Empire.

The condemned murderer of the eminent missionary Dr. Justin W.
Parsons has not yet been executed, although this Government has
repeatedly demanded that exemplary justice be done.

The Swiss Government has again solicited the good offices of our
diplomatic and consular agents for the protection of its citizens
in countries where it is not itself represented. This request
has, within proper limits, been granted.

Our agents in Switzerland have been instructed to protest against
the conduct of the authorities of certain communes in permitting
the emigration to this country of criminals and other objectionable
persons.
Several such persons, through the cooperation of the commissioners
of emigration at New York, have been sent back by the steamers
which brought them. A continuance of this course may prove a
more effectual remedy than diplomatic remonstrance.

Treaties of commerce and navigation and for the regulation of
consular privileges have been concluded with Roumania and Servia
since their admission into the family of European States.

As is natural with contiguous states having like institutions
and like aims of advancement and development, the friendship
of the United States and Mexico has been constantly maintained.

This Government has lost no occasion of encouraging the Mexican
Government to a beneficial realization of the mutual advantages
which will result from more intimate commercial intercourse
and from the opening of the rich interior of Mexico to railway
enterprise. I deem it important that means be provided to restrain
the lawlessness unfortunately so common on the frontier and to
suppress the forays of the reservation Indians on either side of
the Rio Grande.

The neighboring States of Central America have preserved internal
peace, and their outward relations toward us have been those of
intimate friendship. There are encouraging signs of their
growing disposition to subordinate their local interests to those
which are common to them by reason of their geographical
relations.

The boundary dispute between Guatemala and Mexico has afforded
this Government an opportunity to exercise its good offices for
preventing a rupture between those States and for procuring a
peaceable solution of the question.

I cherish strong hope that in view of our relations of amity with
both countries our friendly counsels may prevail.

A special envoy of Guatemala has brought to me the condolences of
his Government and people on the death of President Garfield.

The Costa Rican Government lately framed an engagement with
Colombia for settling boy arbitration the boundary question between
those countries, providing that the post of arbitrator should be
offered successively to the King of the Belgians, the King of Spain,
and the President of the Argentine Confederation.

The King of the Belgians has declined to act, but I am not as
yet advised of the action of the King of Spain. As we have
certain interests in the disputed territory which are protected by
our treaty engagements with one of the parties, it is important
that the arbitration should not without our consent affect our
rights, and this Government has accordingly thought proper to
make its views known to the parties to the agreement, as well as
to intimate them to the Belgian and Spanish Governments.

The questions growing out of the proposed interoceanic waterway
across the Isthmus of Panama are of grave national importance.
This Government has not been unmindful of the solemn obligations
imposed upon it by its compact of 1846 with Colombia, as the
independent and sovereign mistress of the territory crossed by the
canal, and has sought to render them effective by fresh engagements
with the Colombian Republic looking to their practical execution.

The negotiations to this end, after they had reached what appeared
to be a mutually satisfactory solution here, were met in Colombia
by a disavowal of the powers which its envoy had assumed and
by a proposal for renewed negotiation on a modified basis.

Meanwhile this Government learned that Colombia had proposed to the
European powers to join in a guaranty of the neutrality of
the proposed Panama canal--a guaranty which would be in direct
contravention of our obligation as the sole guarantor of the integrity
of Colombian territory and of the neutrality of the canal itself.

My lamented predecessor felt it his duty to place before the European
powers the reasons which make the prior guaranty of the United
States indispensable, and for which the interjection
of any foreign guaranty might be regarded as a superfluous and
unfriendly act.

Foreseeing the probable reliance of the British Government on the
provisions of the Clayton-Bulwer treaty of 1850 as affording room
for a share in the guaranties which the United States covenanted
with Colombia four years before, I have not hesitated to
supplement the action of my predecessor by proposing to Her
Majesty's Government the modification of that instrument and the
abrogation of such clauses thereof as do not comport with the
obligations of the United States toward Colombia or with the vital
needs of the two friendly parties to the compact.

This Government sees with great concern the continuance of the
hostile relations between Chile, Bolivia, and Peru. An early
peace between these Republics is much to be desired, not only
that they may themselves be spared further misery and bloodshed,
but because their continued antagonism threatens consequences
which are, in my judgment, dangerous to the interests of republican
government on this continent and calculated to destroy the best
elements of our free and peaceful civilization.

As in the present excited condition of popular feeling in these
countries there has been serious misapprehension of the position
of the United States, and as separate diplomatic intercourse with
each through independent ministers is sometimes subject, owing to
the want of prompt reciprocal communication, to temporary
misunderstanding, I have deemed it judicious at the present time
to send a special envoy accredited to all and each of them, and
furnished with general instructions which will, I trust, enable him
to bring these powers into friendly relations.

The Government of Venezuela maintains its attitude of warm friendship
and continues with great regularity its payment of the monthly
quota of the diplomatic debt. Without suggesting the direction
in which Congress should act, I ask its attention to the pending
questions affecting the distribution of the sums thus far received.

The relations between Venezuela and France growing out of the
same debt have been for some time past in an unsatisfactory state,
and this Government, as the neighbor and one of the largest creditors
of Venezuela, has interposed its influence with the French Government
with the view of producing a friendly and honorable adjustment.

I regret that the commercial interests between the United States
and Brazil, from which great advantages were hoped a year
ago, have suffered from the withdrawal of the American lines of
communication between the Brazilian ports and our own.

Through the efforts of our minister resident at Buenos Ayres
and the United States minister at Santiago, a treaty has been
concluded between the Argentine Republic and Chile, disposing
of the long-pending Patagonian boundary question. It is a
matter of congratulation that our Government has been afforded
the opportunity of successfully exerting its good influence for
the prevention of disagreements between these Republics of
the American continent.

I am glad to inform you that the treaties lately negotiated
with China have been duly ratified on both sides and the
exchange made at Peking.
Legislation is necessary to carry their provisions into effect. The
prompt and friendly spirit with which the Chinese Government,
at the request of the United States, conceded the modification
of existing treaties should secure careful regard for the interests
and susceptibilities of that Government in the enactment of any
laws relating to Chinese immigration.

Those clauses of the treaties which forbid the participation of
citizens or vessels of the United States in the opium trade will
doubtless receive your approval. They will attest the sincere
interest which our people and Government feel in the commendable
efforts of the Chinese Government to put a stop to this demoralizing
and destructive traffic.

In relation both to China and Japan some changes are desirable
in our present system of consular jurisdiction. I hope at some
future time to lay before you a scheme for its improvement in
the entire East.

The intimacy between our own country and Japan, the most advanced
of the Eastern nations, continues to be cordial. I am advised
that the Emperor contemplates the establishment of full constitutional
government, and that he has already summoned a parliamentary
congress for the purpose of effecting the change. Such a
remarkable step toward complete assimilation with the Western
system can not fail to bring Japan into closer and more beneficial
relationship with ourselves as the chief Pacific power.

A question has arisen in relation to the exercise in that country
of the judicial functions conferred upon our ministers and
consuls. The indictment, trial, and conviction in the consular
court at Yokohama of John Ross, a merchant seaman on board an
American vessel, have made it necessary for the Government to
institute a careful examination into the nature and methods of
this jurisdiction.

It appeared that Ross was regularly shipped under the flag of the
United States, but was by birth a British subject.

My predecessor felt it his duty to maintain the position that
during his service as a regularly shipped seaman on board an
American merchant vessel Ross was subject to the laws of that
service and to the jurisdiction of the United States consular
authorities.

I renew the recommendation which has been heretofore urged by the
Executive upon the attention of Congress, that after the deduction
of such amount as may be found due to American citizens the balance
of the indemnity funds heretofore obtained from China and
Japan, and which are now in the hands of the State Department, be
returned to the Governments of those countries.

The King of Hawaii, in the course of his homeward return after
a journey around the world, has lately visited this country. While
our relations with that Kingdom are friendly, this Government
has viewed with concern the efforts to seek replenishment of the
diminishing population of the islands from outward sources, to a
degree which may impair the native sovereignty and independence,
in which the United States was among the first to testify a lively
interest.

Relations of unimpaired amity have been maintained throughout the
year with the respective Governments of Austria-Hungary,
Belgium, Denmark, Hayti, Paraguay and Uruguay, Portugal, and Sweden
and Norway. This may also be said of Greece and Ecuador, although
our relations with those States have for some years been severed
by the withdrawal of appropriations for diplomatic representatives
at Athens and Quito. It seems expedient to restore those missions,
even on a reduced scale, and I decidedly recommend such a course
with respect to Ecuador, which is likely within the near future to
play an important part among the nations of the Southern Pacific.

At its last extra session the Senate called for the text of the
Geneva convention for the relief of the wounded in war. I trust
that this action foreshadows such interest in the subject as
will result in the adhesion of the United States to that humane and
commendable engagement.

I invite your attention to the propriety of adopting the new code
of international rules for the prevention of collisions on the
high seas and of conforming the domestic legislation of the
United States thereto, so that no confusion may arise from the
application of conflicting rules in the case of vessels of
different nationalities meeting in tidal waters. These international
rules differ but slightly from our own. They have been adopted by
the Navy Department for the governance of the war ships of the
United States on the high seas and in foreign waters, and, through
the action of the State Department in disseminating the rules and
in acquainting shipmasters with the option of conforming
to them without the jurisdictional waters of the United States,
they are now very generally known and obeyed.

The State Department still continues to publish to the country the
trade and manufacturing reports received from its officers abroad.

The success of this course warrants its continuance and such
appropriation as may be required to meet the rapidly increasing
demand for these publications.

With special reference to the Atlanta Cotton Exposition, the October
number of the reports was devoted to a valuable collection of
papers on the cotton-goods trade of the world.

The International Sanitary Conference for which, in 1879, Congress
made provision assembled in this city early in January last, and
its sessions were prolonged until March. Although it reached
no specific conclusions affecting the future action of the participant
powers, the interchange of views proved to be most valuable.
The full protocols of the sessions have been already presented to
the Senate.

As pertinent to this general subject, I call your attention to the
operations of the National Board of Health.

Established by act of Congress approved March 3, 1879, its sphere
of duty was enlarged by the act of June 2 in the same year. By
the last-named act the board was required to institute such measures
as might be deemed necessary for preventing the introduction of
contagious or infectious diseases from foreign countries into the
United States or from one State into another.

The execution of the rules and regulations prepared by the board and
approved by my predecessor has done much to arrest the progress
of epidemic disease, and has thus rendered substantial service to
the nation.

The International Sanitary Conference, to which I have referred,
adopted a form of a bill of health to be used by all vessels seeking
to enter the ports of the countries whose representatives participated
in its deliberations.

This form has since been prescribed by the National Board of
Health and incorporated with its rules and regulations, which have
been approved by me in pursuance of law.

The health of the people is of supreme importance. All measures
looking to their protection against the spread of contagious diseases
and to the increase of our sanitary knowledge for such purposes
deserve attention of Congress.

The report of the Secretary of the Treasury presents in detail a
highly satisfactory exhibit of the state of the finances and
the condition of the various branches of the public service
administered by that Department.

The drift received its name when it was
supposed that the formation had been drifted by floods and
icebergs from outside sources,--a theory long since abandoned.

The distribution also of the drift points clearly to its peculiar
origin. Within the limits of the glaciated area it covers the
country without regard to the relief, mantling with its debris not
only lowlands and valleys but also highlands and mountain slopes.

The boundary of the drift is equally independent of the relief of
the land, crossing hills and plains impartially, unlike water-laid
deposits, whose margins, unless subsequently deformed, are
horizontal. The boundary of the drift is strikingly lobate also,
bending outward in broad, convex curves, where there are no
natural barriers in the topography of the country to set it such a
limit. Under these conditions such a lobate margin cannot belong
to deposits of rivers, lakes, or ocean, but is precisely that
which would mark the edge of a continental glacier which deployed
in broad tongues of ice.

THE ROCK SURFACE UNDERLYING THE DRIFT. Over much of its area the
drift rests on firm, fresh rock, showing that both the preglacial
mantle of residual waste and the partially decomposed and broken
rock beneath it have been swept away. The underlying rock,
especially if massive, hard, and of a fine grain, has often been
ground down to a smooth surface and rubbed to a polish as perfect
as that seen on the rock beside an Alpine glacier where the ice
has recently melted back. Frequently it has been worn to the
smooth, rounded hummocks known as roches moutonnees, and even
rocky hills have been thus smoothed to flowing outlines like
roches moutonnees on a gigantic scale. The rock pavement beneath
the drift is also marked by long, straight, parallel scorings,
varying in size from deep grooves to fine striae as delicate as
the hair lines cut by an engraver's needle. Where the rock is soft
or closely jointed it is often shattered to a depth of several
feet beneath the drift, while stony clay has been thrust in among
the fragments into which the rock is broken.

In the presence of these glaciated surfaces we cannot doubt that
the area of the drift has been overridden by vast sheets of ice
which, in their steady flow, rasped and scored the rock bed
beneath by means of the stones with which their basal layers were
inset, and in places plucked and shattered it.

TILL. The unstratified portion of the drift consists chiefly of
sheets of dense, stony clay called till, which clearly are the
ground moraines of ancient continental glaciers. Till is an
unsorted mixture of materials of all sizes, from fine clay and
sand, gravel, pebbles, and cobblestones, to large bowlders. The
stones of the till are of many kinds, some having been plucked
from the bed rock of the locality where they are found, and others
having been brought from outside and often distant places. Land
ice is the only agent known which can spread unstratified material
in such extensive sheets.

The FINE MATERIAL of the till comes from two different sources. In
part it is derived from old residual clays, which in the making
had been leached of the lime and other soluble ingredients of the
rock from which they weathered. In part it consists of sound rock
ground fine; a drop of acid on fresh, clayey till often proves by
brisk effervescence that the till contains much undecayed
limestone flour. The ice sheet, therefore, both scraped up the
mantle of long-weathered waste which covered the coun try before
its coming, and also ground heavily upon the sound rock
underneath, and crushed and wore to rock flour the fragments which
it carried.

The color of unweathered till depends on that of the materials of
which it is composed. Where red sandstones have contributed
largely to its making, as over the Triassic sandstones of the
eastern states and the Algonkian sandstones about Lake Superior,
the drift is reddish. When derived in part from coaly shales, as
over many outcrops of the Pennsylvanian, it may when moist be
almost black. Fresh till is normally a dull gray or bluish, so
largely is it made up of the grindings of unoxidized rocks of
these common colors.

Except where composed chiefly of sand or coarser stuff,
unweathered till is often exceedingly dense. Can you suggest by
what means it has been thus compacted? Did the ice fields of the
Glacial epoch bear heavy surface moraines like the medial and
lateral moraines of valley glaciers? Where was the greater part of
the load of these ice fields carried, judging from what you know
of the glaciers of Greenland?

BOWLDERS OF THE DRIFT. The pebbles and bowlders of the drift are
in part stream gravels, bowlders of weathering, and other coarse
rock waste picked up from the surface of the country by the
advancing ice, and in part are fragments plucked from ledges of
sound rock after the mantle of waste had been removed. Many of the
stones of the till are dressed as only glacier ice can do; their
sharp edges have been blunted and their sides faceted and scored.

We may easily find all stages of this process represented among
the pebbles of the till. Some are little worn, even on their
edges; some are planed and scored on one side only; while some in
their long journey have been ground down to many facets and have
lost much of their original bulk. Evidently the ice played fast
and loose with a stone carried in its basal layers, now holding it
fast and rubbing it against the rock beneath, now loosening its
grasp and allowing the stone to turn.

Bowlders of the drift are sometimes found on higher ground than
their parent ledges. Thus bowlders have been left on the sides of
Mount Katahdin, Maine, which were plucked from limestone ledges
twelve miles distant and three thousand feet lower than their
resting place. In other cases stones have been carried over
mountain ranges, as in Vermont, where pebbles of Burlington red
sandstone were dragged over the Green Mountains, three thousand
feet in height, and left in the Connecticut valley sixty miles
away. No other geological agent than glacier ice could do this
work.

The bowlders of the drift are often large. Bowlders ten and twenty
feet in diameter are not uncommon, and some are known whose
diameter exceeds fifty feet. As a rule the average size of
bowlders decreases with increasing distance from their sources.
Why?

TILL PLAINS. The surface of the drift, where left in its initial
state, also displays clear proof of its glacial origin. Over large
areas it is spread in level plains of till, perhaps bowlder-
dotted, similar to the plains of stony clay left in Spitzbergen by
the recent retreat of some of the glaciers of that island. In
places the unstratified drift is heaped in hills of various kinds,
which we will now describe.

DRUMLINS. Drumlins are smooth, rounded hills composed of till,
elliptical in base, and having their longer axes parallel to the
movement of the ice as shown by glacial scorings. They crowd
certain districts in central New York and in southern Wisconsin,
where they may be counted by the thousands. Among the numerous
drumlins about Boston is historic Bunker Hill.

Drumlins are made of ground moraine. They were accumulated and
given shape beneath the overriding ice, much as are sand bars in a
river, or in some instances were carved, like roches moutonnees,
by an ice sheet out of the till left by an earlier ice invasion.

TERMINAL MORAINES. The glaciated area is crossed by belts of
thickened drift, often a mile or two, and sometimes even ten miles
and more, in breadth, which lie transverse to the movement of the
ice and clearly are the terminal moraines of ancient ice sheets,
marking either the limit of their farthest advance or pauses in
their general retreat.

The surface of these moraines is a jumble of elevations and
depressions, which vary from low, gentle swells and shallow sags
to sharp hills, a hundred feet or so in height, and deep, steep-
sided hollows. Such tumultuous hills and hummocks, set with
depressions of all shapes, which usually are without outlet and
are often occupied by marshes, ponds, and lakes, surely cannot be
the work of running water. The hills are heaps of drift, lodged
beneath the ice edge or piled along its front. The basins were
left among the tangle of morainic knolls and ridges as the margin
of the ice moved back and forth. Some bowl-shaped basins were made
by the melting of a mass of ice left behind by the retreating
glacier and buried in its debris.

THE STRATIFIED DRIFT. Like modern glaciers the ice sheets of the
Pleistocene were ever being converted into water about their
margins. Their limits on the land were the lines where their
onward flow was just balanced by melting and evaporation. On the
surface of the ice along the marginal zone, rivulets no doubt
flowed in summer, and found their way through crevasses to the
interior of the glacier or to the ground. Subglacial streams, like
those of the Malaspina glacier, issued from tunnels in the ice,
and water ran along the melting ice front as it is seen to do
about the glacier tongues of Greenland. All these glacier waters
flowed away down the chief drainage channels in swollen rivers
loaded with glacial waste.

It is not unexpected therefore that there are found, over all the
country where the melting ice retreated, deposits made of the same
materials as the till, but sorted and stratified by running water.
Some of these were deposited behind the ice front in ice-walled
channels, some at the edge of the glaciers by issuing streams, and
others were spread to long distances in front of the ice edge by
glacial waters as they flowed away.

ESKERS are narrow, winding ridges of stratified sand and gravel
whose general course lies parallel with the movement of the
glacier. These ridges, though evidently laid by running water, do
not follow lines of continuous descent, but may be found to cross
river valleys and ascend their sides. Hence the streams by which
eskers were laid did not flow unconfined upon the surface of the
ground. We may infer that eskers were deposited in the tunnels and
ice-walled gorges of glacial streams before they issued from the
ice front.

KAMES are sand and gravel knolls, associated for the most part
with terminal moraines, and heaped by glacial waters along the
margin of the ice.

KAME TERRACES are hummocky embankments of stratified drift
sometimes found in rugged regions along the sides of valleys. In
these valleys long tongues of glacier ice lay slowly melting.
Glacial waters took their way between the edges of the glaciers
and the hillside, and here deposited sand and gravel in rude
terraces.

Outwash plains are plains of sand and gravel which frequently
border terminal moraines on their outward face, and were spread
evidently by outwash from the melting ice. Outwash plains are
sometimes pitted by bowl-shaped basins where ice blocks were left
buried in the sand by the retreating glacier.

Valley trains are deposits of stratified drift with which river
valleys have been aggraded. Valleys leading outward from the ice
front were flooded by glacial waters and were filled often to
great depths with trains of stream-swept drift. Since the
disappearance of the ice these glacial flood plains have been
dissected by the shrunken rivers of recent times and left on
either side the valley in high terraces. Valley trains head in
morainic plains, and their material grows finer down valley and
coarser toward their sources. Their gradient is commonly greater
than that of the present rivers.

THE EXTENT OF THE DRIFT. The extent of the drift of North America
and its southern limits are best seen in Figure 359. Its area is
reckoned at about four million square miles. The ice fields which
once covered so much of our continent were all together ten times
as large as the inland ice of Greenland, and about equal to the
enormous ice cap which now covers the antartic regions.

The ice field of Europe was much smaller, measuring about seven
hundred and seventy thousand square miles.

CENTERS OF DISPERSION. The direction of the movement of the ice is
recorded plainly in the scorings of the rock surface, in the
shapes of glaciated hills, in the axes of drumlins and eskers, and
in trains of bowlders, when the ledges from which they were
plucked can be discovered. In these ways it has been proved that
in North America there were three centers where ice gathered to
the greatest depth, and from which it flowed in all directions
outward. There were thus three vast ice fields,--one the
Cordilleran, which lay upon the Cordilleras of British America;
one the Keewatin, which flowed out from the province of Keewatin,
west of Hudson Bay; and one the LABRADOR ice field, whose center
of dispersion was on the highlands of the peninsula of Labrador.
As shown in Figure 359, the western ice field extended but a short
way beyond the eastern foothills of the Rocky Mountains, where
perhaps it met the far-traveled ice from the great central field.
The Keewatin and the Labrador ice fields flowed farthest toward
the south, and in the Mississippi valley the one reached the mouth
of the Missouri and the other nearly to the mouth of the Ohio. In
Minnesota and Wisconsin and northward they merged in one vast
field.

The thickness of the ice was so great that it buried the highest
mountains of eastern North America, as is proved by the
transported bowlders which have been found upon their summits. If
the land then stood at its present height above sea level, and if
the average slope of the ice were no more than ten feet to the
mile,--a slope so gentle that the eye could not detect it and less
than half the slope of the interior of the inland ice of
Greenland,--the ice plateaus about Hudson Bay must have reached a
thickness of at least ten thousand feet.

In Europe the Scandinavian plateau was the chief center of
dispersion. At the time of greatest glaciation a continuous field
of ice extended from the Ural Mountains to the Atlantic, where,
off the coasts of Norway and the British Isles, it met the sea in
an unbroken ice wall. On the south it reached to southern England,
Belgium, and central Germany, and deployed on the eastern plains
in wide lobes over Poland and central Russia (Fig. 360).

At the same time the Alps supported giant glaciers many times the
size of the surviving glaciers of to-day, and a piedmont glacier
covered the plains of northern Switzerland.

THE THICKNESS OF THE DRIFT. The drift is far from uniform in
thickness. It is comparatively thin and scanty over the Laurentian
highlands and the rugged regions of New England, while from
southern New York and Ontario westward over the Mississippi
valley, and on the great western plains of Canada, it exceeds an
average of one hundred feet over wide areas, and in places has
five and six times that thickness. It was to this marginal belt
that the ice sheets brought their loads, while northwards, nearer
the centers of dispersion, erosion was excessive and deposition
slight.

SUCCESSIVE ICE INVASIONS AND THEIR DRIFT SHEETS. Recent studies of
the drift prove that it does not consist of one indivisible
formation, but includes a number of distinct drift sheets, each
with its own peculiar features. The Pleistocene epoch consisted,
therefore, of several glacial stages,--during each of which the
ice advanced far southward,--together with the intervening
interglacial stages when, under a milder climate, the ice melted
back toward its sources or wholly disappeared.

The evidences of such interglacial stages, and the means by which
the different drift sheets are told apart, are illustrated in
Figure 361. Here the country from N to S is wholly covered by
drift, but the drift from N to m is so unlike that from m to S
that we may believe it the product of a distinct ice invasion and
deposited during another and far later glacial stage. The former
drift is very young, for its drainage is as yet immature, and
there are many lakes and marshes upon its surface; the latter is
far older, for its surface has been thoroughly dissected by its
streams. The former is but slightly weathered, while the latter is
so old that it is deeply reddened by oxidation and is leached of
its soluble ingredients such as lime. The younger drift is
bordered by a distinct terminal moraine, while the margin of the
older drift is not thus marked. When among creatures fair of countenance
Love comes enformed in such proud character, So far as other
beauty yields to her, So far the breast with fiercer longing
pants; I bless the spot, and hour, and circumstance, That wed
desire to a thing so high, And say, Glad soul, rejoice, for
thou and I Of bliss unpaired are made participants; Hence have
come ardent thoughts and waking dreams That, feeding Fancy from
so sweet a cup, Leave it no lust for gross imaginings.
Through her the woman's perfect beauty gleams That while it gazes
lifts the spirit up To that high source from which all beauty
springs.

Sonnet XII

Like as a dryad, from her native bole Coming at dusk, when the dim
stars emerge, To a slow river at whose silent verge Tall poplars
tremble and deep grasses roll, Come thou no less and, kneeling in
a shoal Of the freaked flag and meadow buttercup, Bend till thine
image from the pool beam up Arched with blue heaven like an aureole.

    See how adorable in fancy
    then Lives the fair
    face it mirrors even so,
    O thou whose beauty
    moving among men Is like the wind's way on the woods below, Filling
all nature where its pathway lies With arms that supplicate and
trembling sighs.

Sonnet XIII

I fancied, while you stood conversing there, Superb, in every
attitude a queen, Her ermine thus Boadicea bare, So moved amid
the multitude Faustine.

My life, whose whole religion Beauty is, Be charged with sin
if ever before yours A lesser feeling crossed my mind than his Who
owning grandeur marvels and adores.
In the
Iowan and the Wisconsin, the closing stages of the Glacial epoch,
the readvancing ice fields fell far short of their former limits
in the Mississippi valley, but in the eastern states the Labrador
ice field during Wisconsin times overrode for the most part all
earlier deposits, and, covering New England, probably met the
ocean in a continuous wall of ice which set its bergs afloat from
Massachusetts to northern Labrador.

We select for detailed description the Kansan and the Wisconsin
formations as representatives, the one of the older and the other
of the younger drift sheets.

THE KANSAN FORMATION. The Kansan drift consists for the most part
of a sheet of clayey till carrying smaller bowlders than the later
drift. Few traces of drumlins, kames, or terminal moraines are
found upon the Kansan drift, and where thick enough to mask the
preexisting surface, it seems to have been spread originally in
level plains of till.

The initial Kansan plain has been worn by running water until
there are now left only isolated patches and the narrow strips and
crests of the divides, which still rise to the ancient level. The
valleys of the larger streams have been opened wide. Their well-
developed tributaries have carved nearly the entire plain to
valley slopes (Figs. 50 B, and 59). The lakes and marshes which
once marked the infancy of the region have long since been
effaced. The drift is also deeply weathered. The till, originally
blue in color, has been yellowed by oxidation to a depth of ten
and twenty feet and even more, and its surface is sometimes rusted
to terra-cotta red. To a somewhat less depth it has been leached
of its lime and other soluble ingredients. In the weathered zone
its pebbles, especially where the till is loose in texture, are
sometimes so rotted that granites may be crumbled with the
fingers. The Kansan drift is therefore old.

THE WISCONSIN FORMATION. The Wisconsin drift sheet is but little
weathered and eroded, and therefore is extremely young. Oxidation
has effected it but slightly, and lime and other soluble plant
foods remain undissolved even at the grass roots. Its river
systems are still in their infancy (Fig. 50, A). Swamps and peat
bogs are abundant on its undrained surface, and to this drift
sheet belong the lake lands of our northern states and of the
Laurentian peneplain of Canada.

The lake basins of the Wisconsin drift are of several different
classes. Many are shallow sags in the ground moraine. The Government
of Japan stands ready to present to us extensive grounds at
Tokyo whereon to erect a suitable building for the legation,
court-house, and jail, and similar privileges can probably be
secured in China and Persia. The owning of such premises would
not only effect a large saving of the present rentals, but would
permit of the due assertion of extraterritorial rights in those
countries, and would the better serve to maintain the dignity
of the United States.

The failure of Congress to make appropriation for our representation
at the autonomous court of the Khedive has proved a serious
embarrassment in our intercourse with Egypt; and in view of the
necessary intimacy of diplomatic relationship due to the participation
of this Government as one of the treaty powers in all matters of
administration there affecting the rights of foreigners, I advise
the restoration of the agency and consulate-general at Cairo on its
former basis.

I do not conceive it to be the wish of Congress that the United
States should withdraw altogether from the honorable position they
have hitherto held with respect to the Khedive, or that citizens
of this Republic residing or sojourning in Egypt should hereafter
be without the aid and protection of a competent representative.

With France the traditional cordial relationship continues. The
colossal statue of Liberty Enlightening the World, the generous
gift of the people of France, is expected to reach New York in May
next.

I suggest that Congressional action be taken in recognition
of the spirit which has prompted this gift and in aid of the timely
completion of the pedestal upon which it is to be placed.

Our relations with Germany, a country which contributes to our own
some of the best elements of citizenship, continue to be cordial.

The United States have extradition treaties with several of the
German States, but by reason of the confederation of those States
under the imperial rule the application of such treaties is
not as uniform and comprehensive as the interests of the two countries
require. I propose, therefore, to open negotiations for a single
convention of extradition to embrace all the territory of the
Empire.

It affords me pleasure to say that our intercourse with Great
Britain continues to be of a most friendly character.

The Government of Hawaii has indicated its willingness to continue
for seven years the provisions of the existing reciprocity treaty.

The repeated ice
invasions of the Pleistocene profoundly disarranged the drainage
systems of our northern states. In some regions the ancient
valleys were completely filled with drift. On the withdrawal of
the ice the streams were compelled to find their way, as best they
could, over a fresh land surface, where we now find them flowing
on the drift in young, narrow channels. But hundreds of feet below
the ground the well driller and the prospector for coal and oil
discover deep, wide, buried valleys cut in rock,--the channels of
preglacial and interglacial streams. In places the ancient valleys
were filled with drift to a depth of a hundred feet, and sometimes
even to a depth of four hundred and five hundred feet. In such
valleys, rivers now flow high above their ancient beds of rock on
floors of valley drift. Many of the valleys of our present rivers
are but patchworks of preglacial, interglacial, and postglacial
courses (Fig. 366). Here the river winds along an ancient valley
with gently sloping sides and a wide alluvial floor perhaps a mile
or so in width, and there it enters a young, rock-walled gorge,
whose rocky bed may be crossed by ledges over which the river
plunges in waterfalls and rapids.

The action opens on the morning of the announcement in _The Times_
of the death of _Caroline's_ extremely difficult husband, who has
long been a wanderer seeking spirituous consolations in out-of-the-way
places of the earth.
In some instances it would seem that
during the waning of the ice sheets, glacial streams, while
confined within walls of stagnant ice, cut down through the ice
and incised their channels on the underlying country, in some
cases being let down on old river courses, and in other cases
excavating gorges in adjacent uplands.

PLEISTOCENE LAKES. Temporary lakes were formed wherever the ice
front dammed the natural drainage of the region. Some, held in the
minor valleys crossed by ice lobes, were small, and no doubt many
were too short-lived to leave lasting records. Others, long held
against the northward sloping country by the retreating ice edge,
left in their beaches their clayey beds, and their outlet channels
permanent evidences of their area and depth. Some of these glacial
lakes are thus known to have been larger than any present lake.

Lake Agassiz, named in honor of the author of the theory of
continental glaciation, is supposed to have been held by the
united front of the Keewatin and the Labrador ice fields as they
finally retreated down the valley of the Red River of the North
and the drainage basin of Lake Winnipeg. From first to last Lake
Agassiz covered a hundred and ten thousand square miles in
Manitoba and the adjacent parts of Minnesota and North Dakota,--an
area larger than all the Great Lakes combined. It discharged its
waters across the divide which held it on the south, and thus
excavated the valley of the Minnesota River. The lake bed--a plain
of till--was spread smooth and level as a floor with lacustrine
silts. Since Lake Agassiz vanished with the melting back of the
ice beyond the outlet by the Nelson River into Hudson Bay, there
has gathered on its floor a deep humus, rich in the nitrogenous
elements so needful for the growth of plants, and it is to this
soil that the region owes its well-known fertility.

THE GREAT LAKES. The basins of the Great Lakes are broad
preglacial river valleys, warped by movements of the crust still
in progress, enlarged by the erosive action of lobes of the
continental ice sheets, and blockaded by their drift. The
complicated glacial and postglacial history of the lakes is
recorded in old strand lines which have been traced at various
heights about them, showing their areas and the levels at which
their waters stood at different times.

With the retreat of the lobate Wisconsin ice sheet toward the
north and east, the southern and western ends of the basins of the
Great Lakes were uncovered first; and here, between the receding
ice front and the slopes of land which faced it, lakes gathered
which increased constantly in size.

The lake which thus came to occupy the western end of the Lake
Superior basin discharged over the divide at Duluth down the St.
RULE XVI.

1. Whenever any officer having the power of appointment or
employment shall so request, there shall be certified to him by the
Commission or the proper examining board four names for the
vacancy specified, to be taken from those graded highest on the
proper register of those in his branch of the service and remaining
eligible, regard being had to any right of preference and to the
apportionment of appointments to States and Territories; and from
the said four a selection shall be made for the vacancy.

But if a person is on both a general and special register he need
be certified from the former only, at the discretion of the
Commission, until he has remained two months upon the latter.

2. These certifications for the service at Washington shall be made
in such order as to apportion, as nearly as may be practicable,
the original appointments thereto among the States and Territories
and the District of Columbia upon the basis of population as
ascertained at the last preceding census.

3.

In case the request for any such certification or any law or
regulation shall call for those of either sex, persons of that sex
shall be certified; otherwise sex shall be disregarded in such
certification.

4. No person upon any register shall be certified more than four
times to the same officer in the customs or postal service
or more than twice to any Department at Washington, unless upon
request of the appointing officer; nor shall anyone remain
eligible more than one year upon any register; but these restrictions
shall not extend to examinations under clause 5 of Rule VII.

No person while remaining eligible on any register shall be admitted
to a new examination, and no person having failed upon any
examination shall within six months thereafter be admitted to
another examination without the consent of the Commission.

5. Any person appointed to or employed in any part of the classified
service, after due certification for the same under these rules,
who shall be dismissed or separated therefrom without cause or
delinquency on his part may be reappointed or reemployed in the
same part or grade of such service at the same office, within eight
months next following such dismissal or separation, without further
examination.

RULE XVII.

1. Every original appointment or employment in said classified
service shall be for the probationary period of six months, at
the end of which time, if the conduct and capacity of the person
appointed have been found satisfactory, the probationer shall be
absolutely appointed or employed, but otherwise be deemed out of
the service.

2. Every officer under whom any probationer shall serve during
any part of the probation provided for by these rules shall carefully
observe the quality and value of the service rendered by such
probationer, and shall report to the proper appointing officer, in
writing, the facts observed by him, showing the character and
qualifications of such probationer and of the service performed by
him; and such report shall be preserved on file.

3.

In almost every valley of the
Sierras and the Rockies the records of these vanished ice streams
may be found in cirques, glacial troughs, roches moutonnecs, and
morainic deposits.

It was during the Glacial epoch that Lakes Bonneville and Lahontan
were established in the Great Basin, whose climate must then have
been much more moist than now.

THE DRIFTLESS AREA. In the upper Mississippi valley there is an
area of about ten thousand square miles in southwestern Wisconsin
and the adjacent parts of Iowa and Minnesota, which escaped the
ice invasions. The rocks are covered with residual clays, the
product of long preglacial weathering. The region is an ancient
peneplain, uplifted and dissected in late Tertiary times, with
mature valleys whose gentle gradients are unbroken by waterfalls
and rapids. Thus the driftless area is in strong contrast with the
immature drift topography about it, where lakes and waterfalls are
common. After slight and almost gay remarks on country occurrences,
and some queries relative to my ideas of London; he touched on the
difficulties which beset the commencement of every career, and the
supreme necessity of patience, and a determination to be cheerful
under all.

"One rule is absolutely essential," wrote he, "never to mourn over
the past, or mope over the future. 'Sufficient unto the day
is the evil thereof,' is a maxim of incomparable wisdom. Never think
of the failures of yesterday, but to avoid them to-morrow, and
never speculate on the failures of to-morrow, but to remember that
you have outlived the failures of to-day.

The French philosophers are now preaching around the world, that
knowledge is power, and so it is, but only as gunpowder is power;
a dangerous invention which blew up the inventor. It requires to
be wisely managed. English experience will tell you, more to
the purpose, that 'perseverance is power;' for with it, all
things can be done, without it nothing. I remember, in the history
of Tamerlane, an incident which, to me, has always had the force
of an apothegm.

"In early life, and when reduced to the utmost distress, defeated
in battle, and without a follower, he one day threw himself
into the ruins of a Tartar caravansera, where he resolved to give
up all further effort, and die. As he lay on the ground,
sunk in despair, his eye was caught by the attempts of an ant to
drag a grain of corn up to its nest in the wall. The load was
too great for it, and the ant and the grain fell to the ground
together.

The trial was renewed, and both fell again.
It was renewed ninety and nine times, and on the hundredth it
succeeded, and the grain was carried into the nest. The thought
instantly struck the prostrate chieftain, 'Shall an insect struggle
ninety and nine times until it succeeds, while I, a man, and the
descendant of heroes, give up all hope after a single
battle?'

He sprang from the ground, and found a troop of his followers
outside, who had been looking for him through the wilderness.
Scimitar in hand, he threw himself on his pursuers, swelled
his troop into an army, his army into myriads, and finished by being
the terror of Europe, the conqueror of Asia, and the wonder of
the world."

The letter finished with general enquiries into the things of the
day, and all good wishes for my career.

It is astonishing what an effect is sometimes produced by
advice, given at the exact moment when we want it. This letter was
the "word in season" of which the "wisest of men" speaks; and I
felt all its influence in my rescue from despondency.

Its simplicity reached my heart more than the most laboured language,
and its manliness seemed a direct summons to whatever was manly
in my nature. I determined thenceforth, to try fortune to the
utmost, to task my powers to the last, to regard difficulties as
only the exercise that was intended to give me strength, and to
render every success only a step to success higher still.

That letter had pushed me another stage towards manhood.

With the Horse Guards' papers in my hand, and the letter of my
old friend placed in a kind of boyish romance, in my bosom,
I went to meet Mordecai and his daughter. The Jew shook his
bushy brows over the rescript which seemed to put a perpetual
extinguisher on my military hopes. But Mariamne was the gayest
of the gay, on what she termed my "fortunate ill-fortune." She had
now completely recovered; said she remembered nothing of her
accident but "the heroism," as she expressed it, "on my part which
had saved her to thank me;" and between her gratitude and her
vivacity, might have given a spectator the idea that M.

Lafontaine was rapidly losing ground with that creature of open lips
and incessant smiles. Her harp was brought, she was an
accomplished performer, and she surprised me by the taste and
tenderness with which she sung a succession of native melodies,
collected in her rambles from Hungary to the Hartz; and from the
Mediterranean to the Alps and Pyrenees.
The bones of the Megatherium are
extraordinarily massive,--the thigh bone being thrice as thick as
that of an elephant,--and the animal seems to have been well able
to get its living by overthrowing trees and stripping off their
leaves. The Glyptodon was a mailed edentate, eight feet long,
resembling the little armadillo. These edentates survived from
Tertiary times, and in the warmer stages of the Pleistocene ranged
north as far as Ohio and Oregon.

The great proboscidians of the Glacial epoch were about the size
of modern elephants, and somewhat smaller than their ancestral
species in the Pliocene. The MASTODON ranged over all North
America south of Hudson Bay, but had become extinct in the Old
World at the end of the Tertiary. The elephants were represented
by the MAMMOTH, which roamed in immense herds from our middle
states to Alaska, and from Arctic Asia to the Mediterranean and
Atlantic.

It is an oft-told story how about a century ago, near the Lena
River in Siberia, there was found the body of a mammoth which had
been safely preserved in ice for thousands of years, how the flesh
was eaten by dogs and bears, and how the eyes and hoofs and
portions of the hide were taken with the skeleton to St.
Petersburg. Since then several other carcasses of the mammoth,
similarly preserved in ice, have been found in the same region,--
one as recently as 1901. We know from these remains that the
animal was clothed in a coat of long, coarse hair, with thick
brown fur beneath.

THE DISTRIBUTION OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS. The distribution of
species in the Glacial epoch was far different from that of the
present. In the glacial stages arctic species ranged south into
what are now temperate latitudes. The walrus throve along the
shores of Virginia and the musk ox grazed in Iowa and Kentucky. In
Europe the reindeer and arctic fox reached the Pyrenees. During
the Champlain depression arctic shells lived along the shore of
the arm of the sea which covered the St. Lawrence valley. In
interglacial times of milder climate the arctic fauna-flora
retreated, and their places were taken by plants and animals from
the south. Peccaries, now found in Texas, ranged into Michigan and
New York, while great sloths from South America reached the middle
states. Interglacial beds at Toronto, Canada, contain remains of
forests of maple, elm, and papaw, with mollusks now living in the
Mississippi basin.

What changes in the forests of your region would be brought about,
and in what way, if the climate should very gradually grow colder?
What changes if it should grow warmer?

On the Alps and the highest summits of the White Mountains of New
England are found colonies of arctic species of plants and
insects. How did they come to be thus separated from their home
beyond the arctic circle by a thousand miles and more of temperate
climate impossible to cross?

MAN. Along with the remains of the characteristic animals of the
time which are now extinct there have been found in deposits of
the Glacial epoch in the Old World relics of Pleistocene MAN, his
bones, and articles of his manufacture. In Europe, where they have
best been studied, human relics occur chiefly in peat bogs, in
loess, in caverns where man made his home, and in high river
terraces sometimes eighty and a hundred feet above the present
flood plains of the streams.

In order to understand the development of early man, we should
know that prehistoric peoples are ranked according to the
materials of which their tools were made and the skill shown in
their manufacture. There are thus four well-marked stages of human
culture preceding the written annals of history:

    4 The Iron stage.
    3 The Bronze stage.
    2 The Neolithic (recent stone) stage.
    1 The Paleolithic (ancient stone) stage.

In the Neolithic stage the use of the metals had not yet been
learned, but tools of stone were carefully shaped and polished. To
this stage the North American Indian belonged at the time of the
discovery of the continent. In the Paleolithic stage, stone
implements were chipped to rude shapes and left unpolished. This,
the lowest state of human culture, has been outgrown by nearly
every savage tribe now on earth. A still earlier stage may once
have existed, when man had not learned so much as to shape his
weapons to his needs, but used chance pebbles and rock splinters
in their natural forms; of such a stage, however, we have no
evidence.

PALEOLITHIC MAN IN EUROPE. It was to the Paleolithic stage that
the earliest men belonged whose relics are found in Europe. They
had learned to knock off two-edged flakes from flint pebbles, and
to work them into simple weapons. The great discovery had been
made that fire could be kindled and made use of, as the charcoal
and the stones discolored by heat of their ancient hearths attest.
Caves and shelters beneath overhanging cliffs were their homes or
camping places. Paleolithic man was a savage of the lowest type,
who lived by hunting the wild beasts of the time.

Skeletons found in certain caves in Belgium and France represent
perhaps the earliest race yet found in Europe. Seven Spaniards and
two Acadians were lying dead within the stockade. We ourselves
were all wounded and hacked about, some with knife-stabs and
sabre-cuts, others with musket-shots; ugly wounds enough, some of
them, but none mortal.

If the Spaniards had returned to the attack they would have
made short work of us; for as soon as we left off fighting and
our blood cooled, we became stiff and helpless. But now came the
women with rags and bandages, and washed our wounds and bound them
up, and we dragged ourselves into the blockhouse, and lay down
upon our mattresses of dry leaves. And Godsend loaded the rifles
and a dozen Spanish muskets that were lying about, to be in
readiness for another attack, and the women kept watch while we
slept. But the Spaniards had had enough, and we saw no more of them.
Only the next morning, when Jonas went down the ladder to
reconnoitre, he found thirty dead and several others dying, and
a few wounded, who begged hard for a drink of water, for that their
comrades had deserted them.

We got them up into the blockhouse, and had their wounds dressed,
and after a time they were cured and left us."
"And were you never after attacked again?" said I. "I wonder at
your courage in remaining here after becoming aware of the dangers
you were exposed to."
"We reckoned we had more right than ever to the land after all the
blood it had cost us, and then the news of the fight had got
carried into the settlements, and up as far as Salt River;
and some of our friends and kinsfolk came down to join us, and
there were soon enough of us not to care for twice as many
Spaniards as we had beaten off before."
While he was speaking the old squatter descended the ladder, and led
us out of the forest and over the ridge of a low hill, on the
side of which stood a dozen loghouses, which cast their black
shadows on the moonlit slope. We found a rough but kind welcome--few
words, but plenty of good cheer--and we made acquaintance with
the heroes and heroines of the blockhouse siege, and with their
sons and daughters, buxom strapping damsels and fine manly lads,
Yankees though they were. I have often enjoyed a softer bed,
but never a sounder sleep than that night.

The next day our horses were brought round from the swamp, and we
took our departure; but as hardships, however painful to endure,
are pleasant to look back upon, so have I often thought with
pleasure of our adventures in the prairies, and recurred with the
strongest interest to old Nathan's thrilling narrative of the
Bloody Blockhouse.

COMMERCIAL POLICY--EUROPE

The land absolutely groans under over-material-production of
every sort and degree, as on all hands is now acknowledged. The
foundations of Manchester tremble under the ponderous piles of
Cobden's calicoes, in Cobden's warerooms, ever, like the liver of
Prometheus, undiminished, though daily devoured by the vulture of
consumption.In Java there were found in 1891, in strata early Quaternary or
late Pliocene in age, parts of a skeleton of lower grade, if not
of greater antiquity, than any human remains now known.
Pithecanthropus erectus, as the creature has been named, walked
erect, as its thigh bone shows, but the skull and teeth indicate a
close affinity with the ape.

In North America there have been reported many finds of human
relics in valley trains, loess, old river gravels buried beneath
lava flows, and other deposits of supposed glacial age; but in the
opinion of some geologists sufficient proof of the existence of
man in America in glacial times has not as yet been found.

These finds in North America have been discredited for various
reasons. Some were not made by scientific men accustomed to the
closest scrutiny of every detail. Some were reported after a
number of years, when the circumstances might not be accurately
remembered; while in a number of instances it seems possible that
the relics might have been worked into glacial deposits by natural
causes from the surface.

Man, we may believe, witnessed the great ice fields of Europe, if
not of America, and perhaps appeared on earth under the genial
climate of preglacial times. Nothing has yet been found of the
line of man's supposed descent from the primates of the early
Tertiary, with the possible exception of the Java remains just
mentioned. The structures of man's body show that he is not
descended from any of the existing genera of apes. And although he
may not have been exempt from the law of evolution,--that method
of creation which has made all life on earth akin,--yet his
appearance was an event which in importance ranks with the advent
of life upon the planet, and marks a new manifestation of creative
energy upon a higher plane. _To the Senate and House of
Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, with draft of a bill to increase the salary of the
Commissioner of the General Land Office and to create the offices
of Assistant Commissioner of the General Land Office and inspectors
of surveyors-general and district land officers.

The matter is commended to the attention of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 24, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, with draft of a bill for the per capita distribution of
the sum of $2,000 to the band of Eastern Shawnee Indians at
Quapaw Agency, Ind.

T., with accompanying papers noted in said communication.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 24, 1882_.

_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_

I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, with draft of a bill to increase the salary of the
Commissioner of Indian Affairs and to create the office of
Assistant Commissioner of Indian Affairs.

The matter is commended to the attention of Congress.

CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 24, 1882_.
_To the Senate and House of Representatives:_
I transmit herewith a communication from the Secretary of the
Interior, with draft of a bill and accompanying papers, in reference
to the proposition of the Creek Nation of Indians for the cession
of certain of their lands in the Indian Territory occupied by the
Seminole Indians.
The subject is commended to the consideration of Congress.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR.

EXECUTIVE MANSION, _January 24, 1882_.The dog, horse, ox, sheep, goat, and hog had been
domesticated, and, as these species are not known to have existed
before in Europe, it is a fair inference that they were brought by
man from another continent of the Old World. Neolithic man knew
nothing of the art of extracting the metals from their ores, nor
had he a written language.

The Neolithic stage of culture passes by insensible gradations
into that of the age of bronze, and thus into the Recent epoch.

In the Recent epoch the progress of man in language, in social
organization, in the arts of life, in morals and religion, has
left ample records which are for other sciences than ours to read;
here, therefore, geology gives place to archaeology and history.

Our brief study of the outlines of geology has given us, it is
hoped, some great and lasting good. To conceive a past so
different from the present has stimulated the imagination, and to
follow the inferences by which the conclusions of our science have
been reached has exercised one of the noblest faculties of the
mind,--the reason. We have learned to look on nature in new ways:
every landscape, every pebble now has a meaning and tells
something of its origin and history, while plants and animals have
a closer interest since we have traced the long lines of their
descent. The narrow horizons of human life have been broken
through, and we have caught glimpses of that immeasurable reach of
time in which nebulae and suns and planets run their courses.
For some few minutes the bishop was really happy; but as the
clock on the chimney piece warned him that the stilly hours of
night were drawing on, as he looked at his chamber candlestick
and knew that he must use it, his heart sank within him again.
Seeing this process enter human history and lift our race
continually to loftier levels, we find reason to believe that the
onward, upward movement of the geological past is the
manifestation of the same wise Power which makes for righteousness
and good and that this unceasing purpose will still lead on to
nobler ends.