Produced by Ruth Hart


[Note:  for this online edition I have moved the Table of Contents
to the beginning of the text and slightly modified it to conform
with the online format. I have also made one spelling change:
"ominiscient intelligence" to "omniscient intelligence".]


THE SENSE OF BEAUTY

BEING THE OUTLINES OF AESTHETIC THEORY

by

GEORGE SANTAYANA


CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS
NEW YORK CHICAGO BOSTON


COPYRIGHT, 1896, BY
CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS


Printed in the United States of America


CONTENTS

Preface
Introduction — The Methods of Aesthetics                           1-13

Part I. — The Nature of Beauty
§ 1. The philosophy of beauty is a theory of values                    14
§ 2. Preference is ultimately irrational                               18
§ 3. Contrast between moral and aesthetic values                       28
§ 4. Work and play                                                     25
§ 5. All values are in one sense aesthetic                             28
§ 6. Aesthetic consecration of general principles                      31
§ 7. Contrast of aesthetic and physical pleasures                      35
§ 8. The differentia of aesthetic pleasure not its disinterestedness   37
§ 9. The differentia of aesthetic pleasure not its universality        40
§ 10. The differential of aesthetic pleasure: its objectification     44
§ 11. I was, however, enabled to be present having disguised myself as Mr.

BLACKFORD, one of the Vice-Presidents
of the Association, who was taken ill at the last moment, and whose letter
of excuse for non-attendance I managed to intercept. The proceedings
opened with prayer, on the model of the recent Ulster Convention. After
this, the discussion began. A series of questions had, it appears, been
addressed to both Candidates. Here they are:--
(1) Will you oppose any attempt to increase the import of foreign
jam-stuffs?Colour                                                          72
§ 18. Materials surveyed                                              76

Part III. — Form
§ 19. There is a beauty of form                                       82
§ 20. Physiology of the perception of form                            85
§ 21. Values of geometrical figures                                   88
§ 22. Symmetry                                                        91
§ 23. Form the unity of a manifold                                    95
§ 24. Multiplicity in uniformity                                      97
§ 25. Example of the stars                                           100
§ 26. Defects of pure multiplicity                                   106
§ 27. Aesthetics of democracy                                        110
§ 28. Values of types and values of examples                         112
§ 29. Origin of types                                                116
§ 30. The average modified in the direction of pleasure              121
§ 31. Are all things beautiful?                                      126
§ 32. Effects of indeterminate form                                  131
§ 33. Example of landscape                                           133
§ 34. Extensions to objects usually not regarded aesthetically       138
§ 35. Further dangers of indeterminateness                           142
§ 36. The illusion of infinite perfection                            146
§ 37. Organized nature the source of apperceptive forms              152
§ 38. Utility the principle of organization in nature                155
§ 39. The relation of utility to beauty                              157
§ 40. Utility the principle of organization in the arts              160
§ 41. Form and adventitious ornament                                 163
§ 42. Syntactical form                                               167
§ 42. Literary form. The plot                                        171
§ 44. Character as an aesthetic form                                 174
§ 45. Ideal characters                                               176
§ 46. The religious imagination                                      180
§ 47. Preference is ultimately irrational                            185

Part IV. — Expression
§ 48. Expression defined                                             192
§ 49. The associative process                                        198
§ 50. Kinds of value in the second term                              201
§ 51. Aesthetic value in the second term                             205
§ 52. Practical value in the same                                    208
§ 53. Cost as an element of effect                                   211
§ 54. The expression of economy and fitness                          214
§ 55. The authority of morals over aesthetics                        218
§ 56. Negative values in the second term                             221
§ 57. Influence of the first term in the pleasing expression of evil 226
§ 58. Mixture of other expressions, including that of truth          228
§ 59. The liberation of self                                         233
§ 60. The sublime independent of the expression of evil              239
§ 61. The comic                                                      245
§ 62. Wit                                                            250
§ 63. Humour                                                         253
§ 64. The grotesque                                                  256
§ 65. The possibility of finite perfection                           258
§ 66. The stability of the ideal                                     263

§ 67. Conclusion                                                 266-270
Footnotes
Index                                                            271-275


PREFACE

This little work contains the chief ideas gathered together for a
course of lectures on the theory and history of aesthetics given at
Harvard College from 1892 to 1895. The only originality I can
claim is that which may result from the attempt to put together the
scattered commonplaces of criticism into a system, under the
inspiration of a naturalistic psychology. I have studied sincerity
rather than novelty, and if any subject, as for instance the
excellence of tragedy, is presented in a new light, the change
consists only in the stricter application to a complex subject of the
principles acknowledged to obtain in our simple judgments. My
effort throughout has been to recall those fundamental aesthetic
feelings the orderly extension of which yields sanity of judgment
and distinction of taste.

The influences under which the book has been written are rather
too general and pervasive to admit of specification; yet the student
of philosophy will not fail to perceive how much I owe to writers,
both living and dead, to whom no honour could be added by my
acknowledgments. I have usually omitted any reference to them in
foot-notes or in the text, in order that the air of controversy might
be avoided, and the reader might be enabled to compare what is
said more directly with the reality of his own experience.

          G. S.
     September, 1906.


INTRODUCTION

The sense of beauty has a more important place in life than
aesthetic theory has ever taken in philosophy. The plastic arts, with
poetry and music, are the most conspicuous monuments of this
human interest, because they appeal only to contemplation, and yet
have attracted to their service, in all civilized ages, an amount of
effort, genius, and honour, little inferior to that given to industry,
war, or religion. The fine arts, however, where aesthetic feeling
appears almost pure, are by no means the only sphere in which
men show their susceptibility to beauty. In all products of human
industry we notice the keenness with which the eye is attracted to
the mere appearance of things: great sacrifices of time and labour
are made to it in the most vulgar manufactures; nor does man
select his dwelling, his clothes, or his companions without
reference to their effect on his aesthetic senses. Of late we have
even learned that the forms of many animals are due to the survival
by sexual selection of the colours and forms most attractive to the
eye. There must therefore be in our nature a very radical and
wide-spread tendency to observe beauty, and to value it. No account of
the principles of the mind can be at all adequate that passes over so
conspicuous a faculty.

Communities now began to be animated by the spirit of enterprise, and
many associations were formed for the equipment of ships, and the
acquisition of the riches of distant regions, which, perhaps, were
always supposed to be more wealthy, as more remote. These undertakers
agreed to pay the prince a fifth part of the profit, sometimes
a greater share, and sent out the armament at their own expense.

The city of Lagos was the first that carried on this design by
contribution.

The inhabitants fitted out six vessels, under the command of
Lucarot, one of the prince's household, and soon after fourteen
more were furnished for the same purpose, under the same
commander; to those were added many belonging to private men,
so that, in a short time, twenty-six ships put to sea in quest
of whatever fortune should present.

The ships of Lagos were soon separated by foul weather, and the
rest, taking each its own course, stopped at different parts of
the African coast, from cape Blanco to cape Verd. Some of them, in
1444, anchored at Gomera, one of the Canaries, where they
were kindly treated by the inhabitants, who took them into
their service against the people of the isle of Palma, with whom
they were at war; but the Portuguese, at their return to Gomera,
not being made so rich as they expected, fell upon their friends,
in contempt of all the laws of hospitality and stipulations of
alliance, and, making several of them prisoners and slaves, set
sail for Lisbon.

The Canaries are supposed to have been known, however imperfectly,
to the ancients; but, in the confusion of the subsequent
ages, they were lost and forgotten, till, about the year
1340, the Biscayners found Lucarot, and invading it, (for to find
a new country, and invade it has always been the same,) brought
away seventy captives, and some commodities of the place.We are satisfied
only when we fancy ourselves surrounded by objects and laws
independent of our nature. The ancients long speculated about the
constitution of the universe before they became aware of that mind
which is the instrument of all speculation. The moderns, also, even
within the field of psychology, have studied first the function of
perception and the theory of knowledge, by which we seem to be
informed about external things; they have in comparison neglected
the exclusively subjective and human department of imagination
and emotion. We have still to recognize in practice the truth that
from these despised feelings of ours the great world of perception
derives all its value, if not also its existence. Things are interesting
because we care about them, and important because we need them.
Had our perceptions no connexion with our pleasures, we should
soon close our eyes on this world; if our intelligence were of no
service to our passions, we should come to doubt, in the lazy
freedom of reverie, whether two and two make four.

Yet so strong is the popular sense of the unworthiness and
insignificance of things purely emotional, that those who have
taken moral problems to heart and felt their dignity have often
been led into attempts to discover some external right and beauty
of which, our moral and aesthetic feelings should be perceptions or
discoveries, just as our intellectual activity is, in men's opinion, a
perception or discovery of external fact. These philosophers seem
to feel that unless moral and aesthetic judgments are expressions of
objective truth, and not merely expressions of human nature, they
stand condemned of hopeless triviality. A judgment is not trivial,
however, because it rests on human feelings; on the contrary,
triviality consists in abstraction from human interests; only those
judgments and opinions are truly insignificant which wander
beyond the reach of verification, and have no function in the
ordering and enriching of life.

Both ethics and aesthetics have suffered much from the prejudice
against the subjective. They have not suffered more because both
have a subject-matter which is partly objective. Ethics deals with
conduct as much as with emotion, and therefore considers the
causes of events and their consequences as well as our judgments
of their value. Esthetics also is apt to include the history and
philosophy of art, and to add much descriptive and critical matter
to the theory of our susceptibility to beauty. A certain confusion is
thereby introduced into these inquiries, but at the same time the
discussion is enlivened by excursions into neighbouring provinces,
perhaps more interesting to the general reader.

We may, however, distinguish three distinct elements of ethics and
aesthetics, and three different ways of approaching the subject. The
first is the exercise of the moral or aesthetic faculty itself, the
actual pronouncing of judgment and giving of praise, blame, and
precept. This is not a matter of science but of character, enthusiasm,
niceness of perception, and fineness of emotion. It is aesthetic or
moral activity, while ethics and aesthetics, as sciences, are
intellectual activities, having that aesthetic or moral activity for
their subject-matter.

The second method consists in the historical explanation of
conduct or of art as a part of anthropology, and seeks to discover
the conditions of various types of character, forms of polity,
conceptions of justice, and schools of criticism and of art. Of this
nature is a great deal of what has been written on aesthetics. The
philosophy of art has often proved a more tempting subject than
the psychology of taste, especially to minds which were not so
much fascinated by beauty itself as by the curious problem of the
artistic instinct in man and of the diversity of its manifestations in
history.

The third method in ethics and aesthetics is psychological, as the
other two are respectively didactic and historical. It deals with
moral and aesthetic judgments as phenomena of mind and products
of mental evolution. The problem here is to understand the origin
and conditions of these feelings and their relation to the rest of our
economy. Such an inquiry, if pursued successfully, would yield an
understanding of the reason why we think anything right or
beautiful, wrong or ugly, it would thus reveal the roots of
conscience and taste in human nature and enable us to distinguish
transitory preferences and ideals, which rest on peculiar conditions,
from those which, springing from those elements of mind which all
men share, are comparatively permanent and universal.

To this inquiry, as far as it concerns aesthetics, the following pages
are devoted. No attempt will be made either to impose particular
appreciations or to trace the history of art and criticism. The
discussion will be limited to the nature and elements of our
aesthetic judgments. It is a theoretical inquiry and has no directly
hortatory quality. Yet insight into the basis of our preferences, if it
could be gained, would not fail to have a good and purifying
influence upon them. The value and necessity of this comparison
determined me to publish all, or to publish nothing. Besides,
the reflections on each piece, and on the general taste of antiquity,
which, in my opinion, are not without importance, have a kind of
obscure gradation, which I have carefully endeavoured to preserve,
and of which the thread would be lost by him who should slightly
glance sometimes upon one piece, and sometimes upon another.

It is a structure which I have endeavoured to make as near to
regularity as I could, and which must be seen in its full extent, and
in proper succession. The reader who skips here and there over
the book, might make a hundred objections which are either
anticipated, or answered in those pieces which he might have
overlooked. I have laid such stress upon the connexion of the parts
of this work, that I have declined to exhaust the subject,
and have suppressed many of my notions, that I might leave
the judicious reader to please himself by forming such conclusions
as I supposed him like to discover, as well as myself. I am not
here attempting to prejudice the reader by an apology either for
the ancients, or my own manner. I have not claimed a right of
obliging others to determine, by my opinion, the degrees of esteem
which I think due to the authors of the Athenian stage; nor do I
think that their reputation, in the present time, ought to
depend upon my mode of thinking or expressing my thoughts,
which I leave entirely to the judgment of the publick.
Speculation is an evil if it imposes a foreign
organization on our mental life; it is a good if it only brings to light,
and makes more perfect by training, the organization already
inherent in it.

We shall therefore study human sensibility itself and our actual
feelings about beauty, and we shall look for no deeper,
unconscious causes of our aesthetic consciousness. Such value as
belongs to metaphysical derivations of the nature of the beautiful,
comes to them not because they explain our primary feelings,
which they cannot do, but because they express, and in fact
constitute, some of our later appreciations. There is no explanation,
for instance, in calling beauty an adumbration of divine attributes.
Such a relation, if it were actual, would not help us at all to
understand why the symbols of divinity pleased. But in certain
moments of contemplation, when much emotional experience lies
behind us, and we have reached very general ideas both of nature
and of life, our delight in any particular object may consist in
nothing but the thought that this object is a manifestation of
universal principles. The blue sky may come to please chiefly
because it seems the image of a serene conscience, or of the eternal
youth and purity of nature after a thousand partial corruptions. But
this expressiveness of the sky is due to certain qualities of the
sensation, which bind it to all things happy and pure, and, in a
mind in which the essence of purity and happiness is embodied in
an idea of God, bind it also to that idea.

So it may happen that the most arbitrary and unreal theories, which
must be rejected as general explanations of aesthetic life, may be
reinstated as particular moments of it. Those intuitions which we
call Platonic are seldom scientific, they seldom explain the
phenomena or hit upon the actual law of things, but they are often
the highest expression of that activity which they fail to make
comprehensible. The adoring lover cannot understand the natural
history of love; for he is all in all at the last and supreme stage of
its development. Hence the world has always been puzzled in its
judgment of the Platonists; their theories are so extravagant, yet
their wisdom seems so great. Platonism is a very refined and
beautiful expression of our natural instincts, it embodies
conscience and utters our inmost hopes. Platonic philosophers have
therefore a natural authority, as standing on heights to which
the vulgar cannot attain, but to which they naturally and
half-consciously aspire.

