"Let them say what they please; the wretched are always trodden on.
Let them say what they please. I deserved it all when I stood before
the altar with that man; when I forbade my feet to run, or my mouth
to speak, though I knew that I hated him, and owned it to my heart.
What shall I do, George, to rid me of that sin?"

She had risen and taken hold of his arm when first she asked him to
protect her, and she was still standing beside the chair on which
he sat. He now rose also, and said a few gentle words, such as he
thought might soothe her.

"Yes," she continued, as though she did not heed him, "I said to
myself almost twenty times during that last night that I hated him in
my very soul, that I was bound in honour even yet to leave him--in
honour, and in truth, and in justice. But my pride forbade it--my
pride and my anger against you."

"It is useless to think of it now, dear."

"Ah, yes! quite useless. Would that I had done it then--then, at the
last moment. They asked me whether I would love that man. I whispered
inwardly to myself that I loathed him; but my tongue said 'Yes,' out
loud. Can such a lie as that, told in God's holy temple, sworn before
his own altar--can such perjury as that ever be forgiven me?

"But I shall sin worse still if I go back to him," she continued,
after a while. "I have no right, George, to ask anything from your
kindness as a cousin; but for your love's sake, your old love, which
you cannot forget, I do ask you to save me from this. But it is this
rather that I ask, that you will save me from the need of saving
myself."

That evening George sat up late alone, preparing for the morrow's
work, and trying to realize the position in which he found himself.
Mr. Pritchett, had he been there, would have whispered into his
ears, again and again, those ominous and all-important words, "Half
a million of money, Mr. George; half a million of money!" And,
indeed, though Mr. Pritchett was not there, the remembrance of those
overflowing coffers did force themselves upon his mind. Who can say
that he, if placed as Bertram then was, would not think of them?

He did think of them--not over deeply, nor with much sadness. He knew
that they were not to be his; neither the whole of them, nor any part
of them. So much his uncle had told him with sufficient plainness. He
knew also that they might all have been his: and then he thought of
that interview in which Mr. Bertram had endeavoured to beg from him a
promise to do that for which his own heart so strongly yearned. Yes;
he might have had the bride, and the money too. He might have been
sitting at that moment with the wife of his bosom, laying out in
gorgeous plans the splendour of their future life. It would be vain
to say that there was no disappointment at his heart.

But yet there was within his breast a feeling of gratified
independence which sufficed to support him. At least he might boast
that he had not sold himself; not aloud, but with that inward
boasting which is so common with most of us. There was a spirit
within him endowed with a greater wealth than any which Mr. Pritchett
might be able to enumerate; and an inward love, the loss of which
could hardly have been atoned for even by the possession of her whom
he had lost. Nor was this the passion which men call self-love. It
was rather a vigorous knowledge of his own worth as a man; a strong
will, which taught him that no price was sufficient to buy his assent
that black should be reckoned white, or white be reckoned black.

His uncle, he knew, had misunderstood him. In rejecting the old man's
offers, he had expressed his contempt for riches--for riches, that
is, as any counterbalance to independence. Mr. Bertram had taken what
he said for more than it was worth; and had supposed that his nephew,
afflicted with some singular lunacy, disliked money for its own sake.
George had never cared to disabuse his uncle's mind. Let him act as
he will, he had said to himself, it is not for me to dictate to him,
either on the one side or the other. And so the error had gone on.

To-morrow morning the will would be read, and George would have to
listen to the reading of it. He knew well enough that the world
looked on him as his uncle's probable heir, and that he should have
to bear Mr. Pritchett's hardly expressed pity, Sir Henry's malignant
pleasure, and Sir Lionel's loud disgust. All this was nearly as bad
to him as the remembrance of what he had lost; but by degrees he
screwed his courage up to the necessary point of endurance.

"What is Pritchett to me, with his kind, but burdensome solicitude?
what Sir Henry's mad anger? How can they affect my soul? or what even
is my father? Let him rave. I care not to have compassion on myself;
why should his grief assail me--grief which is so vile, so base, so
unworthy of compassion?"

And thus schooling himself for the morrow, he betook himself to bed.


CHAPTER XV.

THE WILL.


The only attendants at old Mr. Bertram's funeral were his nephew,
Mr. Pritchett, and the Hadley doctor. The other gentlemen were to be
present only at the more interesting ceremony of reading the will.
Sir Lionel had written to say that he was rather unwell; that he
certainly would come up from Littlebath so as to be present at the
latter performance; but that the very precarious state of his health,
and the very inconvenient hours of the trains, unhappily prevented
him from paying the other last sad duty to his brother's remains. Sir
Henry Harcourt had plainly demanded at what hour the will would be
read; and Mr. Stickatit, junior--Mr. George Stickatit--of the firm
of Dry and Stickatit, had promised to be at Hadley punctually at two
P.M. And he kept his word.

Mr. Pritchett came down by an early train, and, as was fit on such an
occasion, was more melancholy than usual. He was very melancholy and
very sad, for he felt that that half-million of money was in a great
jeopardy; and, perhaps, even the death of his old friend of forty
years' standing may have had some effect on him. It was a mingled
feeling that pervaded him. "Oh, Mr. George!" he said, just before
they went to the churchyard, "we are grass of the field, just grass
of the field; here to-day, and gone to-morrow; flourishing in the
morning, and cast into the oven before night! It behoves such frail,
impotent creatures to look close after their interests--half a
million of money! I'm afraid you didn't think enough about it, Mr.
George."

And then the Hadley bells were rung again; but they were not rung
loudly. It seemed to Bertram that no one noticed that anything
more than usually sad was going on. He could hardly realise it to
himself that he was going to put under the ground almost his nearest
relative. The bells rang out a dirge, but they did it hardly above
their breath. There were but three boys gathered at the little gate
before the door to see the body of the rich man carried to his last
home. George stood with his back to the empty dining-room fireplace:
on one side stood Mr. Pritchett, and on the other the Barnet doctor.
Very few words passed between them, but they were not in their nature
peculiarly lugubrious. And then there was a scuffling heard on the
stairs--a subdued, decent undertaker's scuffling--as some hour or two
before had been heard the muffled click of a hammer. Feet scuffled
down the stairs, outside the dining-room door, and along the passage.
And then the door was opened, and in low, decent undertaker's voice,
red-nosed, sombre, well-fed Mr. Mortmain told them that they were
ready.

"These are yours, sir," and he handed a pair of black gloves to
George. "And these are yours, sir," and he gave another pair to
the doctor. But the doctor held them instead of putting them on;
otherwise Mr. Mortmain could not be expected to change them after the
ceremony for a pair of lighter colour. They understood each other;
and what could a country doctor do with twenty or thirty pairs of
black gloves a year? "And these yours, Mr. Pritchett."

"Oh, Mr. George!" sighed Pritchett. "To think it should come to this!
But he was a good gentleman; and very successful--very successful."

There were not ten people in the church or in the churchyard during
the whole time of the funeral. To think that a man with half a
million of money could die and be got rid of with so little parade!
What money could do--in a moderate way--was done. The coffin was as
heavy as lead could make it. The cloth of the best. The plate upon it
was of silver, or looked like it. There was no room for an equipage
of hearses and black coaches, the house was so unfortunately near
to the churchyard. It was all done in a decent, sombre, useful,
money-making way, as beseemed the remains of such a man.

But it was on 'Change that he was truly buried; in Capel Court that
his funeral sermon was duly preached. These were the souls that knew
him, the ears to which his name loomed large. He had been true and
honest in all his dealings--there, at least. He had hurt nobody by
word or deed--excepting in the way of trade. And had kept his hands
from picking and stealing--from all picking, that is, not warranted
by City usage, and from all stealing that the law regards as such.
Therefore, there, on 'Change, they preached his funeral sermon
loudly, and buried him with all due honours.

Two had been named for the reading of the will, seeing that a train
arrived at 1.45 P.M. And, therefore, when the ceremony was over,
George and Mr. Pritchett had to sit together in the dining-room till
that time arrived. The doctor, who did not expect much from the
will, had gone away, perhaps to prepare other friends for similar
occupation. It was a tedious hour that they so passed, certainly;
but at last it did make itself away. Lunch was brought in; and the
sherry, which had been handed round with biscuits before the funeral,
was again put on the table. Mr. Pritchett liked a glass of sherry,
though it never seemed to have other effect on him than to make his
sadness of a deeper dye. But at last, between this occupation and the
muttering of a few scraps of a somewhat worldly morality, the hour
did wear itself away, and the hand of the old clock pointed to two.

The three gentlemen had come down by the same train, and arrived
in a fly together. Mr. George Stickatit, junior, paid for the
accommodation; which was no more than right, for he could put it in
the bill, and Sir Lionel could not. The mind of Sir Henry was too
much intent on other things to enable him to think about the fly.

"Well, George," said Sir Lionel; "so it's all over at last. My poor
brother! I wish I could have been with you at the funeral; but it was
impossible. The ladies are not here?"--This he added in a whisper.
He could not well talk about Lady Harcourt, and he was not at the
present moment anxious to see Miss Baker.

"They are not here to-day," said George, as he pressed his father's
hand. He did not think it necessary to explain that they were staying
at good old Mrs. Jones's, on the other side of the Green.

"I should have been down for the funeral," said Mr. Stickatit; "but
I have been kept going about the property, ever since the death, up
to this moment, I may say. There's the document, gentlemen." And the
will was laid on the table. "The personalty will be sworn under five.
The real will be about two more. Well, Pritchett, and how are you
this morning?"

Sir Henry said but little to anybody. Bertram put out his hand to him
as he entered, and he just took it, muttering something; and then,
having done so, he sat himself down at the table. His face was not
pleasant to be seen; his manner was ungracious, nay, more than that,
uncourteous--almost brutal; and it seemed as though he were prepared
to declare himself the enemy of all who were there assembled. To
Sir Lionel he was known, and it may be presumed that some words had
passed between them in the fly; but there in the room he said no word
to any one, but sat leaning back in an arm-chair, with his hands in
his pockets, scowling at the table before him.

"A beautiful day, is it not, Mr. Pritchett?" said Sir Lionel,
essaying to make things pleasant, after his fashion.

"A beautiful day--outwardly, Sir Lionel," sighed Mr. Pritchett. "But
the occasion is not comfortable. We must all die, though; all of us,
Mr. George."

"But we shall not all of us leave such a will as that behind us,"
said Mr. Stickatit. "Come, gentlemen, are we ready? Shall we sit
down?"

George got a chair for his father, and put it down opposite to that
of Sir Henry's. Mr. Pritchett humbly kept himself in one corner. The
lawyer took the head of the table, and broke open the envelope which
contained the will with a degree of gusto which showed that the
occupation was not disagreeable to him. "Mr. Bertram," said he, "will
you not take a chair?"

"Thank you, no; I'll stand here, if you please," said George. And so
he kept his position with his back to the empty fireplace.

All of them, then, were somewhat afraid of having their
disappointment read in their faces, and commented upon by the others.
They were all of them schooling themselves to bear with an appearance
of indifference the tidings which they dreaded to hear. All of them,
that is, except the attorney. He hoped nothing, and feared nothing.

Mr. Pritchett nearly closed his eyes, and almost opened his mouth,
and sat with his hands resting on his stomach before him, as though
he were much too humble to have any hopes of his own.

Sir Lionel was all smiles. What did he care? Not he. If that boy of
his should get anything, he, as an affectionate father, would, of
course, be glad. If not, why then his dear boy could do without it.
That was the intended interpretation of his look. And judging of
it altogether, he did not do it badly; only he deceived nobody. On
such occasions, one's face, which is made up for deceit, never does
deceive any one. But, in truth, Sir Lionel still entertained a higher
hope than any other of the listeners there. He did not certainly
expect a legacy himself, but he did think that George might still be
the heir. As Sir Henry was not to be, whose name was so likely? And,
then, if his son, his dear son George, should be lord of two, nay,
say only one, of those many hundred thousand pounds, what might not a
fond father expect?

Sir Henry was all frowns; and yet he was not quite hopeless. The
granddaughter, the only lineal descendant of the dead man, was still
his wife. Anything left to her must in some sort be left to him, let
it be tied up with ever so much care. It might still be probable
that she might be named the heiress--perhaps the sole heiress. It
might still be probable that the old man had made no new will since
Caroline had left his home in Eaton Square. At any rate, there would
still be a ground, on which to fight, within his reach, if Lady
Harcourt should be in any way enriched under the will. And if so, no
tenderness on his part should hinder him from fighting out that fight
as long as he had an inch on which to stand.

Bertram neither hoped anything, nor feared anything, except
this--that they would look at him as a disappointed man. He knew
that he was to have nothing; and although, now that the moment had
come, he felt that wealth might possibly have elated him, still the
absence of it did not make him in any degree unhappy. But it did make
him uncomfortable to think that he should be commiserated by Mr.
Pritchett, sneered at by Harcourt, and taunted by his father.

