"There was a nominal repudiation of Borriel's act and a promise
was made to inflict punishment upon 'those who have offended,' but
no punishment was inflicted upon anybody. The Spanish government,
with characteristic double dealing, resorted to procrastination,
prevarication and trickery, and thus gained time, until new issues
effaced in the American mind the memory of old wrongs unavenged.
Instead of being degraded, Borriel was promoted. Never to this day
has there been any adequate atonement by Spain, much less an
apology or expression of regret for the Virginius massacre."

The amount of money paid to the United States government for
distribution among the families of American sufferers by this
affair was $80,000. And that is the extent of the reparation made
for the shocking crime.

The Virginius, although the most conspicuous, was not the only
American victim of Spanish misgovernment in Cuba during the Ten
Years' war. In 1877 the three whaling vessels, Rising Sun, Ellen
Rizpah, and Edward Lee, while pursuing their legitimate business
under the American flag, outside of Cuban waters, were fired upon
and detained for days, with circumstances of peculiar hardship and
brutality. The United States government investigated the outrage
with care, and demanded of Spain an indemnity of $19,500. The
demand, however, was not enforced, and the sum of $10,000 was
accepted as a compromise settlement.


CHAPTER XIV.

OPERATIONS OP THE TEN YEARS' WAR.

The Two Wars Compared--The Havana Volunteers--The Slaughter at
the Villaneuva Theater--The Court Martial of the Students--A
Holiday in Havana--The Close of the War--The Treaty of Zanjon.


The reader who has watched closely the struggle in Cuba for the
past three years need not be told that Spain has had every
advantage in men, money, arms and ammunition. The same state of
affairs existed during the Ten Years' War. In fact, the inequality
was even greater, for the Spanish army was then composed of
experienced soldiers who were well fed, well clothed and paid
regularly. In the present conflict many of them are boys who have
been sent from home to make targets for insurgent bullets. They
know comparatively nothing of military tactics, they have not been
paid for months, and they lack food and clothing. The equipment of
the insurgent forces in the former rebellion was even more limited
than it has been in this one. While they did not experience
serious difficulty in obtaining food, the implements of war in any
quantities were beyond their reach. But the same spirit that gave
courage to our American heroes in revolutionary times was in them,
and for ten years they struggled bravely against overwhelming
odds.

It is not possible to tell in detail of the monstrous cruelties
practiced by the Spanish army during those years of carnage. Here
is the testimony of one officer:

"We captured seventeen, thirteen of whom were shot outright; on
dying they shouted, 'Hurrah for Free Cuba, hurrah for
independence.' A mulatto said, 'Hurrah for Cespedes.' On the
following day we killed a Cuban officer and another man. Among the
thirteen that we shot the first day we found three sons and their
father. The father witnessed the execution of his sons without
even changing color, and when his turn came he said he died for
the independence of his country. On coming back we brought along
with us three carts filled with women and children, the families
of those we had shot, and they asked us to shoot them, because
they would rather die than live among Spaniards."

Another wrote:

"Not a single Cuban will remain in this island, because we shoot
all that we find in the fields, on the farms and in every hovel.
We do not leave a creature alive where we pass, be it man or
animal. If we find cows we kill them, if horses, ditto, if hogs,
ditto, men, women or children, ditto. As to the houses, we burn
them. So every one receives his due, the men in balls, the animals
in bayonet thrusts. The island will remain a desert."

In the cities, outrages equally barbarous were committed.

THE HAVANA VOLUNTEERS.

The Havana volunteers, made up of the Spanish-born residents, in
whose favor the government of the island has always been arranged,
took possession of Havana, and put it under mob rule. In May,
1870, they marched out in front of the Villaneuva theater and
fired volleys into the crowds that were entering. They had reason
to believe, some of them said, that the performance to be given
there was to raise funds for the insurgent cause.

So powerful was this organization that shortly after this outrage
they placed the Captain-General of the island under arrest, and
finally shipped him to Spain, sending word to the home government
that he was not severe enough in his rule to suit their views, and
suggesting that in case there were no Peninsulars who had the
necessary stamina to govern Cuba according to their ideas, they
might feel it advisable to assume command themselves.

On another occasion the dead body of one of these volunteers was
placed in a public tomb in Havana, and the repository was found to
have been defaced by scurrilous writing on the glass of the door.
For no known reason, except a blood-thirsty desire for vengeance
on someone, no matter whether guilty or innocent, it was claimed
that the outrage was committed by some of the students of the
university, and on complaint of the volunteer corps, forty-three
of these young men were arrested.

They were arraigned before the military tribunal, and so
manifestly unjust was the accusation that an officer of the
regular army of Spain volunteered to defend them. There was
absolutely no proof against them, and they were acquitted. But the
volunteers were determined that their victims should not escape,
and taking advantage of the fear in which they were held, even by
the Havana officials, they forced the Governor-General to issue an
order for a second courtmartial. At this examination they
manipulated matters so that two thirds of the members of the trial
board were connected with their organization, and a verdict of
guilty was quickly rendered against all of the prisoners. Eight of
them were sentenced to be shot, and the others to long terms of
imprisonment at hard labor.

The day of the execution was a holiday in Havana. Bands of music
paraded the streets, followed by the volunteers, 15,000 strong,
while behind them, bound in chains, and under military guard, came
the eight boys who had been condemned to die. Conscious of their
innocence of any crime, they did not falter, but marched bravely
to the place of execution, where they faced their murderers and
fell, riddled by bullets from the rifles of the volunteers. The
report of this affair sent a thrill of horror throughout the whole
of the civilized world, and the perpetrators of the outrage were
severely censured by the Spanish Cortes, but there was no attempt
at punishment, nor were the ones who had been imprisoned released.

Meantime the war was being carried on in the provinces with
varying success, but dissensions finally arose between the civil
and military authorities of the republic of Cuba, and as "a house
divided against itself cannot stand," the effectiveness of the
campaign was destroyed, and, in 1878, concessions were offered by
the Spanish government, which were accepted by the revolutionists,
and the struggle was abandoned.

What the outcome of the contest might have been, could it have
been continued with the leaders united for its success, is an open
question. As the years went by the rank and file of the Cuban army
seemed to be more determined than ever to throw off the yoke, and
the government in Spain became less prompt in sending supplies of
men and money to carry on the war. They eagerly seized the
opportunity to bring it to a close, and the treaty of Zanjon,
which was signed by General Martinez Campos, the Spanish Governor-
General of the island, and General Maximo Gomez, Commander-in-
Chief of the Cuban army, promised many reforms, and gave amnesty
to all who had taken part in the rebellion.


CHAPTER XV.

THE PEACE OF ZANJON AND ITS VIOLATED PLEDGES

Spanish Hypocrisy and Deceit--Cubans Denied Representation--
Increase of Taxation--The Royal Edicts--A Plausible Argument,
Which Is Not Borne Out by Facts--Spain's Promises Always Broken.


If Spain had been sincere in the promises of reform she made her
Cuban colony when the treaty of Zanjon was signed, it is probable
that the present war would have never occurred. For while a few of
the leaders--notably General Maceo--refused to become pacified,
the great majority of the better classes were glad to accept a
peaceful settlement on terms that gave them, in fact, if not in
name, nearly every concession for which they had fought.

But it did not take them long to learn that they had been duped.
Spain granted to Cuba the liberties of Puerto Rico, which had
none. On this deceitful ground was laid the new situation, through
which ran a current of falsehood and hypocrisy. Spain, whose mind
did not change, hastened to change the name of things. The
captain-general was called the governor-general. The royal decrees
took the name of authorizations. The commercial monopoly of Spain
was named coasting trade. The right of banishment was transformed
into the law of vagrancy. The brutal attacks of defenseless
citizens were called "componte." The law of constitutional
guarantees became the law of public order. Taxation without the
consent or knowledge of the Cuban people was changed into the law
of estimates (budget) voted by the representatives of Spain.

The painful lesson of the Ten Years' War was entirely lost on
Spain. Instead of inaugurating a redeeming policy that would heal
the recent wounds, allay public anxiety, and quench the thirst for
justice felt by the people, who were desirous to enjoy their
natural rights, the Peninsula, while lavish in promises of reform,
persisted in carrying on, unchanged, its old and crafty system,
namely: to exclude every native Cuban from every office that could
give him any effective influence and intervention in public
affairs; the ungovernable exploitation of the colonists' labor for
the benefit of Spanish commerce and Spanish bureaucracy, both
civil and military. To carry out the latter purpose it was
necessary to maintain the former at any cost.

Mr. Clarence King, a recognized authority on political subjects
connected with Cuban affairs, says:

"The main concession for which the insurgents accepted peace was
the promise of constitutional reform. As a matter of fact, there
promptly followed four royal edicts as follows: June 9, entitling
Cuba to elect deputies to the Cortes, one for each 40,000 people;
June 9, dividing the island into the present six provinces; June
21, instituting a system of provincial and municipal government,
followed on August 16 by the necessary electoral regulations. But
the system was immediately seen to be the shadow without the
substance of self-government. The Provincial Assembly could
nominate only three candidates for presiding officer. It was the
inevitable governor-general who had the power to appoint, not
necessarily one of the three nominees, but any member of the
Assembly he chose. But all this provincial machinery is in reality
an empty form, since expressly by law the governor-general was
given the power to prorogue the assemblies at will. The deputies
have never been able to accomplish anything in the Cortes.
Moreover the crux of the whole financial oppression--tariff,
taxes, and absolute control and expenditure of the revenue--
remained with Spain."

The loyal Spaniard insists that every agreement entered into by
his government was faithfully carried out; that the Cubans were
given from time to time even greater liberties than the treaty
promised them; and that in several matters of importance,
immunities have been granted them that the people of the mother
country did not share.

The Assistant Colonial Secretary of Spain concludes a voluminous
defense of the policy of his government in Cuba as follows:

There is thus no reason in Cuba to complain of the illiberality of
the laws. If there has been any shortcoming in respect to morals,
the nation is not to blame; none but the colonial provinces are to
blame for this; if we proposed to seek comfort in comparisons, it
would not be necessary to look for them in South America, in the
countries that have emancipated themselves from the Spanish
mother-country, because examples (some of them very recent) of
acts of violence, anarchy and scandalous outbreaks could be found
in the States of the Union itself.

In respect to another matter, a great deal of foolish talk is
indulged in. From the statements of some people it would appear
that Cuba does nothing but contribute, by the taxes which it pays,
to alleviate the burdens of the peninsular treasury, whereas, in
reality, just the contrary is the truth. The nation has, of late,
guaranteed the conversion of Spanish debts in Cuba, which took
place in 1886 and 1890. Owing to these operations, and to the fact
that all taxes which did not have to be met directly by its
government have been rigorously eliminated from the budget of
Cuba, it was possible to reduce the Cuban budget from forty-six
and one-half million dollars, which was its amount at the close of
the former war (for the fiscal year of 1878-79) to a little more
than twenty-three millions of dollars, as appears from the budget
of 1893.

The financial laws have been assimilated, and if the system of
taxation has not been entirely assimilated, this is because of the
fact that direct taxes are very repugnant to the popular feeling
in Cuba, especially the tax on land, which is the basis of the
Peninsular budget. It appears, however, that our Cuban brethren
have no reason to complain in this respect. The direct tax on
rural property is two per cent, in Cuba, whereas in Spain it is
seventeen, and even twenty per cent. It is evident that every
budget must be based on something; in Cuba, as in all other
countries in which the natural conditions are similar, that
something must necessarily be the income from customs duties.
Notwithstanding this, it may be remarked that in the years when
the greatest financial distress prevailed, the Spanish Government
never hesitated to sacrifice that income when it was necessary to
do so in order to meet the especial need of the principal
agricultural product of Cuba. Consequently the Spanish commercial
treaty with the United States was concluded, which certainly had
not been concluded before, owing to any fault of the Spanish
Government. Under that treaty, the principal object of which was
to encourage the exportation of Cuban sugar, which found its chief
market in the States of the Union, many Spanish industries were
sacrificed which have formerly supplied the wants of the people of
Cuba, That sacrifice was unhesitatingly made, and now that the
treaty is no longer in force, is due to the fact that the new
American tariff has stricken sugar from the free list.

Attention may also be called to the fact that the colonial
provinces alone enjoy exemption from the blood tax, Cuba never
having been obliged to furnish military recruits.

