On Thursday, the 22d of May, the day broke in clouds over the City; but
by ten o'clock, the clouds had dispersed, and amid sunshine and soft
airs the hours stole on. The funeral of Mr. King was appointed to take
place at twelve o'clock. Great crowds had poured into the City from all
parts of the State, and the streets were black with the masses.
Preparations were making by almost every society in the City for
attending the funeral; and but for another call upon the citizens, it is
probable that full two thirds of the men of San Francisco would have
taken part in the procession, or looked on from the sidewalks. No such
demonstration of profound mourning was ever before witnessed in
California. The services in the church were most solemn and affecting.
The funeral procession was more than a mile in length, and the number of
persons in it was estimated at more than six thousand. Slowly it passed
through the City and made its way to Lone Mountain Cemetery where with
Masonic services, and in presence of the great multitude, standing
uncovered and affected to tears, the remains of the just and good man,
the martyr to truth and duty were deposited.

But large as was the assembly thus occupied in the upper part of the
City in rendering the last tribute of respect to the loved and lost; a
still larger number had collected in the neighborhood of the Committee
Rooms in the lower part to witness a solemn act of retribution. They
must be well fed, and if any grow markedly bigger than the rest these
should be separated. If they are not well supplied with food they are
very likely to try and eat each other, that is to say, the largest will
try to eat the smallest.

CHAPTER XI
THE REARING OF THE RAINBOW TROUT, AMERICAN BROOK TROUT, AND CHAR

As the methods used in hatching out the ova and rearing the young
fish are very similar in the case of different species of trout
to those I have already described in dealing with the common trout
(_Salmo fario_), I will confine myself to pointing out the most marked
differences in the habits of such species as are suitable to our
waters, and which are likely to be of use to the fish culturist. The
salmon- or sea-trout will be dealt with under salmon.

First and foremost among the trout, excluding of course our own brown
trout, I put the rainbow trout (_Salmo irideus_). There are several
varieties of this species, but that which is now being so freely introduced
into many waters in England is the McCloud River rainbow (_S.
irideus_, var. _shasta_). As I have before stated, the rainbow spawns
long after the _S. fario_. It therefore will give the fly-fishermen good
sport after the season for the common trout is over. It is a very free
feeder, and grows more rapidly than our trout; great care must
therefore be taken to give it plenty of food. I would draw my
readers' attention particularly to this fact as to the feeding and
quick-growing qualities of the rainbow, for they make it, if possible,
even more necessary that the water into which they are turned should
contain a good supply of food than it was in the case of the common
trout; though even in the case of the common trout, this is quite
the most important consideration in stocking a water with fish.Late in the
afternoon the entire force of armed citizens was drawn up in line on
Sacramento Street presenting a most imposing array; were reviewed by the
Commander, and then marched by companies to the Rooms, deposited their
arms, and, with the exception of guards detailed for further duty,
amounting to some three hundred men, were dismissed.

During this period and for some time after strenuous efforts were making
for the discovery and arrest of two men, McGowen and Wightman, who had
been indicted as accomplices of Casey in the murder of Mr. King. Great
anxiety was felt for the arrest of McGowen not alone on account of his
complicity in the murder, but because it was believed that he knew more
of the operations of the ballot box stuffers and other political
managers than any other person, and that if taken, he would be likely to
expose many who had stooped to obtain office or position by his
unscrupulous arts. Long and earnest search was made, but for some time,
no trace of him could be discovered. At length in the latter part of
June, it was learned that he left the City on horseback, disguised as a
cattle drover, in company with an American and a Mexican, and had been
seen in Santa Barbara, a small town on the coast about four hundred
miles below San Francisco. Being recognized, he fled, and was pursued by
a party from Santa Barbara. On receiving the intelligence, the Executive
Committee immediately dispatched twenty resolute men in a fast sailing
vessel to join in the pursuit. On the 16th of July an arrival from down
the coast brought information of his probable escape. His condition was
represented to have been such as to have excited pity for even such a
criminal. When last seen he was dreadfully wearied and chafed by his
long ride, was without a hat to protect him from the fierce rays of the
sun, his face dreadfully burned and blistered, and oppressed with hunger
and thirst; and thus the poor wretch, loaded with guilt, flying from the
gallows, with hate and despair stamped on his face, spurred on in his
mad flight.

In the first week of June, measures were taken by the State Authorities
to frighten into submission, or to dissolve by force the Vigilance
Committee. The Governor issued a Proclamation declaring the County of
San Francisco in a state of insurrection, and gave orders to the Major
General of the District to make all necessary preparations to suppress
the insurrection. General orders were issued for all lovers of law and
order to enlist, choose officers, and commence drilling. Recruiting
stations were appointed in different parts of the City, and a
considerable number of respectable citizens, and most of the gamblers,
bullies and other notorious characters who had not yet fallen into the
hands of the Vigilance Committee, but must have had very reasonable
fears that they soon might, answered to the call. They mustered no such
force however as led to a public exhibition of their number or
condition. General Sherman, being unable to obtain from General Wood
such arms as he deemed necessary for his purpose, soon resigned, and
Volney C. Howard was appointed in his place. In the meantime the
Committee proceeded quietly in perfecting their arrangements. The
people, to the number of several thousand, offered themselves and were
added to the already formidable force. The demonstrations of citizens
not professedly belonging to, however in favor of the organization,
were, at this and subsequent periods, very impressive. An evening
meeting was held in front of the Oriental Hotel, the number present at
which was variously estimated at from five to eight thousand. This great
meeting was presided over by Hon. The yearlings are best taken
from the rearing ponds by netting them. A net which is more than broad
enough to go across the rearing pond is necessary. Too many should not
be taken out at a time in each haul of the net, as they are thus more
likely to be injured or dropped on the ground. The amateur should not
forget, that though the little fish will stand a good deal of moving
about as long as they are in water, they are likely to be killed, or
at least severely injured, by a shock, particularly if that shock is
sustained while they are out of the water for a second or two during
their being moved from one place to another.

If the amateur intends to keep any of his yearlings longer than
December, he will have to make a larger pond.They issued notice to quit to
numbers of persons whom it was neither for the interest nor credit of
the community longer to retain. By their Police they were daily and
nightly arresting disturbers of the public peace, thieves and desperate
criminals, whom they quietly deposited in their strong rooms to be dealt
with according to their deserts. To be prepared for any emergency their
Head Quarters were made an armed camp. Barriers six feet in height, made
of sand bags, with cannon planted in the embrasures, extended along the
whole front of the building. Sentinels paced the roof day and night.
Companies were drilling at all hours at Head Quarters or in their
Armories. These defenses were strengthened from time to time; and others
ingeniously contrived were placed in the interior; so that, at length,
in the opinion of an officer of large experience, a very large force of
regular troops would have been required to carry it by storm.

In the afternoon of Saturday, June 21st, the perfect quiet of the early
part of the day was broken up by a tempest of excitement of rare
occurrence anywhere. Between three and four o'clock, a Police Officer of
the Vigilance Committee named Hopkins, being ordered with a party of
men, to arrest a man named Maloney, having ascertained that he was then
in the office of Dr. Ashe, Navy Agent, on Washington Street, entered the
office alone, leaving the other officers in the street. A number of
persons were in the room beside Maloney, amongst them Judge Terry, one
of the three Judges of the Supreme Court of California. Another
advantage possessed by the rainbow is, that it is less liable to the
attacks of fungus than any other of the _Salmonidæ_. Though,
of course, this is not such an important consideration nowadays as it
would have been even a few years ago, still it is one which deserves
some consideration, particularly from the amateur. This freedom from
fungus is very marked in the rainbow, for I know of a case where
some dace suffering from fungus were put into a rearing pond containing
a few rainbows.Terry and his whole party then ran and placed themselves
for safety in the Blues Armory. Hopkins was immediately taken into the
Pennsylvania Engine House. The news flew with lightning speed over the
City. The bell of the Vigilance Committee Rooms sounded; and instantly
the streets were swarming with members obedient at all times to its
summons. As the sound struck his ear, every man discontinued the work
upon which he was employed. Draymen passing with loads, unharnessed
their horses, mounted and rode off; engines in the great foundries were
stopped, and employers and men started off on the run; builders,
pressmen, shopmen, merchants, professional men, were alike hurrying to
the Committee Rooms. As they arrived, they took arms, were formed in
companies, and reported ready for duty. In a few minutes, a body of
cavalry were thundering through the streets and surrounding the block in
which was the Blues Armory. Though the dace died of the disease, the
rainbows remained healthy and free from it. The amateur will probably
receive the ova of the rainbow towards the end of April or during
May. The ova should hatch out within a few days of their being
received.They were summoned to surrender, and alter some little parley, concluded
to do so. Terry, Ashe and Maloney were placed in carriages and conveyed
to the Committee Rooms. The other prisoners were then disarmed and they
were kept in the Armory until evening, when they likewise were marched
to the Committee Rooms.

