The horrors of her condition nearly prostrated
her, and she was again thrown upon the public
for sustenance.  Then followed the birth of her
child.  The long absent Samuel unexpectedly
returned, and rescued her from charity.  Recov-
ering from her expected illness, she once more
commenced toil for herself and child, in a room
obtained of a poor woman, but with better for-
tune.  One so well known would not be wholly
neglected.  Kind friends watched her when Sam-
uel was from home, prevented her from suffering,
and when the cold weather pinched the warmly
clad, a kind friend took them in, and thus pre-
served them.  At last Samuel's business became
very engrossing, and after long desertion, news
reached his family that he had become a victim
of yellow fever, in New Orleans.

So much toil as was necessary to sustain Fra-
do, was more than she could endure.  As soon
as her babe could be nourished without his
mother, she left him in charge of a Mrs. Capon,
and procured an agency, hoping to recruit her
health, and gain an easier livelihood for herself
and child.  This afforded her better mainten-
ance than she had yet found.  She passed into
the various towns of the State she lived in, then
into Massachusetts.  Strange were some of her
adventures.  Watched by kidnappers, maltreated
by professed abolitionists, who didn't want
slaves at the South, nor niggers in their own
houses, North.  Faugh! to lodge one; to eat
with one; to admit one through the front door;
to sit next one; awful!

Traps slyly laid by the vicious to ensnare her,
she resolutely avoided.  In one of her tours,
Providence favored her with a friend who, pity-
ing her cheerless lot, kindly provided her with a
valuable recipe, from which she might herself
manufacture a useful article for her maintenance.
This proved a more agreeable, and an easier way
of sustenance.

And thus, to the present time, may you see
her busily employed in preparing her merchan-
dise; then sallying forth to encounter many
frowns, but some kind friends and purchasers.
Nothing turns her from her steadfast purpose of
elevating herself.  Reposing on God, she has
thus far journeyed securely.  Still an invalid, she
asks your sympathy, gentle reader.  Refuse not,
because some part of her history is unknown,
save by the Omniscient God.  Enough has been
unrolled to demand your sympathy and aid.


Do you ask the destiny of those connected
with her EARLY history?  A few years only have
elapsed since Mr. and Mrs. B. passed into another
world.  As age increased, Mrs. B. became more
irritable, so that no one, even her own children,
could remain with her; and she was accompa-
nied by her husband to the home of Lewis,
where, after an agony in death unspeakable, she
passed away.  Only a few months since, Aunt
Abby entered heaven.  Jack and his wife rest
in heaven, disturbed by no intruders; and Susan
and her child are yet with the living.  Jane has
silver locks in place of auburn tresses, but she
has the early love of Henry still, and has never
regretted her exchange of lovers.  Frado has
passed from their memories, as Joseph from the
butler's, but she will never cease to track them
till beyond mortal vision.


APPENDIX.


"TRUTH is stranger than fiction;" and whoever reads the
narrative of Alfrado, will find the assertion verified.

About eight years ago I became acquainted with the author
of this book, and I feel it a privilege to speak a few words
in her behalf.  Through the instrumentality of an itinerant
colored lecturer, she was brought to W-----, Mass.  This is
an ancient town, where the mothers and daughters seek, not
"wool and flax," but STRAW,--working willingly with their
hands!  Here she was introduced to the family of Mrs.
Walker, who kindly consented to receive her as an inmate
of her household, and immediately succeeded in procuring
work for her as a "straw sewer."  Being very ingenious,
she soon acquired the art of making hats; but on account
of former hard treatment, her constitution was greatly im-
paired, and she was subject to seasons of sickness.  On this
account Mrs. W. gave her a room joining her own chamber,
where she could hear her faintest call.  Never shall I forget
the expression of her "black, but comely" face, as she
came to me one day, exclaiming, "O, aunt J-----, I have at
last found a HOME,--and not only a home, but a MOTHER.
My cup runneth over.  What shall I render to the Lord
for all his benefits?"

Months passed on, and she was HAPPY--truly happy.
Her health began to improve under the genial sunshine in
which she lived, and she even looked forward with HOPE--
joyful hope to the future.  But, alas, "it is not in man that
walketh to direct his steps."  One beautiful morning in the
early spring of 1842, as she was taking her usual walk, she
chanced to meet her old friend, the "lecturer," who brought
her to W-----, and with him was a fugitive slave.  Young,
well-formed and very handsome, he said he had been a HOUSE-
servant, which seemed to account in some measure for his
gentlemanly manners and pleasing address.  The meeting
was entirely accidental; but it was a sad occurrence for poor
Alfrado, as her own sequel tells.  Suffice it to say, an
acquaintance and attachment was formed, which, in due time,
resulted in marriage.  In a few days she left W-----, and
ALL her home comforts, and took up her abode in New Hamp-
shire.  For a while everything went on well, and she dreamed
not of danger; but in an evil hour he left his young and
trusting wife, and embarked for sea.  She knew nothing of
all this, and waited for his return.  But she waited in vain.
Days passed, weeks passed, and he came not; then her heart
failed her.  She felt herself deserted at a time, when, of all
others, she most needed the care and soothing attentions of
a devoted husband.  For a time she tried to sustain HERSELF,
but this was impossible.  She had friends, but they were
mostly of that class who are poor in the things of earth, but
"rich in faith."  The charity on which she depended failed
at last, and there was nothing to save her from the "County
House;" GO SHE MUST.  But her feelings on her way thither,
and after her arrival, can be given better in her own language;
and I trust it will be no breach of confidence if I here insert
part of a letter she wrote her mother Walker, concerning the matter.