ANNAPOLIS***


E-text prepared by Jim Ludwig


DAVE DARRIN'S FIRST YEAR AT ANNAPOLIS

Two Plebe Midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy

by

H. IRVING HANCOCK


CONTENTS

CHAPTERS
    I. Two Admirals in the Bud
   II. The First Day at the Naval Academy
  III. A Taste of Hazing
   IV. The "Youngsters" Who Became "Spoons On"
    V. Invited to Join the "Frenchers"
   VI. Dave Passes the Lie
  VII. On the Field of the Code
 VIII. The Man Who Won
   IX. Dan Just Can't Help Being "Touge"
    X. "Just For Exercise!"
   XI. Midshipman Henkel Does Some Thinking
  XII. A Chronic Pap Frapper
 XIII. Midshipman Farley's About-Face
  XIV. The Trap in Midshipman's Quarters
   XV. Air "The Rogue's March"
  XVI. Brimmer Makes a New Friend
 XVII. Tony Baits the Hook
XVIII. In the Days of "Old Two-Five"
  XIX. The Collision of the Chesapeake
   XX. In the Line of Duty
  XXI. Official and Other Report
 XXII. The "Bazoo" makes Trouble
XXIII. The Spectre at the Fight Party
 XXIV. Conclusion


CHAPTER I

TWO ADMIRAL'S IN THE BUD


"Dave, I'm getting nervous!"

"Is that the best way you can find to enjoy yourself?" demanded
the taller boy.

"But I am, Dave--dreadfully nervous!" insisted Dan Dalzell positively.

"Well, you'll have to conceal it, then.  The doctors at the United
States Naval Academy won't pass any nervous wrecks," laughed Dave
Darrin.

"Don't you understand?" demanded Dan, in a hurt voice.  "The nearer
we get to Annapolis the more nervous I'm getting."

"You'd better drop off, then," hinted Dave ironically, "and take
the next car back to Odenton and Baltimore.  What earthly good
would a Naval officer be who was going to get nervous as soon
as he came in sight of an enemy?"

"But I wouldn't get nervous in the sight the enemy," flared up
Dan Dalzell.

"Then why get nervous about the folks down at the Naval Academy?
They all intend to be your friends!"

"I guess that is true," Dan went on.  "Of course, back in April,
we went before the Civil Service Commission and took our academic
examinations.  We passed, and haven't got that to go up against
again."

"We passed the home medical examiner, too," retorted Dave.  "In
fact, you might say that we passed the sawbones with honors.

"But that medical chap put in a long time listening at my chest,"
complained Dan Dalzell, who was undeniably fidgeting in his seat.
"Then, too, the civil service sawbones told me that, while he
passed me, as far as he was concerned, I'd have to stand the ordeal
again before the Naval surgeons at Annapolis."

"Well, he did just the same thing with me," rejoined Darrin.
"You just keep your eye on me, Dan!  Do you see me shaking?  Do
you hear my voice falter?  See me burning any blue lights?

"Perhaps, Dave, you don't take the whole business as much to heart
as I do," continued Dan Dalzell almost tremulously.  "Why, Great
Scott, if they drop me at the Naval Academy, I'll be the bluest
fellow you ever saw!  But maybe you won't care, Dave, whether
you are dropped or not."

"Won't I?" grumbled Darrin.  "The Navy is the only thing in life
that I care about!"

"Then aren't you nervous, just now?" demanded Dan.

"If I am, I'm not making a show of myself," retorted Darrin.

"But are you nervous?" begged Dan.

"No!" roared Dave, and then he allowed a grin to creep over his face.

"Oh, go ahead and say so tonight," jeered Dan.  "Tomorrow, if
you have the good luck to get sworn in, you'll have to quit fibbing
and begin practicing at telling the truth.  A midshipman at the
Naval Academy, I understand, is kicked out of the service if he
tells lies."

"Not quite--only in case he gets caught," laughed Dave Darrin.

"But really, about being nervous--"

"Oh, forget that sort of nonsense, won't you, Dan, old fellow?"
begged his chum.  "Just get your eye on the lovely country we're
going through."

It was just about the first of June.  Our two young travelers
had come by train, from Baltimore to a little country junction.
Thence they had traveled, briefly, by trolley, to Odenton. There,
after a wait of some minutes, they had boarded another trolley
car, and were now bowling along through the open country of that
part of Maryland.  At the end of their journey lay the historic
little town of Annapolis.  It was now after seven o'clock; still
daylight, the fag end of a beautiful June day in Maryland.

Dave Darrin and Dan Dalzell had been appointed as midshipmen at
the United States Naval Academy.  If they should succeed in passing
the four years' course in the big government school at Annapolis,
they would then be sent to sea for two years, as midshipmen, after
which they would return to Annapolis for their final examinations.
Passing these last examinations, they would then be commissioned
as ensigns in the United States Navy, with the possibility of
some day becoming full-fledged admirals.

Readers of our High School Boys Series have no need of further
introduction to Dave and Dan.

These two young men will be remembered as former members of Dick
& Co., six famous chums back in the lively little city of Gridley.

Dick Prescott, Greg Holmes, Dave Darrin, Dan Dalzell, Tom Reade
and Harry Hazleton had composed the famous sextette who, in their
day at Gridley High School, had been fast chums and leaders in
all pertaining to High School athletics in their part of the state.

Following their High School days, however, the six chums had become
somewhat widely scattered.  Dick Prescott and Greg Holmes secured
appointments to the United States Military Academy.  Readers of
our West Point Series are already familiar with the stirring doings
and life of Dick and Greg at the fine old Army Academy on the
Hudson.  At the time this present narrative opens Dick and Greg
had been nearly three months as plebe cadets, as told in the first
volume of the West Point Series, under the title, "DICK PRESCOTT'S
FIRST YEAR AT WEST POINT."

Tom Reade and Harry Hazleton had gone from Gridley High School
to the far West, where they had connected themselves with a firm
of civil engineers engaged in railway construction.  What befell
Tom and Harry is told in "THE YOUNG ENGINEERS IN COLORADO," the
first and very entertaining volume in the Young Engineers Series.

Readers of "THE HIGH SCHOOL CAPTAIN OF THE TEAM" recall how Dave
Darrin won his appointment to the Naval Academy, as did Dick Prescott
his chance for West Point, from the Congressman of the home district.
Dalzell's appointment, on the other hand, came from one of the
two United States Senators from that state.

And here Dave and Dan were, on a trolley car from Odenton, rapidly
nearing Annapolis.

At the forward end of the car was a small compartment set apart
for the use of smokers Dave and Dan did not smoke; they had take
seats in this compartment because they wished to be alone.

"You asked me to let you know when we got near Annapolis, gentlemen,"
announced the conductor, a cheery-faced young man, thrusting his
head in.  "There is the town right ahead of you."

"You said that you go by the hotel, I think?" Dave asked.

"I'll stop and call the hotel," replied the conductor.  "We'll
be there in less than two minutes."

It was a quaint, old-fashioned, very pretty southern town that
the car now entered.

"I'll bet they're a thousand years behind the times here," sighed
Dalzell, as they gazed about them.

"Not at the Naval Academy, anyway," retorted Dave Darrin.

"Oh, of course not," Dan made haste to agree.

The car passed an imposing-looking brick building that housed
the post-office, then sped along past the handsome, dignified
old residence of the Governor of Maryland.  Up on a hill at their
left the State Capitol stood out.  Then the car bell clanged,
and the car stopped.

"Maryland Hotel!" called the conductor.

Dave and Dan caught up their suit cases and descended from the
car.  At their right, the found the steps leading to the porch
of the roomy old hotel.  In another moment they were in the office,
registering.

"You want a room together, gentlemen?" asked the clerk.

"Surely," retorted Dan.  "My friend is always afraid when the
gas is turned off.  My presence quiets him."

"Pardon me, gentlemen, but are you on your way to the Naval Academy?"
queried the clerk.

"Yes," nodded Dave quietly.

"Then you will want a room with bath, of course.  You'll have
to strip before the medical examiners tomorrow.

"A room with bath, of course," assented Dan.  "I never have stopped
at a hotel without a bathroom."

Dan didn't mention that this was the first time he had ever stopped
at a hotel in his short life.

"Front!" called the clerk.

A small black boy in knee trousers came forward, picked up their
suit cases and led the way to the next floor.

"My!  I wonder who else is expected," muttered Dalzell, as the
two young travelers found themselves in their room after the boy
had left them.

It was an enormous room, and the three beds in it did not crowd
the apartment in the least.  All the furniture was of a massive
and old-fashioned pattern.

A few minutes later, with face and hands washed--clean collars,
clothes neatly brushed, the two clear-eyed, manly-looking young
fellows returned to the first floor.

"I suppose this hotel is full of young men like ourselves, wondering
what tomorrow will bring them, when they get before the sawbones,"
muttered Dan.

"Candidates, like ourselves, you mean?" suggested Darrin.  "We'll
inquire."  With that, he approached the clerk and made the inquiry.

"Oh, no," replied the clerk, in answer to Dave's question.  "There
are only two other candidates besides yourselves stopping here.
There are a good many young men in town, of course, but most
of them have been here for some weeks, and are in lodging houses.
A good many young men come here, you know, to attend the Naval
preparatory schools before they go up for their examinations."

"We've had our academic examinations, and have passed," announced
Dan.

"What about supper, sir?" asked Dave, who, in his short trip through
the South, had noticed that in this part of the country the "sir"
is generally employed.

"You'll find supper ready, gentlemen," replied the clerk, pointing
the way to the dining room.

So the two young men passed in and enjoyed their first sample of
southern cookery.

At this hour there were only a half dozen other people in the
dining room--none of them interesting, Darrin decided, after
hastily surveying the other diners.

The meal over, the two young candidates sauntered again out into
the hotel office.

"Any midshipmen out around the town, sir?" Darrin asked.

"Hardly, sir," replied the clerk, with a smile.  "At this hour
the young gentlemen are in their rooms at Bancroft Hall."

"What does a midshipman look like?" ventured Dalzell.

"Like a human being, of course," Dave laughed.

"You mean the uniform?" inquired the clerk. "A midshipman, sir,
wears a dark blue uniform, like an officer's, and a visored cap,
Naval pattern.  He also wears the anchor insignia on each side
of his coat collar."

Dave and Dan soon walked over to the open doorway and stood looking
out upon the street, in which, at this time, few people were passing.
Hearing a step in the office, Dan quickly turned.  He saw
a young man coming through the office, holding himself very erect.
This young man was in dark blue uniform, with visored cap, and
on each side of his collar was the anchor insignia.  Past the
anchor were two bars, but Dalzell didn't notice that at the moment.

"There's a real midshipman," whispered Dan, plucking at Dave's
sleeve.  "I'm going to speak to him."

"Don't you do it," warned Dave, in an undertone.  "You may make
a mistake."

"Mistake?" echoed Dan.  "With that anchor on his collar?"

Hastily Dan Dalzell slipped back into the office, going up to
the young man in uniform, who had stopped before the desk.

"Good evening," began Dan politely.  "I'd like to introduce myself.
'Tomorrow I expect to be one of the crowd.  You're a midshipman,
aren't you?"

"I'm an officer of the Navy," replied the uniformed stranger coldly,
as he half turned to glance briefly at Dalzell.  "You are a candidate,
I suppose?  Then I fancy you will report at the superintendent's
office in the morning."

With that the Naval officer turned away, leaving poor Dalzell
feeling decidedly dumfounded.

"Wasn't that a midshipman?" gasped Dan, in a whisper.

"That gentleman is a lieutenant in the Navy," replied the clerk,
with a slight smile.

Crestfallen Dan hurried back to Darrin, brushing off his sleeves
with his hands as he walked.

"Served you right; you must get over being fresh," Dave Darrin
rebuked his chum.  "But what is the matter with your sleeves?"

"I'm brushing the frost off of them," murmured Dan dejectedly.
"Did you notice the ice-bath that fellow threw over me?"

"Come out for a walk," urged Dave.  "But be careful where you
step and what you say to others."

The two young men strolled down the street.

"Well," smiled Darrin, "I must say, Dan, that you appear to be
getting all over your nervousness."

"No; I'm still nervous," protested Dan.  "Before, I was afraid
I wouldn't get into the Naval Academy.  Now, I'm only afraid that
I shall."

"What nonsense are you talking now?" demanded Darrin, giving his
chum a sharp look.

"Why, if they're all going to be as chesty as that near-officer I
spoke to in the hotel," blinked Dan, "I'm not so sure that I want to
go in with the bunch."

"That officer wasn't either chesty or snobbish," rejoined Darrin.

"Then you will kindly explain what he tried to do to me?"

"That's easy enough.  That Naval officer recognized in you a rather
common type--the too-chummy and rather fresh American boy.  Down
here in the service, where different grades in rank exist, it is
necessary to keep the fresh greenhorn in his place."

"Oh!" muttered Dan, blinking hard.

"As to your not wanting to go into the service," Dave continued,
"if you should fail, tomorrow, in your physical examination, you
would be as blue as indigo, and have the blue-light signal up
all the way back home."

"I don't know but that is so.  Yes; I guess it is," Dalzell assented.

"Now, there are at least ninety-nine chances in a hundred that
you're going to pass the Navy doctors all right, Dan," his chum
went on.  "If you do, you'll be sworn into the Naval service as
a midshipman.  Then you'll have to keep in mind that you're not
an admiral, but only a midshipman--on probation, at that, as
our instructions from the Navy Department inform us.  Now, as
a new midshipman, you're only the smallest, greenest little boy
in the whole service.  Just remember that, and drop all your jolly,
all your freshness and all your patronizing ways.  Just listen
and learn, Dan, and study, all the time, how to avoid being fresh.
If you don't do this, I'm mighty confident that you're up against
a hard and tough time, and that you'll have most of the other
midshipmen down on you from the start."

"Any more 'roast' for me?" asked Dalzell plaintively.

"No; for, if you need any more, you'll get it from other midshipmen,
who don't know you as well as I do, and who won't make any allowances
for your greenness and freshness."

"My!" murmured Dan enthusiastically.  "Won't I quiver with glee
the first time I see you being called for twelve-inch freshness!"

Yet, despite their wordy encounters, the two remained, as always,
the best and most loyal of friends.

For an hour and a half the two youngsters roamed about Annapolis,
taking many interested looks at quaint old buildings that had
stood since long before the Revolutionary War.

At last they turned back to the hotel, for, as Dalzell suggested,
they needed a long night's sleep as a good preparation for going
before the Naval surgeons on the next day.

Five minutes after they had turned out the gas Dave Darrin was
soundly, blissfully asleep.

In another bed in the same room Dan Dalzell tossed for fully
half an hour ere sleep caught his eyelids and pinned them down.
In his slumber, however, Dan dreamed that he was confronting
the superintendent of the Naval Academy and a group of officers,
to whom he was expounding the fact that he was right and they
were wrong.  What the argument was about Dan didn't see clearly,
in his dream, but he had the satisfaction of making the
superintendent and most of the Naval officers with him feel like a
lot of justly-rebuked landsmen.


SAFETY CURTAIN.

A. A. M.

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE EARTHLY PARADISE.

_Coster_. "SEE THAT, LIZ? THERE'S A COUNTRY FOR YOU!"]
* * * * *

[Illustration: PEACEFUL PERSUASION.

(JONES IS NOT NATURALLY A GENEROUS MAN.)]
* * * * *
THE ROMANCE OF A BATTLESHIP.

_(From the Navy League Annual of 1916.)_
I have just returned (writes a Naval correspondent) from an interesting
visit to the condemned battleship, _H.M.S.

Indefensible_, which is now anchored off Brightlingsea, in
the charge of retired petty-officer Herbert Tompkins and his wife.

The history of _H.M.S. Indefensible_, as gathered from the lips
of her present curator, is so romantic as to be worthy of
permanent record.
In reply to my first question, "Whom did she belong to first of
all?" Mr.

Tompkins said, "Well, she was ordered first of all by the Argentine
Republic, but, owing to a change of Government, they sold her to
the Italians.

I remember the launch at Barrow quite well," he said. "It was a
mighty fine show, with the Italian Ambassador and his wife--the
_Magnifico Pomposo_, they called her, I think it was--and there was
speechifying and hurraying and enough champagne drunk to float her.

That was just three years ago: a super-Dreadnought, they called
her."

"Then how did the British Government get her?"
"Lor bless you, Sir, that didn't come for a long time yet.

Ye see, Italy shortly afterwards made an alliance with Denmark,
and, wishing to do the Danes a good turn, she arranged to sell them
the _Magnifico Pomposo_ at cost price--about three millions I think
it was.

But immediately afterwards the Russo-Chinese war broke out, and
the Chinese offered the Danes four millions for the _Dannebrog_,
as they had called her, so by the time the engines were put into
her she had been rechristened the _Hoang-Ho_.

But the war never came off: you remember that Mr.

ROOSEVELT settled it by fighting a single combat with the
Russian champion after he had been appointed President of China;
so the Chinese leased the _Hoang-Ho_ to the King of SIAM for four
years at a million a year."

"Did she get out to Siam, then?"
"Oh no, Sir, no fear. The crew ran her on the Goodwin Sands on
her trial trip, and there she stuck for a year. Before they
got her off the Siamese had been released from their bargain by
the Hague Tribunal, Mr. ROOSEVELT had resigned the Presidency
of China for that of Mexico, and the new President sold the
_Chulalongkorn_ back to Great Britain.

Of course by that time she was quite obsolete, so they called
her the _Indefensible_, and put a nucleus crew on board for a few
months.

Then when Mr. LLOYD GEORGE became Prime Minister, they offered
her to Canada as a gift; but the Canadians didn't like her name. And
when Mr.

WINSTON CHURCHILL came back last month he decided that she was
to be made a target; but last week I heard she was to be sold for
scrap-iron."

"Then whom does she belong to now?"
"Well, Sir, some says she belongs to Canada, and others say
she's British, and others say she belongs to Mr. CHURCHILL, but
in a manner of speaking I think she rightly belongs to Mrs.

Tompkins and me."
* * * * *

"On making enquiries at the Hospital this afternoon, we learn that
the deceased is as well as can be expected."--_Jersey Evening
Post_.

It would, of course, be foolish to expect much.

* * * * *
A NEW BOOK OF BEAUTY.

A hundred years ago they had line, engravings by CHARLES HEATH, and
the long-necked, ringleted ladies looked wistfully or simperingly
at you.

I have several examples: _Caskets, Albums, Keepsakes_.

This book is different. The steel engravers have long since all died
of starvation; and here are photographs only, but there are many
more of them, and (strange innovation!)

there are more gentlemen than ladies. For this preponderance
there is a good commercial reason, as any student of the work will
quickly discover, for we are now entering a sphere of life where
the beauty of the sterner sex (if so severe a word can be applied
to such sublimation of everything that is soft and voluptuous and
endearing) is more considered than that of the other.

Beautiful ladies are here in some profusion, but the first place
is for beautiful and guinea-earning gentlemen.

In the old Books of Beauty one could make a choice.

There was always one lady supremely longer-necked, more wistful or
more simpering than the others.

But in this new Book of Beauty one turns the pages only to be more
perplexed.

The embarrassment of riches is too embarrassing. I have been
through the work a score of times and am still wondering on
whom my affections and admiration are most firmly fixed.

This new Book of Beauty has a very different title from the old ones.

It is called _The Pekingese_, and is the revised edition for
1914.

How to play the part of _Paris_ where all the competitors have
some irresistibility, as all have of either sex!

Once I thought that Wee Mo of Westwood was my heart's chiefest
delight, "a flame-red little dog with black mask and ear-fringes,
profuse coat and featherings, flat wide skull, short flat face,
short bowed legs and well-shaped body."

But then I turned back to Broadoak Beetle and on to Broadoak
Cirawanzi, and Young Beetle, and Nanking Fo, and Ta Fo of Greystones,
and Petshé Ah Wei, and Hay Ch'ah of Toddington, and that superb
Sultanic creature, King Rudolph of Ruritania, and Champion Howbury
Ming, and Su Eh of Newnham, and King Beetle of Minden, and Champion
Hu Hi, and Mo Sho, and that rich red dog, Buddha of Burford.

And having chosen these I might just as well scratch out their names
and write in others, for every male face in this book is a poem.

The ladies, as I have said, are in the minority, for obvious reasons,
for these little disdainful distinguished gentlemen figure here as
potential fathers, with their fees somewhat indelicately named; for
there's a husbandry on earth as well as in heaven.

Such ladies as are here are here for their beauty alone and are
beyond or below price.

Their favours are not to be bought.

Among them I note with especial joy Yiptse of Chinatown, Mandarin
Marvel, who "inherits the beautiful front of her sire, Broadoak
Beetle"; Lavender of Burton-on-Dee, "fawn with black mask"; Chi-Fa
of Alderbourne, "a most charming and devoted little companion";
Yeng Loo of Ipsley; Detlong Mo-li of Alderburne, one of the "beautiful
red daughters of Wong-ti of Alderburne," Champion Chaou Ching-ur,
of whom her owner says that "in quaintness and individuality and
in loving disposition she is unequalled" and is also "quite a 'woman
of the world,' very _blasée_ and also very punctilious in trifles;"
Pearl of Cotehele, "bright red with beautiful back"; E-Wo Tu T'su;
Berylune Tzu Hsi Chu; Ko-ki of Radbourne and Siddington Fi-fi.

Every now and then there is an article in the papers asking and
answering the question, What is the greatest benefit that has come
to mankind in the past half century?

The answer is usually the Marconi system, or the cinema, or the
pianola, or the turbine, or the Röntgen rays, or the telephone or
the motor car.

Always something utilitarian or scientific.

But why should we not say that it was the introduction of Pekingese
into England from China?

According to an historical sketch at the beginning of this book,
the first Pekingese were brought over in 1860, after the occupation
of Pekin by the Allies.

The first black ones came here in 1896, and now in 1914 there are
thousands of these wholly alluring and adorable and masterful little
big-hearted creatures in England, turning staid men and women into
ecstatic worshippers and making children lyrical with cries of
appreciation.

The book before me is the finest monument yet raised to this
conquering breed.

* * * * *

[Illustration: NEW SEASON'S NOVELTIES.

1. THE CAT'S-MEAT HAT-PIN PROTECTOR.

2. THE MUD-SPLASH VEIL.

3. THE THROAT CORSET

.]

* * * * *
MISUNDERSTOOD.

_(A Story of the Stone Age.)_
Of all the young bachelors in his tribe not one was more highly
esteemed than Ug, the son of Zug. He was one of the nicest young
prehistoric men that ever sprang seven feet into the air to avoid
the impulsive bite of a sabre-tooth tiger, or cheered the hearts
of grave elders searching for inter-tribal talent by his lightning
sprints in front of excitable mammoths.

Everybody liked Ug, and it was a matter of surprise to his
friends that he had never married.

One bright day, however, they were interested to observe that he
had begun to exhibit all the symptoms.

He brooded apart. Twice in succession he refused a second help
of pterodactyl at the tribal luncheon table. And there were those who
claimed to have come upon him laboriously writing poetry on the
walls of distant caves.

It should be understood that in those days only the most powerful
motive, such as a whole-hearted love, could drive a man to writing
poetry; for it was not the ridiculously simple task which it is
to-day.

The alphabet had not yet been invented, and the only method by
which a young man could express himself was by carving or writing
on stone a series of pictures, each of which conveyed the sense
of some word or phrase.

Thus, where the modern bard takes but a few seconds to write,
"You made me love you. I didn't want to do it, I didn't want
to do it," Ug, the son of Zug, had to sit up night after night
till he had carved three trees, a plesiosaurus, four kinds of fish,
a star-shaped rock, eleven different varieties of flowering shrub,
and a more or less lifelike representation of a mammoth surprised
while bathing.

It is little wonder that the youth of the period, ever impetuous,
looked askance at this method of revealing their passion, and
preferred to give proof of their sincerity and fervour by waiting
for the lady of their affections behind a rock and stunning her
with a club.

But the refined and sensitive nature of Ug, the son of Zug, shrank
from this brusque form of wooing.

He was shy with women.

To him there was something a little coarse, almost ungentlemanly, in
the orthodox form of proposal; and he had made up his mind
that, if ever he should happen to fall in love, he would propose
by ideograph.

It was shortly after he had come to this decision that, at a boy-and-girl
dance given by a popular local hostess, he met the divinest
creature he had ever seen. Her name was Wug, the daughter of
Glug; and from the moment of their introduction he realised that
she was the one girl in the world for him.

It only remained to compose the ideograph.

Having steadied himself as far as possible by carving a few poems,
as described above, he addressed himself to the really important
task of the proposal.

It was extraordinarily difficult, for Ug had not had a very good
education. All he knew he had picked up in the give and take of
tribal life.

For this reason he felt it would be better to keep the thing short. But
it was hard to condense all he felt into a brief note.

For a long time he thought in vain, then one night, as he tossed
sleeplessly on his bed of rocks, he came to a decision.

He would just ideograph, "Dear Wug, I love you. Yours faithfully,
Ug. P.S.
R.S.V.P.," and leave it at that.

So in the morning he got to work, and by the end of the week the ideograph
was completed.

It consisted of a rising sun, two cave-bears, a walrus, seventeen
shin-bones of the lesser rib-nosed baboon, a brontosaurus, three
sand-eels, and a pterodactyl devouring a mangold-wurzel.

It was an uncommonly neat piece of work, he considered, for one who
had never attended an art-school. He was pleased with it. It
would, he flattered himself, be a queer sort of girl who could
stand out against that.

For the first time for weeks he slept soundly and peacefully.

Next day his valet brought him with his morning beverage a piece
of flat rock. On it was carved a simple human thigh-bone.

He uttered a loud cry. She had rejected him. The parcel-post, an
hour later, brought him his own ideograph, returned without a
word.

Ug's greatest friend in the tribe was Jug, son of Mug, a youth of
extraordinary tact and intelligence.

To him Ug took his trouble.

Jug heard his story, and asked to see exactly what he had
ideographed.

"You must have expressed yourself badly," he said.

"On the contrary," replied Ug, with some pique, "my proposal was
brief, but it was a model of what that sort of proposal should be.

Here it is. Read it for yourself."

Jug read it. Then he looked at his friend, concerned.

"But, my dear old man, what on earth did you mean by saying she has
red hair and that you hate the sight of her?"

"What do you mean?"
"Why, this ichthyosaurus."
"That's not an ichthyosaurus.

It's a brontosaurus."
"It's not a bit like a brontosaurns. And it _is_ rather like an
ichthyosaurus. Where you went wrong was in not taking a few simple
lessons in this sort of thing first."

"If you ask me," said Ug disgustedly, "this picture-writing is
silly rot. To-morrow I start an Alphabet." * * * * * But on the
morrow he was otherwise employed.

He was standing, concealed behind a rock, at the mouth of the cave
of Wug, daughter of Glug.

There was a dreamy look in his eyes, and his fingers were clasped
like steel bands round the handle of one of the most business-like
clubs the Stone Age had ever seen.

Orthodoxy had found another disciple.

* * * * *
[Illustration: SCENE--_An Army Boxing Competition_.

_Civilian_. "RATHER A FEARFUL MAN, THAT?"
_Soldier_. "WELL, 'E AIN'T REALLY VERY FEARFUL.

YOU SEE THE BIG FELLOW'S 'IS SERGEANT AN' THIS IS THE ONLY CHANCE
'E 'AS OF GETTING A BIT OF 'IS OWN BACK

."]

* * * * *
CHARIVARIA.

Sir ERNEST SHACKLETON is to undertake a new expedition to the
South Pole, and across the whole South Polar Continent.

It is said that an offer from Dr. COOK, who happens to be over
here, to show Sir ERNEST how he might save himself much wearisome
travelling in achieving his object, has been rejected.

***
Judge PARRY declares, in the current number of _The Cornhill_, that
lost golf balls belong to the KING; and the ballroom at Buckingham
Palace is, we understand, to be enlarged at once.

*** 
Mr.

BERNARD SHAW is the latest addition to Madame TUSSAUD'S gallery of
wax-works. But Mr. CHESTERTON must not be jealous.

He too, we understand, will be placed there if room can be found
for him.

***
From some correspondence in _The Express_ we learn that members
of more than one savage tribe have a habit of standing on one leg.

We see no objection to this at all, but we were bound to protest
the other day, in a crowded train, when we came across a stout gentleman
standing on one foot. The foot, we should mention, was ours.

***
Of the late Mr.

JOHN WILLIAM WHITE, who was only twenty-one inches in height, we are
told that he was an ardent politician. Could he have been a
Little Englander?

***
Straws show which way the wind blows, and the fact that the
first prize in the Christmas Lottery at Madrid has been won in
Madrid, and the second in London, is held by wiseacres to prove
that there is a secret understanding between our country and
Spain.

***
The fact that France's Colonial Empire, which is already extensive,
has been increased by the birth, during a volcanic eruption, of a
new island in the New Hebrides, has caused some little irritation
in Germany.

***
The Lost Property department of Scotland Yard will, it is said,
this year easily beat all previous records in the number of articles
lost.

But we English have always had the reputation of being good
losers.

***
It is announced that Miss PHYLLIS DESMOND, of the Gaiety Theatre,
and Mr. C.R. FINCH NOYES, of the Royal Naval Flying Corps, were
married secretly last June.

As proving how difficult it is to keep a secret we believe that the
fact has been known for some time past both to Miss DESMOND and Mr.

NOYES.

***
Special cinema productions depicting scenes of a sacred nature were
provided by enterprising managers for the clergy during the
holiday season. When one remembers that there is also _Who's the
Lady?_ running under distinguished episcopal patronage, the
modern curate cannot complain that he is not well catered
for.

***
We congratulate _The Daily Mail_ on finding a peculiarly appropriate
topic for discussion at Christmas time. It was "Too Much Cramming."

***
Thieves broke into the vestry during the service and stole the
gold watch and chain which the minister preaching the Christmas
sermon at Marylebone Presbyterian church had left there. The
minister must be sorry now that he did not trust his congregation.

***
Mr. GEORGE BAKER, of Brentwood, received a presentation the other
day on completing his fiftieth year as a carol singer.

He mentioned that once, at the beginning of his career, his carol
party was broken up by an angry London householder, who fired a pistol-shot
from his bedroom window.

The modern Londoner, we fear, is decadent, and lacks the necessary
spirit.

***

Dr. MARY WILLIAMS, medical inspector of schools under the Worcestershire
County Council, has discovered, as a result of investigations,
that there is a higher proportion of nervous, excitable children
among the red-haired ones than among the others.

We have ourselves known more than one such lad lose all self-control
merely upon being addressed as "Carrots." 
***
Is a motor-car, it is being asked, feminine--like a ship?

A correspondent in _The Times_ refers to her as a lady. Presumably
because she wears a bonnet.

***
A correspondent writes to _The Pall Mall Gazette_ asking whether
there is anything in the idea that a large number of used penny
postage stamps will enable a person to be received into a charitable
institution.

We have always understood that the collector of one million of these
stamps is admitted into a lunatic asylum without having to pass
the entrance examination.

***
A lion from the bush, attracted by the roaring of its caged
relatives in a circus at Wankies, South Africa, suddenly made its
way into the menagerie.

The beast was ultimately driven away by attendants armed with
red-hot pokers, but five persons were seriously injured in the
panic. The ticket-collector who let the animal in without payment
has been reprimanded.

***
Speaking of MEDWIN'S _Revised Life of Shelley_ a critic says, in a
contemporary: "He puts the well-known boats of Archimedes into
blank verse." These boats were, we presume, fitted with ARCHIMEDES'
famous screw?

***

The Hindujah barrage on the Euphrates has now been completed by
an English firm, and will provide water for the Garden of Eden.
The structure, we presume, is a blend of the ADAM style with NOAH'S
architecture.

***

"In the new up-to-date Naval Academy
there are now more than one thousand regulations.  You are all
expected to appreciate this merciful decrease in the number of
things you are required to remember."

There were also two periods of drill, that afternoon, and what-not
more.

Supper came as a merciful release.  When the meal was over, while
many of the upper class men remained outside in the warm June
air, the plebes were ordered to go to their rooms and start in
making themselves familiar with the thousand-and-more regulations.

"Thank goodness they give us some time for light reading," muttered
Dan Dalzell, as he stalked into his room, hung up his uniform
cap and sank into a chair.  "Whew!  What a day this has been!"

"I've rather enjoyed it," murmured Dave, as he sank into the chair
on the opposite side of the study table.

"Huh!  You have liberal ideas, then, about enjoyment.  How many
hundred rules are you going to commit to memory tonight?

"I don't know," returned Dave.  "But I do know that my head is
in a big whirl, and that I'm going to rest it for a few minutes.
By the way, Dan, there's one thing I hope you remember."

"What is that?" demanded Dalzell.

"What did they tell us this lower deck was named?"

"Dunno," grunted Dan.  "But I have my own name for it.  _I_ call
it the pinochle deck."

"I'm afraid that won't do to repeat," laughed Dave.

At that moment the handle of the door was turned.  Five upper
class midshipmen entered, closing the door behind them.  Then
they stood there, glaring at the two poor plebes in "cit." clothes.


CHAPTER III

A TASTE OF HAZING


"Good evening, gentlemen," nodded Dave pleasantly, as he rose
and stood by the study table, waiting to hear the pleasure of
his visitors.

Dan Dalzell favored his callers with a nod, but remained seated,
both hands thrust deep in his pockets.

"Get up on your feet, mister!" ordered one of the midshipmen,
so sternly that Dan obeyed like a shot.

"Excuse me," he began hastily.  "I didn't know you came here in
an official capacity.  I thought--"

"Silence, mister!" commanded another of the visitors.  Dan subsided.

"What's your name, mister?" demanded the last speaker, as he favored
Dave with his next glance.

"Why, my name is Dave Darrin," replied that plebe pleasantly.

"Say 'sir,' mister, when you address an upper class man.  When
asked your name, reply, 'Darrin, sir.'"

"Darrin, sir," replied Dave promptly.

"Stand at attention, both of you!" commanded another visitor.

Both plebes obeyed.  Now still another caller wheeled upon Dan.

"What's your name, mister."

"Dan Dalzell."

"Dalzell--Sir!" thundered Dan's questioner.

"Dalzell, sir," Dan responded meekly enough.

"It is plain enough that both of you plebes need a good deal of
practice in the use of the word, sir.  Therefore, in your next
answers, you will be careful to employ 'sir' after each word that
you utter in your reply.  Mister," to Dave, "what did you come to
the Naval Academy for?"

"To, sir, become, sir, a sir, Naval, sir, officer.  Sir."

"Very good, mister.  Mister," to Dalzell, "why did you come here?"

"For sir, the same pur--"

"Sir, sir, sir, sir!" interrupted the quizzer.  "Now, try again,
mister."

"For, sir, the, sir, same, sir, purpose, sir."

"Now, mister," continued the quizzing visitor, transfixing Dalzell
with a look of tremendous sternness, "can you talk French?"

Dan's eyes twinkled briefly.

"I don't know, sir.  I never tried, sir," replied Dalzell, in pretended
embarrassment.

For a moment it looked as though Dan had turned the tables of
mischief upon his tormentors.  His reply was so absurd that all
of the upper class men, for a moment, betrayed signs of twitching
at the corners of their mouths.  Then all of them conquered the
desire to laugh and returned to the inquest with added severity.
The late questioner turned to one of his classmates, remarking
scornfully:

"_Touge!_"

"Very touge, indeed" replied the one addressed.

A "touge" plebe, in Naval Academy parlance, is one who is wholly
"fresh."

"Mister," continued Dan's quizzer, "we find you too full of levity
for one who intends to embrace the profession of quarter-deck
lounger.  In our belief it will be necessary for you to let some
new ideas soak into your head.  Mister, get your wash basin and
fill it exactly half full of water.  Remember, mister--neither
a drop nor less than exactly half full."

Dan's first impulse was to grin, his second to laugh.  Yet something
in the tone and look of the last speaker made "touge" Dalzell
feel that the simplest way out of difficulty would be for him
to obey as carefully and speedily as he could.  So, with a hurried
"very good, sir," Dalzell turned in quest of his basin.  He brought
it, just about half full, for the inspection of his imperious
visitor.

"Place it there on the floor, beside the wall," ordered the tormentor

Dan obeyed.

"Now, mister, stand on your head in that water!"

Dan flushed hotly, for an instant.  He even clenched his fists.
Then, with a sudden rush of good sense to the head, he bent over
to carry out the order that he had received.

It was not as easy a feat as might be supposed, even for a rather
well trained and hardened athlete like Dan Dalzell.

He got his head into the bowl all right, and rested his hands
on the floor on either side of the bowl.  It was when he tried
to throw his feet up against the wall that he came to grief.
His feet slid along the wall and came down to the floor again.

Dan fell out of the bowl with a good deal of splash.

"If, at first, you don't succeed, mister," began Midshipman Trotter,
who had constituted himself chief of the tormentors, "try, try
some more."

"I'll make it, sir," responded Dan cheerily, and his very manner,
now, inclined his tormentors to go a little more lightly with him.

At the third trial, with his eyes closed, just below the level of
the water, Dalzell succeeded in standing very solidly on his head.

The upper class men, who were all third class men, or "youngsters"
as they are unofficially termed, watched the performance with
interest.

"Rather well done, for a beginner," commented Midshipman Trotter.
"As you were, mister."

Dan, unfortunately, tried to be a bit "smart."  He made a half
somersault forward, trying to spring up on his feet.  He fell
back, however, and sat down squarely in what was left of the water.

"Never mind a little wet, mister," advised Midshipman Trotter,
with a very serious face.  "We always rate a man as highly awkward,
however, if he breaks the washbowl."

"Which one of you is the better athlete?" suddenly asked Midshipman
Harris.

Neither chum intended to be caught, by this crowd, as wanting
in modesty.

"He is, sir," replied Dan, with great promptness, nodding toward
Darrin.

"Dalzell is, sir," contended Dave.

"In view of this conflicting testimony, we shall have to settle
the question by actual test," replied Mr. Trotter.  "Mister,"
to Dan, "bale out your boat."

From the nod which accompanied this command Dalzell understood
that he was to empty the water from his wash basin so he promptly
obeyed.

"Mister," to Darrin, "launch your boat on this water here."

Plainly the "water" signified the floor.  Dave brought out his
own wash basin with alacrity.  Under further orders the chums
placed their bowls about four feet apart.

"Here," announced Midshipman Trotter, taking two toothpicks from
a pocket, "are a pair of oars."

Dave Darrin received the toothpicks with a grin.

"And here are your oars, mister," supplemented Mr. Trotter, handing
another pair of toothpicks to Dan Dalzell.

At this instant a faint knock was heard at the door, which opened
immediately after.

"Got a pair of beasts at work, fellows?" asked a voice.  "Here
are some more young admirals who need a little help."

Four new midshipmen, in the custody of three youngsters, now stepped
into the room and the door was closed.

"Bender's in charge of the floor tonight, you know," nodded one
of the newly-arrived youngsters, "and Bender's duty-crazy.  Besides,
he belongs to the second class, and hardly admits that we're alive."

On each floor a midshipman is detailed to be in charge through
the evening.  He is responsible for discipline on his floor, and
must report all breaches of the rules.  A midshipman who wishes
to stand well with his comrades may, when in charge of the floor,
conveniently fail to see a good many minor breaches of discipline.
When the man in charge of the floor reports all breaches that
come to his notice he is said to be duty-crazy.  He is also charged
with "trying to make his mark in grease."  "Grease" is high standing
on the efficiency report.  As a rule the man who stands well in
"grease" stands somewhat lower in general popularity.

Midshipman Bender, second class, was, at this time, regarded as
one of the worst "greasers" of all.

"What's on?" inquired Midshipman Hayes, one of the newcomers in
the room.  "Tub race?"

"No, sir; fast spurt in single-pair shells," replied Midshipman
Trotter impressively.

"Whew!  You've caught some real athletes, have you?"

"That's what we want to find out," responded Mr. Trotter.  "Now,
then, misters, we warn you against approaching this noble sport
in any spirit of levity!  You are not to think that this work
is for your own amusement, or for anyone else's.  You must try
yourselves out fairly and squarely.  Our purpose is to find out
which is the better oarsman, and also which rows with the more
finish.  Take your seats in your craft."

Dave and Dan seated themselves, with all possible gravity, in their
respective wash basins.

"Up oars!" commanded Mr. Trotter.

As neither plebe knew just what was meant by this command they
had to be shown how to sit holding their "oars" straight up in
the air.

"Let fall!"

This time the two new men guessed fairly well.  They went through
the motions of allowing their toothpick oars to fall into row-locks.

"Now, at the outset, take your strokes from my count," directed
Mr. Trotter.  "One, two three, four, five, six, seven--"

And so on.  It was all ludicrously absurd, to see Dave and Dan
bending to their tasks as seriously as though they were rowing
real craft with actual oars.

One of the visiting plebes was stupid enough to giggle.

"Go over and stand by the window in arrest, mister," ordered Midshipman
Hayes.  "You shall be tried later!"

Then the "boat race" continued.  It soon proved to be more than
absurd; it was decidedly fatiguing.  Both Dave and Dan found that
their strained positions, and the motions required of them, made
backs and shoulders ache.  Their legs, too, began to suffer from
cramp.

It was not until both showed signs of decided weariness that the
race was brought to an end.

Then the cadet who had giggled was called forward, ordered to
half fill one of the washbowls and to stand on his head in it.

While this was going on there was not a smile from anyone.  From
the serious faces of all this might have been one of the most
important bits of drill in the whole course at the Academy.

Dave, however, made the best impression upon the youngsters.
All the other new men came sooner or later, to the ordeal of standing
on their heads in the wet bowl, but Dave seemed destined to escape.

The rowing was carried on until all of the youngsters had tired
of this sport.

"Fall in, in platoon front," directed Midshipman Trotter.

The six plebes, solemn as owls, stood up in line, "dressing" their
line carefully.

"Now, attend me carefully," cautioned Mr. Trotter, sweeping a
stern glance down the line of plebes.  "I am about to tell you
a bit of the day's news from over in Sleepy Hollow, which place
is known to Maryland geographers as the village of Annapolis.
You must attend me with extreme care, for, after I have narrated
the news, I shall question you concerning it.  Do you follow me,
misters?"

"Yes, sir," came in a chorus.

"You need not answer quite as loudly," warned Midshipman Trotter,
sending a backward look over his shoulder at the door.  "Now,
then, the police over in Sleepy Hol--Annapolis--today learned
the details of a yellow tragedy.  Some weeks ago three Chinamen
came to town and opened a clean--I mean, a new--laundry.  During
the last week, however, the public noted that the door leading
from the office to the rear room was always closed.  You follow
me?"

"Yes, sir," came in an almost whispered chorus.

"Finally," continued Mr. Trotter, "one customer, more curious
than the others, reported his observations to the police.  Today
the Johnny Tinplates made a raid on the place.  A most curious
state of affairs came to light.  So--but is this tangled tale
clear to you all as far as I have gone?"

"Yes, sir," came the whispered chorus.

"What the police learned," went on Mr. Trotter, in a voice that
now sounded slightly awestruck, "was this: a week ago the three
Chinese partners had a serious row.  They quarreled, then fought.
Two of the yellow partners killed the third!  And now, a serious
problem confronted the two survivors of that misunderstanding.
What was to be done with the remains of the unsuccessful disputant?"

Midshipman Trotter looked at each of the wondering plebes in turn.
It looked as though he were asking the question of them.

"I don't know, sir," admitted Dan Dalzell, at the left of the line.

"I don't know, sir," admitted the man next to Dan.  So it went
down the line, until Dave Darrin, at the further end, had admitted
himself to be as much in the dark as were the others.

"Then, listen," resumed Mr. Trotter impressively.  "The Chinese,
being descended from a very ancient civilization, are not only
very ingenious but also very thrifty.  They were burdened with
two hundred pounds of evidence on the premises.  In their extremity
the two survivors cut up their late partner, cooked him, and disposed
of the flesh at meal times."

From the gravity of the narrator's expression he appeared to be
reciting a wholly true story.

"Now, then," rasped out Midshipman Trotter, "that being the state
of affairs at the laundry--_what was the telephone number_?"

Trotter's gaze was fixed on Dan Dalzell's face almost accusingly.

"How the--" began startled Dan gruffly.  Then, instantly realizing
that he was making a mistake, he broke in hastily:

"Beg your pardon, sir, but I don't understand how to get at the
telephone number."

"You try, mister," ordered Midshipman Trotter, turning to the
plebe next to Dalzell.

"I can't solve the problem, sir."

So it ran, straight down the line, each confessing his ignorance,
until finally Mr. Trotter glared at Dave Darrin.

"Come, come, mister, from the very exact narrative that I have
given, can't you deduce the telephone number of that laundry?"

"Yes, sir; I think so," answered Darrin, with a slight smile.

"Ah!  Then there's a man in the squad who is more than a mere
saphead.  Let us have the telephone number, mister!

"Two-ate-one-John," replied Dave promptly.

This was the correct answer.  Dave had heard that "gag" before.

"Mister," beamed Mr. Trotter, "I congratulate you.  You are no
mollycoddle.  Your head is not over-fat, but somewhat stocked
with ideas.  As soon as you have soaked in a few more ideas you
will be fit to associate with the young gentlemen at this
sailor-factory.  You may, therefore, take the washbowl, fill it
half full of ideas, and stand on your head in them until they have
soaked well in!"

Poor Dave, his face flushed crimson, could have dropped in his
humiliation at having thus fallen into the trap.  But he started
manfully for the washbowl, which he half filled with water.  Meanwhile
the other five plebes were choking.  They could have screamed
in their glee--had they dared!

Placing the bowl where ordered, Dave bent down to his knees, immersing
the top of his head in the water.

With hands on opposite sides of the bowl he balanced his feet,
preparatory to hoisting them into place against the wall.

"Up oars!" commanded Mr. Hayes dryly.

From one of the visiting plebes came an incautious giggle.  Mr.
Hayes turned and marked his man with a significant stare that
made the unfortunate giggler turn red and white in turn with alarm.

At the order, "up oars," Dave Darrin sent his feet aloft.  By
rare good luck he succeeded the first time trying.

There he remained, his head in the bowl of water, his feet resting
against the wall.

Just at this moment, though, the sound of trouble was in the air,
even if it reached interested ears but faintly.

A step was heard in the corridor outside.  There was a faint knock.

The upper class midshipmen knew on the instant what the knock
meant--and so indeed did Dave Darrin.


CHAPTER IV

THE "YOUNGSTERS" WHO BECAME "SPOONS ON"


It was a most critical moment in the life histories of several
young men who had grown to consider themselves as future officers
in the United States Navy!

Such a man as Midshipman Bender was certain to report any form
of hazing he detected.

Now, the usual punishment meted out to hazers at either Annapolis or
West Point is dismissal from the service!

True, this was not brutal hazing, but merely the light form of
the sport known as "running" the new man.

Nevertheless, "all hazing looks alike" to the public, when posted
by the newspapers, and the Naval Academy authorities deal severely
with even "running."

So, for all of the "youngsters," or third class men, who had been
conducting the evening's festivities, all the elements of trouble,
and perhaps of dismissal, were at hand.

But Dave Darrin had been the first to hear the soft approach of
footsteps, and somehow, he had guessed at the meaning of it all.

Just in the fraction of a second before the knock had sounded
at the door Dave had made a fine handspring that brought him from
his topsy-turvy attitude to a position of standing on his feet.
And, at the same time, he held the washbowl in his hand without
having spilled a drop of the water.  Like a flash Dave few across
the room, depositing the bowl where it belonged.  With a towel
he wiped his hair, then swiftly mopped his face dry.  Hair brush
and comb in hand, he turned, saving:

"Why, I suppose, gentlemen, Dalzell and myself were very fair
athletes in the High School sense of the word.  But it's a long
jump from that to aspiring to the Navy football team.  Of course
we'll turn out for practice, if you wish, but--"

At this moment, Lieutenant Bender, the "duty-crazy" one, thrust
the door open.

Here Dave, on his way to the mirror, hairbrush and comb in hand,
halted as though for the first time aware of the accusing presence
of Bender, midshipman in charge of the floor for the day.

"Uh-hum!" choked Midshipman Bender more confused, even, than he
had expected the others to be.

"Looks like rather good material, doesn't he, Bender?" inquired
Mr. Trotter.  "Green, of course, and yet--"

"I didn't come here to discuss Navy athletics," replied Midshipman
Bender.

"Oh, an official visit--is that it?" asked shipman Hayes, favoring
the official visitor with a baby-stare.  "As it is past graduation,
and there are no evening study hours, there is no regulation against
visiting in the rooms of other members of the brigade."

"No," snapped Mr. Bender, "there is not."

Saying this the midshipman in charge turned on his heel and left
the room.

An instant after the door had closed the lately scared youngsters
expressed themselves by a broad grin, which deepened to a very
decided chuckle as Mr. Bender's footsteps died away.

"Mister," cried Midshipman Trotter, favoring Darrin with a glance
of frank friendliness, "do you know that you saved us from frapping
the pap hard?"

"And that perhaps you've saved us from bilging?" added Midshipman
Hayes.

"I'm such a greenhorn about the Navy, sir, that I am afraid I
don't follow you in the least, sir," Darrin replied quietly.

Then they explained to him that the "pap" is the conduct report,
and that "to frap" is to hit.  To "frap the pap" means to "get
stuck on" the conduct report for a breach of discipline.  A "bilger"
is one who is dropped from the service, or who is turned back
to the class below.

"I judged that there was some trouble coming sir," Dave confessed,
"and I did the best that I could.  It was good luck on my part that
I was able to be of service to you."

"Good luck, eh?" retorted Midshipman Trotter.  "Third class men,
fall in!"

As the "youngsters" lined up Mr. Trotter, standing at the right
of the line, asked coaxingly:

"Mister, will you be condescending enough to pass down the line
and shake hands with each of us?"

Flushing modestly, but grinning, Dave did as asked--or directed.

"Mister," continued Midshipman Trotter impressively, "we find
ourselves very close to being 'spoons on' you."

For a youngster to be "spoons on" a new fourth classman means
for the former to treat the latter very nearly as though he were
a human being.

"Now, you green dandelions may go," suggested Mr. Trotter, turning
to the four "visiting" plebes.

As soon as this had come about Trotter turned to Dave Darrin.

"Mister, we humble representatives of the third class are going
to show you the only sign of appreciation within our power.  We
are going to invite you to stroll down the deck and visit us in
our steerage.  Your roommate is invited to join us."

Dave and Dan promptly accepted, with becoming appreciation.  All
of the youngsters escorted Dave and Dan down the corridor to
Midshipman Trotter's room.

In the course of the next hour the youngsters told these new midshipmen
much about the life at the Naval Academy that it would otherwise
have taken the two plebes long to have found out for themselves.

They were initiated into much of the slang language that the older
midshipmen use when conversing together.  Many somewhat obscure
points in the regulations were made clear to them.

Lest the reader may wonder why new fourth class men should tamely
submit to hazing or "running," when the regulations of the Naval
Academy expressly prohibit these upper class sports, it may be
explained that the midshipmen of the brigade have their own internal
discipline.

A new man may very easily evade being hazed, if he insists upon it.

His first refusals will be met with challenges to fight.  If he
continues to refuse to be "hazed" or "run," he will soon find
himself ostracized by all of the upper class men.  Then his own
classmates will have to "cut" him, or they, too, will be "cut."
The man who is "cut" may usually as well resign from the Naval
Academy at once.  His continued stay there will become impossible
when no other midshipman will recognize him except in discharge
of official duties.

The new man at Annapolis, if he has any sense at all, will quietly
and cheerfully submit to being "run."  This fate falls upon every
new fourth class man, or nearly so.  The only fourth class man
who escapes bring "run" is the one who is considered as being
beneath notice.  Unhappy, indeed, is the plebe whom none of the
youngsters above him will consent to haze.  And frequent it happens
that the most popular man in an upper class is one who, while
in the fourth class, was the most unmercifully hazed.

Often a new man at the Naval Academy arrives with a firm resolution
to resist all attempts at running or hazing.  He considers himself
as good as any of the upper class men, and is going to insist on
uniformly good treatment from the upper class men.

If this be the new man's frame of mind he is set down as being
"ratey."

But often the new man arrives with a conviction that he will have
to submit to a certain amount of good-natured hazing by his class
elders.  Yet this man, from having been spoiled more or less at
home, is "fresh."  In this case he is called only "touge."

Hence it is a far more hopeful sign to be "touge" than to be "ratey."

The new man who honestly tries to be neither "touge" nor "ratey,"
and who has a sensible resolve to submit to tradition, is sometimes
termed "almost sea-going."

Dave Darrin was promptly recognized as being "almost sea-going."
He would need but little running.

Dan Dalzell, on the other hand, was soon listed as being "touge,"
though not "ratey."


CHAPTER V

INVITED TO JOIN THE "FRENCHERS"


Within the nest few days several things happened that were of
importance to the new fourth class men.

Other candidates arrived, passed the surgeons, and were sworn into
Naval service.

Many of the young men who had passed the surgeons, and who had
gone through the dreary, searching ordeals over in grim old Academic
Hall, had now become members of the new fourth class.

As organized, the new fourth class started off with two hundred
and twenty-four members--numerically a very respectable battalion.

At the outset, while supplied only with midshipmen's caps, and
while awaiting the "building" of their uniforms, these new midshipmen
were drilled by some of the members of the upper classes.

This state of affairs, however, lasted but very briefly.  Graduation
being past, the members of the three upper classes were rather
promptly embarked on three of the most modern battleships of the
Navy and sent to sea for the summer practice cruise.

The night before embarkation Midshipman Trotter looked in briefly
upon Dave Darrin and his roommate.

"Well, mister," announced the youngster, with a paternal smile,
"somehow you'll have to get on through the rest of the summer
without us."

"It will be a time of slow learning for us, sir," responded Darrin,
rising.

"Your summer will henceforth be restful, if not exactly instructive,"
smiled Trotter.  "In the absence of personal guidance, mister,
strive as far as you can to reach the goal of being sea going."

"I'll try, sir."

"You won't have such hard work as your roommate," went on Trotter,
favoring Dalzell with a sidelong look.  "And, now, one parting
bit of advice, mister.  Keep it at all times in mind that you
must keep away from demoralizing association with the forty per cent."

Statistics show that about forty per cent of the men who enter
the U.S. Naval Academy fail to get through, and are sent back
into civil life.  Hence the joy of keeping with the winning "sixty."

The next morning the members of the three upper classes had embarked
aboard the three big battleships that lay at anchor in the Severn.
It was not until two days afterwards that the battleships sailed,
but the upper class men did not come ashore in the interval.

Soon after the delivery of uniforms to the new fourth class men
began and continued rapidly.

Dave and Dan, having been among the first to have their measure
taken, were among the earliest to receive their new Naval clothing.

A tremendously proud day it was for each new midshipman when he
first surveyed himself, in uniform, in the mirror!

The regular summer course was now on in earnest for the new men.

On Mondays those belonging to the first and second divisions marched
down to the seamanship building, there to get their first lessons
in seamanship.  This began at eight o'clock, lasting until 9.30.
During the same period the men who belonged to the third and
fourth divisions received instruction in discipline and ordnance.
In the second period, from 10 to 11.30 the members of the first
and second division attended instruction in discipline and ordnance
while the members of the third and fourth divisions attended seamanship.

In the afternoon, from 3 to 4.45, the halves of the class alternated
between seamanship and marine engineering.

All instruction proceeded with a rapidity that made the heads
of most of these new midshipmen whirl!  From 5 to 6 on the same
afternoon the entire fourth class attended instruction in the
art of swimming--and no midshipman hope to graduate unless he
is a fairly expert swimmer!

Wednesday and Saturday afternoons were devoted to athletics and
recreation.

A midshipman does not have his evenings for leisure.  On the first
five evenings of each week, while one half of the class went to
the gymnasium, the other half indulged in singing drill in Recreation
Hall.

"What's the idea of making operatic stars out of us?" grumbled
Dan to his roommate on day.

"You always seem to get the wrong impression about everything,
Danny boy," retorted Darrin, turning to his roommate with a
quizzical smile.  "The singing drill isn't given with a view to
fitting you to sing in opera."

"What, then?" insisted Dan.

"You are learning to sing, my dear boy, so that, later on, you will
be able to deliver your orders from a battleship's bridge in an
agreeable voice."

"If my voice on the bridge is anything like the voice I develop
in Recreation Hall," grimaced Dalzell, "it'll start a mutiny right
then and there."

"Then you don't expect sailors of the Navy to stand for the kind
of voice that is being developed in you in Recreation Hall?" laughed
Darrin.

"Sailors are only human," grumbled Dalzell.

The rowing work, in the big ten-oared cutters proved one of the most
interesting features of the busy summer life of the new men.

More than half of these fourth class midshipmen had been accustomed
to rowing boats at home.  The work at Annapolis, however, they found
to be vastly different.

The cutter is a fearfully heavy boat.  The long Naval oar is
surprisingly full of avoirdupois weight.  True, a midshipman has to
handle but one oar, but it takes him many, many days to learn how to
do that properly.

Yet, as August came and wore along, the midshipmen found themselves
becoming decidedly skilful in the work of handling the heavy cutters,
and in handling boats under sail.

Competitive work and racing were encouraged by the Navy officers who
had charge of this instruction.

Each boat was under the direct command of a midshipman who served
as crew captain, with thirteen other midshipmen under him as crew.

When the post of crew captain fell to Dan Dalzell he embarked
his crew, gave the order to shove off and let fall oars, and got
away in good style.

Then, leaning indolently back Dan grinned luxuriously.

"This is the post I'm cut out for," he murmured, so that stroke-oar
heard him and grinned.

Yet, as "evil communications corrupt good manners," Dan's attitude
was reflected in his crew of classmates.  The cutter was manned
badly at that moment.

"Mr. Dalzell!" rasped out the voice of Lieutenant Fenton, the
instructor, from a near-by boat.

Dan straightened up as though shot.  But the Navy officer's voice
continued sternly:

"Sit up in a more seamanlike manner.  Pay close attention to the
work of your boat crew.  Be alert for the best performance of
duty in the boat that you command.  For your inattention, and
worse, of a moment ago, Mr. Dalzell, you will put yourself on
the conduct report."

The next morning, at breakfast formation, Dan's name was read
from the "pap."  He had been given five demerits.  This was below
the gravity of his offense, but he had been let off lightly the
first time.

"You've got to stick to duty, and keep it always in mind," Darrin
admonished his chum.  "I don't intend to turn preachy, Dan; but
you'll surely discover that the man who lets his indolence or
sense of fun get away with him is much better off out of the Naval
Academy."

"Pooh!  A lot of the fellows have frapped the pap," retorted Dalzell.
"Demerits don't do any harm, unless you get enough of 'em to cause
you to be dropped."

"Well, if there is no higher consideration," argued Dave, "at
least you must remember that the number of demerits fixes your
conduct grade.  If you want such liberties and privileges as are
allowed to new midshipmen, you'll have to keep your name away from
the pap."

"Humph!  Setting your course toward the grease mark are you?"
jeered Dan.

"Think it over!" urged Dave Darrin patiently.

Before August was over the new fourth class men marched "like
veterans."  They had mastered all the work of drill, marching and
parade, and felt that they could hold their own in the brigade when
the upper class men returned.

On the 28th of August the three big battleships were sighted coming
up the bay in squadron formation.  A little more than an hour
later they rode at anchor.

It was not, however, until the 30th of August that the upper classmen
were disembarked.

August 31 was devoted to manifold duties, including the hurried
packing of light baggage, for now the members of the three upper
classes were to enjoy a month's leave of absence before the beginning
of the academic year on October 1.

Then, like a whirlwind mob, and clad in their "cit." clothes, the
upper class men got away on that hurried, frenzied leave.

There was no leave, however, for the new midshipmen.

In lieu of leave, through the month of September, the new fourth
class men spent the time, each week-day, from ten o'clock until
noon, at the "Dago Department," as the Department of Modern Languages
is termed.

Here they made their start in French.

"When Trotter comes back," muttered Dan, "if he asks me whether
I can talk French, I'll tell him that I've tried, and now I know
I can't."

It was the last night before the upper classmen were due back from
their leave.

Dave and Dan were in their room, poring hard over French, when
a light tap sounded on the door.

Right on top of the tap Midshipman Farley, fourth class, entered
on tiptoe, closing the door behind him.

This accomplished, Farley dropped his air of stealth, strolling
over to the study desk.

"There's a nice little place in town--you know, Purdy's," began
Farley significantly.

"I've heard of it as an eating place," responded Darrin.

"It's more than that," returned Farley, smacking his lips.  "It's
an ideal place for a banquet."

"I accept your word for it," smiled Dave.

"I don't ask you to, Darrin," grinned Farley.  "Like any honest
man I'm prepared to prove all I say.  Purdy has received--by
underground telegraph--orders to prepare a swell feast for eight.
It's to be ready at eleven tonight.  We had the eight all made
up, but two fellows have flunked cold.  We're to French it over
the wall tonight, leaving here a few minutes after taps.  Are you on?"

Farley's enthusiastic look fell upon the face of Dalzell.

"I'm on!" nodded Dan

"No; you're not" broke in Dave quietly.

"I'm afraid I must disagree with you, little David," murmured Dan.

"Oysters, clams, fish--watermelon!" tempted Midshipman Farley.

"Um-yum!" grunted Dan, his eyes rolling.

"Then you're with us, Dalzell?" insisted Farley.

"Well, rather--"

"--not!" interjected Dave Darrin with emphasis.

"Now, what are you butting in for, you greasy greaser?" demanded
Farley, giving Dave a contemptuous glance.  "Maybe you won't join
us, and maybe we'd just as soon not have as greasy a midshipman
as you at the festive board, but Dalzell isn't tied to your apron
strings, are you, Dalzell?"

"No; he's not," replied Darrin, speaking for his chum.  "Dalzell
will speak for himself, if he insists.  But he and I have been
chums these many years, and we've often given each other good
advice in trying or tempting times.  Dalzell will go with you,
if he cares to, for he already knows all that I have to say on
the subject."

"You've had your nose stuck down deep in the grease-pot ever since
you struck Annapolis!" cried Farley angrily.  "I hope you bilge,
Darrin; with all my heart I hope you bilge soon.  We don't need
a mollycoddle like you here in the Naval Academy!"

"Isn't that about all you want to say?" demanded Dave, looking
up with a frown.

"No; it's not half what I have to say," cried Farley hotly.  "Darrin,
your kind of fellow is a disgrace to the Naval service!  You're
a sneak--that's what--"

"You may stop, right there!" frowned Darrin, rising from his chair.

"I'll stop when I'm proper ready!" retorted Farley hotly.

"If you don't stop right now, you'll finish while engaged in landing
on your ear in the hall outside!" warned Dave, stepping forward.

There was a new look in Darrin's usually patient eyes.  It was
a look Farley hadn't seen there before, and it warned the hot-headed
midshipman that he was in danger of going too far.

"Oh, fudge on you, Darrin!" jeered Farley, turning on his heel.
"Going to be with us, Dalzell?

"No," replied Dan promptly.  "I never travel with the enemies of
my friends."

"Greasers, both of you!" flung back the caller, and left them.

"If that fellow had talked an hour longer I believe I might have
lost my patience," smiled Darrin, as he turned back to his desk.
"But I'm glad you're not with that outfit tonight Danny boy.
It may turn out a big scrape."

"Why should it turn out a big scrape." demanded Dan.

"Oh, you never can tell," replied Darrin, as he picked up his
book.

Farley did not succeed in getting two more midshipmen to join
in the Frenching.  Twenty minutes after taps, however, the original
six of the fourth class slipped out of Bancroft Hall.

Slyly they made their way to where they had a board hidden near
the wall of the Academy grounds.

One at a time, and swiftly, they went up this board, and over
the wall.

At Purdy's they found a meal to tempt the most whimsical appetite.
The meal over they spent much time in singing and story-telling.

It was nearly two in the morning when Farley and his fellow feasters
tried to get back into the grounds, over the wall.

They got over the wall, all right, but only to fall into the hands
of one of the watchmen, who seemed to have known exactly where
to expect their return.

All six were reported to the officer in charge.  At breakfast
formation Midshipmen Farley, Oates, Scully, Brimmer, Henkel and
Page were assigned fifty demerits each for unauthorized absence
during the night.

Farley and his friends were furious.  More, they were talkative.

Had Dave Darrin been less occupied that day he would have noted
that many of his classmates avoided him.

Dan did notice, and wondered, without speaking of the matter.

That day all the upper class men returned, and Bancroft Hall hummed
for a while with the bustle of the returning hundreds.

Just before the dinner formation Youngster Trotter encountered
Dave in the corridor.

"Hullo, mister!" was Trotter's greeting, and the youngster actually
held out his hand.

"I hope you had a mighty pleasant leave, sir," replied Dave, returning
the handclasp.

"Passably pleasant, passably, mister," returned Midshipman Trotter.
"But see here, mister, what's this about you and your class that
I've heard?

"Nothing, so far as I know, sir," replied Dave, scanning the youngster's
face closely.

"It must be more than nothing," returned Trotter.  "I understand
that more than half of your class are furious with you over something
that happened last night.  I've heard you called a sneak, mister,
though I don't believe that for a single minute.  But I've heard
mutterings to the effect that your class will send you to coventry
for excessive zeal in greasing, to the detriment of your classmates.
What about it all, mister?"

Dave Darrin gazed at the youngster with eyes full of wonder.

"What about it?" repeated Dave.  "That's the very thing I'd like to
know, sir, for this is the very first word I've heard of it."

Nor could Midshipman Trotter doubt that Dave Darrin had answered
in all sincerity.

"Well, you certainly must be innocent, mister, if you're as puzzled
as all this," replied the youngster.  "Then it must be that malicious
mischief is brewing against you in some quarter.  Take my advice,
mister, and find out what it all means."

"Thank you.  I most certainly will, sir," replied Dave, his eyes
flashing.


CHAPTER VI

DAVE PASSES THE LIE


Dalzell looked up wonderingly as Darrin marched swiftly into their
room.

_Margaret_. Mother would--Fare thee well!

_Faust_. And must I leave thee then? Farewell!

_Martha_. Adé!

_Margaret_. Till, soon, we meet again!

[_Exeunt_ FAUST _and_ MEPHISTOPHELES.]

_Margaret_. Good heavens!

what such a man's one brain Can in itself alone contain!
I blush my rudeness to confess, And answer all he says with yes.

Am a poor, ignorant child, don't see What he can possibly find
in me.

[_Exit_.]

WOODS AND CAVERN.

_Faust_ [_alone_].

Spirit sublime, thou gav'st me, gav'st me all For which I prayed.
Thou didst not lift in vain Thy face upon me in a flame of fire.

Gav'st me majestic nature for a realm, The power to feel, enjoy
her.

Not alone A freezing, formal visit didst thou grant; Deep down into
her breast invitedst me To look, as if she were a bosom-friend.

The series of animated things Thou bidst pass by me, teaching
me to know My brothers in the waters, woods, and air.

And when the storm-swept forest creaks and groans, The giant
pine-tree crashes, rending off The neighboring boughs and limbs,
and with deep roar The thundering mountain echoes to its fall, To
a safe cavern then thou leadest me, Showst me myself; and my own
bosom's deep Mysterious wonders open on my view.

And when before my sight the moon comes up With soft effulgence;
from the walls of rock, From the damp thicket, slowly float around
The silvery shadows of a world gone by, And temper meditation's
sterner joy.

O! nothing perfect is vouchsafed to man:
I feel it now!

Attendant on this bliss, Which brings me ever nearer to the Gods,
Thou gav'st me the companion, whom I now No more can spare, though
cold and insolent; He makes me hate, despise myself, and turns Thy
gifts to nothing with a word--a breath.

He kindles up a wild-fire in my breast, Of restless longing for that
lovely form.

Thus from desire I hurry to enjoyment, And in enjoyment languish
for desire.

_Enter_ MEPHISTOPHELES.

_Mephistopheles_. Will not this life have tired you by and
bye?

I wonder it so long delights you?
'Tis well enough for once the thing to try; Then off to where
a new invites you!

_Faust_. Would thou hadst something else to do, That thus to
spoil my joy thou burnest.

_Mephistopheles_. Well! well! I'll leave thee, gladly too!--
Thou dar'st not tell me that in earnest!
'Twere no great loss, a fellow such as you, So crazy, snappish, and
uncivil.

One has, all day, his hands full, and more too; To worm out from him
what he'd have one do, Or not do, puzzles e'en the very devil.

_Faust_. Now, that I like! That's just the tone!

Wants thanks for boring me till I'm half dead!

_Mephistopheles_. Poor son of earth, if left alone, What sort
of life wouldst thou have led?
How oft, by methods all my own, I've chased the cobweb fancies from
thy head!

And but for me, to parts unknown Thou from this earth hadst long
since fled.

What dost thou here through cave and crevice groping?
Why like a hornèd owl sit moping?

And why from dripping stone, damp moss, and rotten wood Here, like a
toad, suck in thy food?
Delicious pastime!

Ah, I see, Somewhat of Doctor sticks to thee.

_Faust_.

What new life-power it gives me, canst thou guess-- This conversation
with the wilderness?
Ay, couldst thou dream how sweet the employment, Thou wouldst
be devil enough to grudge me my enjoyment.

_Mephistopheles_. Ay, joy from super-earthly fountains!
By night and day to lie upon the mountains, To clasp in ecstasy
both earth and heaven, Swelled to a deity by fancy's leaven, Pierce,
like a nervous thrill, earth's very marrow, Feel the whole six days'
work for thee too narrow, To enjoy, I know not what, in blest
elation, Then with thy lavish love o'erflow the whole creation.

Below thy sight the mortal cast, And to the glorious vision give
at last-- [_with a gesture_] I must not say what termination!

_Faust_. Shame on thee!

_Mephistopheles_. This displeases thee; well, surely, Thou hast a
right to say "for shame" demurely.

One must not mention that to chaste ears--never, Which chaste hearts
cannot do without, however.

And, in one word, I grudge you not the pleasure Of lying to yourself
in moderate measure; But 'twill not hold out long, I know; Already
thou art fast recoiling, And soon, at this rate, wilt be boiling
With madness or despair and woe.

Enough of this! Thy sweetheart sits there lonely, And all to
her is close and drear.

Her thoughts are on thy image only, She holds thee, past all
utterance, dear.

At first thy passion came bounding and rushing Like a brooklet
o'erflowing with melted snow and rain; Into her heart thou hast
poured it gushing:
And now thy brooklet's dry again.

Methinks, thy woodland throne resigning, 'Twould better suit so
great a lord The poor young monkey to reward For all the love with
which she's pining.

She finds the time dismally long; Stands at the window, sees the
clouds on high Over the old town-wall go by.

"Were I a little bird!"[26] so runneth her song All the day, half
the night long.

At times she'll be laughing, seldom smile, At times wept-out she'll
seem, Then again tranquil, you'd deem,-- Lovesick all the while.

_Faust_. Viper! Viper!

_Mephistopheles_ [_aside_]. Ay! and the prey grows riper!

_Faust_. Reprobate! take thee far behind me!
No more that lovely woman name!
Bid not desire for her sweet person flame Through each half-maddened
sense, again to blind me!

_Mephistopheles_. What then's to do? She fancies thou hast flown, And
more than half she's right, I own.

_Faust_. I'm near her, and, though far away, my word, I'd not
forget her, lose her; never fear it!

I envy e'en the body of the Lord, Oft as those precious lips
of hers draw near it.

_Mephistopheles_. No doubt; and oft my envious thought reposes On
the twin-pair that feed among the roses.

_Faust_. Out, pimp!

_Mephistopheles_. Well done!

Your jeers I find fair game for laughter.
The God, who made both lad and lass, Unwilling for a bungling hand
to pass, Made opportunity right after.

But come! fine cause for lamentation!

Her chamber is your destination, And not the grave, I guess.

_Faust_. What are the joys of heaven while her fond arms enfold me?

O let her kindling bosom hold me!
Feel I not always her distress?

The houseless am I not? the unbefriended?
The monster without aim or rest?

That, like a cataract, from rock to rock descended To the abyss,
with maddening greed possest:
She, on its brink, with childlike thoughts and lowly,-- Perched on
the little Alpine field her cot,-- This narrow world, so still and
holy Ensphering, like a heaven, her lot.

And I, God's hatred daring, Could not be content The rocks all
headlong bearing, By me to ruins rent,-- Her, yea her peace, must
I o'erwhelm and bury!

This victim, hell, to thee was necessary!
Help me, thou fiend, the pang soon ending!

What must be, let it quickly be!

And let her fate upon my head descending, Crush, at one blow, both
her and me.

_Mephistopheles_. Ha! how it seethes again and glows!
Go in and comfort her, thou dunce!

Where such a dolt no outlet sees or knows, He thinks he's reached
the end at once.

None but the brave deserve the fair!
Thou _hast_ had devil enough to make a decent show of.

For all the world a devil in despair Is just the insipidest thing
I know of.

MARGERY'S ROOM.

MARGERY [_at the spinning-wheel alone_].
My heart is heavy, My peace is o'er; I never--ah!

never-- Shall find it more.
While him I crave, Each place is the grave, The world is all Turned
into gall.

My wretched brain Has lost its wits, My wretched sense Is all in
bits.

My heart is heavy, My peace is o'er; I never--ah! never-- Shall
find it more.
Him only to greet, I The street look down, Him only to meet, I
Roam through town.
His lofty step, His noble height, His smile of sweetness, His eye
of might, His words of magic, Breathing bliss, His hand's warm
pressure And ah!

his kiss.
My heart is heavy, My peace is o'er, I never--ah! never-- Shall
find it more.

My bosom yearns To behold him again.
Ah, could I find him That best of men!

I'd tell him then How I did miss him, And kiss him As much as I
could, Die on his kisses I surely should!

MARTHA'S GARDEN.

MARGARET. FAUST.

_Margaret_. Promise me, Henry.

_Faust_. What I can.

_Margaret_.

How is it now with thy religion, say?

I know thou art a dear good man, But fear thy thoughts do not run
much that way.

_Faust_. Leave that, my child! Enough, thou hast my heart; For those
I love with life I'd freely part; I would not harm a soul, nor
of its faith bereave it.

_Margaret_. That's wrong, there's one true faith--one must believe it?

_Faust_. Must one?

_Margaret_. Ah, could I influence thee, dearest!
The holy sacraments thou scarce reverest.

_Faust_.

I honor them.

_Margaret_. But yet without desire.
Of mass and confession both thou'st long begun to tire.
Believest thou in God?

_Faust_. My. darling, who engages To say, I do believe in God?
The question put to priests or sages:

Their answer seems as if it sought To mock the asker.

_Margaret_. Then believ'st thou not?

_Faust_. Sweet face, do not misunderstand my thought!
Who dares express him?

And who confess him, Saying, I do believe?
A man's heart bearing, What man has the daring To say: I acknowledge
him not?

The All-enfolder, The All-upholder, Enfolds, upholds He not Thee,
me, Himself?
Upsprings not Heaven's blue arch high o'er thee?

Underneath thee does not earth stand fast?
See'st thou not, nightly climbing, Tenderly glancing eternal
stars?
Am I not gazing eye to eye on thee?
Through brain and bosom Throngs not all life to thee, Weaving in
everlasting mystery Obscurely, clearly, on all sides of thee?

Fill with it, to its utmost stretch, thy breast, And in the
consciousness when thou art wholly blest, Then call it what
thou wilt, Joy! Heart! Love! God!
I have no name to give it!

All comes at last to feeling; Name is but sound and smoke, Beclouding
Heaven's warm glow.

_Margaret_.

That is all fine and good, I know; And just as the priest has
often spoke, Only with somewhat different phrases.

_Faust_. All hearts, too, in all places, Wherever Heaven pours
down the day's broad blessing, Each in its way the truth is
confessing; And why not I in mine, too?

_Margaret_. Well, all have a way that they incline to, But still
there is something wrong with thee; Thou hast no Christianity.

_Faust_. Dear child!

_Margaret_. It long has troubled me That thou shouldst keep such
company.

_Faust_. How so?

_Margaret_.

The man whom thou for crony hast, Is one whom I with all my
soul detest.

Nothing in all my life has ever Stirred up in my heart such a deep
disfavor As the ugly face that man has got.

_Faust_. Sweet plaything; fear him not!

_Margaret_. His presence stirs my blood, I own.
I can love almost all men I've ever known; But much as thy presence
with pleasure thrills me, That man with a secret horror fills me.

And then for a knave I've suspected him long!
God pardon me, if I do him wrong!

_Faust_. To make up a world such odd sticks are needed.

_Margaret_.

Shouldn't like to live in the house where he did!
Whenever I see him coming in, He always wears such a mocking grin.

Half cold, half grim; One sees, that naught has interest for
him; 'Tis writ on his brow and can't be mistaken, No soul in him
can love awaken.

I feel in thy arms so happy, so free, I yield myself up so blissfully,
He comes, and all in me is closed and frozen now.

_Faust_. Ah, thou mistrustful angel, thou!

_Margaret_. This weighs on me so sore, That when we meet, and he
is by me, I feel, as if I loved thee now no more.

Nor could I ever pray, if he were nigh me, That eats the very heart
in me; Henry, it must be so with thee.

_Faust_. 'Tis an antipathy of thine!

_Margaret_. Farewell!

_Faust_. Ah, can I ne'er recline One little hour upon thy bosom,
pressing My heart to thine and all my soul confessing?

_Margaret_.

Ah, if my chamber were alone, This night the bolt should give thee
free admission; But mother wakes at every tone, And if she had the
least suspicion, Heavens!

I should die upon the spot!

_Faust_. Thou angel, need of that there's not.
Here is a flask!

Three drops alone Mix with her drink, and nature Into a deep and
pleasant sleep is thrown.

_Margaret_. Refuse thee, what can I, poor creature?

I hope, of course, it will not harm her!

_Faust_. Would I advise it then, my charmer?

_Margaret_.

Best man, when thou dost look at me, I know not what, moves me
to do thy will; I have already done so much for thee, Scarce any
thing seems left me to fulfil.

[_Exit_.]
Enter_ MEPHISTOPHELES.

_Mephtftopheles_. The monkey! is she gone?

_Faust_. Hast played the spy again?

_Mephistopheles_.

I overheard it all quite fully.
The Doctor has been well catechized then?

Hope it will sit well on him truly.
The maidens won't rest till they know if the men Believe as good
old custom bids them do.

They think: if there he yields, he'll follow our will too.

_Faust_. Monster, thou wilt not, canst not see, How this true
soul that loves so dearly, Yet hugs, at every cost, The faith which
she Counts Heaven itself, is horror-struck sincerely To think of
giving up her dearest man for lost.

_Mephistopheles_. Thou supersensual, sensual wooer, A girl by the
nose is leading thee.

_Faust_.

Abortion vile of fire and sewer!

_Mephistopheles_. In physiognomy, too, her skill is masterly.
When I am near she feels she knows not how, My little mask some
secret meaning shows; She thinks, I'm certainly a genius, now,
Perhaps the very devil--who knows?

To-night then?--
_Faust_. Well, what's that to you?

_Mephistopheles_.

I find my pleasure in it, too!

AT THE WELL.

MARGERY _and_ LIZZY _with Pitchers._
_Lizzy_.

Hast heard no news of Barbara to-day?

_Margery_. No, not a word. I've not been out much lately.

_Lizzy_. It came to me through Sybill very straightly.
She's made a fool of herself at last, they say.

That comes of taking airs!

_Margery_. What meanst thou?

_Lizzy_. Pah!
She daily eats and drinks for two now.

_Margery_. Ah!

_Lizzy_.

It serves the jade right for being so callow.

How long she's been hanging upon the fellow!
Such a promenading!

To fair and dance parading!
Everywhere as first she must shine, He was treating her always with
tarts and wine; She began to think herself something fine, And let
her vanity so degrade her That she even accepted the presents he
made her.

There was hugging and smacking, and so it went on-- And lo! and behold!
the flower is gone!

_Margery_. Poor thing!

_Lizzy_. Canst any pity for her feel!
When such as we spun at the wheel, Our mothers kept us in-doors
after dark; While she stood cozy with her spark, Or sate on the
door-bench, or sauntered round, And never an hour too long they
found.

But now her pride may let itself down, To do penance at church
in the sinner's gown!

_Margery_. He'll certainly take her for his wife.

_Lizzy_. He'd be a fool!

A spruce young blade Has room enough to ply his trade.
Besides, he's gone.

_Margery_. Now, that's not fair!

_Lizzy_. If she gets him, her lot'll be hard to bear.
The boys will tear up her wreath, and what's more, We'll strew
chopped straw before her door.

[_Exit._]
_Margery [going home]_.

Time was when I, too, instead of bewailing, Could boldly jeer at a poor
girl's failing!
When my scorn could scarcely find expression At hearing of another's
transgression!

How black it seemed! though black as could be, It never was black enough
for me.

I blessed my soul, and felt so high, And now, myself, in sin I
lie!
Yet--all that led me to it, sure, O God! it was so dear, so
pure!

DONJON.[27]

[_In a niche a devotional image of the Mater Dolorosa, before it
pots of flowers._]

MARGERY [_puts fresh flowers into the pots_].
Ah, hear me, Draw kindly near me, Mother of sorrows, heal my woe!

Sword-pierced, and stricken With pangs that sicken, Thou seest thy
son's last life-blood flow!

Thy look--thy sighing--- To God are crying, Charged with a son's
and mother's woe!

Sad mother!

What other Knows the pangs that eat me to the bone?

What within my poor heart burneth, How it trembleth, how it yearneth,
Thou canst feel and thou alone!

Go where I will, I never Find peace or hope--forever Woe, woe and
misery!

Alone, when all are sleeping, I'm weeping, weeping, weeping, My
heart is crushed in me.

The pots before my window, In the early morning-hours, Alas, my
tears bedewed them, As I plucked for thee these flowers,
When the bright sun good morrow In at my window said, Already, in
my anguish, I sate there in my bed.

From shame and death redeem me, oh!
Draw near me, And, pitying, hear me, Mother of sorrows, heal my
woe!

NIGHT.

_Street before_ MARGERY'S _Door._

VALENTINE [_soldier,_ MARGERY'S _brother_].

When at the mess I used to sit, Where many a one will show his wit,
And heard my comrades one and all The flower of the sex extol,
Drowning their praise with bumpers high, Leaning upon my elbows, I
Would hear the braggadocios through, And then, when it came my turn,
too, Would stroke my beard and, smiling, say, A brimming bumper in
my hand:
All very decent in their way!

But is there one, in all the land, With my sweet Margy to compare,
A candle to hold to my sister fair?

Bravo! Kling! Klang! it echoed round!

One party cried: 'tis truth he speaks, She is the jewel of the
sex!
And the braggarts all in silence were bound.
And now!--one could pull out his hair with vexation, And run up
the walls for mortification!

-- Every two-legged creature that goes in breeches Can mock me
with sneers and stinging speeches!
And I like a guilty debtor sitting, For fear of each casual word
am sweating!

And though I could smash them in my ire, I dare not call a soul
of them liar.

What's that comes yonder, sneaking along?

There are two of them there, if I see not wrong.
Is't he, I'll give him a dose that'll cure him, He'll not leave the
spot alive, I assure him!

FAUST. MEPHISTOPHELES.

_Faust_.

How from yon window of the sacristy The ever-burning lamp sends up
its glimmer, And round the edge grows ever dimmer, Till in the
gloom its flickerings die!
So in my bosom all is nightlike.
_Mephistopheles_. A starving tom-cat I feel quite like, That o'er
the fire ladders crawls Then softly creeps, ground the walls.
My aim's quite virtuous ne'ertheless, A bit of thievish lust, a bit
of wantonness.
I feel it all my members haunting-- The glorious Walpurgis night.
One day--then comes the feast enchanting That shall all pinings
well requite.
_Faust_. Meanwhile can that the casket be, I wonder, I see behind
rise glittering yonder.[28]
_Mephistopheles_. Yes, and thou soon shalt have the pleasure Of
lifting out the precious treasure.
I lately 'neath the lid did squint, Has piles of lion-dollars[29]
in't.

_Faust_. But not a jewel? Not a ring?
To deck my mistress not a trinket?
_Mephistopheles_. I caught a glimpse of some such thing, Sort of
pearl bracelet I should think it.
_Faust_. That's well! I always like to bear Some present when I
visit my fair.
_Mephistopheles_. You should not murmur if your fate is, To have a
bit of pleasure gratis.
Now, as the stars fill heaven with their bright throng, List a fine
piece, artistic purely:
I sing her here a moral song, To make a fool of her more surely.
[_Sings to the guitar_.][30] What dost thou here, Katrina dear, At
daybreak drear, Before thy lover's chamber?
Give o'er, give o'er!
The maid his door Lets in, no more Goes out a maid--remember!
Take heed! take heed!
Once done, the deed Ye'll rue with speed-- And then--good night--poor
thing--a!
Though ne'er so fair His speech, beware, Until you bear His ring
upon your finger.

_Valentine_ [_comes forward_].
Whom lur'ft thou here? what prey dost scent?
Rat-catching[81] offspring of perdition!
To hell goes first the instrument!
To hell then follows the musician!
_Mephistopheles_. He 's broken the guitar! to music, then, good-bye,
now.
_Valentine_. A game of cracking skulls we'll try now!
_Mephistopbeles_ [_to Faust_]. Never you flinch, Sir Doctor!
Brisk!
Mind every word I say---be wary!
Stand close by me, out with your whisk!
Thrust home upon the churl! I'll parry.
_Valentine_. Then parry that!
_Mephistopheles_. Be sure. Why not?
_Valentine_. And that!

_Mephistopheles_. With ease!
_Valentine_. The devil's aid he's got!
But what is this? My hand's already lame.
_Mephistopheles_ [_to Faust_]. Thrust home!
_Valentine_ [_falls_]. O woe!
_Mephistopheles_. Now is the lubber tame!
But come! We must be off. I hear a clatter; And cries of murder,
too, that fast increase.
I'm an old hand to manage the police, But then the penal court's
another matter.

_Martha_. Come out! Come out!
_Margery_ [_at the window_]. Bring on a light!
_Martha_ [_as above_]. They swear and scuffle, scream and
fight.

_People_. There's one, has got's death-blow!
_Martha_ [_coming out_]. Where are the murderers, have they
flown?

_Margery_ [_coming out_]. Who's lying here?
_People_. Thy mother's son.
_Margery_. Almighty God! What woe!
_Valentine_. I'm dying! that is quickly said, And even quicklier
done.
Women! Why howl, as if half-dead?
Come, hear me, every one!
[_All gather round him_.] My Margery, look! Young art thou still,
But managest thy matters ill, Hast not learned out yet quite.
I say in confidence--think it o'er:
Thou art just once for all a whore; Why, be one, then, outright."Farley will tell you tomorrow if he's able," grinned Dan.

When taps sounded on the bugle, that evening, all of the midshipmen,
save Farley, were in their rooms.

Promptly as the last note of taps broke on the air the last of the
midshipmen was in bed, and the electric light was turned off from a
master switch.  The inspection of rooms was on.


CHAPTER IX

DAN JUST CAN'T HELP BEING "TOUGE"


Fourth Class Man Farley did not put in an appearance at breakfast
formation in the morning.

As this was the opening day of the first term of the academic
year it was a bad time to be "docked for repairs" at the hospital.

Merely reading over the list of the fourth class studies did not
convey to the new men much idea of how hard they were to find
their work.

In the department of Marine Engineering and Naval Construction
there were lessons in mechanical drawing.

No excuse is made for a midshipman's natural lack of ability in
drawing.  He must draw satisfactorily if he is to hope to pass.

In mathematics the new man had to recite in algebra, logarithms
and geometry.

In addition to the foregoing, during the first term, the new midshipman
had courses in English and in French.

As at West Point, the mathematics is the stumbling block of the new
man at Annapolis.

In the first term algebra, logarithms and geometry had to be finished,
for in the second term trigonometry was the subject in mathematics.

Shortly before eight in the morning the bugle call sounded for the
first period of recitation.

The midshipmen fell in by classes in front of Bancroft Hall.
After muster the classes marched away by sections.

Each section contained an average of ten men, under command of
one of their number, who was known as the section leader.

It was the section leader's duty to march his section to the proper
recitation room in Academic Hall, to preserve discipline while
marching, and to report his section to the instructor.

At the beginning of the academic year the fourth class men were
divided into sections in alphabetical order.  Afterwards the sections
would be reorganized according to order of merit.

So, at the outset, Darrin and Dalzell were in the same section,
and Dave, as it happened, had been appointed section leader.

When the command rang out Dave marched away with his section,
feeling somewhat proud that he had attained even to so small a
degree of command.

It was an interesting sight to see hundreds of midshipmen, split
up into so many sections, marching across the grounds in so many
different directions, for not all the sections were headed for
Academic Hall.

Dave knew the number of the room to which his section was bound, and
knew also the location of the room.

Sections march, in step, at a brisk gait, the clicking of so many
heels against the pavements making a rhythmic, inspiring sound.

Some of the midshipmen in Dave's section however, felt low-spirited
that morning.  They had been looking through their text-books,
and felt a dread that they would not be able to keep up the stiff
pace of learning long enough to get past the semi-annual examinations
in the coming January.

Dave and Dan, however, both felt in good spirits.  They had looked
through the first lessons in algebra, and felt that they would
not have much trouble at the outset, anyway.  They believed that
they had been well grounded back in their High School days.

On their way Darrin's section was passed by three officers of
the Navy.  Midshipmen must always salute officers of the Navy.
While marching in sections, however, the only midshipman who
salutes is the section leader.

Three times Dave's hand came smartly up to the visor of his cap
in salute, while the other men in his section looked straight ahead.

Reaching Academic Hall Dave marched his section mates into the
recitation room.

Lieutenant Bradshaw, the instructor, was already present, standing
by his desk.

Darrin saluted the lieutenant as soon as he had halted the section.

"Sir, I report all members of the section present."

Five of the midshipmen were directed by Lieutenant Bradshaw to go
to their seats.  The rest were ordered to blackboards, Dave and Dan
among the latter number.

Those at the blackboards were each given a problem to lay out
on the blackboard.  Then the instructor turned to the fourth class
men who remained in their seats.

These he questioned, in turn, on various aspects of the day's lesson.

All the time the midshipmen at the blackboard worked busily away,
each blocking out phase after phase of his problem.

Dave Darrin was first to finish.  He turned his back to the board,
taking the position of parade rest.

Dan was third to finish.

"Mr. Darrin, you may explain your work," announced Lieutenant
Bradshaw.

This Dave did, slowly, carefully, though without painful hesitation.
When he had finished the instructor asked him several questions
about the problem, and about some other phases of the day's work.
Darrin did not jump at any of his answers, but made them thoughtfully.

"Very good, indeed, Mr. Darrin," commented the instructor.  "But,
when you are more accustomed to reciting here, I shall hope for
a little more speed in answering."

As Dave was returning to his seat Lieutenant Bradshaw marked him
3.8 per cent on the day's work.

That was an excellent marking, 4 being the highest.  The lowest
average in a study which a midshipman may have, and hold his place
in the Naval Academy, is 2.5.  Anything below 2.5 is unsatisfactory,
which, in midshipman parlance is "unsat."  Taking 4 to represent
100 per cent., 2.5 stands for 62.5 per cent.  This would not be
a high average to expect, as courses are laid down in the average
High School of the land; but as most of our American High Schools
go 2.5 at Annapolis is at least as good a marking as 90 per cent
would be in a High School.

"Good old Dave leaks too slow at the spout, does he?" chuckled
Dan to himself, as he waited at parade rest.  "When it comes my
turn, then, as I happen to know my problem as well as the fellow
who wrote the book, I'll rattle off my explanation at a gait that
will force the lieutenant to stand on his feet to hear all I say."

Dalzell was the fourth man called upon at the blackboard.

Taking a deep breath, and assuming a tremendously earnest look,
Dan plunged into the demonstration of his problem as fast as he
could fire the words out.

Lieutenant Bradshaw, however, listened through to the end.

"Your demonstration is correct, Mr Dalzell," said the instructor
quietly.  "However while speed in recitation is of value, in the
future try to speak just a little more slowly and much more distinctly.
You are fitting yourself to become a Naval officer one of these
days.  On shipboard it is of the utmost importance that an officer's
voice be always distinct and clear, in order that every word he
utters may be instantly understood.  Try to keep this always in
mind, Mr. Dalzell, and cultivate the habit of speaking distinctly."

The rebuke was a very quiet one, and courteously given.  But Dan,
who knew that every other man in the section was grinning in secret
over his discomfiture, was quickly losing his nerve.

Then, without favor, Lieutenant Bradshaw questioned Dan searchingly
on other details of the day's work.  Dan stammered, and forgot
much that he had thought he knew.

Lieutenant Bradshaw set down a mark of 2.9, whereas Dalzell, had
he stuck sensibly to the business in hand, would have been marked
as high as Dave had been.

As the section was marching back to Bancroft Dan whispered:

"Dave, did you hear the old owl go 'too-whoo' at me in the section
room?"

"Stop talking in section!" ordered Dave crisply.

"Blazes!  There isn't a single spot at Annapolis where a fellow
can take a chance on being funny!" muttered Dalzell under his breath.

"Dave, old chum," cried Dan tossing his cap on the bed as they
entered their room.  "Are you going to turn greaser, and stay greaser?"

"What do you mean?" asked Darrin quietly.

"You told me to shut up in the ranks."

"That was right, wasn't it?  I am under orders to see that there
is no talking in the section when marching."

"Not even a solitary, teeny little word, eh?"

"Not if I can stop it," replied Dave.

"And what if you can't stop it?"

"Then I am obliged to direct the offender to put himself on the
report."

"Great Scott!  Would you tell your chum to frap the pap for a
little thing like that, and take demerits unto himself?"

"If I had to," nodded Dave.  "You see, Dan, we're here trying
to learn to be Naval officers and to hold command.  Now, it's
my belief that a man who can't take orders, and stick to them,
isn't fit to give orders at any period in his life."

"This sort of thing is getting on my nerves a bit," grumbled Dan.
"Just think of all the freedom we had in the good old days back
at Gridley!"

"This is a new life, Dan--a different one and a better one."

"Maybe," half assented Dalzell, who was beginning to accumulate
the elements of a "grouch."

"Dan," asked Darrin, as he seated himself at his desk and opened
a book preparatory to a long bit of hard study, "don't you know
that your bed isn't the regulation place to hang your cap?"

"Oh, hang the cap, and the regulations, too!" grumbled Dalzell.
"I'm beginning to feel that I've got to break through at some
point."

"Pick up your cap, and put it on its hook--do," begged Darrin
coaxingly.

At the same time he looked us with a smile which showed that he
thought his friend was acting in a very juvenile manner.

Something impelled Dan to comply with his chum's request.  Then,
after hanging the cap, with great care, on its nail, the disgruntled
one slipped to the study table and picked up a book.

Just as he did so there came a knock on the door.

Then Lieutenant Stapleton, in white gloves and wearing his sword,
stepped into the room, followed by a midshipman, also white-gloved.

Lieutenant Stapleton was the officer in charge, the young man
the midshipman in charge of the floor.

"Good morning, gentlemen," said the Lieutenant pleasantly, as
both midshipmen promptly rose to their feet and stood at attention.
Dave and Dan remained standing at attention while the lieutenant
stepped quickly about the room, taking in everything with a practiced
glance.

"Everything in order," commented the lieutenant, as he turned
to the door.  "Resume your work, gentlemen."

"Maybe you're glad you hung your cap up just in time," grinned
Dave.

Entering a hall about the size of a modern theatre you journey to
the ante-room, a vast apartment, which for space compares favourably
with the Coliseum at Rome.

A world-exhibition of pictures and tapestries covers the walls of
the Schloss, while an acre or two of painted ceiling shows the
chief events of German history, from the Creation to the Franco-Prussian
War.

In the Dining-room, reached by a progress over carpets and rugs
representative of all the best periods of Oriental art, it would
be fairly easy to stage a review on the table itself; while in the
Music-room a hundred or so lorries could be parked without attracting
observation too glaringly.

Should the need arise, the Library could accommodate a battalion
on parade, a rifle range or sufficient office room for Q branch
of a division.

A labyrinth of corridors and servants' bedrooms harbours the rank and
file, and it is said that the number of kitchens, pantries and
cellars in the north and east wings runs into three figures.

The Divisional Commander called it "homely"; the Corps Commander
remarked that its style was "not cramped, anyhow--what?" and
the Army Commander pronounced it very "cosy."

The first two days I did not see my servant at all. On Wednesday
he turned up just before lunch. On Monday and Tuesday, he
explained, he had wandered through corridors and passages trying
to find my room, and, by rising an hour before _reveille_, he
thought he would be able to get from his quarters to mine by about
breakfast-time.

We used to adjourn to the billiard-room after dinner, but gave
it up because it was necessary to stop play at half-past ten in
order to be in bed by midnight.

Signals is worried because he has not enough line left to reach
Battalions, all available supplies having been used up in connecting
the General's room with various parts of the Schloss.

We are continually late for dinner owing to errors in judging the
distances from one room to another.

Our once happy family has dissolved into silent morose individuals,
for we have grown strange and distant to one another.

Liaison between departments has broken down, and the Staff-Captain
whom I saw yesterday in the distance is suffering from premature
decay.

But a solution has been found, for the Engineers are unloading a
couple of Nissen huts to put up in the hall, and we shall soon be
a united family once more

.

* * * * *

"The surveyor said that as things were at present he had little or
no authority over the men who, for the most part, simply considered
him his equal."

--_Trade Paper._

If he doesn't take a stronger line the men will consider him his
inferior

.

* * * * *

From a short story:--

"She was a slip of a thing, with the sort of eyes that go well with
curly long lashes--if they are blue, as hers were."

--_Weekly Paper._

Our local _coiffeur_ only stocks the old-fashioned peroxide.

* * * * *

[Illustration: OVERWEIGHTED.

PRESIDENT WILSON. "HERE'S YOUR OLIVE BRANCH. NOW GET BUSY."

DOVE OF PEACE.

"OF COURSE I WANT TO PLEASE EVERYBODY; BUT ISN'T THIS A BIT THICK?"]

* * * * *

[Illustration: THE STRENUOUS LIFE.

BEFORE TAKING OFFICE ALL MEMBERS IN FUTURE WILL HAVE TO PASS A TEST
OF THEIR ABILITY TO SUSTAIN A PROLONGED FLIGHT, FIVE THOUSAND FEET
UP, AT A HUNDRED-AND-SEVENTY MILES AN HOUR.]

_Monday, March 17th_.--Mr. GEORGE TERRELL, always a little
inclined to look upon the black side of things, was apprehensive
about the spread of Bolshevism in this country.

Not so Lord HENRY BENTINCK, who genially exploded with "Is not
Bolshevism in this country a pure bogey?"

Not quite that, perhaps; but I gathered that in Mr. BONAR LAW'S
opinion it hasn't a ghost of a chance.

Great cheers from the Wee Frees greeted the advent of Mr. A.E.
NEWBOULD, the victor of West Leyton, whose defeat of the Coalition
candidate has increased the size of their party by something like
four per cent.

As the new Member is understood to be connected with the film
business his colleagues are hoping that they will soon have Ministers
on the "movies."

We know on high authority that evil communications corrupt good
manners.

Sir ERIC GEDDES goes further and believes that they corrupt everything.

That was the text of his capital speech on the second reading of
the Transportation Bill.

Dispensing on this occasion with his usual typescript, he discoursed
at large for an hour and a-half on the paralytic condition of our
railways, roads, canals and docks.

Your offense has been so
serious--so rank--that I won't accept an apology.  You shall
fight, mister!"

"When?  Whom?" asked Dan, the big grin still on his face.

"_Me_, mister--and as soon as the thing can be pulled off."

"Oh, all right, sir," nodded Dalzell.  "Any time you like, then,
sir.  I've been accustomed, before coming here, to getting most
of my exercise out of fighting.  But--pardon me, if I meet, I
shall have to hit--pardon me--that face."

"Call this plebe out, Quimby, and trim him in good shape," urged
one of the other youngsters present.  "He's touge all the way
through.  He'll need trimming."

"And he'll get it, too," wrathfully promised Midshipman Quimby, who
was rated high as a fighter at the Naval Academy.


CHAPTER X

"JUST FOR EXERCISE"


"Now, then, mister, keep your eyes on my humorous face!"

It was the next evening, over behind the old government hospital.

Midshipman Quimby had just stepped forward, from the hands of
his seconds, two men of the third class.

"I can't keep my eyes away from that face, and my hands are aching
to follow the same route, sir," grimaced Dalzell.

He, too, had just stepped forward from the preliminary care of
Dave and of Rollins, for that latter fourth class man was as anxious
to see this fight as he had been the other one.

"Stop your talk, mister," commanded Midshipman Ferris, of the
second class, who was present to officiate as referee.  "On the
field you talk with your hands.  Don't be touge all the time,
or you'll soon have a long fight calendar."

"Very good, sir," nodded Dan, his manner suddenly most respectful--as
far as appearance went.

Dave Darrin did not by any means approve his chum's conduct of
the night before, but Dave was on hand as second, just the same,
and earnestly hoping that Dan might get at least his share of
the honors in the event that was now to be "pulled off."

"Gentlemen," began Mr. Ferris, in the monotonous way of referees,
"this fight is to be to a finish, without gloves.  Hand-shaking
will be dispensed with.  Are you ready?"

"Ready!" assented both.

"Time!"

Both men advanced warily.

Quimby knew well enough that he could whip the plebe, but he didn't
intend to let Dalzell get in any blows that could be guarded against.

Both men danced about until Mr. Ferris broke in, rather impatiently:

"Stop eating chocolates and mix it up!"

"Like this, sir?" questioned Dan.  Darting in, on a feint, he
followed Quimby's block with a blow that jolted the youngster's
chin.

Then Dan slipped away again, grinning gleefully, well aware that
nothing would anger Quimby more easily than would that same grin.
"I'll wipe that disgrace off your face myself," growled Quimby,
closing in briskly.

"Come over here and get it," taunted Dan, showing some of his
neatest footwork.

Quimby sent in three blows fast; two of them Dalzell blocked,
but one hit him on the chest, staggering him slightly.  Midshipman
Quimby started to follow up his advantage.  In another moment,
however, he was backing away with a cut lip.

"There's something to wipe off your own face," suggested Dan,
grinning harder than ever.

Stung, Mr. Quimby made strenuous efforts to pay back with worse coin.
He was still trying when the call of time sounded.

"You didn't half go in after him, Dan," murmured Dave, as the latter
and Rollins quickly toweled their man in the corner.

"If I had, I might have gotten more of him than I wanted," muttered
Dalzell.

"Why don't you mix it up faster?" queried Rollins.

"Because," proclaimed Midshipman Dan, "I don't want to fight or
get hurt.  I'm doing this sort of thing just for exercise, you
understand."

Then they were called into the second round.  Quimby, in the meantime,
had been counseled to crowd the plebe hard, and to hammer him when
he got close.

So, now, Quimby started in to do broadside work.  At last he scored
fairly, hitting Dalzell on the nose and starting the flow.

But, within ten seconds, Dalzell had return the blow with interest.
After that things went slowly for a few more seconds, when time
was again called.

"That plebe isn't exactly easy," Quimby confided to his seconds.
"I've got to watch him, and be cautious.  I haven't seen a plebe as
cool and ready in many a day."

In the third round Quimby was perhaps too cautious.  He did not
rush enough.  Dan, on the other hand, bore down a bit.  Just before
the call of time he closed Quimby's right eye.

Both Quimby and his seconds were now dubious, though the youngster's
fighting pluck and determination ran as high as ever.

"I've got to wipe him off the field in this fourth round, or go to
the grass myself," murmured Quimby, while his seconds did the best
they could with him.

"I'm warming up finely," confided Dan to Dave and Rollins.

"You're coming through all right," nodded Dave confidently.  "At
present you have twice as much vision as the other fellow, and only
a fraction as much of soreness.  But keep on the watch to the end."

For the first twenty seconds of the new round it was Quimby who
was on the defensive.  Dan followed him up just warmly enough
to be annoying.

At last, however, Dan straightened, stiffened, and there was a
quick flash in his eyes.

He saw his chance, and now he jumped in at it.  His feint reached
for Quimby's solar plexus, but the real blow, from Dalzell's right
hand, hammered in, all but closing Quimby's other eye.

Smack!  Right on top of that staggerer came a hook that landed
on the youngster's forehead with such force that Quimby fell over
backward.  He tried to catch himself, but failed, and lurched
to the ground.

"--six, seven, eight--" counted the timekeeper.

Quimby staggered bravely to his feet, but stood there, his knees
wobbling, his arms all but hanging at his side.

Dan did not try to hit.  He backed off slightly keeping only at
half-guard and watching his opponent.

"What's the matter, Quimby" called Mr. Ferris.  "Can't you go on?"

"Yes; I'm going on, to the knock-out!" replied the youngster doggedly.

He tried to close in, but was none too steady on his feet.  Dan,
watching him, readily footed it, merely watching for the youngster
to lead out.

"Time!"

Quimby's two seconds rushed to his side.  Midshipman Ferris and
the time-keeper also gathered around.

"Quimby," spoke the referee, "you're in no shape to go on."

"I can stand up and be hit," muttered the youngster gamely.

"Mr. Dalzell, do you care to go further?" asked Mr. Ferris.

"I shan't attempt to hit Mr. Quimby, sir, unless he develops a
good deal more steam."

Ferris looked at Quimby's seconds.  They shook their head.

"I award the fight to Mister Dalzell," declared Midshipman Ferris.

"Oh, give it to Mr. Quimby, if you don't mind, sir," begged Dan.
"He got the game, and might as well have the name along with it."

"Mister, don't be touge all the time," cried Mr. Ferris sharply.

"I don't mean to be, sir," replied Dan quite meekly.  "What I
meant to convey, sir, is that I don't care anything about winning
fights.  The decision, sir, is of very little importance to me.
I don't fight because I like it, but merely because I need the
exercise.  A fight about once a week will be very much to my liking,
sir."

"You'll get it, undoubtedly," replied Midshipman Ferris dryly.

"Whee, won't it be great!" chuckled Dan, in an undertone, as he
stepped over to his seconds.  "Give me that towel, Dave.  I can
rub myself off."

While Dan was dressing, and Quimby was doing the same, one of
the seconds of the youngster class came over, accompanied by the
timekeeper.

"Mister, you really do fight as though you enjoyed it," remarked
the latter.

"But I don't," denied Dan.  "I'm willing to do it, though, to
keep myself in condition.  Say once a week, except in really hot
weather.  A little game like this tones up the liver so that I
can almost feel it dancing inside of me."

As he spoke, Dalzell clapped both hands to his lower left side
and jumped up and down.

"You heathen, your liver isn't there," laughed the time-keeper.

"Isn't it?" demanded Dan.  "Now, I'm ready to maintain, at all
times, that I know more about my liver and its hanging-out place
than anyone else possibly can."

There was a note of half challenge in this, but the time-keeper
merely laughed and turned away.  Members of the second class usually
feel too grave and dignified to "take it out of" plebes.  That
work is left to the "youngsters" of the third class.

A little later Mr. Quimby presented himself for medical attendance.
His face certainly showed signs of the need of tender ministration.
"Dan, why in the world are you so fresh?" remonstrated Dave,
when the two chums were back in their room.  "You talk as though
you wanted to fight every man in the upper classes.  You'll get
your wish, if you don't look out."

"Old fellow," replied Dalzell quizzically, "I expect to get into
two or three more fights.  I don't mean to be touge, but I do
intend to let it be seen that I look upon it as a lark to be called
out.  Then, if I win the next two or three fights also, I won't
be bothered any after that.  This is my own scheme for joining the
peace society before long."

Nor is it wholly doubtful that Dan's was the best plan, in the
long run, for a peaceful life among a lot of spirited young men.


CHAPTER XI

MIDSHIPMAN HENKEL DOES SOME THINKING


"Busy" asked Midshipman Henkel, of the fourth class, stepping
into the room which Farley and Page shared.

The release bell had just sounded, giving all of the young men
a brief interval of freedom before taps.

"Not especially," laughed Farley, as he finished stacking his
books and papers neatly.

It was about a week after the night of Dan's fight with Midshipman
Quimby.

"Let me get a good look at your face, Farley, under the light,"
continued Henkel.  "Why, it looks almost natural again.  My, but
it was a rough pounding that fellow, Darrin, gave it!"

"Yes," nodded Farley, flushing.

"Let me see; isn't it about time that you squared matters up with
Darrin?" went on Midshipman Henkel.

"How?  What do you mean?" demanded Farley, while Page, too, looked
on with interest.

"Well, first of all, Darrin gets the whole bunch of us ragged by the
watchman.  The when you object, he pounds your face at his own sweet
will."

"What are you trying to do?" laughed Farley.  "Are you trying to fan
up the embers of my wrath against Darrin?"

"Such embers shouldn't need much fanning," retorted Mr. Henkel coolly.
"Surely, you are not going to let the dead dog lie?"

"Darrin and I fought the matter out, and he had the good fortune
to win the appeal to force," replied Plebe Farley stiffly.  "I
don't associate with him now, and don't expect to, later on, if
we both graduate into the Navy."

"That satisfies your notions of honor, does it, with regard to
a man who not only injured you, but pounded your face to a fearful
pulp?"

Henkel's tone as he put the question, was one of bitter irony.

"Do you know," demanded Farley, rising, his face now flushing
painfully, "I don't wholly like your tone."

"Forget it, then," begged Henkel.  "I don't mean to be offensive
to you, Farley.  I haven't the least thought in the world like
that.  But I take this whole Darrin business so bitterly to heart
that I suppose I am unable to comprehend how you can be so meek
about it."

"Meek?" cried Farley.  "What do you mean by that word?"

"Well, see here," went on Henkel coaxingly, "are we men of spirit,
or are we not?  We fellows devise a little outing in the town
of Annapolis.  It's harmless enough, though it happens to be against
the rules in the little blue book.  We are indiscreet enough to
let Darrin in on the trick, and he pipes the whole lay off to
some one.  Result--we are 'ragged' and fifty 'dems.' apiece.
When you accuse Darrin of his mean work he gives you the lie.
True, you show spirit enough to fight him for it, but the fight
turns out to be simply more amusement for him.  _Margaret_
[_prostrating herself before him_].
Art thou a man, then feel for my distress.

_Faust_. Thou'lt wake the guards with thy loud screaming!

[_He seizes the chains to tin lock them._]
_Margaret_ [_on her knees_]. Headsman, who's given thee this
right O'er me, this power!
Thou com'st for me at dead of night; In pity spare me, one short
hour!

Wilt't not be time when Matin bell has rung?

[_She stands up._] Ah, I am yet so young, so young!

And death pursuing!
Fair was I too, and that was my undoing.
My love was near, far is he now!
Tom is the wreath, the scattered flowers lie low.

Take not such violent hold of me!
Spare me!

what harm have I done to thee?
Let me not in vain implore thee.
Thou ne'er till now sawft her who lies before thee!

_Faust_.

O sorrow worse than death is o'er me!

_Margaret_. Now I am wholly in thy power.

But first I'd nurse my child--do not prevent me.
I hugged it through the black night hour; They took it from me to
torment me, And now they say I killed the pretty flower.

I shall never be happy again, I know.

They sing vile songs at me! 'Tis bad in them to do it!
There's an old tale that ends just so, Who gave that meaning to it?

_Faust [prostrates himself_]. A lover at thy feet is bending, Thy
bonds of misery would be rending.

_Margaret [flings herself beside him_].

O let us kneel, the saints for aid invoking!

See! 'neath the threshold smoking, Fire-breathing, Hell is seething!

There prowling, And grim under cover, Satan is howling!

_Faust [aloud_]. Margery! Margery!

_Margaret [listening_]. That was the voice of my lover!
[_She springs up. The chains fall off_.]
Where is he? Where? He calls. I hear him.

I'm free! Who hinders? I will be near him.
I'll fly to his neck! I'll hold him!

To my bosom I'll enfold him!
He stood on the threshold--called Margery plainly!
Hell's howling and clattering to drown it sought vainly,-- Through
the devilish, grim scoffs, that might turn one to stone, I caught
the sweet, loving, enrapturing tone.

_Faust_. 'Tis I!

_Margaret_. 'Tis thou! O say it once again.
[_Clasping again._] 'Tis he! 'tis he! Where now is all my pain?

And where the dungeon's anguish? Joy-giver!

'Tis thou! And come to deliver!

I am delivered!
Again before me lies the street, Where for the first time thou and
I did meet.

And the garden-bower, Where we spent that evening hour.

_Faust_ [_trying to draw her away_]. Come! Come with me!

_Margaret_. O tarry!
I tarry so gladly where thou tarriest.

[_Caressing him._]
_Faust_. Hurry!
Unless thou hurriest, Bitterly we both must rue it.

_Margaret_. Kiss me! Canst no more do it?
So short an absence, love, as this, And forgot how to kiss?
What saddens me so as I hang about thy neck?
When once, in thy words, thy looks, such a heaven of blisses Came
o'er me, I thought my heart would break, And it seemed as if thou
wouldst smother me with kisses.

Kiss thou me!
Else I kiss thee!

[_She embraces him._] Woe! woe! thy lips are cold, Stone-dumb.
Where's thy love left?
Oh! I'm bereft!

Who robbed me?

[_She turns from him_]
_Faust_. O come!
Take courage, my darling! Let us go; I clasp-thee with unutterable
glow; But follow me!

For this alone I plead!

_Margaret [turning to him_]. Is it, then, thou?

And is it thou indeed?

_Faust_. 'Tis I! Come, follow me!

_Margaret_.

Thou break'st my chain, And tak'st me to thy breast again!
How comes it, then, that thou art not afraid of me?
And dost thou know, my friend, who 'tis thou settest free?

_Faust_. Come! come! The night is on the wane.

_Margaret_.

Woe! woe! My mother I've slain!

Have drowned the babe of mine!

Was it not sent to be mine and thine?
Thine, too--'tis thou! Scarce true doth it seem.

Give me thy hand! 'Tis not a dream!
Thy blessed hand!--But ah! there's dampness here!

Go, wipe it off! I fear There's blood thereon.
Ah God! what hast thou done!

Put up thy sword again; I pray thee, do!

_Faust_. The past is past--there leave it then, Thou kill'st me
too!

_Margaret_. No, thou must longer tarry!
I'll tell thee how each thou shalt bury; The places of sorrow Make
ready to-morrow; Must give the best place to my mother, The very
next to my brother, Me a little aside, But make not the space too
wide!

And on my right breast let the little one lie.
No one else will be sleeping by me.
Once, to feel _thy_ heart beat nigh me, Oh, 'twas a precious, a
tender joy!

But I shall have it no more--no, never; I seem to be forcing myself
on thee ever, And thou repelling me freezingly; And 'tis thou,
the same good soul, I see.

_Faust_. If thou feelest 'tis I, then come with me
_Margaret_.

Out yonder?

_Faust_. Into the open air.

_Margaret_. If the grave is there, If death is lurking; then come!
From here to the endless resting-place, And not another pace--Thou
go'st e'en now? O, Henry, might I too.

_Faust_. Thou canst! 'Tis but to will! The door stands open.

_Margaret_. I dare not go; for me there's no more hoping.
What use to fly? They lie in wait for me.
So wretched the lot to go round begging, With an evil conscience
thy spirit plaguing!

So wretched the lot, an exile roaming--And then on my heels they
are ever coming!

_Faust_. I shall be with thee.

_Margaret_. Make haste! make haste!

No time to waste!
Save thy poor child!
Quick! follow the edge Of the rushing rill, Over the bridge And
by the mill, Then into the woods beyond On the left where lies the
plank Over the pond.

Seize hold of it quick!
To rise 'tis trying, It struggles still!

Rescue! rescue!

_Faust_. Bethink thyself, pray!
A single step and thou art free!

_Margaret_. Would we were by the mountain. See!
There sits my mother on a stone, The sight on my brain is
preying!

There sits my mother on a stone, And her head is constantly
swaying; She beckons not, nods not, her head falls o'er, So long
she's been sleeping, she'll wake no more.
She slept that we might take pleasure.
O that was bliss without measure!

_Faust_. Since neither reason nor prayer thou hearest; I must venture
by force to take thee, dearest.

_Margaret_. Let go! No violence will I bear!
Take not such a murderous hold of me!

I once did all I could to gratify thee.

_Faust_. The day is breaking! Dearest! dearest!

_Margaret_. Day! Ay, it is day!

the last great day breaks in!

My wedding-day it should have been!

Tell no one thou hast been with Margery!
Alas for my garland! The hour's advancing!

Retreat is in vain!
We meet again, But not at the dancing.

The multitude presses, no word is spoke.

Square, streets, all places-- sea of faces-- The bell is tolling,
the staff is broke.

How they seize me and bind me!

They hurry me off to the bloody block.[48] The blade that quivers
behind me, Quivers at every neck with convulsive shock; Dumb lies
the world as the grave!

_Faust_. O had I ne'er been born!

_Mephistopheles [appears without_]. Up!

or thou'rt lost! The morn Flushes the sky.
Idle delaying!

Praying and playing!
My horses are neighing, They shudder and snort for the bound.

_Margaret_. What's that, comes up from the ground?
He! He! Avaunt! that face!

What will he in the sacred place?

He seeks me!

_Faust_. Thou shalt live!

_Margaret_. Great God in heaven!

Unto thy judgment my soul have I given!

_Mephistopheles [to Faust_].

Come! come!

or in the lurch I leave both her and thee!

_Margaret_. Thine am I, Father! Rescue me!
Ye angels, holy bands, attend me!
And camp around me to defend me I Henry! I dread to look on
thee.

_Mephistopheles_. She's judged!

_Voice [from above_]. She's saved!

_Mephistopheles [to Faust_]. Come thou to me!
[_Vanishes with_ FAUST.]

_Voice [from within, dying away_]. Henry! Henry!

NOTES.

[Footnote 1: Dedication. The idea of Faust had early entered
into Goethe's mind.

He probably began the work when he was about twenty years old.
It was first published, as a fragment, in 1790, and did not
appear in its present form till 1808, when its author's age was
nearly sixty. By the "forms" are meant, of course, the shadowy
personages and scenes of the drama.]

[Footnote 2: --"Thy messengers"-- "He maketh the winds his-messengers,
The flaming lightnings his ministers." _Noyes's Psalms_, c.
iv. 4.]
[Footnote 3: "The Word Divine."

In translating the German "Werdende" (literally, the _becoming,
developing_, or _growing_) by the term _word_, I mean the _word_
in the largest sense: "In the beginning was the Word, &c."

Perhaps "nature" would be a pretty good rendering, but "word,"
being derived from "werden," and expressing philosophically
and scripturally the going forth or manifestation of mind, seemed to
me as appropriate a translation as any.]
[Footnote 4: "The old fellow." The commentators do not seem quite
agreed whether "den Alten" (the old one) is an entirely reverential
phrase here, like the "ancient of days," or savors a little of
profane pleasantry, like the title "old man" given by boys to their
schoolmaster or of "the old gentleman" to their fathers.

Considering who the speaker is, I have naturally inclined to the
latter alternative.]
[Footnote 5: "Nostradamus" (properly named Michel Notre Dame) lived
through the first half of the sixteenth century.

He was born in the south of France and was of Jewish extraction. As physician
and astrologer, he was held in high honor by the French nobility
and kings.]
[Footnote 6: The "Macrocosm" is the great world of outward things,
in contrast with its epitome, the little world in man, called the
microcosm (or world in miniature).]

[Footnote 7: "Famulus" seems to mean a cross between a servant
and a scholar. The Dominie Sampson called Wagner, is appended
to Faust for the time somewhat as Sancho is to Don Quixote.

The Doctor Faust of the legend has a servant by that name, who
seems to have been more of a _Sancho_, in the sense given to the
word by the old New England mothers when upbraiding bad boys (you
Sanch'!).

Curiously enough, Goethe had in early life a (treacherous) friend
named Wagner, who plagiarized part of Faust and made a tragedy of
it.]

[Footnote 8: "Mock-heroic play." We have Schlegel's authority
for thus rendering the phrase "Haupt- und Staats-Action,"
(literally, "head and State-action,") who says that this title was
given to dramas designed for puppets, when they treated of heroic
and historical subjects.]

[Footnote 9: The literal sense of this couplet in the original
is:-- "Is he, in the bliss of becoming, To creative joy near--"
"Werde-lust" presents the same difficulty that we found in note 3.

This same word, "Werden," is also used by the poet in the introductory
theatre scene (page 7), where he longs for the time when he himself
was _ripening_, growing, becoming, or _forming_, (as Hayward renders
it.)

I agree with Hayward, "the meaning probably is, that our Saviour
enjoys, in coming to life again," (I should say, in being born into
the upper life,) "a happiness nearly equal to that of the Creator
in creating."]

[Footnote 10: The Angel-chorusses in this scene present the only
instances in which the translator, for the sake of retaining the
ring and swing of the melody, has felt himself obliged to give a
transfusion of the spirit of the thought, instead of its exact form.

The literal meaning of the first chorus is:--
Christ is arisen!
Joy to the Mortal, Whom the ruinous, Creeping, hereditary Infirmities
wound round.

Dr. Hedge has come nearer than any one to reconciling meaning and
melody thus:--
"Christ has arisen!
Joy to our buried Head!
Whom the unmerited, Trailing, inherited Woes did imprison."

The present translator, without losing sight of the fact that
"the Mortal" means Christ, has taken the liberty (constrained
by rhyme,--which is sometimes more than the _rudder_ of verse,)
of making the congratulation include Humanity, as incarnated in
Christ, "the second Adam."

In the closing Chorus of Angels, the translator found that he could
best preserve the spirit of the five-fold rhyme:--
"Thätig ihn preisenden, Liebe beweisenden, Brüderlich speisenden,
Predigend reisenden, Wonne verheissenden,"
by running it into three couplets.]

[Footnote 11: The prose account of the alchymical process is as
follows:--

"There was red mercury, a powerfully acting body, united with the
tincture of antimony, at a gentle heat of the water-bath.

Then, being exposed to the heat of open fire in an aludel, (or
alembic,) a sublimate filled its heads in succession, which, if
it appeared with various hues, was the desired medicine."]

[Footnote 12: "Salamander, &c."

The four represent the spirits of the four elements, fire, water,
air, and earth, which Faust successively conjures, so that, if
the monster belongs in any respect to this mundane sphere, he may
be exorcized.

But it turns out that he is beyond and beneath all.]
[Footnote 13: Here, of course, Faust makes the sign of the cross,
or holds out a crucifix.]

[Footnote 14: "Fly-God," _i.e._ Beelzebub.]
[Footnote 15: The "Drudenfuss," or pentagram, was a pentagonal
figure composed of three triangles, thus:
[Illustration]
[Footnote 16: Doctor's Feast.

The inaugural feast given at taking a degree.]
[Footnote 17: "Blood."

When at the first invention of printing, the art was ascribed to the
devil, the illuminated red ink parts were said by the people to be
done in blood.]

[Footnote 18: "The Spanish boot" was an instrument of torture, like the
Scottish boot mentioned in Old Mortality.]

[Footnote 19: "Encheiresin Naturæ." Literally, a handling of
nature.]
[Footnote 20: Still a famous place of public resort and entertainment.
On the wall are two old paintings of Faust's carousal and his
ride out of the door on a cask. One is accompanied by the
following inscription, being two lines (Hexameter and Pentameter)
broken into halves:--
"Vive, bibe, obgregare, memor Fausti hujus et hujus Pnæ.

Aderat clauda haec, Ast erat ampla gradû. 1525."
"Live, drink, be merry, remembering This Faust and his Punishment.

It came slowly But was in ample measure."]
[Footnote 21:_Frosch, Brander_, &c.

These names seem to be chosen with an eye to adaptation, Frosch
meaning frog, and Brander fireship.

"Frog" happens also to be the nickname the students give to a pupil
of the gymnasium, or school preparatory to the university.]

[Footnote 22: Rippach is a village near Leipsic, and Mr. Hans was
a fictitious personage about whom the students used to quiz
greenhorns.]
[Footnote 23: The original means literally _sea-cat_. Retzsch says,
it is the little ring-tailed monkey.]
[Footnote 24: One-time-one, _i.e._ multiplication-table.]
[Footnote 25: "Hand and glove."

The translator's coincidence with Miss Swanwick here was entirely
accidental. The German is "thou and thou," alluding to the fact
that intimate friends among the Germans, like the sect of Friends,
call each other _thou_.]

[Footnote 26: The following is a literal translation of the song
referred to:--

Were I a little bird, Had I two wings of mine, I'd fly to my dear;
But that can never be, So I stay here.

Though I am far from thee, Sleeping I'm near to thee, Talk with my
dear; When I awake again, I am alone.

Scarce is there an hour in the night, When sleep does not take
its flight, And I think of thee, How many thousand times Thou
gav'st thy heart to me.]

[Footnote 27: Donjon. The original is _Zwinger_, which Hayward
says is untranslatable.

It probably means an old tower, such as is often found in the free
cities, where, in a dark passage-way, a lamp is sometimes placed,
and a devotional image near it.]

[Footnote 28: It was a superstitious belief that the presence of
buried treasure was indicated by a blue flame.]
[Footnote 29: Lion-dollars--a Bohemian coin, first minted three
centuries ago, by Count Schlick, from the mines of Joachim's-Thal.

The one side bears a lion, the other a full length image of St.
John.]
[Footnote 30: An imitation of Ophelia's song: _Hamlet_, act 14,
scene 5.]

[Footnote 31: The Rat-catcher was supposed to have the art of
drawing rats after him by his whistle, like a sort of Orpheus.]

[Footnote 32: Walpurgis Night. May-night. Walpurgis is the female
saint who converted the Saxons to Christianity.--The Brocken
or Blocksberg is the highest peak of the Harz mountains, which
comprise about 1350 square miles.

--Schirke and Elend are two villages in the neighborhood.]

[Footnote 33: Shelley's translation of this couplet is very fine:
("_O si sic omnia!_")
"The giant-snouted crags, ho! ho!
How they snort and how they blow!"]
[Footnote 34: The original is _Windsbraut_, (wind's-bride,) the
word used in Luther's Bible to translate Paul's _Euroclydon_.]

[Footnote 35: One of the names of the devil in Germany.]

[Footnote 36: One of the names of Beelzebub.]
[Footnote 37: "The Talmudists say that Adam had a wife called Lilis
before he married Eve, and of her he begat nothing but devils."

_Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy_.
A learned writer says that _Lullaby_ is derived from "Lilla, abi!"
"Begone Lilleth!" she having been supposed to lie in wait for
children to kill them.]
[Footnote 38: This name, derived from two Greek words meaning _rump_
and _fancy_, was meant for Nicolai of Berlin, a great hater of
Goethe's writings, and is explained by the fact that the man had
for a long time a violent affection of the nerves, and by the
application he made of leeches as a remedy, (alluded to by
Mephistopheles.)]
[Footnote 39: Tegel (mistranslated _pond_ by Shelley) is a small
place a few miles from Berlin, whose inhabitants were, in 1799,
hoaxed by a ghost story, of which the scene was laid in the former
place.] 
[Footnote 40: The park in Vienna.]
[Footnote 41: He was scene-painter to the Weimar theatre.]
[Footnote 42: A poem of Schiller's, which gave great offence to the
religious people of his day.]
[Footnote 43: A literal translation of _Maulen_, but a slang-term
in Yankee land.]
[Footnote 44: Epigrams, published from time to time by Goethe and
Schiller jointly. Hennings (whose name heads the next quatrain) was
editor of the _Musaget_, (a title of Apollo, "leader of the muses,")
and also of the _Genius of the Age_. The other satirical allusions
to classes of notabilities will, without difficulty, be guessed out
by the readers.]
[Footnote 45: "_Doubt_ is the only rhyme for devil," in German.]

[Footnote 46: The French translator, Stapfer, assigns as the probable
reason why this scene alone, of the whole drama, should have been
left in prose, "that it might not be said that Faust wanted any one
of the possible forms of style."]
[Footnote 47: Literally the _raven-stone_.]
[Footnote 48: The _blood-seat_, in allusion to the old German custom
of tying a woman, who was to be beheaded, into a wooden chair.]
* * * * *
P. S. There is a passage on page 84, the speech of Faust, ending
with the lines:--
Show me the fruit that, ere it's plucked, will rot, And trees from
which new green is daily peeping,
which seems to have puzzled or misled so much, not only English
translators, but even German critics, that the present translator
has concluded, for once, to depart from his usual course, and play
the commentator, by giving his idea of Goethe's meaning, which is
this: Faust admits that the devil has all the different kinds of
Sodom-apples which he has just enumerated, gold that melts away in
the hand, glory that vanishes like a meteor, and pleasure that
perishes in the possession.asked Dan Dalzell, speaking to
that midshipman for the first time in many weeks.

"I have the word of the watchman who caught us.  That is old Grierson,
and there isn't a more honest old fellow in the yard."

"Did you ask Grierson, Farley?" questioned another midshipman
gravely.

"No; for that would be to pile on another offense," replied Farley
readily.  "I am well enough aware that a midshipman has no right
to go to a watchman about a matter in which the watchman has reported
him.  But a civilian is under no such restrictions.  As some of
you fellows know, my cousin, Sloan, was here at the Academy yesterday.
Now, Ben Sloan is a newspaper man, and a fellow of an inquiring
disposition.  I told Ben something about the scrape I had been
in, and Ben soon afterward hunted up Grierson.  Grierson told
Ben the whole truth about it.  It seems that Grierson did not
have any information from anyone.  He saw our crowd go over the
fence the night we Frenched it.  But Grierson was too far away
to catch any of us, or recognize us.  So he made no alarm, but
just waited and prowled until we came back.  He heard the noise
we made trying to get up over the wall from the outside, and ran
down to that part of the wall.  He didn't make any noise, and
stood in the shrubbery until we had all dropped over.  Then he
stepped out, looked us over quickly and demanded our names.  He
had us ragged cold, so there was nothing to do but give him our
names.  Now, there's the whole story fellows, and I'm mighty glad
I've got at the truth of it."

"So am I," muttered Dan dryly.

"Darrin, you haven't said whether you accept my apology," Farley
continued insistently.  "I'm mighty sorry for the whole thing,
and I'm glad you thrashed me as you did when we met.  I richly
deserved that for my hot-headedness."

For just a moment Dave Darrin couldn't speak, but he held out his
hand.

"Thank you, old fellow," cried Farley, grasping it.  "From now
on I hope we shall trust each other and be friends always."

Farley had been a good deal spoiled at home, and had a hasty,
impetuous temper.  His career at Annapolis, however, was doing much
to make a man of him in short time.

Several of the other midshipmen spoke, expressing their pleasure
that the whole thing was cleared up, and that Dave had proved
to be above suspicion.

"And now I'm off to find the other fellows who were with me that
night," continued Farley.  "I've told Page, already, but I've
got to find Scully and Oates, Henkel and Brimmer and put them
straight also."

Five minutes later Farley was explaining to Midshipman Henkel.

"Well, you are the softy!" said Henkel, in a sneering tone.

"Why?" demanded Farley stiffly.

"To fall for a frame-up like that."

"Do you mean that my cousin lied to me?"

"No; but Grierson certainly did."

"Old man Grierson is no liar," retorted Farley.  "He is one of
most trusted employes in the yard.  He has caught many a midshipman,
but Grierson is such a square old brick that the midshipmen of two
generations love him."

"You're too easy for this rough world," jeered Midshipman Henkel.

"Perhaps I am," retorted Farley.  "But I'm going through it decently,
anyway."

"So you went and rubbed down Darrin's ruffled fur as gently as you
could," continued Henkel.

"I went to him and apologized--the only thing a man could do under
the circumstances."

"And now I suppose some of the fellows are trying to build up an
altar to Darrin as the class idol?"

"I don't know.  I hope so, for I'm convinced that Dave Darrin is as
decent a fellow as ever signed papers at Annapolis."

"Go on out and buy some incense to burn before Darrin," laughed
Henkel harshly.

Perhaps Mr. Henkel might not have been as flippant had he known
that, all the time, Farley was studying him intently.

"So, in spite of all explanations, you still have no use for Darrin?"
asked Midshipman Farley.

"I have just as much use for him as I have for any other big sneak,"
retorted Mr. Henkel. "He betrayed us to the watchman, and I don't
care what explanations are offered to show that he didn't."

"And you won't be friendly with Darrin?" insisted Farley.

"I?" asked Henkel scornfully.  "Not for an instant!

"Well, I hardly believe that Darrin will care much," replied Mr.
Farley, turning on his heel and walking out of the room.

"It's a mighty good thing that Darrin is going to be dropped out
of Annapolis," growled Henkel to himself.  "He's altogether too
slick in playing a dirty trick on people and then swinging them
around so that they'll fawn upon him.  When Farley first came
here he was a fellow of spirit.  But he's been going bad for some
time, and now he's come out straight and clean for grease-mark!"

Saturday afternoon proved a dull time for Dave Darrin.  The heavy
pile of demerits opposite his name prevented his getting leave
even to stroll out into the town of Annapolis.  Dan could have
gone, but would not leave his chum.

Sunday morning there was chapel, but Dave, usually attentive,
heard hardly a word of the discourse.  Sunday afternoon he turned
doggedly to his books.  Dan, who was getting along better, and
who just now, stood three sections higher than Dave in math.,
went visiting among the members of his class.

Sunday evening all the cadets were again busy at their studies
until 9.30.  As early as the regulations allowed Dave turned down
his bed, undressed and got into it, feeling utterly "blue."

"It's no use," he told himself, as he lay awake, thinking, thinking,
thinking.  "Some one has it in for me, of course.  But Dan and I
together can't find out who the rascal is.  He may try nothing
against me again, for weeks, but sooner or later he'll turn another
demerit trick against me.  Before January I shall be home again,
looking for some sort of job."

Before eight o'clock the following morning the class, after muster,
broke into sections which marched away to recitation in math.

Dan Dalzell was now section leader of one group.  Dave marched in
the ranks of a much lower section.

This morning the section with which Dave marched was one man short.
Not until the members had taken their seats, or places at the
blackboards, did Darrin give heed enough to note that it was Farley
who was absent.

The section leader, however, had reported that Mr. Farley was
absent by permission of the head of the Department of Mathematics,
"for purposes of study."  Unusual as this excuse was the instructor
had accepted it without making any inquiry.

If Farley was in his room for purposes of study, then what kind
of "study" could it be?

For at that precise moment, Midshipman Farley was standing close
to a tiny crack between the edge of his room door and the jamb.
He was "peeking" out attentively.

Curiously enough Midshipman Page, Farley's roommate, had also
been excused from attending section work.  At this moment Mr.
Page sat tilted back in his chair, with his feet resting across
the corner of the study table.

A most unmilitary pose for Mr. Page, to be sure.  Yet what need
was there to fear report with roommate Farley thus industriously
standing by the door?

So Mr. Page hummed softly to himself and stared out of the window.

Midshipman Farley remained by the door until he was becoming decidedly
wearied of his occupation, and Page had several times shifted his feet.

Then, all of a sudden, Midshipman Farley turned with a low, sharp hiss.

"It?" whispered Midshipman Page, rising swiftly.

"Yes," nodded Farley.

Midshipman Page walked swiftly out of the room, though his heels
did not make as much noise as usual.

Just after Page had left the room Midshipman Farley stole along
the corridor, halting before a door.

There he paused, as though on duty.  It was not long before his
erect attitude was accounted for, for Lieutenant Nettleson, the
officer in charge, came down into the corridor, followed by the
cadet officer of the day.

Just a little way behind them walked Midshipman Page.

Farley stood quickly at attention, saluting the officer in charge,
who returned the salute.


CHAPTER XIV

THE TRAP IN MIDSHIPMEN'S QUARTERS


Tap-Tap! sounded Lieutenant Nettleson's knuckles on the door.

Just a shade longer than usual the lieutenant waited ere he turned
the door knob and entered the room.

Behind him, like a faithful orderly, stood Midshipman Hawkins, of
the first class, cadet officer of the day.

A quick look about the room Lieutenant Nettleson took, then turned
to the cadet officer of the day.

"Mr. Hawkins," spoke the O.C., "Mr. Darrin seems to be growing
worse in his breaches of duty."

"So it seems, sir," agreed the cadet officer the day.

"Mr. Darrin has left his bed turned down," continued the lieutenant,
inspecting that article of furniture.  "And, judging by the looks
of the sheets, he has been abed with his boots on."

"Yes sir."

"You will put Mr. Darrin on the report for this latest offense,
Mr. Hawkins."

"Aye, aye, sir."

Lieutenant Nettleson made a further inspection of the room.

"And Mr. Darrin has neglected to empty his washbowl.  He has also
thrown the towel on the floor.  Put Mr. Darrin on the report for
that as well."

"Aye, aye, sir."

"That is all here, Mr Hawkins."

"Very good, sir."

O.C. and cadet officer of the day turned to leave the room.  As they
were crossing the threshold Midshipman Farley, saluting, reported:

"I think, sir, if you search more closely, you will find some one
in this room."

"Very good," replied the officer in charge, turning back.

In truth, Lieutenant Nettleson was already aware that there was a
prowler in the room, for he had seen a pair of feet in a dark corner;
but he had purposely awaited Midshipman Farley's report.

Now, swift as a flash, Lieutenant Nettleson turned back, going
straight so the cupboard in which Dave Darrin's uniform equipment
hung.

Pushing aside a dress uniform and a raincoat that hung like curtains,
Lieutenant Nettleson gazed into the face of--Midshipman Henkel!

Henkel had been caught so suddenly, had realized it so tardily, that
the grin of exultation had not quite faded from his face by the time
that he stood exposed.

In another second, however, that midshipman's face had turned as
white as dirty chalk.

"Stand forth, sir!" ordered the O.C. sternly.

Henkel obeyed, his legs shaking under him.

"What is your name?"

"Henkel, sir."

"Mr. Henkel, what are you doing in the room of another midshipman,
in the absence of both occupants?

"I--I--just dropped in, sir!" stammered affrighted midshipman.

"Mr. Henkel, sir," continued Lieutenant Nettleson sternly, "it
has long been a puzzle to the discipline officers why Mr. Darrin
should so deliberately and senselessly invite demerits for lack
of care of his equipment.  You may now be certain that you will
be accused of all breaches of good order and discipline that have
been laid at Mr. Darrin's door.  Have you anything to say, sir."

Midshipman Henkel, who had been doing some swift thinking, had
had time enough to realize that no one had seen him doing any
mischief in the room.  The offense, merely, of visiting another
midshipman's room improperly would call but for ten demerits.
Pooh!  The scrape was such a simple one that he would lie valiantly
out of the graver charge and escape with ten demerits.

"I admit being here, sir, without propriety. I am innocent of
any further wrongdoing, sir," lied the culprit.

Lieutenant Nettleson studied the young man's face keenly.

"Mr. Henkel, was Mr. Darrin's bed turned down and in its present
disordered state when you entered the room?"

"Yes, sir."

"You declare this on your honor as a midshipman and gentleman?"

"Yes, sir," lied the unabashed Henkel.

"Was Mr. Darrin's washbowl in its present untidy state?"

"I don't know, sir.  I didn't notice that."

"Very good, Mr. Henkel.  Go to your room and remain there in close
arrest.  Do not leave your room, except by orders or proper permission,
sir."

"Very good, sir," replied Henkel, saluting.  Then, his face still
a ghastly hue, he turned and marched from the room, not venturing,
under the eyes of the O.C., to look at either Farley or Page.

When the sections came marching back from math.  Lieutenant Nettleson
stood outside the door of his office.

"Mr. Darrin!" called the O.C.  And, a moment later, "Mr. Dalzell!"

Both wondering midshipmen approached the officer in charge for the
day at Bancroft Hall, and saluted.

"Mr. Darrin," stated Lieutenant Nettleson, "you and your roommate
may go to your room to leave your books.  In the room you will
find some evidences of disorder.  Do not attempt to set them straight.
As soon as you have left your books return to me."

"And I also, sir?" queried Dan, saluting.

"You, also, Mr. Dalzell," replied the officer.

"Now, has this thing broken loose again?" groaned Dave Darrin, as the
two chums hurried below.

"It seems as if it ought to stop some time," gasped Dalzell.

"It will, and soon," gritted Darrin.  "In a very short time, now,
I shall certainly have the full course of two hundred demerits.
Great--Scott!"

For now the two chums were in their room, and saw the full extent of
the mischief there.  "I guess I may as well wire home to Gridley for
the price of my return ticket," hinted Dave bitterly.

"Don't do anything of the sort," urged Dan, though with but little
hope in his voice.  "You may still have a margin of ten or fifteen
dems. left to hold you on."

"We're under orders, Danny boy, to report back to the O.C."

"O.K."

"Come along, then."

In the office of the officer in charge stood Midshipmen Farley and
Page.  Just after Dave and Dan entered Henkel came in, accompanied
Midshipman Hawkins, the cadet officer of day.

It was an actually ferocious gaze that Henkel turned upon Darrin.
In that same instant Dave believed that a great light had broken in
upon his mind.

"Mr. Hawkins," requested the O.C., "ascertain whether the commandant
of midshipmen can see us now."

Saluting, the cadet officer of the day passed out of the room, very
prim and erect, his white gloves of duty a very conspicuous part of
his uniform.

In a few moments, he returned, raising his right, white-gloved hand
to the visor of his cap.

"The commandant of midshipmen is ready, sir."

"Come with me, then," directed Lieutenant Nettleson, who had already
risen to receive the cadet officer's report.

The O.C. led the way into the office of Commander Jephson, U.S. Navy,
the commandant of midshipmen.

"This, Mr. Nettleson, I understand, relates to Mr. Darrin's late
apparent course in matters of discipline?" inquired Commander
Jephson.

The commandant of midshipmen, who was middle-aged and slightly
bald, removed his eye-glasses, holding them poised in his right
hand while he gazed calmly at Mr. Nettleson.

"Yes, sir.  This is the matter," replied the O.C., saluting his
superior.

Commander Jephson had, usually, a manner of slow and gentle speech.
He impressed one, at first sight, as being a man lacking in "ginger,"
which was a great mistake, as many a midshipman had found to his
cost.

The commandant of cadets, however, did not believe in becoming
excited or excitable until the occasion arose.

"Be good enough to make your statement, Mr. Nettleson," requested
Commander Jephson.

Consulting a slip of paper that he held in his left hand the younger
Naval officer recounted the previous instances in which Midshipman
Darrin, fourth class, U.S. Naval Academy, had been found delinquent
in that he had slighted the care of his equipment or of his room.

Having made this preliminary statement, the officer in charge now
came down to the doings of the present day.

Midshipman Henkel kept his gaze fixed on Lieutenant Nettleson's face.
Henkel's bearing was almost arrogant.  He had fully decided upon
his course of lying himself out of his serious scrape.


CHAPTER XV

AIR "THE ROGUE'S MARCH"


"It is already, sir," spoke Lieutenant Nettleson, "a matter of
knowledge with you that Mr. Darrin denied his responsibility in
each case of disorder among his personal belongings.  It is also
a matter within your knowledge, sir, that Mr. Darrin, finally,
in his desperation, informed you that he believed that some enemy
in the brigade of midshipmen was responsible for all the bad appearances
against him.

"The reply of this department, sir, to Mr. Darrin, was to the effect
that, while there was a possibility of his claim being correct, yet
it was nearly inconceivable.  Mr. Darrin was given permission to
bring forward any evidence he could secure in support of his view.
As time passed, and he confessed himself unable to secure any such
evidence, one set of demerits after another accumulated against
Mr. Darrin.

"Yesterday, sir, so I am informed, Mr. Farley and Mr. Page approached
you, stating that they believed they had good reason for suspecting
a member of the brigade of seeking to injure Mr. Darrin.  Midshipmen
Farley and Page also stated to you that they believed the offender
to be a member of the half of the fourth class which does not
recite in mathematics the same time as does the half of the class
to which Mr. Darrin and his roommate belong.

"As Midshipmen Farley and Page belong to the half of the class
that recites during the same periods as do Mr. Darrin and Dalzell,
Midshipmen Farley and Page requested permission to remain in their
room during the time when they would otherwise be reciting in
mathematics.  They were thus to remain for two mornings, and other
members of the fourth class were then willing to stay on watch
for two mornings more, and so on, until the offender against Mr.
Darrin, if there was one, could be caught in the act."

What a baleful glare Midshipman Henkel shot at Farley and Page!
Then Henkel saw the eye of the commandant of midshipmen fixed
curiously on him, and glanced down at the floor.

"This very unusual permission, sir, you finally agreed to seek
from the head of the Department of Mathematics.  So, this morning,
Mr. Farley and Mr. Page did not march off to recitation in mathematics,
but remained in their room.  Presently Mr. Page reported to me,
in great haste, that a midshipman other than Mr. Darrin, or Mr.
Dalzell had just entered their room.  I thereupon went down to
that room, knocked, waited a moment, and then entered, accompanied
by the cadet officer of the day.  The condition of things that
I found in the room you already, sir, know from my written report.
While in the room I detected a pair of feet showing under the
bottom of Mr. Darrin's uniform equipment hanging in his cupboard.
I pretended, however not to see the feet, and turned to leave
the room when Mr. Farley, as prearranged, stepped forward and
informed me that he had seen some one enter the room a while before.
I then turned and compelled the prowler to step forth.  That
prowler was Mr. Henkel."

"You questioned Mr. Henkel as to his reason for being in the room?"
asked Commander Jephson.

"I did, sir."

"Did he deny guilty intention in being there?"

"He did, sir, other than admitting that he had broken the regulations
by entering another midshipman's room in that midshipman's absence."

Tapping his right temple with the eye-glasses that he held in
his hand, the commandant of midshipmen turned to look more directly
at the startled culprit.

"Mr. Henkel, did you arrange any or all of the disorder which
Lieutenant Nettleson reported having found in Mr. Darrin's room?"

"I did not, sir."

Henkel's voice was clear, firm--almost convincing.

"Have you, at any time, committed any offense in Mr. Darrin's room,
by tampering with his equipment or belongings, or with the furniture
of the room?"

"Never, sir," declared Midshipman Henkel positively.

"You are aware that Mr. Darrin has been punished by the imposition
of a great many demerits for untidiness in the care of his equipment?"

"Yes, sir."

"But you were not responsible for any of these seeming delinquencies
on Mr. Darrin's part?"

"Never, sir."

"You did not turn down, disarrange and soil his bed this forenoon,
or create the appearance of untidiness in connection with Mr.
Darrin washbowl?"

"No, sir."

"You make these denials on your word of honor, as a midshipman
and gentleman?" persisted Commander Jephson.

"I do, sir, and most earnestly and solemnly, sir," replied Midshipman
Henkel.

"One word, more, Mr. Henkel," went on the commandant of midshipmen.
"When you improperly entered Mr. Darrin's room this morning,
did you then observe the signs of disorder which Lieutenant Nettleson
subsequently discovered and reported?"

"I did, sir, as to the bed.  The washbowl I did not notice."

"That will do, for the present, Mr. Henkel.  Mr. Farley, will you
now state just what you saw, while watching this forenoon?"

Midshipmen Farley told, simply, how he and Page had commenced
their watch.

"In the first place, sir," declared Farley, "as soon as Mr. Darrin
and Mr. Dalzell had left their room, and the corridor was empty,
Mr. Page and I, acting by permission and direction of this office,
went at once to Mr. Darrin's room.  We made an inspection.  At
that time there were no such signs of disorder as those which
Lieutenant Nettleson subsequently found.  Then, sir, Mr. Page
and I went back to our room.  I held our door very slightly ajar,
and stood in such a position that I could glance down the corridor
and keep Mr. Darrin's room door constantly within my range of
vision."

"As a matter of vital fact, Mr. Farley," interrupted the commandant
of midshipmen, "did you at any time relax such vigilance, even for a
few seconds?"

"Not even for a few seconds, sir."

"After the inspection that Mr. Page and yourself made, who was the
first person that you saw enter Mr. Darrin's room?"

"Mr. Henkel!

"Was he Alone?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did you then immediately send Mr Page to the officer in charge?"

"I did, sir."

"And yourself?"

"Without allowing my glance to turn from Mr. Darrin's door, sir, I
stepped out into the corridor, walked close to Mr. Darrin's room
door, and then stood there until Lieutenant Nettleson and Mr.
Hawkins arrived."

"Then, Mr. Farley, you are certain that there was no disorder in
Mr. Darrin's room at the time when he and Mr. Dalzell left to
recite in mathematics?

"I am absolutely positive, sir."

"And you are also certain that none but Mr. Henkel entered that room
up to the time when the disorder was discovered by Lieutenant
Nettleson?"

"I am certain, sir."

Midshipman Page was then questioned.  He bore out the testimony
just given by Farley in every particular.

The manner of the commandant of midshipmen was still gentle when he
turned again to Henkel.

"Mr. Henkel, do you wish to modify your previous statements in
any way?"

"No, sir," replied Henkel.  "In all my answers I have told the
whole and exact truth, as I know it.  I am eager, sir, to answer
any further questions that you may wish to put to me on the subject."

"Gentlemen, you may all withdraw, save Lieutenant Nettleson and
Mr. Henkel," announced the commandant, after a few moments of
seemingly mild thought.  "Mr. Hawkins, of course you understand
that what you know of this matter you know officially, and that
you are not to mention or discuss it until such time as official
action shall have been taken.  As for you other midshipmen, I
see no harm, gentlemen, in your discussing it among yourselves,
but you will see to it that information does not, for the present,
spread through the brigade.  You may go, gentlemen."

Once outside Farley and Page walked so rapidly that Dave and Dan
did not attempt to overtake them in the corridors.  But they found
Farley and Page waiting outside Dave's room door.

"May we come in?" asked Farley.

"If anyone on earth may," replied Dave heartily, throwing open the
door, then stepping back to allow the others to enter.

"I'm afraid we've cooked a goose for some one," cried Farley,
with grim satisfaction.

"Great Scott, yes," breathed Dan Dalzell, in devout thankfulness.

"Is it fair, Farley, for me to ask you whether you suspected Henkel
before you caught him?" queried Dave Darrin.

"Yes; and the commandant knows that.  Henkel came here one night,
weeks ago, and mysteriously tried to interest us in putting up
a job to get you dropped from the Navy rolls.  When Page and I
really tumbled that an enemy working against you, it didn't take
us two minutes to guess who that enemy was.  Then we started on
the warpath."

"I wonder," asked Dave Darrin huskily, "whether it is really necessary
for me to assure you of the tremendous burden of obligation that
you've put upon me?"

"It isn't necessary, any way that you can look at the question,"
retorted Farley promptly.  "What we did for you, Darrin, is no
more than we'd stand ready to do for any man in the brigade who
was being ground down and out by a mean trickster."

"Wouldn't I like to take peep in on Henkel, now, while the commandant
is grilling him in that gentle way the commandant has?" mocked
Midshipman Page.

"David, little giant, the matter is cleared and as good as squared,"
cried Dalzell.  "And now I know this is the first time in my life
that I've ever been really and unutterably happy!"

During the nest two days it was known through the brigade at large
that Midshipman Henkel was in close arrest.  The brigade did not
at once learn the cause.  Yet, in such appearances as Henkel was
permitted to make, it was noted that he bore himself cheerfully
and confidently.

Then, one day, just before the dinner formation, Darrin was ordered
to report at the commandant's office.

"Mr. Darrin," announced Commander Jephson, when the midshipman
had reported and saluted, "I am glad to be able to announce that
we have been able to pile up so much evidence against Mr Henkel
that young man finally confessed that it was he, and he alone,
who created all the disorders with your equipment, and in your
room for which so many demerits have been inflicted upon you.
At the dinner formation.  Therefore, when the orders of the day
are published by the brigade adjutant, you will again hear that
your demerits, given for the offenses unjustly charged against
you, have been remitted by order of the superintendent.  You will
also learn that you have been restored to the first conduct grade,
with all the privileges belonging to the midshipmen of that grade."

It was with a light heart that Dave Darrin left the commandant's
office, though the young man had been expecting that very decision.

Yet, despite the fact that he knew it was coming, Dave's heart
thrilled with exultation and gratitude as he heard the order read
out in the brigade adjutant's quick, monotonous tones.

Then, immediately following, came another order.

Midshipman Henkel, for dishonorable conduct, was dropped from
the rolls!

"Fours right, march!"

By companies the brigade wheeled and marched into the mess hall--the
air resounding with the quick, martial tread of eight hundred or
more of the pick of young American manhood!

As the command "march" was given one man fell out of the ranks.
Henkel, from the moment of the publications of the order, was no
longer a midshipman!

He had fallen deservedly, as one not fit to associate with gentlemen,
or to figure among the future defenders of his country of honorable
men.

As the brigade marched indifferently off, and left him there,
Henkel gazed, for a few moments at the solid ranks of blue and
gold, and a great sob welled up within him.  In this supreme moment
he realized all that he had lost--his place among honest men!

Then, crushing down any feeling of weakness, he turned on his heel,
a sneer darkening his face.

Then, recalling himself, Henkel sprang up the steps and hastened to
the room that had been partly his.  Here he discarded his uniform
substituting for it the citizen's clothes which had been brought to
him from the midshipmen's store.  His own few belongings that he
cared about taking with him he packed hastily in a dress-suit case.

Yet the task required time.  His roommate, Brimmer, was back before
Henkel was ready to depart.

"You'd better wait, now, until the coast is clear," whispered
Brimmer.  "Hosts of the fellows are hanging about outside."

"They won't see me," jeered Henkel harshly.  "I'll wait until
they're off at afternoon duties.  But see here, Brimmer, don't
you dare forget that I might have said much about you, and that
I didn't.  Don't dare forget that I leave to you the task of humbling
that fellow, Darrin.  If you fail me, Brimmer, it won't be too
late for me to do some talking."

"Oh, I'll get Darrin out of here," grimaced Brimmer.  "But I won't
try to do it the way you did.  You went in for enmity.  I'm going
to undo Darrin by being his friend."

"Well, I'm through and ready to leave," muttered Henkel.  "But
I'm not going until the coast is clear."

Seating himself by the window, he stared moodily out, thinking
of the life which had strongly appealed to him, and from which
he had exiled himself.  While he was so occupied knock sounded
at the door; then the cadet officer of the day stepped in:

"I see you are ready to go, Mr. Henkel," announced the cadet officer.
"The published order was to the effect that you leave the Naval
Academy immediately.  The officer in charge has sent me to see that
you comply with the order at once."

"Oh, well," muttered Henkel bitterly.  He turned, holding out his
hand to his late roommate.

"Goodby, Brimmer; good luck!"

"The same to you," replied Brimmer, as their hands met.  That
was all that was said with the cadet officer of the day looking
on, but both of the late roommates understood the compact of dishonor
that lay between them concerning Dave Darrin's coming fate.

With his derby hat pulled low over his eyes and gripping his suit
case, Henkel slunk through the corridors of Bancroft Hall.  Now
he faced the hardest ordeal of all in going out through the entrance
of the great white building, beyond which stood many groups of
midshipmen.

Now these young men of the Navy caught sight of Henkel.  No goodbyes
were called out to him.  Instead, as his feet struck the flagging
of the walk scores of lips were puckered.  The midshipmen gave
the departing one a whistled tune and furnished the drum part with
their hands.  That tune was--

"The Rogue's March."


CHAPTER XVI

BRIMMER MAKES A NEW FRIEND


"Darrin, I hope you don't hold me in any way responsible for that
fellow Henkel's actions.

"Why should I?" asked Dave, turning and looking into the eyes of
Midshipman Brimmer.

"I know that, for a while, there was hard feeling between us,"
continued Brimmer seriously.  "It took me a long time to get it out
of my stubborn head that you were the one responsible for having our
crowd ragged by the watchman the night of the spread in Annapolis.
Even after Farley changed his mind it took me a long time to believe
that he was right."

"I forgot that whole matter long ago," replied Darrin.

"Then will you accept my tardy apology, and let us be friends?"
urged Brimmer, holding out his hand.

It was not Dave Darrin's way to hold a grudge forever.  He extended
his own hand to take Brimmer's.

"And I hope you'll let me know you better," continued Brimmer,
turning to Dan Dalzell.

"Most people who know me at all think they know me too well,"
laughed Dan, but he held out his hand.

Perhaps, in other walks of life, the chums might have been more
wary about accepting Brimmer's suddenly proffered friendship,
as they stood in the open air just after dinner one November day.
The weather was so fine and mild that it seemed a shame to be
cooped up between walls.  Back in the High School days, for instance,
Dave and Dan would have been more cautious in accepting such an
offer of friendship.  But at the U.S. Naval Academy the atmosphere
is wholly different.  The midshipmen are ranked as gentlemen,
and all are so taken on trust unless they betray themselves as
dishonorable.  Ninety-nine per cent of the young men are earnest,
honest and wholly aboveboard.

After that, during the next two or three weeks, Brimmer cultivated
the acquaintance of Darrin and Dalzell at every possible opportunity.
Often, in the evening, he came hastening to their room for a short
visit after the release bell had sounded at 9.30.  When he called,
Brimmer always remained until the warning call just before taps.

"It took you a long while to find out that Dave Darrin is white
enough to shake hands with," laughed Farley, one day.

"As I remember, it took you quite a little while, also, to find
it out," laughed Brimmer.  "I admit that I am slow at forming
my friendships.  But there's no mistake about Darrin, when you get
to know him.  He's about the finest fellow in the class."

"He certainly is," nodded Farley heartily.

Being shorn of the long list of unjustly-given demerits that had
stood against his name, Darrin was now in the first conduct grade.
So was Dan.  That gave to both considerable in the way of privileges.
On Saturdays and Sundays, for instance, they were at liberty
to accept invitations to call on or dine at the houses of officers
and their families.  This privilege, while pleasant to possess,
amounted to little, for Dave and Dan had been too busy over their
studies to have any opportunity to attract social notice.

As to dancing, fourth class men do not, by tradition, attend any
of the midshipmen's hops, which are reserved for upper class men.

Neither is a plebe midshipman expected to be seen escorting young
ladies.  In fact, the plebe has no social pleasures within the
academy walls.

Outside, however, it is different.  If the fourth class men are
acquainted with young ladies in the town of Annapolis they may
visit them on Saturday afternoons when so invited.

Here, again, Dave and Dan found no delight.  For they became acquainted
with none of the girls of Annapolis.

They could, however, on Saturday afternoon secure permission to
go into the town.  Any change outside of the Academy walls now
became welcome, though our young midshipmen had no other form
of pleasure than merely to stroll through the streets of the town
and occasionally regale themselves with a dish of ice-cream or
a glass of soda at Wiegard's.

Brimmer, one Saturday afternoon, when strolling through the town,
discovered a new little shop on Main Street.

This was a little store that had just been fitted up.  Some fruit
was displayed for sale, though the main business of the place
appeared to be the dispensing of various temperance drinks.

On the sign over the door the proprietor's first name was given
as "Tony."  The second name was an unpronounceable Greek one.

Being thirsty Brimmer stepped inside.

"Are you Tony?" he asked of the swarthy young man behind the counter.

"Yes, sare," grinned Tony.  "What you drink?"

Brimmer looked over the stock, selected a bottle of ginger ale
and paid for it.

"Business good?" asked the midshipman.

"No, sare; ver' bad," replied Tony sadly.

"Oh, well, it will pick up by-and-by."

"I hope so, sare.  But when I come here I think maybe the midsheepmen
come see me offen.  You, sare, first midsheepman who came here."

"You have a neat little place," continued Brimmer.  "And this
ginger ale," holding up his glass, "is good.  You'll have trade
enough by-and-by."

"You tell other midsheepmen they come here, sare?" asked Tony
hopefully.

"Why, yes; I think perhaps I can send you a bit of trade," replied
Brimmer.  And then an hour or two I'll borrow.
With zeal have I applied myself to learning, True, I know much,
yet to know all am burning.
[_Exit_.]

_Faust_. [_Alone_.] See how in _his_ head only, hope still
lingers, Who evermore to empty rubbish clings, With greedy hand
grubs after precious things, And leaps for joy when some poor worm
he fingers!

That such a human voice should dare intrude, Where all was full of
ghostly tones and features!

Yet ah! this once, my gratitude Is due to thee, most wretched of
earth's creatures.

Thou snatchedst me from the despairing state In which my senses,
well nigh crazed, were sunken.
The apparition was so giant-great, That to a very dwarf my soul
had shrunken.
I, godlike, who in fancy saw but now Eternal truth's fair glass in
wondrous nearness, Rejoiced in heavenly radiance and clearness,
Leaving the earthly man below; I, more than cherub, whose free force
Dreamed, through the veins of nature penetrating, To taste the life
of Gods, like them creating, Behold me this presumption expiating!

A word of thunder sweeps me from my course.

Myself with thee no longer dare I measure; Had I the power to draw
thee down at pleasure; To hold thee here I still had not the force.

Oh, in that blest, ecstatic hour, I felt myself so small, so great;
Thou drovest me with cruel power Back upon man's uncertain fate
What shall I do?

what slum, thus lonely?
That impulse must I, then, obey?
Alas!

our very deeds, and not our sufferings only, How do they hem and choke
life's way!
To all the mind conceives of great and glorious A strange and baser
mixture still adheres; Striving for earthly good are we victorious?

A dream and cheat the better part appears.
The feelings that could once such noble life inspire Are quenched and
trampled out in passion's mire.
Where Fantasy, erewhile, with daring flight Out to the infinite her
wings expanded, A little space can now suffice her quite, When hope
on hope time's gulf has wrecked and stranded.

Care builds her nest far down the heart's recesses, There broods
o'er dark, untold distresses, Restless she sits, and scares thy joy
and peace away; She puts on some new mask with each new day, Herself
as house and home, as wife and child presenting, As fire and water,
bane and blade; What never hits makes thee afraid, And what is never
lost she keeps thee still lamenting.

Not like the Gods am I! Too deep that truth is thrust!
But like the worm, that wriggles through the dust; Who, as along
the dust for food he feels, Is crushed and buried by the traveller's
heels.

Is it not dust that makes this lofty wall Groan with its hundred
shelves and cases; The rubbish and the thousand trifles all That
crowd these dark, moth-peopled places?

Here shall my craving heart find rest?
Must I perchance a thousand books turn over, To find that men
are everywhere distrest, And here and there one happy one discover?

Why grin'st thou down upon me, hollow skull?
But that thy brain, like mine, once trembling, hoping, Sought
the light day, yet ever sorrowful, Burned for the truth in vain,
in twilight groping?

Ye, instruments, of course, are mocking me; Its wheels, cogs,
bands, and barrels each one praises.
I waited at the door; you were the key; Your ward is nicely turned,
and yet no bolt it raises.
Unlifted in the broadest day, Doth Nature's veil from prying eyes
defend her, And what (he chooses not before thee to display, Not
all thy screws and levers can force her to surrender.

Old trumpery! not that I e'er used thee, but Because my father
used thee, hang'st thou o'er me, Old scroll! thou hast been
stained with smoke and smut Since, on this desk, the lamp first
dimly gleamed before me.

Better have squandered, far, I now can clearly see, My little
all, than melt beneath it, in this Tophet!

That which thy fathers have bequeathed to thee, Earn and become
possessor of it!

What profits not a weary load will be; What it brings forth alone
can yield the moment profit.

Why do I gaze as if a spell had bound me Up yonder? Is that flask
a magnet to the eyes?

What lovely light, so sudden, blooms around me?

As when in nightly woods we hail the full-moon-rise.
I greet thee, rarest phial, precious potion!

As now I take thee down with deep devotion, In thee I venerate man's
wit and art.

Quintessence of all soporific flowers, Extract of all the finest
deadly powers, Thy favor to thy master now impart!

I look on thee, the sight my pain appeases, I handle thee, the
strife of longing ceases, The flood-tide of the spirit ebbs away.

Far out to sea I'm drawn, sweet voices listening, The glassy
waters at my feet are glistening, To new shores beckons me a
new-born day.
A fiery chariot floats, on airy pinions, To where I sit!

Willing, it beareth me, On a new path, through ether's blue
dominions, To untried spheres of pure activity.

This lofty life, this bliss elysian, Worm that thou waft erewhile,
deservest thou?

Ay, on this earthly sun, this charming vision, Turn thy back
resolutely now!

Boldly draw near and rend the gates asunder, By which each cowering
mortal gladly steals.
Now is the time to show by deeds of wonder That manly greatness not
to godlike glory yields; Before that gloomy pit to stand, unfearing,
Where Fantasy self-damned in its own torment lies, Still onward to
that pass-way steering, Around whose narrow mouth hell-flames forever
rise; Calmly to dare the step, serene, unshrinking, Though into
nothingness the hour should see thee sinking.

Now, then, come down from thy old case, I bid thee, Where thou,
forgotten, many a year hast hid thee, Into thy master's hand, pure,
crystal glass!

The joy-feasts of the fathers thou hast brightened, The hearts of
gravest guests were lightened, When, pledged, from hand to hand
they saw thee pass.

Thy sides, with many a curious type bedight, Which each, as with
one draught he quaffed the liquor Must read in rhyme from off the
wondrous beaker, Remind me, ah!

of many a youthful night.
I shall not hand thee now to any neighbor, Not now to show my wit
upon thy carvings labor; Here is a juice of quick-intoxicating might.

The rich brown flood adown thy sides is streaming, With my own
choice ingredients teeming; Be this last draught, as morning
now is gleaming, Drained as a lofty pledge to greet the festal
light!

[_He puts the goblet to his lips_.

_Ringing of bells and choral song_.

_Chorus of Angels_.

Christ hath arisen!

Joy to humanity!

No more shall vanity, Death and inanity Hold thee in prison!

_Faust_. What hum of music, what a radiant tone, Thrills through
me, from my lips the goblet stealing!
Ye murmuring bells, already make ye known The Easter morn's
first hour, with solemn pealing?
Sing you, ye choirs, e'en now, the glad, consoling song, That once,
from angel-lips, through gloom sepulchral rung, A new immortal
covenant sealing?

_Chorus of Women_. Spices we carried, Laid them upon his breast;
Tenderly buried Him whom we loved the best;
Cleanly to bind him Took we the fondest care, Ah! and we find him
Now no more there.

_Chorus of Angels_.

Christ hath ascended!

Reign in benignity!
Pain and indignity, Scorn and malignity, _Their_ work have ended.

_Faust_. Why seek ye me in dust, forlorn, Ye heavenly tones,
with soft enchanting?

Go, greet pure-hearted men this holy morn!
Your message well I hear, but faith to me is wanting; Wonder, its
dearest child, of Faith is born.

To yonder spheres I dare no more aspire, Whence the sweet tidings
downward float; And yet, from childhood heard, the old, familiar
note Calls back e'en now to life my warm desire.

Ah!

once how sweetly fell on me the kiss Of heavenly love in the still
Sabbath stealing!

Prophetically rang the bells with solemn pealing; A prayer was then
the ecstasy of bliss; A blessed and mysterious yearning Drew me to roam
through meadows, woods, and skies; And, midst a thousand tear-drops
burning, I felt a world within me rise That strain, oh, how it
speaks youth's gleesome plays and feelings, Joys of spring-festivals
long past; Remembrance holds me now, with childhood's fond appealings,
Back from the fatal step, the last.

Sound on, ye heavenly strains, that bliss restore me!
Tears gush, once more the spell of earth is o'er me
_Chorus of Disciples_.

Has the grave's lowly one Risen victorious?
Sits he, God's Holy One, High-throned and glorious?
He, in this blest new birth, Rapture creative knows;[9] Ah! on the
breast of earth Taste we still nature's woes.

Left here to languish Lone in a world like this, Fills us with
anguish Master, thy bliss!

_Chorus of Angels_. Christ has arisen Out of corruption's gloom.
Break from your prison, Burst every tomb!

Livingly owning him, Lovingly throning him, Feasting fraternally,
Praying diurnally, Bearing his messages, Sharing his promises,
Find ye your master near, Find ye him here!

[10]

BEFORE THE GATE.

_Pedestrians of all descriptions stroll forth_.

_Mechanics' Apprentices_. Where are you going to carouse?

_Others_.

We're all going out to the Hunter's House.

_The First_. We're going, ourselves, out to the Mill-House,
brothers.

_An Apprentice_.

The Fountain-House I rather recommend.

_Second_. 'Tis not a pleasant road, my friend.

_The second group_. What will you do, then?

_A Third_.

I go with the others.

_Fourth_. Come up to Burgdorf, there you're sure to find good
cheer, The handsomest of girls and best of beer, And rows, too,
of the very first water.

_Fifth_. You monstrous madcap, does your skin Itch for the third
time to try that inn?

I've had enough for _my_ taste in that quarter.

_Servant-girl_. No! I'm going back again to town for one.

_Others_. Under those poplars we are sure to meet him.

_First Girl_. But that for me is no great fun; For you are always
sure to get him, He never dances with any but you.

Great good to me your luck will do!

_Others_. He's not alone, I heard him say, The curly-head would
be with him to-day.

_Scholar_.

Stars! how the buxom wenches stride there!
Quick, brother! we must fasten alongside there.

Strong beer, good smart tobacco, and the waist Of a right handsome
gall, well rigg'd, now that's my taste.

_Citizen's Daughter_. Do see those fine, young fellows yonder!

'Tis, I declare, a great disgrace; When they might have the very
best, I wonder, After these galls they needs must race!

_Second scholar_ [_to the first_].
Stop! not so fast! there come two more behind, My eyes! but
ain't they dressed up neatly?

One is my neighbor, or I'm blind; I love the girl, she looks so
sweetly.

Alone all quietly they go, You'll find they'll take us, by and
bye, in tow.

_First_. No, brother! I don't like these starched up ways.
Make haste! before the game slips through our fingers.

The hand that swings the broom o' Saturdays On Sundays round thy neck
most sweetly lingers.

_Citizen_. No, I don't like at all this new-made burgomaster!
His insolence grows daily ever faster.

No good from him the town will get!

Will things grow better with him? Never!
We're under more constraint than ever, And pay more tax than ever
yet.

_Beggar_. [_Sings_.] Good gentlemen, and you, fair ladies, With
such red cheeks and handsome dress, Think what my melancholy trade
is, And see and pity my distress!

Help the poor harper, sisters, brothers!
Who loves to give, alone is gay.

This day, a holiday to others, Make it for me a harvest day.

_Another citizen_.

Sundays and holidays, I like, of all things, a good prattle Of
war and fighting, and the whole array, When back in Turkey,
far away, The peoples give each other battle.
One stands before the window, drinks his glass, And sees the ships
with flags glide slowly down the river; Comes home at night, when
out of sight they pass, And sings with joy, "Oh, peace forever!"

_Third citizen_. So I say, neighbor! let them have their way,
Crack skulls and in their crazy riot Turn all things upside down they
may, But leave us here in peace and quiet.

_Old Woman_ [_to the citizen's daughter_].
Heyday, brave prinking this!

the fine young blood!
Who is not smitten that has met you?

-- But not so proud! All very good!
And what you want I'll promise soon to get you.

_Citizen's Daughter_. Come, Agatha! I dread in public sight To
prattle with such hags; don't stay, O, Luddy!
'Tis true she showed me, on St. Andrew's night, My future
sweetheart in the body.

_The other_. She showed me mine, too, in a glass, Right soldierlike,
with daring comrades round him.
I look all round, I study all that pass, But to this hour I have
not found him.

_Soldiers_. Castles with lowering Bulwarks and towers, Maidens with
towering Passions and powers, Both shall be ours!

Daring the venture, Glorious the pay!

When the brass trumpet Summons us loudly, Joy-ward or death-ward,
On we march proudly.

That is a storming!

Life in its splendor!

Castles and maidens Both must surrender.

Daring the venture, Glorious the pay.
There go the soldiers Marching away!

FAUST _and_ WAGNER.

_Faust_. Spring's warm look has unfettered the fountains, Brooks
go tinkling with silvery feet; Hope's bright blossoms the valley
greet; Weakly and sickly up the rough mountains Pale old Winter has
made his retreat.

Thence he launches, in sheer despite, Sleet and hail in impotent
showers, O'er the green lawn as he takes his flight; But the sun
will suffer no white, Everywhere waking the formative powers, Living
colors he yearns to spread; Yet, as he finds it too early for
flowers, Gayly dressed people he takes instead.

Look from this height whereon we find us Back to the town we have
left behind us, Where from the dark and narrow door Forth a
motley multitude pour.
They sun themselves gladly and all are gay, They celebrate Christ's
resurrection to-day.

For have not they themselves arisen?
From smoky huts and hovels and stables, From labor's bonds and
traffic's prison, From the confinement of roofs and gables, From
many a cramping street and alley, From churches full of the old
world's night, All have come out to the day's broad light.

See, only see!

how the masses sally Streaming and swarming through gardens and
fields How the broad stream that bathes the valley Is everywhere
cut with pleasure boats' keels, And that last skiff, so heavily
laden, Almost to sinking, puts off in the stream; Ribbons and jewels
of youngster and maiden From the far paths of the mountain gleam.

How it hums o'er the fields and clangs from the steeple!
This is the real heaven of the people, Both great and little are
merry and gay, I am a man, too, I can be, to-day.

_Wagner_. With you, Sir Doctor, to go out walking Is at all times
honor and gain enough; But to trust myself here alone would be
shocking, For I am a foe to all that is rough.

Fiddling and bowling and screams and laughter To me are the hatefullest
noises on earth; They yell as if Satan himself were after, And
call it music and call it mirth.

[_Peasants (under the linden). Dance and song._]
The shepherd prinked him for the dance, With jacket gay and
spangle's glance, And all his finest quiddle.

And round the linden lass and lad They wheeled and whirled and
danced like mad.

Huzza! huzza!
Huzza!

Ha, ha, ha!

And tweedle-dee went the fiddle.

And in he bounded through the whirl, And with his elbow punched a
girl, Heigh diddle, diddle!

The buxom wench she turned round quick, "Now that I call a scurvy
trick!" Huzza! huzza!

Huzza! ha, ha, ha!

Tweedle-dee, tweedle-dee went the fiddle.

And petticoats and coat-tails flew As up and down they went, and
through, Across and down the middle.

They all grew red, they all grew warm, And rested, panting, arm
in arm, Huzza! huzza!

Ta-ra-la!

Tweedle-dee went the fiddle!

"And don't be so familiar there!
How many a one, with speeches fair, His trusting maid will diddle!"

But still he flattered her aside-- And from the linden sounded
wide:

Huzza! huzza!
Huzza! huzza! ha! ha! ha!
And tweedle-dee the fiddle.

_Old Peasant._ Sir Doctor, this is kind of you, That with us here
you deign to talk, And through the crowd of folk to-day A man so
highly larned, walk.

So take the fairest pitcher here, Which we with freshest drink have
filled, I pledge it to you, praying aloud That, while your thirst
thereby is stilled, So many days as the drops it contains May fill
out the life that to you remains.

_Faust._ I take the quickening draught and call For heaven's
best blessing on one and all.

[_The people form a circle round him._]

_Old Peasant._ Your presence with us, this glad day, We take
it very kind, indeed!

In truth we've found you long ere this In evil days a friend in need!

Full many a one stands living here, Whom, at death's door already
laid, Your father snatched from fever's rage, When, by his skill,
the plague he stayed.
You, a young man, we daily saw Go with him to the pest-house
then, And many a corpse was carried forth, But you came out
alive again.
With a charmed life you passed before us, Helped by the Helper
watching o'er us.

_All._ The well-tried man, and may he live, Long years a helping
hand to give!

_Faust._ Bow down to Him on high who sends His heavenly help
and helping friends!
[_He goes on with_ WAGNER.]
_Wagner._ What feelings, O great man, thy heart must swell Thus to
receive a people's veneration!

O worthy all congratulation, Whose gifts to such advantage tell.

The father to his son shows thee with exultation, All run and crowd
and ask, the circle closer draws, The fiddle stops, the dancers
pause, Thou goest--the lines fall back for thee.

They fling their gay-decked caps on high; A little more and
they would bow the knee As if the blessed Host came by.

_Faust._ A few steps further on, until we reach that stone; There
will we rest us from our wandering.

How oft in prayer and penance there alone, Fasting, I sate, on holy
mysteries pondering.
There, rich in hope, in faith still firm, I've wept, sighed, wrung
my hands and striven This plague's removal to extort (poor worm!)

From the almighty Lord of Heaven.
The crowd's applause has now a scornful tone; O couldst thou hear
my conscience tell its story, How little either sire or son Has
done to merit such a glory!

My father was a worthy man, confused And darkened with his narrow
lucubrations, Who with a whimsical, though well-meant patience,
On Nature's holy circles mused.
Shut up in his black laboratory, Experimenting without end, 'Midst
his adepts, till he grew hoary, He sought the opposing powers to
blend.

Thus, a red lion,[11] a bold suitor, married The silver lily,
in the lukewarm bath, And, from one bride-bed to another harried,
The two were seen to fly before the flaming wrath.

If then, with colors gay and splendid, The glass the youthful queen
revealed, Here was the physic, death the patients' sufferings ended,
And no one asked, who then was healed?

Thus, with electuaries so satanic, Worse than the plague with all
its panic, We rioted through hill and vale; Myself, with my own
hands, the drug to thousands giving, They passed away, and I am
living To hear men's thanks the murderers hail!

_Wagner._ Forbear! far other name that service merits!
Can a brave man do more or less Than with nice conscientiousness To
exercise the calling he inherits?

If thou, as youth, thy father honorest, To learn from him thou wilt
desire; If thou, as man, men with new light hast blest, Then may
thy son to loftier heights aspire.

_Faust._ O blest! who hopes to find repose, Up from this mighty
sea of error diving!
Man cannot use what he already knows, To use the unknown ever
striving.

But let not such dark thoughts a shadow throw O'er the bright joy
this hour inspires!

See how the setting sun, with ruddy glow, The green-embosomed
hamlet fires!

He sinks and fades, the day is lived and gone, He hastens forth new
scenes of life to waken.

O for a wing to lift and bear me on, And on, to where his last rays
beckon!

Then should I see the world's calm breast In everlasting sunset
glowing, The summits all on fire, each valley steeped in rest, The
silver brook to golden rivers flowing.

No savage mountain climbing to the skies Should stay the godlike
course with wild abysses; And now the sea, with sheltering,
warm recesses Spreads out before the astonished eyes.
At last it seems as if the God were sinking; But a new impulse fires
the mind, Onward I speed, his endless glory drinking, The day before
me and the night behind, The heavens above my head and under me the
ocean.

A lovely dream,--meanwhile he's gone from sight.
Ah! sure, no earthly wing, in swiftest flight, May with the
spirit's wings hold equal motion.
Yet has each soul an inborn feeling Impelling it to mount and soar
away, When, lost in heaven's blue depths, the lark is pealing High
overhead her airy lay; When o'er the mountain pine's black shadow,
With outspread wing the eagle sweeps, And, steering on o'er lake
and meadow, The crane his homeward journey keeps.

_Wagner._ I've had myself full many a wayward hour, But never
yet felt such a passion's power.
One soon grows tired of field and wood and brook, I envy not the
fowl of heaven his pinions.

Far nobler joy to soar through thought's dominions From page to
page, from book to book!

Ah! winter nights, so dear to mind and soul!

Warm, blissful life through all the limbs is thrilling, And when
thy hands unfold a genuine ancient scroll, It seems as if all heaven
the room were filling.

_Faust_. One passion only has thy heart possessed; The other,
friend, O, learn it never!

Two souls, alas! are lodged in my wild breast, Which evermore
opposing ways endeavor, The one lives only on the joys of time,
Still to the world with clamp-like organs clinging; The other leaves
this earthly dust and slime, To fields of sainted sires up-springing.

O, are there spirits in the air, That empire hold 'twixt earth's
and heaven's dominions, Down from your realm of golden haze repair,
Waft me to new, rich life, upon your rosy pinions!

Ay!

were a magic mantle only mine, To soar o'er earth's wide
wildernesses, I would not sell it for the costliest dresses, Not
for a royal robe the gift resign.

_Wagner_. O, call them not, the well known powers of air, That swarm
through all the middle kingdom, weaving Their fairy webs, with
many a fatal snare The feeble race of men deceiving.
First, the sharp spirit-tooth, from out the North, And arrowy tongues
and fangs come thickly flying; Then from the East they greedily
dart forth, Sucking thy lungs, thy life-juice drying; If from the
South they come with fever thirst, Upon thy head noon's fiery
splendors heaping; The Westwind brings a swarm, refreshing first,
Then all thy world with thee in stupor steeping.

They listen gladly, aye on mischief bent, Gladly draw near, each
weak point to espy, They make believe that they from heaven are
sent, Whispering like angels, while they lie.

But let us go! The earth looks gray, my friend, The air grows
cool, the mists ascend!

At night we learn our homes to prize.-- Why dost thou stop and stare
with all thy eyes?
What can so chain thy sight there, in the gloaming?

_Faust_.

Seest thou that black dog through stalks and stubble roaming?

_Wagner_. I saw him some time since, he seemed not strange to
me.

_Faust_. Look sharply! What dost take the beast to be?

_Wagner_. For some poor poodle who has lost his master, And,
dog-like, scents him o'er the ground.

_Faust_. Markst thou how, ever nearer, ever faster, Towards us his
spiral track wheels round and round?

And if my senses suffer no confusion, Behind him trails a fiery
glare.

_Wagner_. 'Tis probably an optical illusion; I still see only a
black poodle there.

_Faust_. He seems to me as he were tracing slyly His magic rings our
feet at last to snare.

_Wagner_. To me he seems to dart around our steps so shyly, As if
he said: is one of them my master there?

_Faust_. The circle narrows, he is near!

_Wagner_. Thou seest! a dog we have, no spectre, here!
He growls and stops, crawls on his belly, too, And wags his tail,--as
all dogs do.

_Faust_. Come here, sir! come, our comrade be!

_Wagner_. He has a poodle's drollery.
Stand still, and he, too, waits to see; Speak to him, and he
jumps on thee; Lose something, drop thy cane or sling it Into the
stream, he'll run and bring it.

Further, I will say that you are quite at
liberty to report me for having assaulted you.  Or, you may ask
for a class committee to investigate this affair between us.
The last that I have to say is that I have the vial of knockout
stuff that you gave Tony to serve to Dalzell and myself, and I
have also expert testimony as to the nature of the stuff.  Nor
do I mind admitting to you that Dalzell and I are going to go
as far as we can in getting the evidence that; will warrant our
making an official report your scoundrelly conduct.  If possible
we shall bring about your dismissal from the Naval Academy."

Brimmer's eyes flashed.  Yet in the next minute the yellow streak
in him showed.  His lip quivered, and he begged, brokenly:

"Darrin, show a little mercy.  Would you care to be kicked out
of the Academy?"

"Not any more than Dalzell would have liked it," replied Dave
dryly.

"Then you must realize that it would spoil my life, too."

"Mr. Brimmer," retorted Darrin sternly, "it is no longer a question
of what your feelings in the matter may be.  The plain fact is
that you are not a gentlemen--not honorable.  You are not fit
to be the comrade of gentlemen.  You are a profanation of the
uniform of the United States.  It is for the good of the service,
far more than for any personal enmity, that several of us have
resolved to keep on the hunt for evidence until we get a complete
enough lot to drive you away from Annapolis."

Finding that coaxing was of no avail Brimmer became surly.

At the first opportunity for liberty to go into town Dave, Dan
and Farley went abruptly to Tony, the Greek, questioning him
insistently.  Tony, however, would not say a word beyond stolidly
denying that he had had any part in the plot, and that he had
ever said so.

Tony had abundant reasons for his silence.  He had promptly demanded
two hundred dollars from Brimmer, and the latter had sent post
haste to his father for the money, explaining only that he needed
it to "buy his way out of a scrape."

The money now rested in Tony's pocket.

Dave, Dan, Farley and Page tried hard, however, in other directions,
to secure the need evidence.  There was no druggists' label on
the vial, so these four midshipmen visited all the druggists in
Annapolis, seeking light on the matter.  The druggists, however,
denied any knowledge of the vial or of its contents.

Now, the friends appeared to be up against a dead wall of difficulty.
They did not cease their efforts, however, and held many conferences
behind closed doors.

Brimmer kept track of their activities as best he could.  He became
moody, and slackened in his studies.

After that the semi-annual examinations came on.  Dave passed
better than he had hoped, making two-nine as his standing.

Dalzell was forced to be content with two-seven, but as two-five
was a high enough mark for passing Dan was delighted.  Farley and
Page got through safely, and that was all.

Fifty-nine of the men of the fourth class were dropped for failing
to keep up to the two-five standard.

And one of these was Midshipman Brimmer.  He and the other unlucky
ones left for their homes as soon as the results had been announced.

Brimmer would have passed, in all probability, had he not been
unstrung by the knowledge that four of his comrades were working
to secure the evidence which should warrant his expulsion from
the Naval Academy.  Oppressed by dread, this young scoundrel was
not capable of doing his best work at the semi-annuals.

So Brimmer left as Henkel had done.  The only difference was that
Brimmer did not have to slink away to the tune of "The Rogue's
March."

"You're past the worst of it, now, mister," murmured Youngster
Trotter, in passing Dave.  "You'll win through hereafter."

But Dave Darrin could hardly help feeling that his greatest
thankfulness was over the fact that the poisonous pair, Henkel and
Brimmer, were both out of the Navy for good and all.


CHAPTER XIX

The Collision on the Chesapeake

The weeks slipped by quickly now.

Athletics cannot occupy as prominent a place at Annapolis as at
the universities and colleges, for the midshipmen must, above
all, be sure that they stand high enough in their academic work.
Dave and Dan were both invited out for baseball try-out,
but both asked to be excused.

Dan, by himself, would have gone in for the Navy nine, and
doubtless would have made it.

It was Darrin, the cautious, who dissuaded Dalzell.

"Better shy away from athletics, Danny boy, until you've made your
academic footing secure," was Dave's advice.

"You didn't talk that way in the High School," argued Dan.

"No; there the athletics were more necessary, if we were to keep
in condition.  Here athletics may be regarded as the luxury, which
we are not yet entitled.  Here, with the gym work, the fencing,
the drills under arms and the boat drills, we're kept in the pink
of physical condition without need for special training."

"Next year, when we feel absolutely solid in our marks, we can
go in for athletics, if we wish, Dan."

So Dalzell gave in.  He was beginning to realize that his chum
had a "long" head and that his advice was always good.

With the coming of spring the boat drills were resumed in earnest.

Dave, standing well in "grease," now, became captain of one of
the boat crews, for he had developed unusual skill in boat handling.

One bright afternoon in the latter part of April, while half of
the brigade marched off to instruction on shore, the other half
marched down to the docks beyond the seamanship building.

Here the members of the third class embarked in the steam launches
each craft representing a war vessel--for fleet drill.

The fourth class men embarked, by crews, in the sailboats.

As each captain gave the order to shove clear of the dock the
mainsail was hoisted.  Then each crew captain kept one eye on
the watch for the signals of the instructor, who was aboard a
boat designated as the flagship.

The sail was downstream.  Beyond Annapolis some pretty manoeuvering
work was done.  While this drill was proceeding, however, the
wind died out considerably.  Then, light as the breeze was, the
youthful crew captains were forced to beat back against almost
a head wind.

There being no signs of squalls or puffs, the crew captains did not
seem to need to exercise much caution.  The members of the crews
stood indolently at their stations.

Yet Dave was as alert as ever.  He stood close to the midshipman
tillerman, looking constantly for signals from the flagship, and
at the same time watchful for any wind signs.

An hour or more they had proceeded thus.  Some of Dave's boat
crew, who had been making a lark of their nearly becalmed condition
now began to demur over the prospect of getting back late for
supper.

"The steam-launch fleet might show up and give us a tow," grumbled
Farley.

Dave smiled and said nothing.  He was as eager as any midshipman
in the boat to have his supper on time, but he felt that the crew
captain must appear above any sign of complaint untoward fate.

For a moment or so Darrin turned to look aft at the weather.

"Motor boat 'John Duncan' on the port bow, two points off and
bearing this way, sir," reported the bow watch.

Darrin turned quickly, bending to glance under the boom, for the
mainsail was in his way.

What he saw made him dart quickly forward, to take up his stand
by the mast.

"Pass me the megaphone, Mr. Dalzell," he requested.

With this mouth-piece in hand, Dave watched the nearing craft.

The "Duncan" was a semi-speed boat, some forty-five feet over
all, without cabin, and carrying only a sprayhood forward to protect
its engine.

Two men appeared in the boat--Mr Salisbury, the owner, and his
engineer.  The latter was steering at this time.

Chug-chug-chug!  came the fast craft.

Dave waited, well knowing that his hail could not carry to either
engineer or owner over the noise that the "Duncan's" engine was
making.

Farley stood close to Dave watching.  The tillerman also had his
eye on the approaching craft.  The other midshipmen, telling stories
or staring out over the water, paid little heed.  There could
be no danger from the motor boat.  Both the owner and engineer
were well known, in these waters, as capable boat handlers and
as men of judgment.

Darrin, himself, did not believe that there was any danger.

"Throw her head a point and a half off to the starboard," called
Dave Darrin evenly.

"Aye, aye, sir," responded the midshipman tillerman, and the sailboat
responded slowly under the slight headway.

"Great Scott, don't those fellows know that a sailboat has the
right of way over a power craft?" demanded Darrin suddenly.

"Perhaps they're going to see how close they can come to us without
hitting us," remarked Farley.

Dave raised the megaphone to his lips, waiting until he judged that
there was a chance of his hail being heard.

"Duncan, 'ahoy!" bellowed Darrin.  "Go to port of us!"

Still the motor boat came onward, at a speed something better than
fourteen miles.

"Hard-a-starboard!" Darrin roared back to his own tillerman.

Then he repeated his hail.  He was almost frenzied now; for the
motor boat had not yet changed its course.

Suddenly, when the two craft were almost together, the engineer,
after throwing over his wheel, held up one hand.

Before Dave could guess what the gesture meant, the "Duncan" loomed
up on the sail-boat's port bow, coming on at unabated speed.

There was an instant scampering of midshipmen for safety.  Then
bump! the motor boat's bow crashed into the sailboat, cutting
a great gap in her.

The force of the shock threw most of the midshipmen into the water.
The rest jumped.

Now, the "Duncan" responded to her engine by backing off.  But
the motor boat, too, had received her deathblow.  Ere she had
backed off a hundred and fifty feet she began to fill rapidly.
Owner and engineer had only time to adjust life-preservers
and leap overboard.  Then the "Duncan" went down.

At the moment of collision there was a crash of spars and a snapping
of cordage.  The sailing craft's mast had gone by the board, though
not much before the sailboat itself had filled.

Dave himself was pitched headlong.  He sank below the water, but
had no fear for himself, for he was wholly at home in the water.

Yet, as he found the water closing over him, Dave Darrin felt
a great thrill of terror for others run through him.

"My boat crew is the poorest in the class in swimming!" he gasped,
with a throb of agony.  "Not more than half of them know how
to take care of themselves!  And I, as captain, am responsible
for their safety!"


CHAPTER XX

IN THE LINE OF DUTY


As his head shot above the water a Dave barely paused to expel the
water from his mouth.

"Boat's crew close together, to stand by the poor swimmers!" he
yelled hoarsely.

The water being barely ruffled, Darrin was able to count eight heads
besides his own.

That meant that five men had still failed to come up.

Midshipman Driscoll, an instant later, shot up beside Dave.

"Help!" sputtered Driscoll.

"Float on my arm, sir," ordered Dave, swimming with lusty strokes
until he had thrust his left arm under Driscoll's chest.

Then the young crew captain shouted:

"Who can get here first to support Mr. Driscoll."

"Here!" called another midshipman, overtaking the pair with lusty
strokes.

"Keep Mr. Driscoll up," called Dave, as he swam away.  "I've got
to count heads fast."

Another midshipman came above water, and Dan Dalzell was at him,
like a flash, supporting the new arrival, who was one of the poor
swimmers.

That left three men to be accounted for.

Further down the stream still another head appeared.  Only for
a moment or two, this midshipman succeeded in keeping his head
above water.

"I'll get that man," cried Farley, as he and another midshipman
started with powerful strokes after the man who was going down
for the second time.

"There's a seat floating!" shouted Dalzell.

Darrin plunged forward for it, until he saw one of his crew nearing
it ahead of him.

"Hold that as a life-buoy!" called Dave.

Hardly had he given this order when another midshipman made himself
heard, as he trod water.

The board was pushed toward him, while Dave made a rapid count.

"All up but Mr. Page;" muttered Dave, but even that thought made
him sick at heart.

Only a few moments had passed, but that was time enough for any
man to come to the surface if his buoyancy remained.

Darrin had paid no heed to Mr. Salisbury or the latter's engineer,
for he had seen them jumping for their life-preservers.

In the meantime the other boats of the sailing fleet were making
for the scene of the disaster.  Yet, with the light breeze, that
was no easy thing to do.  It would take some time yet to bring
the nearest of the sailing fleet to the scene.

Signals had been sprung to the steam-launch fleet, but the launches
were far down the bay, and many minutes must pass before relief
could be looked for from that quarter.  Two or three of the
sailboats would, in fact, be at hand first.

Though there were some excellent swimmer among the wrecked
midshipmen, the best of these were already standing by midshipmen
who did not swim well.  Dave Darrin was the only one free to go to
Page's assistance should he show up.

"Every man keep his eyes peeled for Mr. Page!" shouted Dave.  "We
simply can't stand the loss of any member of the crew!"

"There's a hat!" cried Dan, a few moments later.  "Can you make
it out, sir."

Dalzell was pointing further down the bay.

"A cap, yes," called Dave, striking out lustily for the spot.
"But I don't see any head there.  Watch, all of you, and give
me a hail if you see Mr. Page's head show up anywhere."

Midshipman Farley was in agony over the thought of the loss of
his roommate.  Yet Farley was at this time engaged in standing
by a less-skilled swimmer.

"That looks like a face, fifteen yards west from the cap!" shouted
one of the crew.

Dave Darrin made the greatest spring, he could up out of the water.
It gave him a chance for a better view.

"I see the face!" he roared back.  "Look after yourselves.  I'll
get in close to Mr. Page."

Dave swam as he had never done before, taking swift yet long,
powerful strokes.  He reached the spot, only to see what he had
taken for a face sink slowly below the surface.

"That must be the second time going down!" throbbed Darrin, with
a feeling of horror.

More powerfully than ever he surged forward.  He was too late to
catch another glimpse of the white face.  But he had noted the
point at which it had sunk.

Taking a breath, Darrin took a dive downward, duck fashion.  Holding
his breath, he went below, his eyes wide open, seeking as best
he could.

Down where the light of day reached him poorly Darrin caught sight
of something floating slowly past.  It might have been a fish,
for all the sense of shape that reached Dave.

With an inward prayer the young crew captain surged downward and
forward.  He grappled with--something--then fought his way the
surface, holding that something tightly.

As they shot above the water Darrin's blood danced for joy.

It was Page--"good old Page!"--whom he had brought to the top.

"Got him safe?" bellowed Farley, over the water.

Dave was too winded to answer.  He thrust one hand above his head,
waving it joyfully.  Then he let the hand fall that he might better
attend to his work.

For a few moments they floated there.  The nearest of the sailing
cutters was now nearing the victims of the wreck.

The boat, however, would reach Darrin last of all.

While Darrin watched Farley and three others clambering aboard
the rescuing boat, the young crew captain trod water, supporting
Page at the same time.

Then Page opened his eyes, as though returning from a faint, rather
than reviving from a partial drowning.

"Hold me tight!" gasped Page, almost in a whisper.  "I'm a fearfully
poor swimmer."

"I know," nodded Dave, "but I've got you, and I never let go of a
good thing."

Darrin's heart throbbed gratefully.  All of the boat crew were
accounted for; not a man of his command lost.

Further off he could see Mr. Salisbury and the engineer of the
foundered power boat, each held up by a life-preserve.

But, though all of the wrecked middies were afloat, they were
as yet by no means safe.  Some were so helpless that every man
who could keep himself afloat and help another was thus engaged.

Dave, after his strong exertions, found himself rapidly "playing
out."  If help did not soon reach him he felt that he would be
exhausted.

"Can't you help yourself a little more, Mr. Page?" he asked.

Unnoticed by Darrin, Midshipman Page had been slowly relapsing
into unconsciousness.  In the collision Page had been hit glancingly
on the head by the gaff of the falling mainsail.

Page heard Dave's query with a muddled mind.  All he grasped was
that Darrin was doubtful of his ability to keep them both up.

In an agony of unreasoning, stupefied dread, Midshipman Page swiftly
wound both arms around Dave Darrin.

"Here!" commanded the young captain the crew. "Don't do that!"

But Page either did not hear or did not heed.  His arms clung
more desperately around Dave, binding one of the latter's arms
to his body.

"He'll drown both of us!" was the thought that flashed instantly
through Midshipman Darrin's mind.

There was no time to think of more.  Before he realized that the
thing was happening Darrin felt the waters close over his head.

Both midshipmen were going down.  While Darrin's mind was fully
alive to the situation Page, a gallant fellow at heart, and thoroughly
brave, was now unwittingly carrying his comrade down with him to
death.

Nor, in the first moments, did any of the other midshipmen note
the tragic happening.

It was not long, however, before Dan Dalzell's agonized query
shot over the waters:

"Where's grand old Darrin?"

Dan groaned with his helplessness.  For Dan was, at that instant,
holding up one of the poor swimmers, to leave whom would be to
abandon him to death.


CHAPTER XXI

OFFICIAL AND OTHER REPORT


When under the water, and in imminent danger of drowning, seconds
count as hours.

If they perished, now, Page would be spared the deep horror of it
all, for his mind was already clouded again through his recent
injuries.

He retained only consciousness enough to fight like a dying wild
beast.

With one of Darrin's arms pinioned Page seemed fighting to get the
other in an equal state of helplessness.

Dave fought to free himself.  Yet he did not struggle too hard.

"If I free myself abruptly, I may lose Page!" was the thought
that rushed through his brain.

To free himself of his comrade in order to get to the surface
alone and safe was furthest from the young midshipman's mind.

"It's a tough fix, but I'm going to get Page to the surface, or
stay down here with him!" throbbed Dave.

They were near enough to the surface to enable Darrin to see his
comrade, though not with much clearness.

Down under the water all forms looked indistinct.

While Darrin struggled cautiously his mind worked fast.

It would have been easy enough to choke Page into insensibility,
but that would cause the unreasoning midshipman to open his mouth,
insuring his drowning.

Suddenly Dave saw his chance!  He made up his mind at once.

Swiftly moving his free hand back, he struck Page on the forehead
with his clenched fist.

At that moment, Page began to fight harder to keep them both down.
But Darrin struck him again on the head with his fist.

The injured midshipman now collapsed, senseless.

Cautiously though swiftly Dave freed himself, got a left hand
grip on the collar of Page's blouse, and with his right hand struck
out for the surface.

His feet aided.  With joy Dave saw the water overhead growing
lighter and lighter.  Then his face shot up into the life-giving air.

Darrin took in a great gulp of it, then turned to make sure that
the unconscious Page's mouth was above water.

Close at hand one of the sailboats of the fleet was bearing down
upon them.

"There are Mr. Darrin and Mr. Page!" shouted a voice.

Splash!  splash!  Two classmates were over in the water, swimming
superbly toward the exhausted Dave.

"Keep up a moment or two longer, Mr. Darrin!" hailed the voice
of Midshipman Hallam encouragingly.

All these young midshipmen were on duty.  Therefore, throughout
the mishap and its attendant circumstances the ceremonious use
of "Mr." had been followed.

"Won't I keep up, though!" thrilled Dave, as he heard the cheering
hail.

All but forgetting himself, Dave turned to make sure that Page's
mouth was kept above water.

"Let me have Mr. Page!" called out Midshipman Botkin, ranging
up alongside and taking charge of Darrin's burden.

"How are you, Mr. Darrin?  Enjoy a little help?" queried Midshipman
Hallam, throwing out a supporting arm to his classmate.

"I'm nearly all in," confessed Dave, with a ghastly smile.

"But not all in?  Good enough!  Get hold of my arm, and don't
try to do much more than float.  They're gathering the men in
fast, now."

Two sailboats were now engaged in the work of rescue, and a third
was heading for Mr. Salisbury and his engineer.

In almost no time, it seemed, Dave and Page, and their supporters,
were hauled into one of the boats.

"Give Mr. Page first aid for the injured--quick!" urged Dave,
almost in a whisper.  "He has gone close to being drowned."

Hardly had he spoken the words when Darrin's own eyes closed.
The strain had been too much for him.

When the steam launches came up, Dave and Page, as well as the
other drenched fourth class men, were transferred, and fast time
was made back to the dock.

Mr. Salisbury and his engineer were also taken back by steam power.
The owner of the launch had a most satisfactory explanation to
offer.

He and his engineer had both believed that they had abundant room
in which to clear the sailboat.  When, at last, they had tried
their helm, it was found that the steering gear had broken.  There
was no way in which to change the course of the motor boat in
time.  The reversing gear was promptly used, but it was impossible
to stop headway and dart back before the collision came.

It was accident, and that was all there was to it.  Yet, had it
not been for Darrin's prompt judgment, and the cool conduct of some
of the members of his crew, there might easily have been some
fatalities to report among the midshipmen.

As it was, nothing but Darrin's splendid conduct had saved Midshipman
Page from speedy death by drowning.

Dave opened his eyes on his way back to Annapolis.  Page, however
though he was "pumped dry" of the water that he had involuntarily
swallowed, remained in a stupefied condition all the way back.

An ambulance had been signaled for, and was waiting at the dock.

"I don't want to go to hospital, sir," Dave objected weakly.

"You'll come with me, Mr. Darrin," responded the Naval surgeon,
without argument.  "Of course we can discharge you at any time
we find you strong enough for duty."

So Dave was taken to hospital, stripped, rubbed down, put to bed
and dosed with hot drinks.

Midshipman Page was put on the cot next to Dave's.  Now the surgeons
discovered the injury that had been done Page's head by the falling
gaff.

Some four hours later Commander Jephson, commandant of midshipmen,
came through the hospital, accompanied by Lieutenant Edgecombe,
who had been the sailing instructor of the afternoon.

"Good evening, Mr. Darrin," was the commandant's very cordial
greeting.

"Good evening, sir."

"Good evening, Mr. Darrin," came from Lieutenant Edgecombe, which
greeting Dave also acknowledged.

* * * * *
In _Graduation_ (CHATTO AND WINDUS) there is an essential femininity
about Miss IRENE RUTHERFORD McLEOD'S style and general attitude
that imposes limitations; it is a quality that shows itself not
only in her plot, but in her characters, the three reputed males
who figure therein being as fine examples of true womanliness as
you need wish to meet.

_Frieda_ was the heroine (a name somehow significant); and of
the trouser-wearers, the first, _Geoffrey_, was a cat-like deceiver,
who fascinated poor _Frieda_ for ends unspecified, pretended (the
minx!)

to be keen on the Suffrage movement, which he wasn't, and concealed
a wife; the second was a Being too perfect to endure beyond
Chapter 10, where he expires eloquently of heart-failure, leaving
_Alan_, the third, to bear the white man's burden and clasp
_Frieda_ to his maidenly heart.

This sentimental progress is, I suppose, what is implied by the
title and the symbolic staircase (if it _is_ a staircase?)

on the wrapper. But my trouble was that I could never discern in the
sweet girl-graduate any development of character from the pretentious
futility of her earliest appearance. Perhaps I am prejudiced.
Undeniably Miss McLEOD can draw a certain type of prig with a
horrible facility.

But the antiquated modernity of her scheme, flooded as it is with
the New Dawn of, say, a decade ago, and its bland disregard of
everything that has happened since, ended by violently irritating me.

Page to the last, and even went below with him at the almost
certain risk of being drowned yourself."

"You didn't expect me, sir, to include any praise of myself, in
my official report?" questioned Darrin.

"You have me there, Mr. Darrin," laughed the commandant, while
the lieutenant turned to hide a smile.  "I am quite satisfied
with your official report, but I wish to ask you some questions,
on my own account, about your own experience in rescuing Mr. Page."

This it took some minutes to draw out.  Darrin did not balk, nor
try to conceal anything, but he had a natural aversion to singing
his own praises, and answered questions only sparingly at first.
Yet, at last, the commandant succeeded in drawing out a story,
bit by bit, that made the old seadog's eyes glisten with pride.

"Mr. Darrin," announced the commandant, "from experience and
observation, through a rather long life in the Navy, I am able
to state that the kind of courage which enables a man go down in
drowning with a comrade, sooner than leave the comrade to his fate,
is the highest type of courage known among brave men!"

"You must have been aware, Mr. Darrin," added Lieutenant Edgecombe,
"that you were taking at least ninety-nine chances in a hundred
of offering up your life."

"Gentlemen," replied Dave, rather restless under so much praise,
"I have signed under the Flag, to give my life up for it at any
time in the line of duty.  Does it make very much difference in
which year I turn that life over to the Flag?"

"Edgecombe," said the commandant, rather huskily, as the two
officers left the hospital, "I am glad--mighty glad--that we
didn't lose Darrin today.  We are going to need him in the Navy
of tomorrow!"


CHAPTER XXII

THE "BAZOO" MAKES TROUBLE


"Sir, the brigade is formed," reported the brigade adjutant, the
next day, as the midshipmen stood in ranks, ready to march into
the mess hall.

"Publish the orders," directed the cadet commander.

Then the brigade adjutant rattled off the orders, reading them
in a quick monotonous voice.

"For coolness, judgment and remarkable bravery displayed in an
accident encounter in the sinking and foundering of a sailboat
under his command, which accident was not any way due to his own
negligence or incapacity--"

Dave started, then crimsoned, as the brigade adjutant continued
reading:

"Midshipman David Darrin, fourth class, is hereby specially commended,
and his conduct is offered as an example to all his comrades in
the brigade of midshipmen."

A moment later the crisp marching orders rang out, and the brigade
was marching in by classes.

Dave's face was still flushed, his blood tingling somewhat.  It
was pleasing, doubtless, to be thus reviewed in orders, but Dave
was not unduly elated.

In the Navy, though courage may sometimes be mentioned in orders,
not much fuss is made over it.  All officers and men in the Navy
are expected to be brave, as a matter of course and of training.

Dan, in fact, was more pleased over that one paragraph in orders
than was his chum.

"Of course everyone in the Navy must brave," thought Dalzell,
to himself.  "But old Dave will always be one of the leaders in
that line."

In accordance with custom a copy of the order giving Darrin special
commendation was mailed to his father, as one who had a right
to know and to be proud of his son's record at the Naval Academy.

Not a doubt was there that the senior Darrin was proud!  So many
of the elder Darrin's friends were favored with a glimpse of the
official communication received from Annapolis that the editor
of the Gridley "Blade," heard of it.  Mr. Pollock asked the privilege
of making a copy of the official communication, which contained
a copy of the paragraph in orders.

Mr. Pollock, however, was not contented with publishing merely
a copy of the official communication from the Naval Academy authorities.
The editor printed a column and a half, in all reminding his
readers that Midshipman Darrin was one of a recently famous sextette
of Gridley High School athletes who had been famous as Dick &
Co.  Not only did Dave receive a flattering amount of praise in
print.  Dan came in for a lot of pleasant notice also.

Full right to that just now I gave; I spoke not as an idle
braggart better.

Henceforward I remain a slave, What care I who puts on the
setter?

_Mephistopheles_. I shall this very day, at Doctor's-feast,[16]
My bounden service duly pay thee.

But one thing!--For insurance' sake, I pray thee, Grant me a line
or two, at least.

_Faust_. Pedant! will writing gain thy faith, alone?
In all thy life, no man, nor man's word hast thou known?

Is't not enough that I the fatal word That passes on my future
days have spoken?

The world-stream raves and rushes (hast not heard?) And shall a
promise hold, unbroken?
Yet this delusion haunts the human breast, Who from his soul
its roots would sever?
Thrice happy in whose heart pure truth finds rest.
No sacrifice shall he repent of ever!
But from a formal, written, sealed attest, As from a spectre, all
men shrink forever.

The word and spirit die together, Killed by the sight of wax and
leather.
What wilt thou, evil sprite, from me?
Brass, marble, parchment, paper, shall it be?

Shall I subscribe with pencil, pen or graver?

Among them all thy choice is free.

_Mephistopheles_.

This rhetoric of thine to me Hath a somewhat bombastic savor.

Any small scrap of paper's good.

Thy signature will need a single drop of blood.[17]
_Faust_.

If this will satisfy thy mood, I will consent thy whim to
favor.

_Mephistopheles._ Quite a peculiar juice is blood.

_Faust_. Fear not that I shall break this bond; O, never!

My promise, rightly understood, Fulfils my nature's whole endeavor.

I've puffed myself too high, I see; To _thy_ rank only I belong.

The Lord of Spirits scorneth me, Nature, shut up, resents the wrong.

The thread of thought is snapt asunder, All science to me is a
stupid blunder.

Let us in sensuality's deep Quench the passions within us
blazing!

And, the veil of sorcery raising, Wake each miracle from its long
sleep!

Plunge we into the billowy dance, The rush and roll of time and
chance!
Then may pleasure and distress, Disappointment and success, Follow
each other as fast as they will; Man's restless activity flourishes
still.

_Mephistopheles_. No bound or goal is set to you; Where'er you
like to wander sipping, And catch a tit-bit in your skipping,
Eschew all coyness, just fall to, And may you find a good digestion!

_Faust_. Now, once for all, pleasure is not the question.
I'm sworn to passion's whirl, the agony of bliss, The lover's hate,
the sweets of bitterness.

My heart, no more by pride of science driven, Shall open wide
to let each sorrow enter, And all the good that to man's race is
given, I will enjoy it to my being's centre, Through life's whole
range, upward and downward sweeping, Their weal and woe upon my
bosom heaping, Thus in my single self their selves all comprehending
And with them in a common shipwreck ending.

_Mephistopheles_. O trust me, who since first I fell from heaven,
Have chewed this tough meat many a thousand year, No man digests the
ancient leaven, No mortal, from the cradle to the bier.
Trust one of _us_--the _whole_ creation To God alone belongs by
right; _He_ has in endless day his habitation, _Us_ He hath made
for utter night, _You_ for alternate dark and light.

_Faust_. But then I _will!_

_Mephistopheles_. Now that's worth hearing!
But one thing haunts me, the old song, That time is short and art
is long.

You need some slight advice, I'm fearing.
Take to you one of the poet-feather, Let the gentleman's thought,
far-sweeping, Bring all the noblest traits together, On your one
crown their honors heaping, The lion's mood The stag's rapidity,
The fiery blood of Italy, The Northman's hardihood.

Bid him teach thee the art of combining Greatness of soul with
fly designing, And how, with warm and youthful passion, To fall
in love by plan and fashion.

Should like, myself, to come across 'm, Would name him Mr.
Microcosm.

_Faust_. What am I then?

if that for which my heart Yearns with invincible endeavor, The
crown of man, must hang unreached forever?

_Mephistopheles_. Thou art at last--just what thou art.

Pile perukes on thy head whose curls cannot be counted, On yard-high
buskins let thy feet be mounted, Still thou art only what thou
art.

_Faust_. Yes, I have vainly, let me not deny it, Of human learning
ransacked all the stores, And when, at last, I set me down in quiet,
There gushes up within no new-born force; I am not by a hair's-breadth
higher, Am to the Infinite no nigher.

_Mephistopheles_.Dave had a good voice for
a leader of men, but a poor one for a singer.

Somehow, he got through the ordeal.

"Now, cast your eye on the paragraph marked as number two," directed
Mr. Paulson.  "Mister, the 'Bazoo' in your left hand.  Thrust
your right hand in under the front of your blouse and strike the
attitude popularly ascribed to Daniel Webster.  No comedy, either,
mister; give us a serious impersonation, sir!"

This was surely rubbing it in, but Dave gave his best in attitude
and pose.

"Effective!" murmured Midshipman Jones.  "Very!

"Superb!" voiced Mr. Hurlburt.

"Now, for the declamation, mister, of paragraph number two," commanded
Youngster Paulson.

In a deep voice, and with a ring that was meant to be convincing,
Dave read the paragraph:

_"Since a school consists of pupils as well as of instructors,
the brightest student minds may be said to make the life and history
of a famous school.  It has been so with our justly famous Gridley
High School.  Mr. Darrin, in the past, has aided in establishing
many of the traditions of the famous school that claims him as
her own son.  The young man's heroism at Annapolis, under the
most exacting conditions, will surprise no one who knows either
Mr. Darrin or the splendid traditions that he helped establish
among the youth of his home town.  In the years to come we may
look confidently forward to hearing the name of Darrin as one
of the most famous among the newer generation of the United States
Navy.  David Darrin will always be a hero--because he cannot
help it."_

As Dave, his face flushing more hotly than ever, read through these
lines he was conscious of the jeering gaze of the upper class men.
He was interrupted, at times, by cries of fervid but mock admiration.

"I feel," announced Mr. Hurlburt, wiping his eyes with his handkerchief,
"that I am indeed honored in being one of the humbler students
at this great school on which our beloved comrade has shed the
luster of his presence."

"It seems almost profane to look at such a young man, except through
smoked glasses," protested Midshipman Heath.

"What's your name, mister?" demanded Midshipman Brooks.

"Darrin, sir," Dave answered, with the becoming meekness of a
fourth class man.

"Any relative of the Darrin mentioned in the elegy you have just
been reading?"

"I hope not, sir," replied Dave, fighting to stifle a grin, though
it was a sheepish one.

"Mister," stormed Midshipman Denton, "you are attempting to deceive
us!"

Dave gazed meekly but inquiringly at the last speaker.

"You are trying to evade the fact that you are the real Darrin,
the identical hero whom the 'Bazoo' so lovingly, so reverently
describes.  Deceit fills your system, mister!  You will stand
on your head long enough to let it run out of you."

Midshipman Paulson, though an inveterate "runner" of fourth class
men, had some regard for the dangers of overstaying the visit, and
kept his left eye on the time.

Darrin, standing on his head, became redder of face than ever,
for all the blood in his body seemed to be running downward.
At last he became so unsteady that twice his feet slipped along
the wall, and he had to return to his attitude of standing on
his head.

"Better let up on the beast, Paulson," murmured Midshipman Brooks.

"Yes," agreed Paulson.  "The warning bell will go in a minute
more.  Mister, on your feet!"

Dave promptly returned to normal attitude, standing respectfully
at attention.

"Mister," continued Paulson, "you will be allowed to retain this
marked copy of the 'Bazoo.' You are warned to keep it out of sight,
ordinarily, that none of the discipline officers may find it.
But you will continue to refer to it several times daily, until
you are sure that you have committed all of the marked paragraphs
to heart, so that you can reel them off in song or in declamation.
And you will be prepared, at all times, to favor any of the upper
class men with these selections, whenever called for.  Good night,
mister!

"Good night, sir."

Dave returned the salutations of each of the departing visitors.
Just as Brooks, the last of the lot, was passing through the
doorway, the warning bell before taps sounded.

For a moment Dave Darrin, his face still red, stood behind the
closed door, shaking his fist after the departing visitors.

"Why didn't you shake your fist while they were in the room?" asked
Dalzell bluntly.

"That would have started a fight, as the least consequence," replied
Dave, more soberly.

"A fight, eh?" chuckled Dan.  "Dave, I don't know what has come
over you lately.  There was a time when you didn't mind fights."

"I have fought three times since coming here," Darrin replied
soberly.

"And I have fought seven times," retorted Dan.

"Puzzle:  Guess which one of us was found the fresher," laughed
Darrin.

"I never thought you'd stand anything such as you've endured at
Annapolis, without pounding your way through thick ranks of fighters,"
mused Dalzell aloud.  "Dave, I can't fathom your meekness."

"Perhaps it isn't meekness," returned Darrin, wheeling and looking
at his chum.

"If it isn't meekness, then what is it?  And, Dave, you used to
be the hothead, the living firebrand of Dick & Co.!"

"Danny boy, if hazing has lived nearly seventy years at Annapolis,
then it's because hazing is a good thing for the seedling Naval
officer.  I believe in hazing.  I believe in being forced to respect
and obey my elders.  I believe in a fellow having every grain
of conceit driven out of him by heroic measures.  And that's
hazing--long may the practice live and flourish!"

"Why, what good is hazing doing you?" insisted Dalzell.

"It's teaching me how to submit and to obey, and how to forget
my own vanity, before I am put in command of other men later on.
Danny boy, do you suppose it has cost me no effort to keep my
hands at my trousers-seams when I wanted to throw my fists out
in front of me?  Do you imagine I have just tamely submitted to
a lot of abuse because my spirit was broken?  Danny, I'm trying
to train my spirit, instead of letting it boss me!  Many and many
a time, when the youngsters have started to guy me unmercifully
I've fairly ached to jump in and thrash 'em all.  But, instead,
I've tried to conquer myself!"

"I reckon you're the same old Dave--improved," murmured Midshipman
Dalzell, holding out his hand.


CHAPTER XXIII

THE SPECTRE AT THE FIGHT PARTY


"On your head, mister.  Now, let us have paragraph number four,
with tragic, blank-verse effect."

That was Jennison's command

Brooks manifested a fondness for paragraph number one, to the
air of "Yankee Doodle."

Others dropped in on Dave, after release at 9.30, evenings, and
called for other paragraph rendered in various ways.  He was also
overhauled, out of doors, in the brief recreation period after
dinner, and made to do various stunts with the unfortunate paragraphs
from the "Bazoo."

By the time the first week of this was over Dave Darrin wished
most heartily that Mr. Pollock had never founded the Gridley "Blade."

It is rare that second class men take any part in hazing; it is
almost unheard of for a first class man to take any really active
part in running a plebe.

Midshipman Henley, first class, proved an exception to this rule.
Regularly, once a day, he met Darrin and ordered him to sing
paragraph number one to the tune of "Yankee Doodle."

If Dave resented any part of the torment, he was especially annoyed
by Henley's unusual conduct.

Naval needs brought a strange revenge.

Reports had reached the Navy Department from commanders of warships
in commission that many of the graduates of the Naval Academy
serving with the fleets did not possess sufficient knowledge of
the command of boat crews.

[Illustration: This is the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in
the House that Jack built.]
[Illustration: This is the Cat, that killed the Rat, that eat the
Malt, that lay in the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Dog, that worried the Cat, that
killed the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in the House that
Jack built.]
[Illustration: This is the Cow with the crumpled horn, that tossed
the Dog, that worried the Cat, that killed the Rat, that eat the
Malt, that lay in the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Maiden, all forlorn, that milked the
Cow with the crumpled horn, that tossed the Dog, that worried the
Cat, that killed the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in the House
that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Man all tattered and torn, that
kissed the Maiden all forlorn, who milked the Cow with the crumpled
horn, that tossed the Dog, that worried the Cat, that killed the
Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Priest all shaven and shorn, who married
the Man all tattered and torn, unto the Maiden all forlorn, who
milked the Cow with the crumpled horn, that tossed the Dog,
that worried the Cat, that killed the Rat, that eat the Malt,
that lay in the House that Jack built.]

[Illustration: This is the Cock that crowed in the morn, that waked
the Priest all shaven and shorn, that married the Man all tattered
and torn, unto the Maiden all forlorn, who milked the Cow with the
crumpled horn, that tossed the Dog, that worried the Cat, that
killed the Rat, that eat the Malt, that lay in the House that Jack
built.]

THE MAGPIE

_A Fable._

The Magpie alone, of all the birds, had the art of building a
nest; the form of which was with a covering over head, and only a
small hole to creep out at.

The rest of the birds being without houses, desired the pie to teach
them how to build one.

A day is appointed, and they all meet.

The Magpie then says, "You must first lay two sticks across, thus."

--"Aye," says the Crow, "I thought that was the way to begin."

--"Then lay a little straw, moss, and feathers, in such a manner
as this."--"Aye, without doubt," says the Starling, "that necessarily
follows; any one could tell how to do that."

When the Pie had gone on teaching them till the nest was built half
way, and every bird in his turn had known something or other, he
left off and said, "Gentlemen, I find you all know the method of
building nests as well, if not better, than I do myself, therefore
you cannot want any of my instruction:" So saying, he flew away,
and left them to upbraid each other with their folly; which is
visible to this day, as few birds beside the Magpie know how to
build more than half a nest.

FINIS.

But Dave was glancing at him so coolly, compellingly, that the
older midshipman now realized that he had gone as far as was safe.

During the rest of the drill Mr. Henley performed his work well
enough to escape further rebuke.

When the crew was dismissed, however, Henley wore a blacker look
than ever as he stalked along to the office of the officer in
charge.

Here Henley picked up one of the report blanks, filled it out
as briefly as possible, an signed his name, next turning in the
report.

Immediately after supper that night, and before the signal sent
the midshipmen to their studies, Henley stepped up to Dave.

"Mister, I want a word in private with you."

"Certainly, sir," replied Dave.  He was no longer crew captain
on duty, but a fourth class man answering a first class man.

She will then favour him, at length, with her opinions as to how
a driven partridge or a rocketing pheasant should be shot, flavouring
her discourse with copious extracts from the Badminton books on
shooting, and adding here and there imaginative reminiscences of
her own exploits in dealing death.

In the hunting-field she will lose her groom, and babble sport to
the Master, with whom she further ingratiates herself by rating
and lashing one of his favourite hounds, or by heading the fox
whenever he attempts to break away.

"You tell me that I am making a false statement?" demanded Midshipman
Henley, more angrily.

"If you choose to consider it in that light, sir."

"Mister, you are touge, ratey, impudent and worthless!" declared
Henley hotly.

"Then I infer, sir, that you do not wish to waste any more time
upon me?"

"Oh, you will not get off as easily as that," sneered Midshipman
Henley.  "You are a good-sized fellow, and you have some fourth
class reputation as a fighter.  We shall not be so badly or unevenly
matched, mister, I shall send a friend to inform you that I have
called you out."

"Then, sir, your friend will save time by seeking Mr. Dalzell, of
the fourth class, who will be informed that he is to represent me."

The poor boy waits there like a sentry, He shall not want a word
from me.

Come, give me, now, thy robe and bonnet; This mask will suit me
charmingly.

[_He puts them on_.]

Now for my wit--rely upon it!

'Twill take but fifteen minutes, I am sure.
Meanwhile prepare thyself to make the pleasant tour!

[_Exit_ FAUST.]
_Mephistopheles [in_ FAUST'S _long gown_].
Only despise all human wit and lore, The highest flights that thought
can soar-- Let but the lying spirit blind thee, And with his spells
of witchcraft bind thee, Into my snare the victim creeps.-- To him
has destiny a spirit given, That unrestrainedly still onward sweeps,
To scale the skies long since hath striven, And all earth's pleasures
overleaps.

He shall through life's wild scenes be driven, And through its
flat unmeaningness, I'll make him writhe and stare and stiffen,
And midst all sensual excess, His fevered lips, with thirst all
parched and riven, Insatiably shall haunt refreshment's brink; And
had he not, himself, his soul to Satan given, Still must he to
perdition sink!

[_Enter_ A SCHOLAR.]
_Scholar_. I have but lately left my home, And with profound
submission come, To hold with one some conversation Whom all
men name with veneration.

_Mephistopheles._ Your courtesy greatly flatters me A man like
many another you see.

Have you made any applications elsewhere?

_Scholar_.

Let me, I pray, your teachings share!

With all good dispositions I come, A fresh young blood and money
some; My mother would hardly hear of my going; But I long to learn
here something worth knowing.

_Mephistopheles_. You've come to the very place for it, then.

_Scholar_. Sincerely, could wish I were off again:

My soul already has grown quite weary Of walls and halls, so dark
and dreary, The narrowness oppresses me.

One sees no green thing, not a tree.
On the lecture-seats, I know not what ails me, Sight, hearing,
thinking, every thing fails me.

_Mephistopheles_. 'Tis all in use, we daily see.
The child takes not the mother's breast In the first instance
willingly, But soon it feeds itself with zest.

So you at wisdom's breast your pleasure Will daily find in growing
measure.

_Scholar_. I'll hang upon her neck, a raptured wooer, But only tell
me, who shall lead me to her?

_Mephistopheles_.

Ere you go further, give your views As to which faculty you
choose?

_Scholar_.

To be right learn'd I've long desired, And of the natural world
aspired To have a perfect comprehension In this and in the heavenly
sphere.

_Mephistopheles_. I see you're on the right track here; But you'll
have to give undivided attention.

_Scholar_.

My heart and soul in the work'll be found; Only, of course, it would
give me pleasure, When summer holidays come round, To have for
amusement a little leisure.

_Mephistopheles_.

Use well the precious time, it flips away so, Yet method gains you
time, if I may say so.

I counsel you therefore, my worthy friend, The logical leisures
first to attend.

Then is your mind well trained and cased In Spanish boots,[18] all
snugly laced, So that henceforth it can creep ahead On the road of
thought with a cautious tread.

And not at random shoot and strike, Zig-zagging Jack-o'-lanthorn-like.

Then will you many a day be taught That what you once to do had
thought Like eating and drinking, extempore, Requires the rule
of one, two, three.
It is, to be sure, with the fabric of thought, As with the _chef
d'uvre_ by weavers wrought, Where a thousand threads one treadle
plies, Backward and forward the shuttles keep going, Invisibly the
threads keep flowing, One stroke a thousand fastenings ties:
Comes the philosopher and cries:
I'll show you, it could not be otherwise:
The first being so, the second so, The third and fourth must of
course be so; And were not the first and second, you see, The third
and fourth could never be.

The scholars everywhere call this clever, But none have yet
become weavers ever.

Whoever will know a live thing and expound it, First kills out
the spirit it had when he found it, And then the parts are all in
his hand, Minus only the spiritual band!

Encheiresin naturæ's[19] the chemical name, By which dunces
themselves unwittingly shame.

_Scholar_. Cannot entirely comprehend you.

_Mephistopheles_. Better success will shortly attend you, When you
learn to analyze all creation And give it a proper classification.

_Scholar_.

I feel as confused by all you've said, As if 'twere a mill-wheel
going round in my head!

_Mephistopheles_.

Though it was too dark
for the discipline officer to have recognized any of them at the
distance from which he had hailed them, yet, in a flight, it would
be easy enough for Lieutenant Hall, who was an athlete, to catch
one or two of them and then the names of all present could be
obtained.

It was an instant of utter terror.

Then another voice broke in on the stillness.

"All hands to the fire apparatus!  Fire in Bancroft Hall!"

The fight party felt another thrill.  If the big Academy building
was in danger they must rush to do their share.

The officer's running footsteps were already heard.  He had turned
and was speeding away.

"Get on your clothes, quickly, you two fellows!" ordered Midshipman
Bailey crisply "We've got to turn in with the rest for fast work!"

Just then another figure darted up to them.  It turned out to be
Midshipman Farley.

"Yes; get on your clothes with some classy speed," chuckled Farley.
"Lieutenant Hall will be back here with a bunch of watchmen,
the marine guard, or any other old crowd, when he finds that he
has been lured on the reefs by false signals!

"Mister, did you give that call of fire?" demanded Midshipman
Bailey sternly.

"Yes, sir."

"And there's no fire?"

"None that I know of, sir."

"Mister, what's your name?"

"Farley, sir."

"Then, Farley, sir, come and get hugged."

In truth a lot of fuss was made over that young midshipman within
a few seconds.

"It can't do much harm to use you something like a human being
and a comrade, anyway," declared Time-keeper Clafflin, as he wrung
both of Farley's hands.  "Within a few days you'll be a youngster
now."

Farley explained that an itching interest in the fight had tempted
him to be close at hand, and this had given him his chance to save
the fight party.

Darrin and Henley were dressing like lightning, and the others
would not flee until the principals were ready to take part in
the flight.

"Henley," broke in Midshipman Bailey decisively, "you can't risk
your graduation again by resuming this fight at some other time.  As
far as the mill had gone Mr. Darrin had the best of it.  I award
the fight to him."

"I'm glad you do, Bailey," replied Henley heartily.  "And, as
soon as I'm dressed, and my cap is set on square, I'm going to
apologize and ask Mr. Darrin to shake hands with me."

"Will you do me a favor, sir?" inquired Dave.

"A dozen," agreed Henley instantly.

"Then, sir, cut the apology and confine it to the hand-shake."

In another moment they were ready for hasty departure.  But Dave
had to wait for a quick, hearty handclasp from each of the upper
class men.  Then all divided into three groups, by classes, and
thirty seconds later found these midshipmen too far from the scene
to be identified with any fight party.

"It was a remarkably good and cheeky piece of work, sir," Lieutenant
Hall reported, twenty minutes later, to Commander Jephson, commandant
of midshipmen.  "I had a fight party right under my hands when
that call of fire sounded.  It was so natural that I bolted away
and lost my party before I discovered that it was a hoax."

"Did you recognize any of the fight party, Mr. Hall?

"No, sir; I was not close enough, and the night is dark."

"Did you recognize the voice of the man who gave the fire-call?"

"No, sir; at any rate, I believe that the voice was disguised."

"The young men have discovered a new one, and have tried it on
you, Mr. Hall."

"I realize that, sir," replied the lieutenant, in a voice of chagrin.

It was now the time of annual examinations, of daily dress parade
and the incoming of the first of the hosts of visitors who would
be on hand during graduation week.

Of the annual examinations the poor fourth class men thought they
had more than their share.  Of the dress parades they had their
full share.  In the graduating exercises they took no part; they
were not even present.

"What does a mere fourth class man know about the Navy, anyway?"
was the way Midshipman Trotter asked the question.

Twenty-two of the fourth class men stumbled in their annual examinations.
These went home promptly.  They would not return again, unless
their Congressmen reappointed them for another try.  In case that
happened to any of the young men they would return to take up
life with the new fourth class, and would henceforth be known as
"bilgers."

A man who has been dropped is a "bilger," whether he comes back
or not.  A "bilger" is further described as "one who used to be
in the game, and is now only on the outside looking in."

Dave Darrin's standing for the year was two-eighty-seven.  Dan's
was two-eighty-two.  Farley and Page came close to that figure.

None of these young men were in the "savvy" section, but all had
passed with sufficient credit for the first year.

While the graduating exercises were going on the fourth class
men were divided between drills on land and on water.

Dave and Dan were in a squad that marched up from the steam building
just in time to catch a distant glimpse of the crowds surging
out from the graduating exercises.

Both young men, and probably a lot of others in the same squad
throbbed with a swift flash of thought.

As soon as the ranks were broken Dalzell seized his chum's hand,
and began wringing it strenuously.

"David, little giant," murmured Dan ecstatically, "we are no longer
fourth class men.  From the instant that the tail-ender of the
old first class received his diploma we became transformed into
third class men."

"Yes," smiled Dave.  "We're youngsters.  That's going some."

"Poor fourth class men!" sighed Dan.  "I'm alluding to those who
will have to look up to and reverence me as a youngster!"

As soon as the chums had made a shift from their working clothes
to the uniform of the day, and had stepped outside, they saw Mr.
Henley coming their way, looking wholly proud and happy.

Then, of a sudden, Mr. Henley bent a keen look upon the new youngsters.

Just in the nick of time Dave Darrin recalled one of the regulations
to which he had hitherto paid little heed for lack of use.

Graduate midshipmen are entitled to be saluted by mere midshipmen
as though they were already officer.

Swiftly Darrin brought his heels together with a click, bringing
his hand smartly up to the visor of his uniform cap.

Henley gravely returned the salute with a new sense of existence.

Dan Dalzell caught the drift of the thing just in time, and saluted
also.

"May we congratulate you, Mr. Henley?" asked Dave.

"I was hoping that you both would," replied the graduate.  "And,
one of these days, I may have the pleasure of congratulating you,
as an officer, when you first come up over the side to start in with
your real sea life."

"I'm thinking, now, of our first taste of sea life," murmured
Darrin, a dreamy light coming into his eyes.

Let but the plot be spun off fast and thickly, So that the crowd
shall gape in broad surprise, Then have you made a wide impression
quickly, You are the man they'll idolize.

The mass can only be impressed by masses; Then each at last
picks out his proper part.

Give much, and then to each one something passes, And each one
leaves the house with happy heart.

Have you a piece, give it at once in pieces!
Such a ragout your fame increases; It costs as little pains to play
as to invent.Many things
befell them on that summer practice cruise, and many more things
in the new academic year that followed.  But these will be appropriately
reserved for the next volume, which will be entitled: "_Dave Darrin's
Second Year at Annapolis; Or, Two Midshipmen as Naval Academy
'Youngsters.'_"

Having left the fourth class behind Dave and Dan at last entered
fully into the life of the midshipmen.  They "counted" now; they
were "somebodies," and a host of new and exciting experiences
were ahead of them.