
  City of ships!
  (O the black ships! O the fierce ships!
  O the beautiful sharp-bow'd steam-ships and sail-ships!)
  City of the world! (for all races are here,
  All the lands of the earth make contributions here;)
  City of the sea! city of hurried and glittering tides!
  City whose gleeful tides continually rush or recede, whirling in and
            out with eddies and foam!
  City of wharves and stores--city of tall façades of marble and iron!
  Proud and passionate city--mettlesome, mad, extravagant city!
  Spring up, O city--not for peace alone, but be indeed yourself,
            warlike!
  Fear not--submit to no models but your own O city!
  Behold me--incarnate me as I have incarnated you!
  I have rejected nothing you offer'd me--whom you adopted I have
            adopted,
  Good or bad I never question you--I love all--I do not condemn any
            thing,
  I chant and celebrate all that is yours--yet peace no more,
  In peace I chanted peace, but now the drum of war is mine,
  War, red war is my song through your streets, O city!


THE CENTENARIAN'S STORY.


  _Volunteer of 1861-2, (at Washington Park, Brooklyn, assisting the
            Centenarian.)_

  Give me your hand old Revolutionary,
  The hill-top is nigh, but a few steps, (make room gentlemen,)
  Up the path you have follow'd me well, spite of your hundred and
            extra years,
  You can walk old man, though your eyes are almost done,
  Your faculties serve you, and presently I must have them serve me.
  Rest, while I tell what the crowd around us means,
  On the plain below recruits are drilling and exercising,
  There is the camp, one regiment departs to-morrow,
  Do you hear the officers giving their orders?
  Do you hear the clank of the muskets?

  Why what comes over you now old man?
  Why do you tremble and clutch my hand so convulsively?
  The troops are but drilling, they are yet surrounded with smiles.
  Around them at hand the well-drest friends and the women,
  While splendid and warm the afternoon sun shines down,
  Green the midsummer verdure and fresh blows the dallying breeze,
  O'er proud and peaceful cities and arm of the sea between.
  But drill and parade are over, they march back to quarters,
  Only hear that approval of hands! hear what a clapping!

  As wending the crowds now part and disperse--but we old man,
  Not for nothing have I brought you hither--we must remain,
  You to speak in your turn, and I to listen and tell.

  _The Centenarian._

  When I clutch'd your hand it was not with terror,
  But suddenly pouring about me here on every side,
  And below there where the boys were drilling, and up the slopes they
            ran,
  And where tents are pitch'd, and wherever you see south and
            south-east and south-west,
  Over hills, across lowlands, and in the skirts of woods,
  And along the shores, in mire (now fill'd over) came again and
            suddenly raged,
  As eighty-five years a-gone no mere parade receiv'd with applause of
            friends,
  But a battle which I took part in myself--aye, long ago as it is I
            took part in it,
  Walking then this hill-top, this same ground.

  Aye, this is the ground,
  My blind eyes even as I speak behold it re-peopled from graves,
  The years recede, pavements and stately houses disappear,
  Rude forts appear again, the old hoop'd guns are mounted,
  I see the lines of rais'd earth stretching from river to bay,
  I mark the vista of waters, I mark the uplands and slopes;
  Here we lay encamp'd, it was this time in summer also.

  As I talk I remember all, I remember the Declaration,
  It was read here, the whole army paraded, it was read to us here,
  By his staff surrounded the General stood in the middle, he held up
            his unsheath'd sword,
  It glitter'd in the sun in full sight of the army.

  'Twas a bold act then--the English war-ships had just arrived,
  We could watch down the lower bay where they lay at anchor,
  And the transports swarming with soldiers.

  A few days more and they landed, and then the battle.

  Twenty thousand were brought against us,
  A veteran force furnish'd with good artillery.
  I tell not now the whole of the battle,
  But one brigade early in the forenoon order'd forward to engage the
            red-coats,
  Of that brigade I tell, and how steadily it march'd,
  And how long and well it stood confronting death.

  When I came back Ellen told me she'd gone out for a walk on the
            marshes.
  It struck me as rather an odd thing for her to do at this
  hour, so we went out and had a look round, but couldn't see her anywhere.
            There's not the slightest occasion for worry."

  Roger stared at him, sucking his front teeth. "But you're frightened!"
  he said explosively.
            
  "I am not."
            "You are. You
  think she's come to some harm down on the marshes."

  He slipped past him and flung open the
  French window, calling in a thin, whistling voice that could not
  have been heard fifty yards away:
            "Mummie!
  Mummie!"

  A convulsion of rage ran through
  Richard. With one hand he jerked Roger back into the room by
  his coat-collar, with the other he slammed the French window.

  "Be quiet. I tell you she's all right. I know where she's gone."
  "Where, then?"

  "Never mind."
  "Where? Where?" His hands fumbled for the doorhandle again.
            
  "Oh, stop that!" Richard loosed hold of him with the expression of one
            who had grasped what he
  thought to be soft grass and finds his palms scored by a fibrous
stalk.

  He said, and Ellen could see that he liked saying it as little
            as anything that
  he had ever said all his life long:
  "If you must know, I think she's gone up
  to my father's tomb."
            Roger shook
  his head solemnly. "No.

  You're wrong. She hasn't gone there.
  And she's come to harm."
  "Why in God's name do you say that?" burst out Richard.
            
  "I know. I've known all the evening. That's really why I came back
            here after the service.

  That talk about forgiveness was
  just something I made up as an excuse. I knew quite
  well that something was wrong with mummie." His pale eyes sought
            first Richard and then Ellen.

  "Don't you believe a person
  might know if something happened to another person," he asked
  wistfully, "if they loved them enough?"
  There was indeed such an infinity of love in that weak gaze that Richard
            and Ellen exchanged the abashed look that passes between lovers
when it is brought to their notice that they are not the sole
practitioners of the spiritual art.

  Richard murmured "Oh ... perhaps ... but
  really, Roger, she was quite bright before she went out.

  Ellen, tell Roger...."
  But Roger stared out at the empty silver garden and whimpered
  inattentively: "I can't help it.

  I want to go down to the marshes and look for her."

  "Very well," agreed Richard, blinking.
  The sight of the love in those weak eyes made his
  voice authentically kind. "We'll go down. She ought to be easy
            to find as she's carrying a lantern.

  You're quite sure she has got a lantern with her, Ellen?"
"Oh yes," said Ellen. "It bumped against the glass when she came
back and looked through the window."
"When she came back and looked through the window? What do you
mean?"
"Why," Ellen explained diffidently, not wanting to enlarge on his
mother's eccentricity. "She said good-bye and went out and shut the
door. Then in a minute or two I looked up and saw her face against
the glass.... I offered to open the door, but she shook her head
and went away."And these waters I listlessly daily cross, are these the waters he
            cross'd,
  As resolute in defeat as other generals in their proudest triumphs?

  I must copy the story, and send it eastward and westward,
  I must preserve that look as it beam'd on you rivers of Brooklyn.

  See--as the annual round returns the phantoms return,
  It is the 27th of August and the British have landed,
  The battle begins and goes against us, behold through the smoke
            Washington's face,
  The brigade of Virginia and Maryland have march'd forth to intercept
            the enemy,
  They are cut off, murderous artillery from the hills plays upon them,
  Rank after rank falls, while over them silently droops the flag,
  Baptized that day in many a young man's bloody wounds,
  In death, defeat, and sisters', mothers' tears.

  Ah, hills and slopes of Brooklyn! I perceive you are more valuable
            than your owners supposed;
  In the midst of you stands an encampment very old,
  Stands forever the camp of that dead brigade.


CAVALRY CROSSING A FORD.


  A line in long array where they wind betwixt green islands,
  They take a serpentine course, their arms flash in the sun--hark to
            the musical clank,
  Behold the silvery river, in it the splashing horses loitering stop
            to drink,
  Behold the brown-faced men, each group, each person a picture, the
            negligent rest on the saddles,
  Some emerge on the opposite bank, others are just entering the
            ford--while
  Scarlet and blue and snowy white,
  The guidon flags flutter gayly in the wind.


BIVOUAC ON A MOUNTAIN SIDE.


  I see before me now a traveling army halting,
  Below a fertile valley spread, with barns and the orchards of summer,
  Behind, the terraced sides of a mountain, abrupt, in places rising
            high,
  Broken, with rocks, with clinging cedars, with tall shapes dingily
            seen,
  The numerous camp-fires scatter'd near and far, some away up on the
            mountain,
  The shadowy forms of men and horses, looming, large-sized,
            flickering,
  And over all the sky--the sky! far, far out of reach, studded,
            breaking out, the eternal stars.


AN ARMY CORPS ON THE MARCH.


  With its cloud of skirmishers in advance,
  With now the sound of a single shot snapping like a whip, and now an
            irregular volley,
  The swarming ranks press on and on, the dense brigades press on,
  Glittering dimly, toiling under the sun--the dust-cover'd men,
  In columns rise and fall to the undulations of the ground,
  With artillery interspers'd--the wheels rumble, the horses sweat,
  As the army corps advances.


BY THE BIVOUAC'S FITFUL FLAME.


  By the bivouac's fitful flame,
  A procession winding around me, solemn and sweet and slow--but first
            I note,
  The tents of the sleeping army, the fields' and woods' dim out-line,
  The darkness lit by spots of kindled fire, the silence,
  Like a phantom far or near an occasional figure moving,
  The shrubs and trees, (as I lift my eyes they seem to be stealthily
            watching me,)
  While wind in procession thoughts, O tender and wondrous thoughts,
  Of life and death, of home and the past and loved, and of those that
            are far away;
  A solemn and slow procession there as I sit on the ground,
  By the bivouac's fitful flame.


COME UP FROM THE FIELDS FATHER.


  Come up from the fields father, here's a letter from our Pete,
  And come to the front door mother, here's a letter from thy dear son.

  Lo, 'tis autumn,
  Lo, where the trees, deeper green, yellower and redder,
  Cool and sweeten Ohio's villages with leaves fluttering in the
            moderate wind,
  Where apples ripe in the orchards hang and grapes on the trellis'd
            vines,
  (Smell you the smell of the grapes on the vines?
  "Nan has a fan." "Get the hat pin." "Ned can spin a top." "Nat
  set the trap." "Jack run back and get the sack." "A fat man got in
            the hack." "Can Sam
  get the hat?"
            

  THE ALPHABET AND ORAL SPELLING
  The names of letters should not be formally taught until their
  sounds are thoroly fixed in mind; otherwise the names and sounds
will be confused.

  Pupils who begin by "learning their letters" will be found spelling
  out a word (naming over the letters) in order to arrive at the
pronunciation.

  Attention must be focused
  on the _sounds only_, at first.
  When the consonant sounds are mastered by every member of the class,
  and they have gained some proficiency in pronouncing words by blending
            these with
  the short and long vowel sounds, the _names_ of the letters may
            be taught, and the
  alphabet committed to memory in order.

  
  While as a rule, most children learn the majority of the letters
  incidentally by the end of the first year, it often happens
  that some remain ignorant of the alphabetical order until they
come to use the dictionary, and are greatly handicapped.

  _To Associate the Name of the Letter With Its Sound._
            (1) The
  teacher names the letter as she points to it and the children
  give the corresponding sound; (2) As the teacher sounds the letter,
pupils name the letter sounded. (3) Repeat with the letters erased
from the board.

  Oral spelling may begin _after_ the sounds have first been
            mastered--and as soon as the names
  of the letters are taught. Spell only the phonetic words
  at first.

  The lists of families of words which
  have been written from dictation may now be
  spelled orally.
            
  The spelling recitation may be both oral and written, but written
  spelling should predominate the first year. Unphonetic words
            should be
  taught by visualizing--getting the form of the word as a whole.

The teacher writes the word on the board in free rapid hand, pupils
observe for a moment, getting a mental picture of the form; the
word is erased by the teacher, and reproduced on the board by the
pupil.Vigil strange I kept on the field one night;
  When you my son and my comrade dropt at my side that day,
  One look I but gave which your dear eyes return'd with a look I shall
            never forget,
  One touch of your hand to mine O boy, reach'd up as you lay on the
            ground,
  Then onward I sped in the battle, the even-contested battle,
  Till late in the night reliev'd to the place at last again I made my
            way,
  Found you in death so cold dear comrade, found your body son of
            responding kisses, (never again on earth responding,)
  Bared your face in the starlight, curious the scene, cool blew the
            moderate night-wind,
  Long there and then in vigil I stood, dimly around me the
            battle-field spreading,
  Vigil wondrous and vigil sweet there in the fragrant silent night,
  But not a tear fell, not even a long-drawn sigh, long, long I gazed,
  Then on the earth partially reclining sat by your side leaning my
            chin in my hands,
  Passing sweet hours, immortal and mystic hours with you dearest
            comrade--not a tear, not a word,
  Vigil of silence, love and death, vigil for you my son and my
            soldier,
  As onward silently stars aloft, eastward new ones upward stole,
  Vigil final for you brave boy, (I could not save you, swift was your
            death,
  I faithfully loved you and cared for you living, I think we shall
            surely meet again,)
  Till at latest lingering of the night, indeed just as the dawn
            appear'd,
  My comrade I wrapt in his blanket, envelop'd well his form,
  Folded the blanket well, tucking it carefully over head and carefully
            under feet,
  And there and then and bathed by the rising sun, my son in his grave,
            in his rude-dug grave I deposited,
  Ending my vigil strange with that, vigil of night and battle-field
            dim,
  Vigil for boy of responding kisses, (never again on earth
            responding,)
  Vigil for comrade swiftly slain, vigil I never forget, how as day
            brighten'd,
  I rose from the chill ground and folded my soldier well in his
            blanket,
  And buried him where he fell.


A MARCH IN THE RANKS HARD-PREST, AND THE ROAD UNKNOWN.


  A march in the ranks hard-prest, and the road unknown,
  A route through a heavy wood with muffled steps in the darkness,
  Our army foil'd with loss severe, and the sullen remnant retreating,
  Till after midnight glimmer upon us the lights of a dim-lighted
            building,
  We come to an open space in the woods, and halt by the dim-lighted
            building,
  'Tis a large old church at the crossing roads, now an impromptu
            hospital,
  Entering but for a minute I see a sight beyond all the pictures and
            poems ever made,
  Shadows of deepest, deepest black, just lit by moving candles and
            lamps,
  And by one great pitchy torch stationary with wild red flame and
            clouds of smoke,
  By these, crowds, groups of forms vaguely I see on the floor, some in
            the pews laid down,
  At my feet more distinctly a soldier, a mere lad, in danger of
            bleeding to death, (he is shot in the abdomen,)
  I staunch the blood temporarily, (the youngster's face is white as a
            lily,)
  Then before I depart I sweep my eyes o'er the scene fain to absorb it
            all,
  Faces, varieties, postures beyond description, most in obscurity,
            some of them dead,
  Surgeons operating, attendants holding lights, the smell of ether,
            the odor of blood,
  The crowd, O the crowd of the bloody forms, the yard outside also
            fill'd,
  Some on the bare ground, some on planks or stretchers, some in the
            death-spasm sweating,
  An occasional scream or cry, the doctor's shouted orders or calls,
  The glisten of the little steel instruments catching the glint of the
            torches,
  These I resume as I chant, I see again the forms, I smell the odor,
  Then hear outside the orders given, _Fall in, my men, fall in_;
  But first I bend to the dying lad, his eyes open, a half-smile gives
            he me,
  Then the eyes close, calmly close, and I speed forth to the darkness,
  Resuming, marching, ever in darkness marching, on in the ranks,
  The unknown road still marching.


A SIGHT IN CAMP IN THE DAYBREAK GRAY AND DIM.


  A sight in camp in the daybreak gray and dim,
  As from my tent I emerge so early sleepless,
  As slow I walk in the cool fresh air the path near by the hospital
            tent,
  Three forms I see on stretchers lying, brought out there untended
            lying,
  Over each the blanket spread, ample brownish woollen blanket,
  Gray and heavy blanket, folding, covering all.

  Briefly, his material would enable
  him to prepare another volume, similar to the present, which would not
            be unworthy of its
  companionship. He is authorized by his publisher to say that, in the
            event of the popular success of
  the present volume, he will cheerfully follow up its publication
by a second, of like style, character, and dimensions.

  The editor has seen with pleasure the volume of "Rebel Rhymes"
  edited by Mr. Moore, and of "South Songs," by Mr. De Leon.Then to the third--a face nor child nor old, very calm, as of
            beautiful yellow-white ivory;
  Young man I think I know you--I think this face is the face of the
            Christ himself,
  Dead and divine and brother of all, and here again he lies.


AS TOILSOME I WANDER'D VIRGINIA'S WOODS.


  As toilsome I wander'd Virginia's woods,
  To the music of rustling leaves kick'd by my feet, (for 'twas autumn,)
  I mark'd at the foot of a tree the grave of a soldier;
  Mortally wounded he and buried on the retreat, (easily all could I
            understand,)
  The halt of a mid-day hour, when up! no time to lose-yet this sign
            left,
  On a tablet scrawl'd and nail'd on the tree by the grave,
  _Bold, cautious, true, and my loving comrade._

