 "Our humdrum life
has been resumed, and we expect the Hamon man at any moment."

"Congratulations!"

"And do you know there was a burglary in London last night? It looked
very, very much like one of yours!"

Her eyes were fixed on him steadily.

"Base imitation," said Jim. "Will you make me responsible for every
robbery----"

"Was it you?" she asked.

He swung from the saddle with a laugh.

"You're a most disconcerting young lady, and I shan't satisfy your
curiosity."

"Will you tell me it wasn't you?" she bent down toward him, watching
him closely.

"Mr. James Morlake refuses to make any statement; this is official,"
said Jim.

"It _was_ you!" She caught her breath in a sigh. "I was afraid it was,
though they are perfectly certain in the village that you didn't leave
Wold House."

"As a matter of fact, I did leave Wold House, and I was in London last
night. Whatever evil work I did, at least I performed one kindly
action. I saved a young man from being arrested for drunkenness, and I
brought him home to his good, kind Mrs. Cornford."

Her face went deathly white.

"That was kind of you," she said steadily.

"Do you know this man?"

She did not answer.

"Has he any reason to hate you?"

She shook her head.

"Joan, are you in some kind of trouble?"

"I'm always in trouble," she said lightly, "and have been since I was
so high!"

"I see you won't answer me. Will you tell me this?" He found
difficulty in framing the words. "Joan--if, if I were not--if I were a
respectable member of society and could claim to be ... of your own
class--would you marry me?"

Her eyes, deep and sombre, held his as she shook her head.

"No," she said.

"Why not?" he asked.

"Because ... you asked me about Ferdie Farringdon just now."

"Well?" as she paused.

He saw her lick her dry lips, and then:

"He is my husband," she said, and, pulling round her horse's head, she
sent it at full gallop down the uneven path.


CHAPTER XXXII

_Captain Welling Understands_


He was dreaming, he told himself mechanically. It couldn't be true; it
was too absurd to think about. She had been shocking him as she had
shocked Lydia Hamon. Of course it wasn't true. How could it be? She
was only a child....

He found himself with drawn reins before the Cornford cottage. He
could go in there and learn the truth--could drag it from the
drunkard. Then he saw the doctor coming out and the old man nodded to
him cheerily.

"How is your patient?" Jim found voice to say.

"Pretty bad. I think he's got rheumatic fever. He has little or no
resistance, so what will happen to him heaven only knows. You look a
bit under the weather, Morlake. I haven't seen you since you came from
your----"

"Since I came from Brixton Prison," smiled Jim. "No, I don't think
we've met. You needn't worry about me, doctor. I'm as fit as the Derby
favourite."

"My experience is that they are usually unfit," growled the doctor,
"though you never discover it until after the race is won and you've
lost your money."

He walked by Jim's side into the village.

"Queer fish, that man Farringdon," he said, breaking the silence. "A
college man, I should think, but a queer fish. He is quite delirious
to-day and the things he is saying would make your hair stand on end.
Happily," he said after a moment's thought, "I am bald. Ever heard of
the Midnight Monks?"

"Eh?" said Jim.

"Midnight Monks. I wonder if, in your wider knowledge of the world,
you may have heard of them. Some sort of secret society, I should
think. He's been babbling about them all the time, though it is not my
business to give away my patient's secrets. The only satisfaction you
can get out of my unprofessional conduct is that I shall probably give
away yours. Hm! The Midnight Monks and Joan," he mused. "I wonder what
Joan it is?"

Jim did not answer and he rambled on.

"It is a common enough name. Have you ever noticed how names go in
cycles? All the Marjories belong to '96; they're contemporary with the
Doras and the Dorothys. And all the Joans are about twelve years old.
Just now there is an epidemic of Margarets. It is a curious world," he
added inconsequently, as, with a wave of his hand, he dived into his
surgery.

Jim did not hear him.

That must be the explanation. She was shocking him in her impish way.
He told himself this with a firmness that sought to mask his act of
self-deception.

He was turning into Wold House when a big Italian car swept past. He
caught a glimpse of a face, and turning his horse, watched the car out
of sight. Hamon's presence would bring happiness to nobody, he
reflected. It certainly gave him none.

"The hofficers of the law have been 'ere," hissed Binger
melodramatically, coming half-way down the drive to meet him.

"Which particular hofficers? And, by-the-way, I'll have to be careful
or I shall be talking like you."

"I was always considered a very classy talker in my military days,"
said Binger complacently. "I remember once my colonel telling me----"

"Shut up about your colonel. Let's get down to common busy fellows. Do
you mean Spooner or Finnigan?"

"All of 'em," said Binger. "He saw William--it's funny his name being
William and mine being William----"

"It is so funny that I'm screaming with laughter," said Jim
impatiently. "What did he say to William?"

"He wanted to know whether you were out last night. It was the other
fellow who asked the question. And William said that so far as he knew
you were hindoors. And, of course, I knew that you were hindoors, so I
gave my testimony hunsolicited, as it were."

"When did they go?"

"They're not gone. They're in the study," said Mr. Binger. "And the
other gentleman--there was three--he said he felt faint and would like
to sit down away from the glare of the sun."

"There has been no sun for a month. I gather the other gentleman's
name is Welling. It sounds rather like him."

"That's right, sir--Mr. Welling. An old gentleman, not very right in
his head, I should think--childish as a matter of fact. He's had that
gramophone on the table and has been asking what the little holes in
the side were for. It's hawful to see a man in the prime of life talk
like that."

"Horrible," agreed Jim in all sincerity.

When he walked into the study, Welling was examining with an air of
quiet, detached admiration a big etching that hung over the carved
mantelpiece. He bent his head sideways, looking over his glasses as
Jim came in.

"Here you are then, Morlake," he said. "I think you're looking
remarkably well."

"The village doctor has just passed an opinion which is directly
contrary, but I guess you know," said Jim as he shook hands.

"I thought I'd look you up," said Welling. He had a trick of thrusting
his chin into the air and looking down at his vis-à-vis. The taller
they were, the farther rose his chin. His face was almost turned to
the ceiling as he regarded Jim with that queer pale stare which had
broken down so many obdurate and uncommunicative criminals.

"I only discovered last night that, outside of all my knowledge, the
Yard had sent two men down to shadow you. Now, that's not right," he
said, shaking his head. "It isn't right at all. The moment I
discovered this, I decided that I would come down personally and
withdraw these officers. I can't have you annoyed; you must have your
chance, Morlake."

Jim laughed aloud.

"I haven't the slightest doubt, Welling, that you were the gentleman
who sent these sleuths to watch me," he said.

"And I have less doubt," said Welling frankly, "that I did send them!
That is the worst of our business," he shook his head mournfully. "We
have to lie! Such unnecessary lies. I sometimes shudder when I recall
the stories I have to tell in the course of a day. That is a nice
little gramophone of yours. Have you any records?"

"Plenty," said Jim promptly.

"Ah! I set it going just now."

He turned the switch as he spoke and the turn-table slowly revolved.

"Very slow, eh? Now, I've been thinking that, if you had a lamp on the
top of that turn-table and a figure cut in the shape of a man, so
placed that every time the dial turned the shadow fell across that
blind--how's that for an idea? When I write my little text-book for
burglars, that notion is going to be put very prominently--with
illustrations."

Jim turned the regulator and the disc spun quickly.

"It only shows how even a clever plan can come unstuck for want of an
elementary precaution," he said. "I should have turned that back to
full speed if I had been a criminal and had been endeavouring to
deceive the good, kind police. You mustn't forget to put those
instructions in your text-book, Welling."

"No, I mustn't," agreed the other warmly. "Thank you very much."

He looked round at Spooner and his superior.

"All right, sergeant, I don't think you need wait. You can take
Spooner back to town with you by the next train. I will join you at
the station. In the meantime, I want just a little private talk with
Mr. Morlake--just a little exchange of reminiscences, shall we say?"
he beamed.

He walked to the window and watched the two officers disappear.

"They're very good fellows," he said, turning, "but they have no
brains. Beyond that, they are perfect policemen. In fact, they are the
ideal of our force. Where were you last night, Morlake?" He asked the
question curtly.

"Where do you think I was?" said Jim, taking down his pipe from the
mantelshelf and loading it.

"I think you were at 302, Cambridge Circus, opening the safe of my
friend Mr. Marborne. When I say 'I think' I mean I know. That isn't
the game, Morlake," he shook his head reproachfully. "Dog does not eat
dog, nor thief rob thief. And that Marborne was the biggest thief that
ever wore a uniform jacket, heaven and the Commissioner know. You made
a killing, but did you get what you wanted?"

"I did not get what I wanted," said Jim.

"Then why take the money?"

"What money?" asked Jim innocently.

"I see." Captain Welling settled himself down on a settee and pulled
up the knees of his trousers as outward evidence that he intended
making a long stay. "I see we shall have to bicker awhile, Morlake."

"Don't," begged Jim. "I only take money when the money I want belongs
to the man I am after."

Welling nodded.

"I guessed that. But this was Marborne's own--money dishonestly
earned, and therefore his by right. What is Marborne's pull with
Hamon?"

"Blackmail, I should imagine--in fact, I am pretty certain. He has
come into possession of a document which is very incriminating to
Hamon, and he is bleeding that gentleman severely; that is my
diagnosis."

Again Welling nodded.

"Now we come to the one mystery that intrigues me," he said. "There is
a document, which you want to get, and which you say Marborne has got.
It is a document, the publication of which, or should it fall into the
hands of the law officers, would lead to very disastrous consequences
to Hamon. Have I stated the matter right?"

"As nearly as possible," said Jim.

"Very well, then." Welling ticked off the points on his finger-tips.
"First, we have a document, a letter, a statement, and anything you
like, the publication of which will, let us say, put Hamon in a very
awkward position. Now, tell me this: is there anything in that
document which it is absolutely necessary Hamon should keep?"

"Nothing," said Jim.

"Then why on earth doesn't he destroy it?" asked Welling in amazement.

A slow smile dawned on Jim's face.

"Because he's a monkey," he said. "He's put his hand into the gourd
and he has grasped the fruit; he cannot get his hand out without
letting go his prize."

"But you say that there is nothing in the wording of this paper which
can possibly advantage him, and yet he does not destroy it! That is
incredible. I've heard he is a miser, somebody told me that he's got
thirty pairs of boots that he's hoarded since his childhood. But why
on earth does he hoard a thing which may----"

"Put his head in a noose," suggested Jim, and Welling's face went
grave.

"As bad as that?" he asked quietly. "I had a feeling it might be. The
man is mad--stark, staring, raving mad. To hold on to evidence that
can convict him--why, there's no precedent in the history of
jurisprudence. A man may keep a document through sheer carelessness,
or forgetfulness, but deliberately to hoard it! Is it something he has
written?"

Jim shook his head.

"It is something written by another, accusing him of conspiracy to
defraud and attempted murder."

Captain Welling was a man who was not readily surprised, but now he
sat speechless with amazement.

"I give it up," he said. "It is killing Hamon, anyway. I saw him
yesterday and he looked like a man on the verge of a nervous
breakdown."

"I should hate to see Hamon die--naturally," said Jim. "He's down
here, by-the-way."

Welling nodded.

"Yes, he telegraphed to Lord Creith this morning, asking if he could
put him up. He has sent his sister away to Paris." He scratched his
chin. "One would like to get to the bottom of this," he said. "I have
an idea that we should discover a little more than you know or guess."

"There is nothing bad about Hamon that I cannot guess," said Jim.

He liked Welling and would, in other circumstances, have gladly spent
the day with him; but now he was not in the mood for company and was
relieved when the old man took his departure. Jim was sick at heart,
miserable beyond belief. The shock of Joan Carston's declaration had
stunned him. She would not play with him; she must have spoken the
truth. Twice that afternoon he found himself riding in the direction
of Mrs. Cornford's cottage, and once he stopped and asked after the
patient, and his enquiry was not wholly disinterested.

"He is very ill, but the doctor takes a more hopeful view," said the
lady. "Lady Joan very kindly came and brought some wine for him."

A little pang shot through Jim Morlake's heart, but he was ashamed of
himself the next minute.

"Of course she would," he said, and Mrs. Cornford smiled at him.

"You are a friend of hers--she spoke of you to-day."

"Do you know anything at all about Mr. Farringdon?" he asked her.

"Nothing, except that he has no friends. An allowance comes to him
from a firm of lawyers in the city. I wish I knew where I could find
his relations, they ought to be told. But he speaks of nobody except
these 'Midnight Monks' and the only name he mentions besides that of a
girl is one which seems very familiar to me--Bannockwaite. It has some
sort of significance for me, but I can't tell what."

Jim had heard the name before and it was associated in his mind with
something unsavoury. A thought struck him. He had passed Welling in
the village street, and the old man had told him that he was staying
on for a day or two and Jim had asked him up to dinner. He rode back
to the Red Lion where the detective was staying and found him in the
public bar, the least conscious of its habitués, and he was drinking
beer out of a shining tankard.

"Do you know anybody named Bannockwaite?"

"I knew a man named Bannockwaite," said Welling instantly, "and a
rascal he was! You remember the case? A young parson who got into a
scrape and was fired out of the church. There was nothing much wrong
with him, except natural devilry and a greater mistake than choosing a
clerical career I cannot imagine. Then he was mixed up with a West End
gang of cardsharpers and came into our hands, but there was no case
against him. When the War broke out he got a commission--in his own
name, remarkably enough. He did magnificently, earned the V.C., and
was killed on the Somme. You probably remember him in connection with
one of those societies he started. He never actually came into our
hands on that score----"

"What do you mean by societies?"

"He had a mania for forming secret societies. In fact, when he was at
school, he initiated one which disorganised not only his own school
but a dozen in the neighbourhood. He was something of a mystic, I
think, but devilry was his long suit."

"What was his school? I suppose you wouldn't know that?"

"Curiously enough I do. It was Hulston--a big school in Berkshire."

Jim went back and wrote to the headmaster at Hulston, hoping most
fervently that the schoolmaster would not recognise him as the hero of
an Old Bailey trial. Late in the afternoon he saw Hamon's car flash
past toward London and wondered what urgent business was taking the
financier back to town. Long after midnight he heard the peculiar roar
of the Italian engine, and, looking through the window, saw the car
returning.

"He is a very busy fellow in these days," thought Jim, and he thought
correctly, for Ralph Hamon had spent two hours in a profitable
interview with a stranger, who had arrived in London and the
conversation had been carried on exclusively in Arabic.


CHAPTER XXXIII

_The Foreign Sailor_


There was no man more sympathetic for a fellow in misfortune than
ex-Sergeant Slone. But when he discovered that the misfortune extended
to himself, Slone was inclined to be querulous.

"I don't mind you doing what you like with your own money, Marborne,"
he said, "but there was four hundred of mine in that safe of yours,
and I've been asking you for a week to put it in your bank."

"You wouldn't have had the money if it wasn't for me," said Marborne.
"Anyway, there's plenty more where that came from."

"But have you got plenty more?" asked the practical Slone.

"He sent five hundred this morning. It was like getting blood out of a
stone," said Marborne. "Anyway, we shan't starve. Slone, I've been
sitting up all night, thinking about things."

"I don't wonder," said Slone, his gloomy eyes surveying the empty
safe. "That's The Black's work, nobody else could have done it so
neatly."

"What did he come for?"

"Money," said Slone bitterly. "What do you think he came for--to pass
the evening?"

"You needn't get fresh with me," said Marborne sharply. "You'll pay
the same respect to me, Sergeant Slone, as you did in the old days, or
you and I part company. I've told you that before."

"I meant no harm," growled Slone, "but it is a bit of a blow losing
all that money."

"The Black didn't come for it. He took it, but that wasn't what he
came for. He came for this." He tapped his side significantly. "And
that is what The Black has been after ever since he started
operations. He's been after _this_! I was looking up my scrap-book
this morning. I've got every one of The Black's robberies pasted, and
I'll tell you what I discovered--and, mind you, Slone, I haven't been
a police officer for twenty-three years without being able to put two
and two together."

"That's natural," agreed the obliging Slone. "And I'll say this of
you, Marborne--there wasn't a better detective officer at the Yard
than yourself--not even Welling."

"You're a fool," said Marborne. "Welling could give me or anybody else
a mile start and lick 'em sick. Now listen; every bank that's been
burgled has been a bank where Hamon has had an account. In all banks
there is a strong room, where customers keep their private documents,
and it invariably has been the strong room that was burgled. And if it
wasn't a bank it was a safe deposit, where Ralph Hamon had a private
box. And he's been after this." He tapped his side again.

"What is it?" asked Slone, consumed with curiosity, and the other man
smiled contemptuously.

"Wouldn't you like to know?" he asked, and continued: "This fellow
Morlake is a rich man. I've always suspected he was a rich man----"

"Naturally he's rich," put in Slone wrathfully.

"Wouldn't you be rich if you'd pulled off forty-two jobs and got away
with thousands and thousands of pounds? He's richer by four hundred of
mine----"

"Don't interrupt me. He is a rich man apart from that. And, besides,
nobody knows that he _has_ taken any money."

"I know he's taken ours," said Slone bitterly.

"Fix this in your nut, Slone. It is just as likely that he would pay
me as well for this, as old Hamon would."

"He'd sooner pinch it," said Slone with conviction, "like he pinched
my money. I wish I'd been somewhere handy!"

"You'd have been a dead man if you had, so what is the good of
wishing? I'm going to think this over and if I have any trouble with
Mr. Blinking Hamon to-morrow----" He snapped his fingers
significantly.

Slone went home early. He had yet to recover from the shock of his
loss, and Marborne was left alone. He had plenty to occupy his
thoughts. The sting of Lydia Hamon's contempt still smarted. She
seemed, at that moment, less the woman of his dreams than she had
been, and he harboured no other emotion in his bosom than a desire to
get even with her for her gratuitous insult.

That morning he had sent a peremptory demand to Hamon, and had
received a paltry five hundred. He had instantly despatched a second
message, to learn that Hamon had gone out of town, which Marborne
regarded as the merest subterfuge, until he called himself and
interviewed the butler. Miss Hamon had gone too, that official
informed him; she had left by the eleven o'clock Continental train and
was expected to be absent for a week.

Although the night was chilly, he threw open the windows to let in the
light and sound of Cambridge Circus. Almost under his eyes were the
gay lights of a theatre. He sat for some time watching the audience
arrive, and trying to recognise them, for he had an extensive
acquaintance with West End life.

He saw a tall, thick-set man cross the road at a run, although there
was no fear of his intercepting the traffic. A foreigner, Marborne
guessed. He watched him for some time, for the man did not seem quite
sure of his destination. First he walked along one sector of the
Circus, then he came back and stood undecidedly on one of the islands
in the middle of the thoroughfare. By the light of the street standard
Marborne thought he was a seafaring man. He wore a jersey up to his
neck, a thick pea-jacket and a cheese-cutter cap. Turning his eyes
away to watch a car drive up to the theatre, Marborne lost sight of
the stranger and he passed out of his mind.

He closed the window and, taking a pack of cards from a drawer, began
to play solitaire. He was nervous, jumpy; he heard sounds and
whispering voices which he knew were born in his imagination. At last,
unable to bear the solitude any longer, he put on his hat and went
out, wandering down Shaftesbury Avenue to Piccadilly Circus, where he
stood for an hour watching the night signs. Here, to his surprise and
relief, he came upon Slone.

"I've got the creeps," said that worthy. "Marborne, what do you say to
making a big haul from this fellow and getting out of the country? You
remember what Welling told you--that the north of Spain is healthy?"

Marborne nodded. Something of the same idea had occurred to him.

"I think you're right," he said. "I'll wire to Hamon in the morning,
he's staying with Lord Creith; and I'll put the matter frankly before
him. It will be Italy, not Spain."

"Hamon is in town," said Slone unexpectedly. "I saw his car passing
along Coventry Street, and he was in it."

"Are you sure?"

"Well, you couldn't mistake him, could you?" said Slone scornfully.

"Wait a bit." Marborne went into a telephone booth and called up
Hamon's house.

"It is no good lying," he said, when the butler protested that his
master was not in. "Hamon was seen in Coventry Street an hour ago."

"I swear to you, Mr. Marborne, he has gone to the country. I know he
came back to town to do some business because I forwarded a coded
message on to him and he came back for ten minutes--not longer. He's
gone away again."

"I wouldn't be surprised if he is telling the truth," said Marborne
when he reported the conversation. "Anyway, we'll see him to-morrow."

He parted from his friend in Shaftesbury Avenue and walked back to
Cambridge Circus, feeling a little more cheerful than he had been when
he came out. And then he saw the tall, foreign-looking sailor, and the
first thing that impressed him was his big pale face and his tiny
black moustache. He was standing near the door of the apartment as
Marborne inserted the key, watching the ex-inspector until the door
opened. Then he came forward, cap in hand.

"Excuse me," he said, speaking with a guttural accent, "but are you
Marborne?"

"That is my name," said the other.

"I have this for you." The stranger held up a large envelope. "It is
from Mr. Hamon. But first I must be sure that you are Marborne."

"Come in," said Marborne quickly.

Hamon had relented, he thought joyously. That parcel meant money and
Hamon employed curious messengers at times. He opened the door for the
big man, who had come silently up the stairs behind him, and the
messenger passed through. He looked hard at his host.

"You are Marborne?" he said. He spoke English with great difficulty.

"Yes, I am that gentleman," said Marborne almost jovially, and the man
laid the package on the table.

"That is for you," he said. "Will you please open and give me a sign?"

"You mean signature."

"That's the word--signature."

Marborne wrenched the string from the package and tore open the
envelope. For a second his back was to the visitor and Ahmet, the
muleman, drew a curved knife from each pocket and struck inward
and upward with a deep-throated "Huh!"


CHAPTER XXXIV

_The Cord_


What made Marborne raise his eyes, he did not know. In the glass above
the mantelpiece he saw the glitter of the knife and leant forward,
pushing the table with him. He had turned to confront the assassin
and in that instant he lifted the edge of the table and flung it over
against his assailant. His gun came into his hand and the lights went
out simultaneously; for though Ahmet, the muleman, was a barbarian, he
lived in a city that was lit by electric light, and he knew the value
of a near-by switch.

Marborne heard the patter of his feet on the stairs and ran after him,
tripping and falling over the table. By the time the lights were on,
the stairs and passage were empty. There was no sign of the sailor in
the street, and double-locking the door, he came back to his room and
reached for a handy whisky bottle, and he did not trouble to dilute
the fluid.

"The swine!" he breathed. He put down the bottle and examined the
letter that the man had dropped.

It consisted of a package of old newspapers.

So that was it! He had, as Welling told him, tinned the wildcat and
the cat had shown his claws.

He was cool now, in mind if not in body, for his forehead was
streaming. So that was Hamon--the real Hamon, who would stick at
nothing to get back the thing he had lost. He sat for half-an-hour,
then, rising, took off his coat, his vest, his shirt, and then the
silk singlet beneath. Fastened to his body with strips of sticking
plaster was a small bag of oiled silk, through which he could read
certain of the words which appeared on the document which Hamon, no
less than Morlake, so greatly desired.

He fixed two fresh strips of sticking plaster, dressed himself,
and, examining his revolver carefully, slipped it into his hip
pocket. There was only one thing to be done, and that must be done
immediately. He had a thought of calling on Slone, but Slone might
easily complicate matters, and he decided on the whole that it would
be best if he worked alone. He must go at once, before the would-be
murderer recovered from his fright. He put on his overcoat, took a
loaded cane from the hall stand, and went out.

Jim Morlake was the solution to his difficulties and the shield to his
danger. He saw that with startling clearness. Closing the door behind
him, he looked left and right, but, as he expected, there was no sign
of the foreign-looking sailor.

A cab took him to Victoria, and he found he had half-an-hour to
wait for a train to the nearest railway junction. Another whisky
fortified him for the journey, and he ensconced himself in the
corner of a first-class carriage which was occupied by two other men.

At eleven o'clock that night, Jim, who was genuinely working in his
study, heard feet coming up the gravel drive, and, opening the door,
was audience to a parley between Binger and some unknown person.
Presently Binger came in in a state of great excitement.

"It's that damned Marborne," he whispered.

"Show him in," said Jim, after a moment's thought.

What would Marborne be wanting, he wondered? That he should suspect
Jim of being The Black was natural, but he would hardly have taken a
journey at that hour of the night, either to express his reproaches or
to conduct a cross-examination.

"Bring him in here."

Marborne was looking very haggard and drawn, he thought. He expected
trouble, but the man's attitude and manner were civility itself.

"I'm sorry to interrupt you at this time of night, Mr. Morlake," he
said, "and I hope that you won't think I've come to see you about that
little job last night."

Jim was silent.

"The fact of the matter is," said Marborne, dropping his voice, "I'm
in----" Suddenly he spun round. "What's that?" he croaked.

There was a crunch of slow footsteps on the gravel outside.

"Who is it?" he asked hoarsely.

"I'll find out," said Jim.

He himself opened the door to the visitor.

"Come in, Welling. You're the second last person I expected to see."

"And who was the first?" asked Welling.

"An old friend of yours, who has just arrived--Marborne."

The white eyebrows of Captain Welling rose.

"Marborne! How interesting! Has he come down to get his money back?"

"I thought that at first," said Jim good-humouredly, "and of course, I
couldn't very well refuse. No, I think it is something more serious
than the loss of money that is bothering him."

Marborne's relief at seeing Jim's visitor was so evident that Jim was
puzzled.

"Expecting a friend, Marborne?" said Julius genially.

"No--no, sir," stammered the man.

"I thought you weren't. You can put your gun away. Very bad business,
carrying guns. I'm surprised at an old policeman like you thinking of
such things. A good stick is all that a policeman needs--a good stick
and the first blow!"

Something of Marborne's nerve had returned at the sight of the man
who, more than any other, had been responsible for his ruin. He seemed
suddenly to rid himself of the terror which had enveloped him like a
cloud a few moments before.

"I won't trouble you about my business to-night, Mr. Morlake. Perhaps
you could give me a few minutes in the morning?"

"If I'm in the way----" began Welling.

"No, sir. Where can I sleep to-night? I suppose there's an hotel
here?"

"There is an inn," said Welling, "the Red Lion. I'm staying there
myself. But I can wait; my business isn't very important. I merely
wanted to ask Mr. Morlake a question or two."

"No, the morning will do," said Marborne.

He had come to a definite decision. Hamon should have his last chance.
He was here, within a stone's throw. In the morning he would make his
offer, and perhaps, with the accusation of an attempted murder hanging
over his head, Hamon would pay more handsomely and more readily.

"You'll find two other friends of yours waiting outside--Milligan and
Spooner," said Julius Welling. "Don't corrupt them, Marborne!"

"I thought you'd sent your bloodhounds back to town?" asked Jim when
Marborne had gone.

"I did, but the man who was responsible for their being here sent them
back to Creith by the next train. In our service, Mr. Morlake, it is a
great mistake for one department to butt into the affairs of another.
Messrs. Spooner and Milligan are not in my department."

He chuckled at this little comedy of inter-departmental dignity.

"But I'll shift them. I'll have them moved for you. I came up
to-night to tell you that they were here--I shouldn't like you to
think that I'd broken a promise. To-morrow I will apply humbly to
the superintendent whom I asked to send these men, that he will be
gracious enough to withdraw them, and they will be withdrawn. What
is wrong with Marborne?"

"I don't know. He talked about being in something--I think he was
going to say 'danger.' Maybe he has been drinking."

Welling shook his head.

"He wasn't drunk," he said. "I wonder what he means?" He was talking
to himself. "We'll have him back, Morlake. He'll be talking with those
fellows of mine."

They went out into the road together and the two detectives who were
waiting for Welling's return came over to them.

"Is Marborne there?"

"No, sir," said Milligan.

"Has he gone?"

"I don't know what you mean, sir. I haven't seen him."

"You haven't what?" almost shouted Welling. "Didn't he come out of
this gate two minutes ago?"

"No, sir," the two men spoke together. "Nobody came out of that gate
until you came out."

There was a silence.

"Have either of you men got a lamp?"

For answer, Milligan's pocket torch shot a fan of light on to the
ground, and, seizing the lamp, Welling walked back, sweeping the drive
from left to right.

Half-way between the gates and the house he stopped and turned the
light on to the bushes that bordered the drive.

Marborne lay face downward. There was a slight wound at the back of
his head, but it was the knotted silk cord wound tightly around his
throat that had killed him.


CHAPTER XXXV

_The Letter That Came by Post_


"He's dead, I'm afraid," said Jim, at the end of half-an-hour's work
on the still figure that lay on the floor of the study.

Stripped to his singlet, he had applied artificial respiration, but
without effect. The man must have died a few seconds before they found
him.

"Thorough!" said Welling, biting his lip thoughtfully, "very thorough
and very quick. Searched to the skin, you notice."

The dead man's clothes had been torn open, so that his breast was
exposed.

"That is where the mystery was hidden--fastened to his skin. It is an
old dodge, which Marborne must have learnt in the course of his
professional career."

Milligan returned from a search of the grounds, to report failure.

"We can do nothing till daylight, except warn the local police. Put a
call through, Spooner. Turn out all the men you can find to search the
meadows; the murderer must have gone that way because he could not
have come out of the gate. He may make for one of the woods, but that
is doubtful. You know the topography of the country, Morlake; which
way would he have gone?"

"It depends entirely whether he knew it also," said Jim. "I suggest
the footbridge across the river and the riverside path to the Amdon
Road. But there are half-a-dozen ways that he may have gone if he can
climb, and I should imagine that, if you make an inspection of the
walls, you will find that he has gone that way."

But here he was wrong.

Neither daylight nor beaters brought the murderer into their hands.
The only discovery--and that was of first importance--was made by
Spooner, who found, on the towpath, a long, curved knife which the
assassin had dropped in his hurry.

