Nor did he forget that, soon after he had listened to this prayer, and
the forces had dispersed, he had made two discoveries;--first, that his
hair was whitening; second, that he could not be alone at night and keep
his reason.


CHAPTER XIX.


_The Host of Israel Goes forth to Battle_

He went north in answer to the call for soldiers. He went gladly. It
promised activity--and company.

A score of them left Cedar City with much warlike talk, with many
ringing prophecies of confusion to the army now marching against them,
and to the man who had sent it. In later years, as we shall see,
the expressiveness of the human hand _per se_ will be recognised; but
Giorgione already feels its significance in portraiture, and there
is not one of his portraits which does not show this.[24]
The list of Giorgione's works now numbers seven; the next three to be
discussed are those that Crowe and Cavalcaselle added on their own
account, but about which Morelli expressed no opinion. Two are in English
private collections, the third in the National Gallery. This is the small
"Knight in Armour," said to be a study for the figure of S.
Liberale in the Castelfranco altar-piece. The main difference is that
in the latter the warrior wears his helmet, whilst in the National
Gallery example he is bareheaded. By some this little figure is believed
to be a copy, or repetition with variations, of Giorgione's original,
but it must honestly be confessed that absolutely no proof is
forthcoming in support of this view.

The quality of this fragment is unquestionable, and its very divergence
from the Castelfranco figure is in its favour.
It would perhaps be unsafe to dogmatise in a case where the material
is so slight, but until its genuineness can be disproved by indisputable
evidence, the claim to authenticity put forward in the National Gallery
catalogue, following Crowe and Cavalcaselle's view, must be
allowed.

[Illustration: _Hanfstängl photo. Vienna Gallery_
THE ADORATION OF THE SHEPHERDS]
The two remaining pictures definitely placed by Crowe and Cavalcaselle
among the authentic productions of Giorgione are the "Adoration of
the Shepherds," belonging to Mr.

Wentworth Beaumont, and the "Judgment of Solomon," in the possession
of Mr. Ralph Bankes at Kingston Lacy, Dorsetshire. The former (of which
an inferior replica with differences of landscape exists in the
Vienna Gallery) is one of the most poetically conceived
representations of this familiar subject which exists.
It recited that "for the last twenty-five years we have
trusted officials of the government from constables and justices to
judges, governors, and presidents, only to be scorned, held in
derision, insulted, and betrayed. Our houses have been plundered and
burned, our fields laid waste, our chief men butchered while under the
pledged faith of the government for their safety; and our families
driven from their homes to find that shelter in the wilderness and that
protection among hostile savages which were denied them in the boasted
abodes of Christianity and civilisation." It concluded by forbidding all
armed forces of every description to enter the Territory under any
pretence whatever, and declaring martial law to exist until further
notice. The little band hurried on, eager to be at the front.

The day he reached Salt Lake City, Joel Rae was made major of militia.
The following day, he attended the meeting at the tabernacle. He needed,
for reasons he did not fully explain to himself, to receive fresh
assurance of Brigham's infallibility, of his touch with the Holy Ghost,
of his goodness as well as his might; to be caught once more by the
compelling magnetism of his presence, the flash of his eye, and the
inciting tones of his voice. All this he found.

"Is there," asked Brigham, "a collision between us and the United
States? No, we have not collashed--that is the word that sounds nearest
to what I mean. But the thread is cut between us and we will never gybe
again, no, never--worlds without end. I am not going to have their
troops here to protect the priests and rabble in their efforts to drive
us from the land we possess. The Lord does not want us to be driven. He
has said to me, 'If you will assert your rights and keep my
commandments, you shall never again be brought into bondage by your
enemies.' The United States says that their army is legal, but I say
that such a statement is false as hell, and that those States are as
rotten as an old pumpkin that has been frozen seven times over and then
thawed in a harvest sun. We can't have that army here and have
peace--you might as well tell me you could make hell into a
powder-house. And so we shall melt those troops away. I promise you our
enemies shall never 'slip the bow on old Bright's neck again.'"

Joel Rae was again under the sway of his old warlike feelings. Brigham
had revived his fainting faith. He went out into the noise and hurry of
war preparations in a sort of intoxication. Underneath he never ceased
to be conscious of the dreadful specter that would not be gone--that
stood impassive and immovable as one of the mountains about him, waiting
for him to come to it and face it and live his day of reckoning,--the
day of his own judgment upon himself. Of these, two can be dated, not
indeed with certainty, but with some degree of probability: the dedicatory
painting of the Bishop of Pesaro with the portrait of Alexander
VI. of 1502-03, and the picture of St.

Mark, already mentioned, of the year 1504. Both are, to judge by the style,
clearly early works, and both can be connected with definite historical
events of the years just mentioned. That these paintings, however,
could be the work of a fourteen- to fifteen-year-old artist Mr.

Cook will also admit to be impossible.

Much, far too much, in the story of Venetian painting must, for want of
definite information, be left to conjecture; and however unsatisfactory
it is, we must make the confession that we know as little about the
date of the birth of the greatest of the Venetians as we know of
Giorgione's, Sebastiano's, Palma's, and the rest. But supposing all of
a sudden information turned up giving us the exact date of Titian's
birth, would the picture of the development of Venetian painting
be any the different for it?

In no wise. The relation to one another of the individual artists of the
younger generation is so clearly to be read in each man's work, that
no external particulars, however interesting they might be on other
grounds, could make the smallest difference. Titian's relations with
Giorgione especially could not be otherwise represented than has been
long determined, and that whether Titian was born in 1476, 1477, 1480,
or even two or three years later.[167] GEORG GRONAU.

WHEN WAS TITIAN BORN?

_Reply to Dr. Gronau. Reprinted from "Repertorium für Kunstwissenschaft,"
vol. xxv., parts 1 and 2_

I must thank Dr. Georg Gronau for his very fair reply, published in
these pages[168] (to my article in the _Nineteenth Century_ on the
subject of Titian's age[169]).

He has also most kindly pointed out two pieces of contemporary evidence
which had escaped my notice, and although neither of these passages is
conclusive proof one way or the other, they deserve to be reckoned with
in arriving at a decision.

Dr. Gronau formulates the evidence shortly thus:

Vasari in 1566 or 1567 says Titian is over 76 The Spanish Consul in
1567 " " 85 Titian himself in 1571 " he is " 95
and he adds that this new piece of evidence--viz. the letter of the Spanish
Consul to King Philip--instead of helping us, only makes the confusion
worse.

What then are we to think when yet another--a fourth--contemporary
statement turns up, differing from any of the three just quoted?

Yet such a letter exists, and I am happy in my turn to point out this
fresh piece of evidence, in the hope that instead of making the
confusion worse, it will help us to arrive at some decision.

On October the 15th, 1564, Garcia Hernandez, Envoy in Venice from
King Philip II., writes to the King his master that Titian begged that
His Majesty would condescend to order that he should be paid
what was due to him from the court and from Milan.... For the rest the
painter was in fine condition, and quite capable of work, and this
was the time, if ever, to get "other things" from him, as according
to some people who knew him, Titian was about ninety years old,
though he did not show it, and for money everything was to be had
of him.[170]
In 1564 then the Spanish Envoy writes that Titian was said to be
about ninety. Let us then enlarge Dr. Gronau's table by this
additional statement, and further complete it by including the
earliest piece of evidence, the statement of Dolce in 1557 that
Titian was scarcely twenty when he worked at the Fondaco de' Tedeschi
frescoes (1507-8).On ascertaining
the locality of the troops, proceed at once to annoy them in every
possible way. Use every exertion to stampede their animals and set fire
to their trains. Burn the whole country before them and on their flanks.
Keep them from sleeping, by night surprises; blockade the road by
felling trees, or destroying river fords where you can. Watch for
opportunities to set fire to the grass on their windward, so as to
envelope their trains if possible. Leave no grass before them that can
be burned. Keep your men concealed as much as possible, and guard
against surprise. God bless you and give you success.

"YOUR BROTHER IN CHRIST."

Forty-four men were placed under his command to perform this work, and
all of them were soon impressed, even to alarm, by the very evident
reliance of their leader upon the God of Israel rather than upon any
merely human wisdom of his own.

The first capture was not difficult. After an all-night ride they came
up with a supply-train of twenty-five wagons drawn by oxen. The captain
of this train was ordered to "go the other way" until he reached the
States. He started; but as he retraced his steps as often as they moved
away, they at length burned his train and left him.

And then the recklessness of the new-fledged major became manifest. He
sent one of his captains with twenty men to capture or stampede the
mules of the Tenth Regiment, while he with the remainder of his force
set off toward Sandy Fork in search of more wagon-trains. When his
scouts late in the day reported a train of twenty-six wagons, he was
advised by them that he ought not to attack it with so small a force;
but to this advice he was deaf, rebuking the men for their little faith.

He allowed the train to proceed until after dark, and then drew
cautiously near. Learning, however, that the drivers were drunk, he had
his force lie concealed for a time, fearing that they might prove
belligerent and thus compel him to shed blood, which he wished not to
do.

At midnight the scouts reported that the train was drawn up in two lines
for the night and that all was quiet. He mounted his command and ordered
an advance. Approaching the camp, they discovered a fact that the scouts
had failed to note; a second train had joined the first, and the little
host of Israel was now confronted by twice the anticipated force. This
discovery was made too late for them to retire unobserved. The men,
however, expected their leader to make some inquiry concerning the road
and then ride on. But they had not plumbed the depth of his faith.

As the force neared the camp-fire close to the wagons, the rear of the
column was lost in the darkness. What the teamsters about the fire saw
was an apparently endless column of men advancing upon them. The
effect of the delicate leaves and feathery trees at the edge of the
rock, relieved against the pale sky, is superb. A spirit of solemnity
broods over the scene, fit feeling at so eventful a moment in the
history of the past.
It is frequently found later.

[136] Cariani is by some made responsible for the whole picture. A
comparison with an authentic example hanging (in the new arrangement
of the Long Gallery), close by, ought surely to convince the
advocates of Cariani of their mistakeAnd so the campaign went forward. As the winter came on colder, the
scouts brought in moving tales of the enemy's discomfiture. Colonel
Alexander of the Federal forces, deciding that the cañons could be
defended by the Saints, planned to approach Salt Lake City over a
roundabout route to the north. He started in heavy snow, cutting a road
through the greasewood and sage-brush. Often his men made but three
miles a day, and his supply-train was so long that sometimes half of it
would be camped for the night before the rear wagons had moved. .

[13] Bellini adopted it later in his S. Giov. Crisostomo altar-piece of
1513.

[14] All the more surprising is it that it receives no mention from
Vasari, who merely states that the master worked at Castelfranco

.

[15] I unhesitatingly adopt the titles recently given to these
pictures by Herr Franz Wickhoff (_Jahrbuch der Preussischen
Kunstsammlungen_, Heft. i. 1895), who has at last succeeded in
satisfactorily explaining what has puzzled all the writers since
the days of the Anonimo.At Fort Laramie so many
of his animals had dropped out that numbers of his men were dismounted,
and the ambulances used to carry grain. Night after night they huddled
at the base of cliffs in the fearful eddies of the snow, and heard above
the blast the piteous cries of their famished and freezing stock. Day
after day they pushed against the keen blades of the wind, toiling
through frozen clouds and stinging ice blasts. The last thirty-five
miles to Fort Bridger had required fifteen days, and at one camp on
Black's Fork, which they called the "camp of Death," five hundred
animals perished in a night.

In short, the gay, the loud, the vain _Will Honeycomb_, who had made
Love to every great Fortune that has appeared in Town for [above [2]]
thirty Years together, and boasted of Favours from Ladies whom he had
never seen, is at length wedded to a plain Country Girl.

His Letter gives us the Picture of a converted Rake. The sober Character
of the Husband is dashed with the Man of the Town, and enlivened with
those little Cant-phrases which have made my Friend _Will_ often
thought very pretty Company.Aggressive operations
ceased for the winter, and the greater part of the militia returned to
their homes. A small outpost of fifty men under the command of Major
Joel Rae--who had earnestly requested this assignment--was left to guard
the narrows of Echo Cañon and to keep watch over the enemy during the
winter. I am happily not the first to call attention to the propriety
of the old attribution, for Sir Edward Poynter claims that the same
hand that produced the Louvre "Concert" is also responsible for
the "Venus and Adonis

."[120] I fully share this opinion.They were
henceforth to be the free and independent State of Deseret.

