"Why do you use that tone?" he asked.  "I am six months older
than you, and I only wish it was six years.  Six years nearer
oblivion--"

Again a slight incredulous contempt crossed the other's eyes.
"Oblivion?" he said.  "Where are your ambitions?"

"They don't exist."

"Don't exist?  Yet you voice your country?  I concluded that
much in the fog."

Chilcote laughed sarcastically.

"When one has voiced one's country for six years one gets
hoarse--it's a natural consequence."

The other smiled.  "Ah, discontent!" he said.  "The modern
canker.  But we must both be getting under way.  Good-night!
Shall we shake hands--to prove that we are genuinely
material?"

Chilcote had been standing unusually still, following the
stranger's words--caught by his self-reliance and impressed by
his personality.  Now, as he ceased to speak, he moved quickly
forward, impelled by a nervous curiosity.

"Why should we just hail each other and pass--like the
proverbial ships?" he said, impulsively.  "If Nature was
careless enough to let the reproduction meet the original, she
must abide the consequences."

The other laughed, but his laugh was short.  "Oh, I don't
know.  Our roads lie differently.  You would get nothing out
of me, and I--" He stopped and again laughed shortly.  "No,"
he said; "I'd be content to pass, if I were you.  The
unsuccessful man is seldom a profitable study.  Shall we
say good-night?"

He took Chilcote's hand for an instant; then, crossing the
footpath, he passed into the road-way towards the Strand.

It was done in a moment; but with his going a sense of loss
fell upon Chilcote.  He stood for a space, newly conscious of
unfamiliar faces and unfamiliar voices in the stream of
passersby; then, suddenly mastered by an impulse, he wheeled
rapidly and darted after the tall, lean figure so ridiculously
like his own.

Half-way across Trafalgar Square he overtook the stranger.  He
had paused on one of the small stone islands that break the
current of traffic, and was waiting for an opportunity to
cross the street.  In the glare of light from the lamp above
his head, Chilcote saw for the first time that, under a
remarkable neatness of appearance, his clothes were well
worn--almost shabby.  The discovery struck him with something
stronger than surprise.  The idea of poverty seemed incongruous
is connection with the reliance, the reserve, the personality
of the man.  With a certain embarrassed haste he stepped
forward and touched his arm.

"Look here," he said, as the other turned quietly.  "I have
followed you to exchange cards.  It can't injure either of us,
and I--I have a wish to know my other self."  He laughed
nervously as he drew out his card-case.

The stranger watched him in silence.  There was the same faint
contempt, but also there was a reluctant interest in his
glance, as it passed from the fingers fumbling with the case
to the pale face with the square jaw, straight mouth, and
level eyebrows drawn low over the gray eyes.  When at last the
card was held out to him he took it without remark and slipped
it into his pocket.

Chilcote looked at him eagerly.  "Now the exchange?" he said.

For a second the stranger did not respond.  Then, almost
unexpectedly, he smiled.

"After all, if it amuses you--" he said; and, searching in his
waistcoat pocket, he drew out the required card.

"It will leave you quite unenlightened," he added.  "The name
of a failure never spells anything."  With another smile,
partly amused, partly ironical, he stepped from the little
island and disappeared into the throng of traffic.

Chilcote stood for an instant gazing at the point where he had
vanished; then, turning to the lamp, he lifted the card and
read the name it bore: "Mr. John Loder, 13 Clifford's Inn."


II


On the morning following the night of fog Chilcote woke at
nine.  He woke at the moment that his man Allsopp tiptoed
across the room and laid the salver with his early cup of tea
on the table beside the bed.

For several seconds he lay with his eyes shut; the effort of
opening them on a fresh day--the intimate certainty of what he
would see on opening them--seemed to weight his lids.  The
heavy, half-closed curtains; the blinds severely drawn; the
great room with its splendid furniture, its sober coloring,
its scent of damp London winter; above all, Allsopp, silent,
respectful, and respectable--were things to dread.

A full minute passed while he still feigned sleep.  He heard
Allsopp stir discreetly, then the inevitable information broke
the silence:

"Nine o'clock, sir!"

He opened his eyes, murmured something, and closed them again.

The man moved to the window, quietly pulled back the curtains
and half drew the blind.

"Better night, sir, I hope?" he ventured, softly.

Chilcote had drawn the bedclothes over his face to screen
himself from the daylight, murky though it was.

"Yes," he responded.  "Those beastly nightmares didn't trouble
me, for once."  He shivered a little as at some recollection.
"But don't talk--don't remind me of them.  I hate a man who
has no originality."  He spoke sharply.  At times he showed an
almost childish irritation over trivial things.

Allsopp took the remark in silence.  Crossing the wide room,
he began to lay out his master's clothes.  The action affected
Chilcote to fresh annoyance.

"Confound it!" he said.  "I'm sick of that routine: I can see
you laying out my winding-sheet the day of my burial.  Leave
those things.  Come back in half an hour."

Allsopp allowed himself one glance at his master's figure
huddled in the great bed; then, laying aside the coat he was
holding, he moved to the door.  With his: fingers on the
handle he paused.

"Will you breakfast in your own room, sir--or down-stairs?"

Chilcote drew the clothes more tightly round his shoulders.
"Oh, anywhere--nowhere!" he said.  "I don't care."

Allsopp softly withdrew.

Left to himself, Chilcote sat up in bed and lifted the salver
to his knees.  The sudden movement jarred him physically; he
drew a handkerchief from under the pillow and wiped his
forehead; then he held his hand to the light and studied it.
The hand looked sallow and unsteady.  With a nervous gesture
he thrust the salver back upon the table and slid out of bed.

Moving hastily across the room, he stopped before one of the
tall wardrobes and swung the door open; then after a furtive
glance around the room he thrust his hand into the recesses of
a shelf and fumbled there.

The thing he sought was evidently not hard to find.  for
almost at once he withdrew his hand and moved from the
wardrobe to a table beside the fireplace, carrying a small
glass tube filled with tabloids.

On the table were a decanter, a siphon, and a water-jug.
Mixing some whiskey, he uncorked the tube, again he glanced
apprehensively towards the door, then with a very nervous hand
dropped two tabloids into the glass.

While they dissolved he stood with his hand on the table and
his eyes fixed on the floor, evidently restraining his
impatience.  Instantly they had disappeared he seized the
glass and drained it at a draught, replaced the bottle in the
wardrobe, and, shivering slightly in the raw air, slipped back
into bed.

When Allsopp returned he was sitting up, a cigarette between
his lips, the teacup standing empty on the salver.  The
nervous irritability had gone from his manner.  He no longer
moved jerkily, his eyes looked brighter, his pale skin more
healthy.

"Ah, Allsopp," he said, "there are some moments in life, after
all.  It isn't all blank wall."

"I ordered breakfast in the small morning-room, sir," said
Allsopp, without a change of expression.

Chilcote breakfasted at ten.  His appetite, always fickle, was
particularly uncertain in the early hours.  He helped himself
to some fish, but sent away his plate untouched; then, having
drunk two cups of tea, he pushed back his chair, lighted a
fresh cigarette, and shook out the morning's newspaper.

Twice he shook it out and twice turned it, but the reluctance
to fix his mind upon it made him dally.

The effect of the morphia tabloids was still apparent in the
greater steadiness of his hand and eye, the regained quiet of
his susceptibilities, but the respite was temporary and
lethargic.  The early days--the days of six years ago, when
these tabloids meant an even sweep of thought, lucidity of
brain, a balance of judgment in thought and effort--were days
of the past.  As he had said of Lexington and his vice, the
slave had become master.

As he folded the paper in a last attempt at interest, the door
opened and his secretary came a step or two into the room.

"Good-morning, sir!" he said.  "Forgive me for being so
untimely."

He was a fresh-mannered, bright-eyed boy of twenty-three.  His
breezy alertness, his deference, as to a man who had attained
what he aspired to, amused and depressed Chilcote by turns.

"Good-morning, Blessington.  What is it now?"  He sighed
through habit, and, putting up his hand, warded off a ray of
sun that had forced itself through the misty atmosphere as if
by mistake.

The boy smiled.  "It's that business of the Wark timber
contract, sir," he said.  "You promised you'd look into it
to-day; you know you've shelved it for a week already, and Craig,
Burnage are rather clamoring for an answer."  He moved forward
and laid the papers he was carrying on the table beside
Chilcote.  "I'm sorry to be such a nuisance," he added.  "I
hope your nerves aren't worrying you to-day?"

Chilcote was toying with the papers.  At the word nerves he
glanced up suspiciously.  But Blessington's ingenuous face
satisfied him.

"No," he said.  "I settled my nerves last night with--with a
bromide.  I knew that fog would upset me unless I took
precautions."

"I'm glad of that, sir--though I'd avoid bromides.  Bad habit
to set up.  But this Wark business--I'd like to get it under
way, if you have no objection."

Chilcote passed his fingers over the papers.  "Were you out in
that fog last night, Blessington?"

"No, sir.  I supped with some people at the Savoy, and we just
missed it.  It was very partial, I believe."

"So I believe."

Blessington put his hand to his neat tie and pulled it.  He
was extremely polite, but he had an inordinate sense of duty.

"Forgive me, sir," he said, "but about that contract--I know
I'm a frightful bore."

"Oh, the contract!" Chilcote looked about him absently.
"By-the-way, did you see anything of my wife yesterday?  What did
she do last night?"

"Mrs. Chilcote gave me tea yesterday afternoon.  She told me
she was dining at Lady Sabinet's, and looking in at one or two
places later."  He eyed his papers in Chilcote's listless
hand.

Chilcote smiled satirically.  "Eve is very true to society,"
he said.  "I couldn't dine at the Sabinets' if it was to make
me premier.  They have a butler who is an institution--a sort
of heirloom in the family.  He is fat, and breathes audibly.
Last time I lunched there he haunted me for a whole night."

Blessington laughed gayly.  "Mrs. Chilcote doesn't see ghosts,
sir," he said; "but if I may suggest--"

Chilcote tapped his fingers on the table.

"No.  Eve doesn't see ghosts.  We rather miss sympathy there."

Blessington governed his impatience.  He stood still for some
seconds, then glanced down at his pointed boot.

"If you will be lenient to my persistency, sir, I would like
to remind you--"

Chilcote lifted his head with a flash of irritability.

"Confound it, Blessington!" he exclaimed.  "Am I never to be
left in peace?  Am I never to sit down to a meal without
having work thrust upon me?  Work--work--perpetually work?  I
have heard no other word in the last six years.  I declare
there are times"--he rose suddenly from his seat and turned to
the window--"there are times when I feel that for sixpence
I'd chuck it all--the whole beastly round--"

Startled by his vehemence, Blessington wheeled towards him.

"Not your political career, sir?"

There was a moment in which Chilcote hesitated, a moment in
which the desire that had filled his mind for months rose to
his lips and hung there; then the question, the incredulity in
Blessington's face, chilled it and it fell back into silence.

"I--I didn't say that," he murmured.  "You young men jump to
conclusions, Blessington."

"Forgive me, sir.  I never meant to imply retirement.  Why,
Rickshaw, Vale, Cressham, and the whole Wark crowd would be
about your ears like flies if such a thing were even breathed
--now more than ever, since these Persian rumors.  By-the-way,
is there anything real in this border business? The 'St.
George's' came out rather strong last night."

Chilcote had moved back to the table.  His face was pale from
his outburst and his fingers toyed restlessly with the open
newspaper.

"I haven't seen the 'St. George's'," he said, hastily.
"Lakely is always ready to shake the red rag where Russia is
concerned; whether we are to enter the arena is another matter.
But what about Craig, Burnage?  I think you mentioned
something of a contract."

"Oh, don't worry about that, sir." Blessington had caught the
twitching at the corners of Chilcote's mouth, the nervous
sharpness of his voice.  "I can put Craig, Burnage off.  If
they have an answer by Thursday it will be time enough."  He
began to collect his papers, but Chilcote stopped him.

"Wait," he said, veering suddenly.  "Wait.  I'll see to it
now.  I'll feel more myself when I've done something.  I'll
come with you to the study."

He walked hastily across the room; then, with his hand on the
door, he paused.

"You go first, Blessington," he said.  "I'll--I'll follow you
in ten minutes.  I must glance through the newspapers first."

Blessington looked uncertain.  "You won't forget, sir?"

"Forget?  Of course not."

Still doubtfully, Blessington left the room and closed the
door.

Once alone, Chilcote walked slowly back to the table, drew up
his chair, and sat down with his eyes on the white cloth, the
paper lying unheeded beside him.

Time passed.  A servant came into the room to remove the
breakfast.  Chilcote moved slightly when necessary, but
otherwise retained his attitude.  The servant, having finished
his task, replenished the fire and left the room.  Chilcote
still sat on.

At last, feeling numbed, he rose and crossed to the fireplace.
The clock on the mantel-piece stared him in the face.  He
looked at it, started slightly, then drew out his watch.
Watch and clock corresponded.  Each marked twelve o'clock.
With a nervous motion he leaned forward and pressed the
electric bell long and hard.

Instantly a servant answered.

"Is Mr. Blessington in the study?" Chilcote asked.

"He was there, sir, five minutes back."

Chilcote looked relieved.

"All right!  Tell him I have gone out--had to go out.
Something important.  You understand?"

"I understand, sir."

But before the words had been properly spoken Chilcote had
passed the man and walked into the hall.


III


Leaving his house, Chilcote walked forward quickly and
aimlessly.  With the sting of the outer air the recollection
of last night's adventure came back upon him.  Since the hour
of his waking it had hung about with vague persistence, but
now in the clear light of day it seemed to stand out with a
fuller peculiarity.

The thing was preposterous, nevertheless it was genuine.  He
was wearing the overcoat he had worn, the night before, and,
acting on impulse, he thrust his hand into the pocket and drew
out the stranger's card.

"Mr. John Loder!"  He read the name over as he walked along,
and it mechanically repeated itself in his brain--falling into
measure with his steps.  Who was John Loder?  What was he?
The questions tantalized him till his pace unconsciously
increased.  The thought that two men so absurdly alike could
inhabit the same, city and remain unknown to each other faced
him as a problem: it tangled with his personal worries and
aggravated them.  There seemed to be almost a danger in such
an extraordinary likeness.  He began to regret his impetuosity
in thrusting his card upon the man.  Then, again, how he had
let himself go on the subject of Lexington!  How narrowly he
had escaped compromise!  He turned hot and cold at the
recollection of what he had said and what he might have said.
Then for the first time he paused in his walk and looked
about him.

On leaving Grosvenor Square he had turned westward, moving
rapidly till the Marble Arch was reached; there, still
oblivious to his surroundings, he had crossed the roadway to
the Edgware Road, passing along it to the labyrinth of shabby
streets that lie behind Paddington.  Now, as he glanced about
him, he saw with some surprise how far he had come.

The damp remnants of the fog still hung about the house-tops
in a filmy veil; there were no glimpses of green to break the
monotony of tone; all was quiet, dingy, neglected.  But to
Chilcote the shabbiness was restful, the subdued atmosphere a
satisfaction.  Among these sad houses, these passers-by, each
filled with his own concerns, he experienced a sense of
respite and relief.  In the fashionable streets that bounded
his own horizon, if a man paused in his walk to work out an
idea he instantly drew a crowd of inquisitive or contemptuous
eyes; here, if a man halted for half an hour it was nobody's
business but his own.

Enjoying this thought, he wandered on for close upon an hour,
moving from one street to another with steps that were
listless or rapid, as inclination prompted; then, still acting
with vagrant aimlessness, he stopped in his wanderings and
entered a small eating-house.

The place was low-ceiled and dirty, the air hot and steaming
with the smell of food, but Chilcote passed through the door
and moved to one of the tables with no expression of disgust,
and with far less furtive watchfulness than he used in his own
house.  By a curious mental twist he felt greater freedom,
larger opportunities in drab surroundings such as these than
in the broad issues and weighty responsibilities of his own
life.  Choosing a corner seat, he called for coffee; and
there, protected by shadow and wrapped in cigarette smoke, he
set about imagining himself some vagrant unit who had slipped
his moorings and was blissfully adrift.

The imagination was pleasant while it lasted, but with him
nothing was permanent.  Of late the greater part of his
sufferings had been comprised in the irritable fickleness of
all his aims--the distaste for and impossibility of sustained
effort in any direction.  He had barely lighted a second
cigarette when the old restlessness fell upon him; he stirred
nervously in his seat, and the cigarette was scarcely burned
out when he rose, paid his small bill, and left the shop.

Outside on the pavement he halted, pulled out his watch, and
saw that two hours stretched in front before any appointment
claimed his attention.  He wondered vaguely where he might go
to--what he might do in those two hours?  In the last few
minutes a distaste for solitude had risen in his mind, giving
the close street a loneliness that had escaped him before.

As he stood wavering a cab passed slowly down the street.  The
sight of a well-dressed man roused the cabman; flicking his
whip, he passed Chilcote close, feigning to pull up.

The cab suggested civilization.  Chilcote's mind veered
suddenly and he raised his hand.  The vehicle stopped and he
climbed in.

"Where, sir?" The cabman peered down through the roof-door.

Chilcote raised his head.  "Oh, anywhere near Pall Mall," he
said.  Then, as the horse started forward, he put up his hand
and shook the trap-door.  "Wait!" he called.  "I've changed my
mind.  Drive to Cadogan Gardens--No. 33."

The distance to Cadogan Gardens was covered quickly.  Chilcote
had hardly realized that his destination was reached when the
cab pulled up.  Jumping out, he paid the fare and walked
quickly to the hall-door of No. 33.

"Is Lady Astrupp at home?" he asked, sharply, as the door
swung back in answer to his knock.

The servant drew back deferentially.  "Her ladyship has almost
finished lunch, sir," he said.

For answer Chilcote stepped through the door-way and walked
half-way across the hall.

"All right," he said.  "But don't disturb her on my account.
I'll wait in the white room till she has finished."  And,
without taking further notice of the servant, he began to
mount the stairs.

In the room where he had chosen to wait a pleasant wood-fire
brightened the dull January afternoon and softened the thick,
white curtains, the gilt furniture, and the Venetian vases
filled with white roses.  Moving straight forward, Chilcote
paused by the grate and stretched his hands to the blaze;
then, with his usual instability, he turned and passed to a
couch that stood a yard or two away.

On the couch, tucked away between a novel and a crystal
gazing-ball, was a white Persian kitten, fast asleep.
Chilcote picked up the ball and held it between his eyes and
the fire; then he laughed superciliously, tossed it back into
its place, and caught the kitten's tail.  The little animal
stirred, stretched itself, and began to purr.  At the same
moment the door of the room opened.

Chilcote turned round.  "I particularly said you were not to
be disturbed," he began.  "Have I merited displeasure?"  He
spoke fast, with the uneasy tone that so often underran his
words.

Lady Astrupp took his hand with a confiding gesture and
smiled.

"Never displeasure," she said, lingeringly, and again she
smiled.  The smile might have struck a close observer as
faintly, artificial.  But what man in Chilcote's frame of mind
has time to be observant where women are concerned?  The
manner of the smile was very sweet and almost caressing
--and that sufficed.

"What have you been doing?" she asked, after a moment.  "I
thought I was quite forgotten."  She moved across to the
couch, picked up the kitten, and kissed it.  "Isn't this
sweet?" she added.

She looked very graceful as she turned, holding the little
animal up.  She was a woman of twenty-seven, but she looked a
girl.  The outline of her face was pure, the pale gold of her
hair almost ethereal, and her tall, slight figure still
suggested the suppleness, the possibility of future
development, that belongs to youth.  She wore a lace-colored
gown that harmonized with the room and with the delicacy of
her skin.

"Now sit down and rest--or walk about the room.  I sha'n't
mind which."  She nestled into the couch and picked up the
crystal ball.

