"In an hour of moonshine, an hour of madness, when I was a reckless fool
that must give tongue to every impulse. You reproved me then in just the
terms my case deserved. Hortensia," he bent towards her, leaning on
his cane, "'tis very sweet and merciful in you to recall it without
reproach. Recall it no more, save to think with scorn of the fleering
coxcomb who was so lost to the respect that is due to so sweet a lady. I
have told you so much of myself to-day that you may."

"Decidedly," came a shrill, ironical voice from the arbor's entrance,
"I may congratulate you, sir, upon the prodigious strides of your
recovery."

Mr. Caryll straightened himself from his stooping posture, turned and
made Lady Ostermore a bow, his whole manner changed again to that which
was habitual to him. "And no less decidedly, my lady," said he with a
tight-lipped smile, "may I congratulate your ladyship's son upon that
happy circumstance, which is--as I have learned--so greatly due to the
steps your ladyship took--for which I shall be ever grateful--to ensure
that I should be made whole again."


CHAPTER XIII. THE FORLORN HOPE


Her ladyship stood a moment, leaning upon her cane, her head thrown
back, her thin lip curling, and her eyes playing over Mr. Caryll with a
look of dislike that she made no attempt to dissemble.

Mr. Caryll found the situation redolent with comedy. He had a quick
eye for such matters; so quick an eye that he deplored on the present
occasion her ladyship's entire lack of a sense of humor. But for
that lamentable shortcoming, she might have enjoyed with him
the grotesqueness of her having--she, who disliked him so
exceedingly--toiled and anguished, robbed herself of sleep, and hoped
and prayed with more fervor, perhaps, than she had ever yet hoped and
prayed for anything, that his life might be spared.

Her glance shifted presently from him to Hortensia, who had risen and
who stood in deep confusion at having been so found by her ladyship,
and in deep agitation still arising from the things he had said and
from those which he had been hindered from adding by the coming of the
countess.

The explanations that had been interrupted might never be renewed; she
felt they never would be; he would account that he had said enough;
since he was determined to ask for nothing. "Where are the harvest fields
all white, For Truth to thrust her sickle in?
Where flock the souls, like doves in flight, From the dark hiding-place
of sin?

"A silent-horror broods o'er all,-- The burden of a hateful spell,--
The very flowers around recall The hoary magi's rites of hell!

"And what am I, o'er such a land The banner of the Cross to bear?

Dear Lord, uphold me with Thy hand, Thy strength with human weakness
share!"

He ceased; for at his very feet In mild rebuke a floweret smiled; How
thrilled his sinking heart to greet The Star-flower of the Virgin's
child!

Sown by some wandering Frank, it drew Its life from alien air and
earth, And told to Paynim sun and dew The story of the Saviour's
birth.

From scorching beams, in kindly mood, The Persian plants its beauty
screened, And on its pagan sisterhood, In love, the Christian
floweret leaned.

With tears of joy the wanderer felt The darkness of his long despair Before
that hallowed symbol melt, Which God's dear love had nurtured
there.

From Nature's face, that simple flower The lines of sin and sadness swept;
And Magian pile and Paynim bower In peace like that of Eden slept.

Each Moslem tomb, and cypress old, Looked holy through the sunset air;
And, angel-like, the Muezzin told From tower and mosque the hour
of prayer.

With cheerful steps, the morrow's dawn From Shiraz saw the stranger
part; The Star-flower of the Virgin-Born Still blooming in his
hopeful heart!
1830.

THE CITIES OF THE PLAIN
"Get ye up from the wrath of God's terrible day!The false
color looks so very false on such occasions.

Her ladyship struck the ground with her cane. "For what have I to thank
her, sir? Will you tell me that, you who seem so very well informed."

"Why, for her part in saving your son's life, ma'am, if you must have
it. Heaven knows," he continued in his characteristic, half-bantering
manner, under which it was so difficult to catch a glimpse of his real
feelings, "I am not one to throw services done in the face of folk, but
here have Mistress Winthrop and I been doing our best for your son in
this matter; she by so diligently nursing me; I by responding to her
nursing--and your ladyship's--and so, recovering from my wound. I do
not think that your ladyship shows us a becoming gratitude. It is but
natural that we fellow-workers in your ladyship's and Lord Rotherby's
interests, should have a word to say to each other on the score of those
labors which have made us colleagues."

Her ladyship measured him with a malignant eye. "Are you quite mad,
sir?" she asked him.

He shrugged and smiled. "It has been alleged against me on occasion. But
I think it was pure spite." Then he waved his hand towards the long seat
that stood at the back of the arbor. "Will your ladyship not sit? You
will forgive that I urge it in my own interest. They tell me that it is
not good for me to stand too long just yet."

It was his hope that she would depart. Not so. "I cry you mercy!" said
she acidly, and rustled to the bench. "Be seated, pray." She continued
to watch them with her baleful glance. "We have heard fine things from
you, sir, of what you have both done for my Lord Rotherby," she gibed,
mocking him with the spirit of his half-jest. "Shall I tell you more
precisely what 'tis he owes you?"

"Can there be more?" quoth Mr. Caryll, smiling so amiably that he must
have disarmed a Gorgon.

Her ladyship ignored him. "He owes it to you both that you have
estranged him from his father, set up a breach between them that is
never like to be healed. 'Tis what he owes you."

"Does he not owe it, rather, to his abandoned ways?" asked Hortensia, in
a calm, clear voice, bravely giving back her ladyship look for look.

"Abandoned ways?" screamed the countess. "Is't you that speak of
abandoned ways, ye shameless baggage? Faith, ye may be some judge of
them. Ye fooled him into running off with you. 'Twas that began all
this. Just as with your airs and simpers, and prettily-played innocences
you fooled this other, here, into being your champion."

"Madam, you insult me!" Hortensia was on her feet, eyes flashing, cheeks
aflame.

"I am witness to that," said Lord Ostermore, coming in through the
side-entrance.

Mr. Caryll was the only one who had seen him approach. The earl's face
that had wont to be so florid, was now pale and careworn, and he seemed
to have lost flesh during the past month. He turned to her ladyship.

"Out on you!" he said testily, "to chide the poor child so!"

Where the shrines of foul idols were lighted on high, And wantonness
tempted the lust of the eye; Midst rites of obsceneness, strange,
loathsome, abhorred, The blasphemer scoffed at the name of the Lord.

Hark! the growl of the thunder,--the quaking of earth!
Woe, woe to the worship, and woe to the mirth!

The black sky has opened; there's flame in the air; The red arm of vengeance
is lifted and bare!

Then the shriek of the dying rose wild where the song And the low tone
of love had been whispered along; For the fierce flames went lightly
o'er palace and bower, Like the red tongues of demons, to blast and
devour!

Down, down on the fallen the red ruin rained, And the reveller sank
with his wine-cup undrained; The foot of the dancer, the music's loved
thrill, And the shout and the laughter grew suddenly still.

The last throb of anguish was fearfully given; The last eye glared forth
in its madness on Heaven!
The last groan of horror rose wildly and vain, And death brooded over the
pride of the Plain!
1831.

THE CALL OF THE CHRISTIAN
Not always as the whirlwind's rush On Horeb's mount of fear, Not
always as the burning bush To Midian's shepherd seer, Nor as the
awful voice which came To Israel's prophet bards, Nor as the tongues
of cloven flame, Nor gift of fearful words,--
Not always thus, with outward sign Of fire or voice from Heaven,
The message of a truth divine, The call of God is given!

Awaking in the human heart Love for the true and right,-- Zeal for
the Christian's better part, Strength for the Christian's fight.

"Pshaw!"

"Are you a father?" she wondered contemptuously.

"To my eternal shame, ma'am!" he flung back at her. He seemed, indeed,
a changed man in more than body since Mr. Caryll's duel with Lord
Rotherby. "No more, ma'am--no more!" he cried, seeming suddenly to
remember the presence of Mr. Caryll, who sat languidly drawing figures
on the ground with the ferrule of his cane. He turned to ask the
convalescent how he did. Her ladyship rose to withdraw, and at that
moment Leduc made his appearance with a salver, on which was a bowl of
soup, a flask of Hock, and a letter. Setting this down in such a manner
that the letter was immediately under his master's eyes, he further
proceeded to draw Mr. Caryll's attention to it. It was addressed in
Sir Richard Everard's hand. Mr. Caryll took it, and slipped it into his
pocket. Her ladyship's eyebrows went up.

"Will you not read your letter, Mr. Caryll?" she invited him, with an
amazingly sudden change to amiability.

"It will keep, ma'am, to while away an hour that is less pleasantly
engaged." And he took the napkin Leduc was proffering.

"You pay your correspondent a poor compliment," said she.

"My correspondent is not one to look for them or need them," he answered
lightly, and dipped his spoon in the broth.

"Is she not?" quoth her ladyship.

Mr. Caryll laughed. "So feminine!" said he. "Ha, ha! So very
feminine--to assume the sex so readily."

"'Tis an easy assumption when the superscription is writ in a woman's
hand."

Mr. Caryll, the picture of amiability, smiled between spoonfuls. "Your
ladyship's eyes preserve not only their beauty but a keenness beyond
belief."

"How could you have seen it from that distance, Sylvia?" inquired his
practical lordship.

"Then again," said her ladyship, ignoring both remarks, "there is the
assiduity of this fair writer since Mr. Caryll has been in case to
receive letters. Five billets in six days! Deny it if you can, Mr.
Caryll."

Her playfulness, so ill-assumed, sat more awkwardly upon her than her
usual and more overt malice towards him.

"To what end should I deny it?" he replied, and added in his most
ingratiating manner another of his two-edged compliments. "Your ladyship
is the model chatelaine. No happening in your household can escape your
knowledge. His lordship is greatly to be envied."

"Yet, you see," she cried, appealing to her husband, and even to
Hortensia, who sat apart, scarce heeding this trivial matter of which so
much was being made, "you see that he evades the point, avoids a direct
answer to the question that is raised."

"Since your ladyship perceives it, it were more merciful to spare my
invention the labor of fashioning further subterfuges. I am a sick man
still, and my wits are far from brisk." He took up the glass of wine
Leduc had poured for him.

The countess looked at him again through narrowing eyelids, the
playfulness all vanished. NAVAL RECORD--EMBARGO AND WAR ZONE.

March 1--Premier Asquith announces in the House of Commons the purpose
of England and France to cut Germany off from all trade with the rest
of the world; "the British and French Governments will, therefore,
hold themselves free to detain and take into port ships carrying
goods of presumed enemy destination, ownership, or origin"; officials
in Washington think this attitude of the Allies disregards American
rights.

March 3--Germany alters relief ship rules; vessels may pass through
the English Channel unmolested, but because of mines Germany cannot
grant safe conduct for relief ships to and from England.

March 4--Secretary Bryan makes public the text of German reply to American
note suggesting modifications of war zone decree; Germany expresses
willingness to make modifications if England will allow foodstuffs
and raw materials to go to German civilians, and if England will
make other modifications in her sea policy; German reply is forwarded
to Ambassador Page to be submitted to the British Foreign Office
for information of English Government; American State Department
makes public part of a recent dispatch from Ambassador Gerard stating
that German Government refuses to accept responsibility for routes
followed by neutral steamers outside German waters; Henry van Dyke,
American Minister at The Hague, advises the State Department that
Germany is anxious to give every possible support to the work of
American Relief Commission for Belgium, and will facilitate the
passage of ships as much as possible.

       March 5--Holland-America Line steamer
        Noorderdijk, bound for New York, returns
        to Rotterdam badly disabled, it being reported that she was torpedoed
in English Channel.

March 6--Passenger service from Holland to England is to be extended.

March 8--Germany includes in the war zone the waters surrounding
the Orkney and Shetland Islands, but navigation on both sides of
the Faroe Islands is not endangered.

March 9--It is announced at Washington that identical notes of
inquiry have been sent to the British and French Governments asking
for particulars as to how embargo on shipments to and from Germany
is to be enforced.

Caryll succumbed to the wound he had
taken. With some women, to suspect a thing is to believe that thing. Her
ladyship was of these. She set too high value upon her acumen, upon the
keenness of her instincts.

And if aught were needed to cement her present suspicions, Mr. Caryll
himself afforded that cement, by seeming to betray the same eagerness to
be alone with his lordship that his lordship was betraying to be alone
with him; though, in truth, he no more than desired to lend assistance
to the earl out of curiosity to learn what it was his lordship might
have to say.

"Indeed," said he, "if you could give his lordship leave, ma'am, for a
few moments, I should myself be glad on't."

"Come, Hortensia," said her ladyship shortly, and swept out, Mistress
Winthrop following.

In silence they crossed the lawn together. Once only ere they reached
the house, her ladyship looked back. "I would I knew what they are
plotting," she said through her teeth.

"Plotting?" echoed Hortensia.

"Ay--plotting, simpleton. I said plotting. I mind me 'tis not the first
time I have seen them so mysterious together. It began on the day that
first Mr. Caryll set foot at Stretton House. There's a deal of mystery
about that man--too much for honesty. And then these letters touching
which he is so close--one a day--and his French lackey always at hand to
pounce upon them the moment they arrive. I wonder what's at bottom on't!
I wonder! And I'd give these ears to know," she snapped in conclusion as
they went indoors.

In the arbor, meanwhile, his lordship had taken the rustic seat her
ladyship had vacated. He sat down heavily, like a man who is weary in
body and in mind, like a man who is bearing a load too heavy for his
shoulders. Mr. Caryll, watching him, observed all this.

"A glass of Hock?" he suggested, waving his hand towards the flask. "Let
me play host to you out of the contents of your own cellar."

His lordship's eye brightened at the suggestion, which confirmed the
impression Mr. Caryll had formed that all was far from well with his
lordship. Leduc brimmed a glass, and handed it to my lord, who emptied
it at a draught. Mr. Caryll waved an impatient hand. "Away with you,
Leduc. Go watch the goldfish in the pond. I'll call you if I need you."

After Leduc had departed a silence fell between them, and endured some
moments. His lordship was leaning forward, elbows on knees, his face in
shadow. At length he sat back, and looked at his companion across the
little intervening space.

"I have hesitated to speak to you before, Mr. Caryll, upon the matter
that you know of, lest your recovery should not be so far advanced that
you might bear the strain and fatigue of conversing upon serious topics.
I trust that that cause is now so far removed that I may put aside my
scruples."

"Assuredly--I am glad to say--thanks to the great care you have had of
me here at Stretton House."

"There is no debt between us on that score," answered his lordship
shortly, brusquely almost. "Well, then--" He checked, and looked about
him. "We might be approached without hearing any one," he said.

Mr. Caryll smiled, and shook his head. "I am not wont to neglect such
details," he observed. "The eyes of Argus were not so vigilant as my
Leduc's; and he understands that we are private. He will give us
warning should any attempt to approach. Be assured of that, and believe,
therefore, that we are more snug here than we should be even in your
lordship's closet."

"That being so, sir--hem! You are receiving letters daily. Do they
concern the business of King James?"

"In a measure; or, rather, they are from one concerned in it."

Ostermore's eyes were on the ground again. There fell a pause, Mr.
Caryll frowning slightly and full of curiosity as to what might be
coming.

"How soon, think you," asked his lordship presently, "you will be in
case to travel?"

"In a week, I hope," was the reply.

"Good." The earl nodded thoughtfully. "That may be in time. I pray it
may be. 'Tis now the best that we can do. You'll bear a letter for me to
the king?"

Mr. Caryll passed a hand across his chin, his face very grave. "Your
answer to the letter that I brought you?"

"My answer. My acceptance of his majesty's proposals."

"Ha!" Mr. Caryll seemed to be breathing hard.

"Your letters, sir--the letters that you have been receiving will have
told you, perhaps, something of how his majesty's affairs are speeding
here?"

"Very little; and from that little I fear that they speed none too well.
I would counsel your lordship," he continued slowly--he was thinking
as he went--"to wait a while before you burn your boats. From what I
gather, matters are in the air just now."

The earl made a gesture, brusque and impatient. "Your information is
very scant, then," said he.

Mr. Caryll looked askance at him.

"Pho, sir! While you have been abed, I have been up and doing; up and
doing. Matters are being pushed forward rapidly. I have seen Atterbury.
He knows my mind. There lately came an agent from the king, it seems, to
enjoin the bishop to abandon this conspiracy, telling him that the time
was not yet ripe. Atterbury scorns to act upon that order. He will work
in the king's interests against the king's own commands even."

"Then, 'tis possible he may work to his own undoing," said Mr. Caryll,
to whom this was, after all, no news.

"Nay, nay; you have been sick; you do not know how things have sped
in this past month. Atterbury holds, and he is right, I dare swear--he
holds that never will there be such another opportunity. The finances
of the country are still in chaos, in spite of all Walpole's efforts
and fine promises. The South Sea bubble has sapped the confidence in the
government of all men of weight. The very Whigs themselves are shaken.
'Tis to King James, England begins to look for salvation from this
topsy-turveydom. The tide runs strongly in our favor. Strongly, sir!
If we stay for the ebb, we may stay for good; for there may never be
another flow within our lifetime."

"Your lordship is grown strangely hot upon this question," said Caryll,
very full of wonder.

As he understood Ostermore, the earl was scarcely the sentimentalist
to give way to such a passion of loyalty for a weaker side. Yet his
lordship had spoken, not with the cold calm of the practical man who
seeks advantage, but with all the fervor of the enthusiast.

"Such is my interest," answered his lordship. "Even as the fortunes of
the country are beggared by the South Sea Company, so are my own; even
as the country must look to King James for its salvation, so must I. At
best 'tis but a forlorn hope, I confess; yet 'tis the only hope I see."

Mr. Caryll looked at him, smiled to himself, and nodded. So! All this
fire and enthusiasm was about the mending of his personal fortunes--the
grubbing of riches for himself. Well, well! It was good matter wasted on
a paltry cause. But it sorted excellently with what Mr. Caryll knew
of the nature of this father of his. It never could transcend the
practical; there was no imagination to carry it beyond those narrow
sordid confines, and Mr. Caryll had been a fool to have supposed that
any other springs were pushing here. Egotism, egotism, egotism! Its
name, he thought, was surely Ostermore. And again, as once before, under
the like circumstances, he found more pity than scorn awaking in his
heart. The whole wasted, sterile life that lay behind this man; the
unhappy, loveless home that stood about him now in his declining years
were the fruits he had garnered from that consuming love of self with
which the gods had cursed him.

The only ray to illumine the black desert of Ostermore's existence
was the affection of his ward, Hortensia Winthrop, because in that one
instance he had sunk his egotism a little, sparing a crumb of pity--for
once in his life--for the child's orphanhood. Had Ostermore been other
than the man he was, his existence must have proved a burden beyond his
strength. It was so barren of good deeds, so sterile of affection.
Yet encrusted as he was in that egotism of his--like the limpet in
its shell--my lord perceived nothing of this, suffered nothing of it,
understanding nothing. He was all-sufficient to himself. Giving nothing,
he looked for nothing, and sought his happiness--without knowing the
quest vain--in what he had. The fear of losing this had now in his
declining years cast, at length, a shadow upon his existence.

Mr. Caryll looked at him almost sorrowfully. Then he put by his
thoughts, and broke the silence. "All this I had understood when first I
sought you out," said he. "Yet your lordship did not seem to realize it
quite so keenly. Is it that Atterbury and his friends--?"

"No, no," Ostermore broke in. "Look'ee! I will be frank--quite frank and
open with you, Mr. Caryll. Things were bad when first you came to
me. Yet not so bad that I was driven to a choice of evils. I had lost
heavily. But enough remained to bear me through my time, though Rotherby
might have found little enough left after I had gone. While that was so,
I hesitated to take a risk. I am an old man. It had been different had I
been young with ambitions that craved satisfying. I am an old man; and
I desired peace and my comforts. Deeming these assured, I paused ere I
risked their loss against the stake which in King James's name you set
upon the board. But it happens to-day that these are assured no longer,"
he ended, his voice breaking almost, his eyes haggard. "They are assured
no longer."

"You mean?" inquired Caryll.

"I mean that I am confronted by the danger of beggary, ruin, shame, and
the sponging-house, at best."

Mr. Caryll was stirred out of his calm. "My lord!" he cried. "How is
this possible? What can have come to pass?"

The earl was silent for a long while. It was as if he pondered how he
should answer, or whether he should answer at all. At last, in a low
voice, a faint tinge reddening his face, his eyes averted, he explained.
It shamed him so to do, yet must he satisfy that craving of weak minds
to unburden, to seek relief in confession. "Mine is the case of Craggs,
the secretary of state," he said. "And Craggs, you'll remember, shot
himself."

"My God," said Mr. Caryll, and opened wide his eyes. "Did you-?" He
paused, not knowing what euphemism to supply for the thing his lordship
must have done.

His lordship looked up, sneering almost in self-derision. "I did," he
answered. "To tell you all--I accepted twenty thousand pounds' worth of
South Sea stock when the company was first formed, for which I did not
pay other than by lending the scheme the support of my name at a time
when such support was needed. I was of the ministry, then, you will
remember."

Mr. Caryll considered him again, and wondered a moment at the
confession, till he understood by intuition that the matter and its
consequences were so deeply preying upon the man's mind that he could
not refrain from giving vent to his fears.

"And now you know," his lordship added, "why my hopes are all in King
James. Ruin stares me in the face. Ruin and shame. This forlorn Stuart
hope is the only hope remaining me. Therefore, am I eager to embrace it.
I have made all plain to you. You should understand now."

"Yet not quite all. You did this thing. But the inspection of the
company's books is past. The danger of discovery, at least, is averted.
Or is it that your conscience compels you to make restitution?"

His lordship stared and gaped. "Do you suppose me mad?" he inquired,
quite seriously. "Pho! Others were overlooked at the time. We did
not all go the way of Craggs and Aislabie and their fellow-sufferers.
Stanhope was assailed afterward, though he was innocent. That filthy
fellow, the Duke of Wharton, from being an empty fop turned himself on a
sudden into a Crown attorney to prosecute the peculators. It was an easy
road to fame for him, and the fool had a gift of eloquence. Stanhope's
death is on his conscience--or would be if he had one. That was six
months ago. When he discovered his error in the case of Stanhope and saw
the fatal consequences it had, he ceased his dirty lawyer's work. But
he had good grounds upon which to suspect others as highly placed as
Stanhope, and had he followed his suspicions he might have turned them
into certainties and discovered evidence. As it was, he let the matter
lie, content with the execution he had done, and the esteem into which
he had so suddenly hoisted himself--the damned profligate!"

Mr. Caryll let pass, as typical, the ludicrous want of logic in
Ostermore's strictures of his Grace of Wharton, and the application by
him to the duke of opprobrious terms that were no whit less applicable
to himself.

"Then, that being so, what cause for these alarms some six months
later?"

"Because," answered his lordship in a sudden burst of passion that
brought him to his feet, empurpled his face and swelled the veins of his
forehead, "because I am cursed with the filthiest fellow in England for
my son."

He said it with the air of one who throws a flood of light where
darkness has been hitherto, who supplies the key that must resolve at a
turn a whole situation. But Mr. Caryll blinked foolishly.

"My wits are very dull, I fear," said he. "I still cannot understand."

"Then I'll make it all clear to you," said his lordship.

Leduc appeared at the arbor entrance.

"What now?" asked Mr. Caryll.

"Her ladyship is approaching, sir," answered Leduc the vigilant.


CHAPTER XIV. LADY OSTERMORE


Lord Ostermore and Mr. Caryll looked across the lawn towards the house,
but failed to see any sign of her ladyship's approach.

Mr. Caryll raised questioning eyes to his servant's stolid face, and in
that moment caught the faintest rustle of a gown behind the arbor. He
half-turned to my lord, and nodded slightly in the direction of the
sound, a smile twisting his lips. With a gesture he dismissed Leduc, who
returned to the neighborhood of the pond.

His lordship frowned, angered by the interruption. Then: "If your
ladyship will come inside," said he, "you will hear better and with
greater comfort."

"Not to speak of dignity," said Mr. Caryll.

The stiff gown rustled again, this time without stealth. The countess
appeared, no whit abashed. Mr. Caryll rose politely.

"You sit with spies to guard your approaches," said she.

"As a precaution against spies," was his lordship's curt answer.

She measured him with a cool eye. "What is't ye hide?" she asked him.

"My shame," he answered readily. Then after a moment's pause, he rose
and offered her his seat. "Since you have thrust yourself in where you
were not bidden, you may hear and welcome, ma'am," said he. "It may help
you to understand what you term my injustice to my son."

"Are these matters wherewith to importune a stranger--a guest?"

"I am proposing to say in your presence what I was about to say in your
absence," said he, without answering her question. "Be seated, ma'am."

She sniffed, closed her fan with a clatter, and sat down. Mr. Caryll
resumed his long chair, and his lordship took the stool.

"I am told," the latter resumed presently, recapitulating in part for
her ladyship's better understanding, "that his Grace of Wharton is
intending to reopen the South Sea scandal, as soon as he can find
evidence that I was one of those who profited by the company's charter."

"Profited?" she echoed, between scorn and bitter amusement. "Profited,
did ye say? I think your dotage is surely upon you--you that have sunk
nigh all your fortune and all that you had with me in this thieving
venture--d'ye talk of profits?"

"At the commencement I did profit, as did many others. Had I been
content with my gains, had I been less of a trusting fool, it had been
well. I was dazzled, maybe, by the glare of so much gold. I needed more;
and so I lost all. That is evil enough. But there is worse. I may be
called upon to make restitution of what I had from the company without
paying for it--I may give all that's left me and barely cover the
amount, and I may starve and be damned thereafter."

Her ladyship's face was ghastly. Horror stared from her pale eyes. She
had known, from the beginning, of that twenty thousand pounds' worth of
stock, and she had had--with his lordship--her anxious moments when
the disclosures were being made six months ago that had brought the
Craggses, Aislabie and a half-dozen others to shame and ruin.

His lordship looked at her a moment. "And if this shipwreck comes, as
it now threatens," he continued, "it is my son I shall have to thank
for't."

She found voice to ask: "How so?" courage to put the question
scornfully. "Is it not rather Rotherby you have to thank that the
disclosures did not come six months ago? What was it saved you but the
friendship his Grace of Wharton had for Charles?"

"Why, then," stormed his lordship, "did he not see to't that he
preserved that friendship? It but needed a behavior of as much decency
and honor as Wharton exacts in his associates--and the Lord knows how
much that is!" he sneered. "As it is, he has gone even lower than that
abandoned scourer; so low that even this rakehell duke must become his
enemy for his own credit's sake. He attempts mock-marriages with ladies
of quality; and he attempts murder by stabbing through the back a
gentleman who has spared his worthless life. Not even the president of
the Hell Fire Club can countenance these things, strong stomach though
he have for villainy. It is something to have contrived to come so low
that even his Grace of Wharton must turn upon him, and swear his ruin.
And so that he may ruin him, his grace is determined to ruin me. Now you
understand, madam--and you, Mr. Caryll."

Mr. Caryll understood. He understood even more than his lordship meant
him to understand; more than his lordship understood, himself. So, too,
did her ladyship, if we may judge from the reply she made him.

"You fool," she railed. "You vain, blind, selfish fool! To blame
Rotherby for this. Rather should Rotherby, blame you that by your damned
dishonesty have set a weapon against him in his enemy's hands."

"Madam!" he roared, empurpling, and coming heavily to his feet. "Do you
know who I am?"

"Ay--and what you are, which is something you will never know. God! Was
there ever so self-centered a fool? Compassionate me, Heaven!" She rose,
too, and turned to Mr. Caryll. "You, sir," she said to him, "you have
been dragged into this, I know not why."

She broke off suddenly, looking at him, her eyes a pair of gimlets now
for penetration. "Why have you been dragged into it?" she demanded.
"What is here? I demand to know. What help does my lord expect from
you that he tells you this? Does he--" She paused an instant, a cunning
smile breaking over her wrinkled, painted face. "Does he propose to sell
himself to the king over the water, and are you a secret agent come to
do the buying? Is that the answer to this riddle?"

Mr. Caryll, imperturbable outwardly, but very ill at ease within, smiled
and waved the delicate hand that appeared through the heavy ruffle at
his wrist. "Madam, indeed--ah--your ladyship goes very fast. You leap
so at conclusions for which no grounds can exist. His lordship is so
overwrought--as well he may be, alas!--that he cares not before whom he
speaks. Is it not plainly so?"

She smiled very sourly. "You are a very master of evasion, sir. But your
evasion gives me the answer that I lack--that and his lordship's face.
I drew my bow at a venture; yet look, sir, and tell me, has my quarrel
missed its mark?"

And, indeed, the sudden fear and consternation written on my lord's face
was so plain that all might read it. He was--as Mr. Caryll had remarked
on the first occasion that they met--the worst dissembler that ever
set hand to a conspiracy. He betrayed himself at every step, if not
positively, by incautious words, why then by the utter lack of control
he had upon his countenance.

He made now a wild attempt to bluster. "Lies! Lies!" he protested. "Your
ladyship's a-dreaming. Should I be making bad worse by plotting at my
time of life? Should I? What can King James avail me, indeed?"

"'Tis what I will ask Rotherby to help me to discover," she informed
him.

"Rotherby?" he cried. "Would you tell that villain what you suspect?
Would you arm him with another weapon for my undoing?"

"Ha!" said she. "You admit so much, then?" And she laughed disdainfully.
Then with a sudden sternness, a sudden nobility almost in the motherhood
which she put forward--"Rotherby is my son," she said, "and I'll not
have my son the victim of your follies as well as of your injustice. We
may curb the one and the other yet, my lord."

And she swept out, fan going briskly in one hand, her long ebony cane
swinging as briskly in the other.

"O God!" groaned Ostermore, and sat down heavily.

Mr. Caryll helped himself copiously to snuff. "I think," said he, his
voice so cool that it had an almost soothing influence, "I think your
lordship has now another reason why you should go no further in this
matter."

"But if I do not--what other hopes have I? Damn me! I'm a ruined man
either way."

"Nay, nay," Mr. Caryll reminded him. "Assuming even that you are
correctly informed, and that his Grace of Wharton is determined to move
against you, it is not to be depended that he will succeed in collecting
such evidence as he must need. At this date much of the evidence that
may once have been available will have been dissipated. You are rash to
despair so soon."

"There is that," his lordship admitted thoughtfully, a little hopefully,
even; "there is that." And with the resilience of his nature--of men
who form opinions on slight grounds, and, therefore, are ready to change
them upon grounds as slight--"I' faith! I may have been running to meet
my trouble. 'Tis but a rumor, after all, that Wharton is for mischief,
and--as you say--as like as not there'll be no evidence by now. There
was little enough at the time.

"Still, I'll make doubly sure. My letter to King James can do no harm.
We'll talk of it again, when you are in case to travel."

It passed through Mr. Caryll's mind at the moment that Lady Ostermore
and her son might between them brew such mischief as might seriously
hinder him from travelling, and he was very near the truth. For already
her ladyship was closeted with Rotherby in her boudoir.

The viscount was dressed for travelling, intent upon withdrawing to the
country, for he was well-informed already of the feeling of the
town concerning him, and had no mind to brave the slights and
cold-shoulderings that would await him did he penetrate to any of the
haunts of people of quality and fashion. He stood before his mother now,
a tall, lank figure, his black face very gloomy, his sensual lips
thrust forward in a sullen pout. She, in a gilt arm-chair before her
toilet-table, was telling him the story of what had passed, his father's
fear of ruin and disgrace. He swore between his teeth when he heard that
the danger threatened from the Duke of Wharton.

"And your father's destitution means our destitution--yours and mine;
for his gambling schemes have consumed my portion long since."

He laughed and shrugged. "I marvel I should concern myself," said he.
"What can it avail me to save the rags that are left him of his fortune?
He's sworn I shall never touch a penny that he may die possessed of."

"But there's the entail," she reminded him. "If restitution is demanded,
the Crown will not respect it. 'Twill be another sop to throw the
whining curs that were crippled by the bubble, and who threaten to
disturb the country if they are not appeased. If Wharton carries out
this exposure, we're beggars--utter beggars, that may ask an alms to
quiet hunger."

"'Tis Wharton's present hate of me," said he thoughtfully, and swore.
"The damned puppy! He'd make a sacrifice of me upon the altar of
respectability, just as he made a sacrifice of the South Sea bubblers.
What else was the stinking rakehell seeking but to put himself right
again in the eyes of a town that was nauseated with him and his
excesses? The self-seeking toad that makes virtue his profession--the
virtue of others--and profligacy his recreation!" He smote fist into
palm. "There's a way to silence him."

"Ah?" she looked up quickly, hopefully.

"A foot or so of steel," Rotherby explained, and struck the hilt of his
sword. "I might pick a quarrel with him. 'Twould not be difficult. Come
upon him unawares, say, and strike him. That should force a fight."

"Tusk, fool! He's all empanoplied in virtue where you are concerned.
He'd use the matter of your affair with Caryll as a reason not to
meet you, whatever you might do, and he'd set his grooms to punish any
indignity you might put upon him."

"He durst not."

"Pooh! The town would all approve him in it since your running Caryll
through the back. What a fool you were, Charles."

He turned away, hanging his head, full conscious, and with no little
bitterness, of how great had been his folly.

"Salvation may lie for you in the same source that has brought you to
the present pass--this man Caryll," said the countess presently. "I
suspect him more than ever of being a Jacobite agent."

"I know him to be such."

"You know it?"

"All but; and Green is assured of it, too." He proceeded to tell her
what he knew. "Ever since Green met Caryll at Maidstone has he suspected
him, yet but that I kept him to the task he would have abandoned it.
He's in my pay now as much as in Lord Carteret's, and if he can run
Caryll to earth he receives his wages from both sides."

"Well--well? What has he discovered? Anything?"

"A little. This Caryll frequented regularly the house of one Everard,
who came to town a week after Caryll's own arrival. This Everard--Sir
Richard Everard is known to be a Jacobite. He is the Pretender's
Paris agent. They would have laid him by the heels before, but that
by precipitancy they feared to ruin their chances of discovering the
business that may have brought him over. They are giving him rope at
present. Meanwhile, by my cursed folly, Caryll's visits to him were
interrupted. But there has been correspondence between them."

"I know," said her ladyship. "A letter was delivered him just now. I
tried to smoke him concerning it. But he's too astute."

"Astute or not," replied her son, "once he leaves Stretton House it
should not be long ere he betrays himself and gives us cause to lay him
by the heels. But how will that help us?"

"Do you ask how? Why, if there is a plot, and we can discover it, we
might make terms with the secretary of state to avoid any disclosure
Wharton may intend concerning the South Sea matter."

"But that would be to discover my father for a Jacobite! What advantage
should we derive from that? 'Twould be as bad as t'other matter."

"Let me die, but ye're a slow-witted clod, Charles. D'ye think we can
find no way to disclose the plot and Mr. Caryll--and Everard, too, if
you choose--without including your father? My lord is timidly cautious,
and you may depend he'll not have put himself in their hands to any
extent just yet."

The viscount paced the chamber slowly in long strides, head bent in
thought, hands clasped behind him. "It will need consideration," said
he. "But it may serve, and I can count upon Green. He is satisfied that
Caryll befooled him at Maidstone, and that he kept the papers he carried
despite the thoroughness of Green's investigations. Moreover, he was
handled with some roughness by Caryll. For that and the other matter
he asks redress--thirsts for it. He's a very willing tool, as I have
found."

"Then see that you use him adroitly to your work," said his mother.
"Best not leave town at present, Charles."

"Why, no," said he. "I'll find me a lodging somewhere at hand, since my
fond sire is determined I shall pollute no longer the sacrosanctity of
his dwelling. Perhaps when I have pulled him out of this quicksand, he
will deign to mitigate the bitterness of his feelings for me. Though,
faith, I find life endurable without the affection he should have
consecrated to me."

"Ay," she said, looking up at him. "You are his son; too much his son,
I fear. 'Tis why he dislikes you so intensely. He sees in you the faults
to which he is blind in himself."

"Sweet mother!" said his lordship, bowing.

She scowled at him. She could deal in irony herself--and loved to--but
she detested to have it dealt to her.

He bowed again; gained the door, and would have passed out but that she
detained him.

"'Tis a pity, on some scores, to dispose so utterly of this Caryll,"
she said. "The pestilent coxcomb has his uses, and his uses, like
adversity's, are sweet."

He paused to question her with his eyes.

"He might have made a husband for Hortensia, and rid me of the company
of that white-faced changeling."

"Might he so?" quoth the viscount, face and voice, expressionless.

"They were made for each other," her ladyship opined.

"Were they so?"

"Ay--were they. And faith they've discovered it. I would you had seen
the turtles in the arbor an hour ago, when I surprised them."

His lordship attempted a smile, but achieved nothing more than a wry
face and a change of color. His mother's eyes, observing these signs,
grew on a sudden startled.

"Why, fool," quoth she, "do you hold there still? Art not yet cured of
that folly?"

"What folly, ma'am?"

"This folly that already has cost you so much. 'Sdeath! As I'm a woman,
if you'd so much feeling for the girl, I marvel ye did not marry her
honestly and in earnest when the chance was yours."

The pallor of his face increased. He clenched his hands. "I marvel
myself that I did not," he answered passionately--and went out, slamming
the door after him, and leaving her ladyship agape and angry.


CHAPTER XV. LOVE AND RAGE


Lord Rotherby, descending from that interview with his mother, espied
Hortensia crossing the hall below. Forgetting his dignity, he quickened
his movements, and took the remainder of the stairs two at a stride.
But, then, his lordship was excited and angry, and considerations of
dignity did not obtain with him at the time. For that matter, they
seldom did.

"Hortensia! Hortensia!" he called to her, and at his call she paused.

Not once during the month that was past--and during which he had,
for the most part, kept his room, to all intents a prisoner--had she
exchanged so much as a word with him. Thus, not seeing him, she had been
able, to an extent, to exclude him from her thoughts, which, naturally
enough, were reluctant to entertain him for their guest.

Her calm, as she paused now in acquiescence to his bidding, was such
that it almost surprised herself. She had loved him once--or thought
so, a little month ago--and at a single blow he had slain that love. Now
love so slain has a trick of resurrecting in the guise of hate; and so,
she had thought at first had been the case with her. But this moment
proved to her now that her love was dead, indeed, since of her erstwhile
affection not even a recoil to hate remained. Dislike she may have felt;
but it was that cold dislike that breeds a deadly indifference, and
seeks no active expression, asking no more than the avoidance of its
object.

Her calm, reflected in her face of a beauty almost spiritual, in every
steady line of her slight, graceful figure, gave him pause a moment, and
his hot glance fell abashed before the chill indifference that met him
from those brown eyes.

A man of deeper sensibilities, of keener perceptions, would have bowed
and gone his way. But then a man of deeper sensibilities would never
have sought this interview that the viscount was now seeking. Therefore,
it was but natural that he should recover swiftly from his momentary
halt, and step aside to throw open the door of a little room on the
right of the hall. Bowing slightly, he invited her to enter.

"Grant me a moment ere I go, Hortensia," he said 'between command and
exhortation.

She stood cogitating him an instant, with no outward sign of what might
be passing in her mind; then she slightly inclined her head, and went
forward as he bade her.

It was a sunny room, gay with light color and dainty furnishings, having
long window-doors that opened to the garden. An Aubusson carpet of
palest green, with a festoon pattern of pink roses, covered two-thirds
of the blocked, polished floor. The empanelled walls were white, with
here a gilt mirror, flanked on either side by a girandole in ormolu. A
spinet stood open in mid-chamber, and upon it were sheets of music,
a few books and a bowl of emerald-green ware, charged now with roses,
whose fragrance lay heavy on the air. There were two or three
small tables of very dainty, fragile make, and the chairs were in
delicately-tinted tapestry illustrating the fables of La Fontaine.

It was an apartment looked upon by Hortensia as her own
withdrawing-room, set apart for her own use, and as that the
household--her very ladyship included--had ever recognized it.

His lordship closed the door with care. Hortensia took her seat upon
the long stool that stood at the spinet, her back to the instrument,
and with hands idle in her lap--the same cold reserve upon her
countenance-she awaited his communication.

He advanced until he was close beside her, and stood leaning an elbow
on the corner of the spinet, a long and not ungraceful figure, with
the black curls of his full-bottomed wig falling about his swarthy,
big-featured face.

"I have but my farewells to make, Hortensia," said he. "I am leaving
Stretton House, to-day, at last."

"I am glad," said she, in a formal, level voice, "that things should
have fallen out so as to leave you free to go your ways."

"You are glad," he answered, frowning slightly, and leaning farther
towards her. "Ay, and why are you glad? Why? You are glad for Mr.
Caryll's sake. Do you deny it?"

She looked up at him quite calm and fearlessly. "I am glad for your own
sake, too."

His dark brooding eyes looked deep into hers, which did not falter under
his insistent gaze. "Am I to believe you?" he inquired.

"Why not? I do not wish your death."

"Not my death--but my absence?" he sneered. "You wish for that, do you
not? You would prefer me gone? My room is better than my company just
now? 'Tis what you think, eh?"

"I have not thought of it at all," she answered him with a pitiless
frankness.

He laughed, soft and wickedly. "Is it so very hopeless, then? You have
not thought of it at all by which you mean that you have not thought of
me at all."

"Is't not best so? You have given me no cause to think of you to your
advantage. I am therefore kind to exclude you from my thoughts."

"Kind?" he mocked her. "You think it kind to put me from your mind--I
who love you, Hortensia!"

She rose upon the instant, her cheeks warming faintly. "My lord," said
she, "I think there is no more to be said between us."

"Ah, but there is," he cried. "A deal more yet." And he left his place
by the spinet to come and stand immediately before her, barring her
passage to the door. "Not only to say farewell was it that I desired to
speak with you alone here." His voice softened amazingly. "I want your
pardon ere I go. I want you to say that you forgive me the vile thing I
would have done, Hortensia." Contrition quivered in his lowered voice.
He bent a knee to her, and held out his hand. "I will not rise until you
speak my pardon, child."

"Why, if that be all, I pardon you very readily," she answered, still
betraying no emotion.

He frowned. "Too readily!" he cried. "Too readily for sincerity. I will
not take it so."

"Indeed, my lord, for a penitent, you are very difficult to please. I
pardon you with all my heart."

"You are sincere?" he cried, and sought to take her hands; but she
whipped them away and behind her. "You bear me no ill-will?"

She considered him now with a calm, critical gaze, before which he was
forced to lower his bold eyes. "Why should I bear you an ill-will?" she
asked him.

"For the thing I did--the thing I sought to do."

"I wonder do you know all that you did?" she asked him, musingly. "Shall
I tell you, my lord? You cured me of a folly. I had been blind, and you
made me see. I had foolishly thought to escape one evil, and you made me
realize that I was rushing into a worse. You saved me from myself. You
may have made me suffer then; but it was a healing hurt you dealt me.
And should I bear you an ill-will for that?"

In the mean time, William himself was at Paris, and only eleven years
of age.

He had been receiving a careful education there, and was a very
prepossessing and accomplished young prince. Still, he was yet but a
mere boy. He had been under the care of a military tutor, whose name
was Theroulde.

Theroulde was a veteran soldier, who had long been in the employ of
the King of France. He took great interest in his young pupil's progress.
He taught him to ride and to practice all the evolutions of horsemanship
which were required by the tactics of those days. He trained him, too,
in the use of arms, the bow and arrow, the javelin, the sword, the spear,
and accustomed him to wear, and to exercise in, the armor of steel
with which warriors were used, in those days, to load themselves
in going into battle.

Young princes like William had suits of this armor made for them,
of small size, which they were accustomed to wear in private in
their military exercises and trainings, and to appear in, publicly,
on great occasions of state.

These dresses of iron were of course very heavy and uncomfortable,
but the young princes and dukes were, nevertheless, very proud and
happy to wear them.

While William was thus engaged in pursuing his military education in
Paris, several competitors for his dukedom immediately appeared
in Normandy and took the field.

The strongest and most prominent among them was the Earl of Arques.

His name was William too, but, to distinguish him from the young
duke, we shall call him Arques. He was a brother of Robert, and
maintained that, as Robert left no lawful heir, he was indisputably
entitled to succeed him.

Arques assembled his forces and prepared to take possession of the
country.

It will be recollected that Robert, when he left Normandy in setting
out on his pilgrimage, had appointed a nobleman named Alan to act
as regent, or governor of the country, until he should return; or,
in case he should never return, until William should become of age.

Alan had a council of officers, called the council of regency, with
whose aid he managed the administration of the government. This
council, with Alan at their head, proclaimed young William duke,
and immediately began to act in his name.

When they found that the Earl of Arques was preparing to seize the
government, they began to assemble their forces also, and thus
both sides prepared for war.

Before they actually commenced hostilities, however, the pilgrim knights
who had accompanied Robert on his pilgrimage, and who had been
journeying home slowly by themselves ever since their leader's death,
arrived in Normandy. These were chieftains and nobles of high rank and
influence, and each of the contending parties were eager to have
them join their side.

Besides the actual addition of force which these men could bring to
the cause they should espouse, the moral support they would give
to it was a very important consideration.

Their having been on this long and dangerous pilgrimage invested them
with a sort of romantic and religious interest in the minds of all the
people, who looked up to them, in consequence of it, with a sort of
veneration and awe; and then, as they had been selected by Robert
to accompany him on his pilgrimage, and had gone on the long and
dangerous journey with him, continuing to attend upon him until he
died, they were naturally regarded as his most faithful and
confidential friends.

For these and similar reasons, it was obvious that the cause which
they should espouse in the approaching contest would gain a large
accession of moral power by their adhesion.

As soon as they arrived in Normandy, rejecting all proposals from other
quarters, they joined young William's cause with the utmost promptitude
and decision. Alan received them at once into his councils. An
assembly was convened, and the question was discussed whether William
should be sent for to come to Normandy.

Some argued that he was yet a mere boy, incapable of rendering them any
real service in the impending contest, while he would be exposed,
more perhaps than they themselves, to be taken captive or slain.

They thought it best, therefore, that he should remain, for the
present, in Paris, under the protection of the French king.

Others, on the other hand, contended that the influence of William's
presence, boy as he was, would animate and inspire all his followers,
and awaken every where, throughout the country, a warm interest in
his cause; that his very tenderness and helplessness would appeal
strongly to every generous heart, and that his youthful accomplishments
and personal charms would enlist thousands in his favor, who would
forget, and perhaps abandon him, if he kept away.

Besides, it was by no means certain that he was so safe as some might
suppose in King Henry's custody and power.

King Henry might himself lay claims to the vacant duchy, with a
view of bestowing it upon some favorite of his own, in which case
he might confine young William in one of his castles, in an honorable,
but still rigid and hopeless captivity, or treacherously destroy
his life by the secret administration of poison.

These latter counsels prevailed. Alan and the nobles who were with him
sent an embassage to the court of King Henry to bring William home.

Henry made objections and difficulties. This alarmed the nobles. They
feared that it would prove true that Henry himself had designs on
Normandy.

They sent a new embassage, with demands more urgent than before. Finally,
after some time spent in negotiations and delays, King Henry
concluded to yield, and William set out on his return.

He was now about twelve or thirteen years old. His military tutor,
Theroulde, accompanied him, and he was attended likewise by the embassadors
whom Alan had sent for him, and by a strong escort for his protection
by the way.

He arrived in safety at Alan's head-quarters.

William's presence in Normandy had the effect which had been anticipated
from it.

It awakened every where a great deal of enthusiasm in his favor. The
soldiers were pleased to see how handsome their young commander was in
form, and how finely he could ride. He was, in fact, a very superior
equestrian for one so young.

He was more fond, even, than other boys of horses; and as, of course,
the most graceful and the fleetest horses which could be found
were provided for him, and as Theroulde had given him the best and
most complete instruction, he made a fine display as he rode swiftly
through the camp, followed by veteran nobles, splendidly dressed
and mounted, and happy to be in his train, while his own countenance
beamed with a radiance in which native intelligence and beauty were
heightened by the animation and excitement of pride and pleasure.

In respect to the command of the army, of course the real power remained
in Alan's hands, but every thing was done in William's name; and in respect
to all external marks and symbols of sovereignty, the beautiful boy
seemed to possess the supreme command; and as the sentiment of loyalty
is always the strongest when the object which calls for the exercise
of it is most helpless or frail, Alan found his power very much increased
when he had this beautiful boy to exhibit as the true and rightful heir,
in whose name and for whose benefit all his power was held.

Still, however, the country was very far from becoming settled. The
Earl of Arques kept the field, and other claimants, too, strengthened
themselves in their various castles and towns, as if preparing to
resist.

In those days, every separate district of the country was almost a separate
realm, governed by its own baron, who lived, with his retainers, within
his own castle walls, and ruled the land around him with a rod of
iron. These barons were engaged in perpetual quarrels among
themselves, each plundering the dominions of the rest, or making
hostile incursions into the territories of a neighbor to revenge
some real or imaginary wrong.

This turbulence and disorder prevailed every where throughout Normandy at
the time of William's return.

In the general confusion, William's government scarcely knew who were his
friends or his enemies.

At one time, when a deputation was sent to some of the barons in
William's name, summoning them to come with their forces and join
his standard, as they were in duty bound to do, they felt independent
enough to send back word to him that they had "too much to do in
settling their own quarrels to be able to pay any attention to his."

In the course of a year or two, moreover, and while his own realm
continued in this unsettled and distracted state, William became
involved in what was almost a quarrel with King Henry himself. When
he was fifteen years old, which was two or three years after his
return from Paris to Normandy, Henry sent directions to William to
come to a certain town, called Evreux, situated about half way
between Falaise and Paris, and just within the confines of Normandy,[D]
to do homage to him there for his duchy.

There was some doubt among William's counselors whether it would be most
prudent to obey or disobey this command. They finally concluded that it
was best to obey.

Grand preparations were accordingly made for the expedition; and, when
all was ready, the young duke was conducted in great state, and with
much pomp and parade, to meet his sovereign.

[Footnote D: See map at the commencement of chapter ix.]
The interview between William and his sovereign, and the ceremonies
connected with it, lasted some days.

In the course of this time, William remained at Evreux, and was, in
some sense, of course, in Henry's power.
William, having been so long in Henry's court as a mere boy, accustomed
all the time to look up to and obey Henry as a father, regarded
him somewhat in that light now, and approached him with great
deference and respect.

Henry received him in a somewhat haughty and imperious manner, as
if he considered him still under the same subjection as heretofore.

William had a fortress or castle on the frontiers of his dukedom,
toward Henry's dominions.

The name of the castle was Tellières, and the governor of it was a
faithful old soldier named De Crespin.

William's father, Robert, had intrusted De Crespin with the command of
the castle, and given him a garrison to defend it. Henry now began to
make complaint to William in respect to this castle. The garrison,
he said, were continually making incursions into his dominions. William
replied that he was very sorry that there was cause for such a
complaint.

He would inquire into it, and if the fact were really so, he would
have the evil immediately corrected. Henry replied that that was not
sufficient. "You must deliver up the castle to me," he said, "to be
destroyed." William was indignant at such a demand; but he was so
accustomed to obey implicitly whatever King Henry might require of him,
that he sent the order to have the castle surrendered.

When, however, the order came to De Crespin, the governor of the castle,
he refused to obey it. The fortress, he said, had been committed
to his charge by Robert, duke of Normandy, and he should not give it up
to the possession of any foreign power. When this answer was reported
to William and his counselors, it made them still more indignant
than before at the domineering tyranny of the command, and more
disposed than ever to refuse obedience to it.

Still William was in a great measure in the monarch's power. On cool
reflection, they perceived that resistance would then be vain. New and
more authoritative orders were accordingly issued for the surrender of
the castle. De Crespin now obeyed.

He gave up the keys and withdrew with his garrison. William was then allowed
to leave Evreux and return home, and soon afterward the castle was
razed to the ground.

This affair produced, of course, a great deal of animosity and
irritation between the governments of France and Normandy; and where
such a state of feeling exists between two powers separated only
by an imaginary line running through a populous and fertile country,
aggressions from one side and from the other are sure to follow.

These are soon succeeded by acts of retaliation and revenge, leading,
in the end, to an open and general war. It was so now. Henry
marched his armies into Normandy, seized towns, destroyed castles,
and, where he was resisted by the people, he laid waste the country with
fire and sword.
He finally laid siege to the very castle of Falaise.

William and his government were for a time nearly overwhelmed with
the tide of disaster and calamity.

The tide turned, however, at length, and the fortune of war inclined
in their favor. William rescued the town and castle of Falaise; it was
in a very remarkable manner, too, that this exploit was accomplished.

The fortress was closely invested with Henry's forces, and was on the
very eve of being surrendered.

The story is, that Henry had offered bribes to the governor of the
castle to give it up to him, and that the governor had agreed to
receive them and to betray his trust.

While he was preparing to do so, William arrived at the head of a resolute
and determined band of Normans. They came with so sudden an onset
upon the army of besiegers as to break up their camp and force them to
abandon the siege. The people of the town and the garrison of the
castle were extremely rejoiced to be thus rescued, and when they came
to learn through whose instrumentality they had been saved, and saw the
beautiful horseman whom they remembered as a gay and happy child playing
about the precincts of the castle, they were perfectly intoxicated with
delight. They filled the air with the wildest acclamations, and
welcomed William back to the home of his childhood with manifestations
of the most extravagant joy.

As to the traitorous governor, he was dealt with very leniently.
Perhaps the general feeling of joy awakened emotions of leniency
and forgiveness in William's mind--or perhaps the proof against the
betrayer was incomplete.

They did not, therefore, take his life, which would have been justly
forfeited, according to the military ideas of the times, if he had
been really guilty.

They deprived him of his command, confiscated his property, and let him
go free.

After this, William's forces continued for some time to make head
successfully against those of the King of France; but then, on the other
hand, the danger from his uncle, the Earl of Arques, increased.

The earl took advantage of the difficulty and danger in which William
was involved in his contests with King Henry, and began to organize
his forces again. He fortified himself in his castle at Arques,[E]
and was collecting a large force there. Arques was in the northeastern
part of Normandy, near the sea, where the ruins of the ancient castle
still remain.

The earl built an almost impregnable tower for himself on the summit of
the rock on which the castle stood, in a situation so inaccessible
that he thought he could retreat to it in any emergency, with a few
chosen followers, and bid defiance to any assault.

In and around this castle the earl had got quite a large army together.
William advanced with his forces, and, encamping around them, shut
them in. King Henry, who was then in a distant part of Normandy, began
to put his army in motion to come to the rescue of Arques.

[Footnote E: See map, chapter ix.]
Things being in this state, William left a strong body of men to
continue the investment and siege of Arques, and went off himself,
at the head of the remainder of his force, to intercept Henry on
his advance.

The result was a battle and a victory, gained under circumstances so
extraordinary, that William, young as he was, acquired by his exploits
a brilliant and universal renown.

It seems that Henry, in his progress to Arques, had to pass through
a long and gloomy valley, which was bounded on either side by
precipitous and forest-covered hills.

Through this dangerous defile the long train of Henry's army was advancing,
arranged and marshaled in such an order as seemed to afford the greatest
hope of security in case of an attack.
First came the vanguard, a strong escort, formed of heavy bodies
of soldiery, armed with battle-axes and pikes, and other similar weapons,
the most efficient then known.

Immediately after this vanguard came a long train of baggage, the tents,
the provisions, the stores, and all the munitions of war. The baggage
was followed by a great company of servants--the cooks, the carters,
the laborers, the camp followers of every description--a throng of
non-combatants, useless, of course, in a battle, and a burden on a march,
and yet the inseparable and indispensable attendant of an army,
whether at rest or in motion.

After this throng came the main body of the army, with the king, escorted
by his guard of honor, at the head of it. An active and efficient corps
of lancers and men-at-arms brought up the rear.

William conceived the design of drawing this cumbrous and unmanageable
body into an ambuscade. He selected, accordingly, the narrowest and most
dangerous part of the defile for the purpose, and stationed vast numbers
of Norman soldiers, armed with javelins and arrows, upon the slopes
of the hill on either side, concealing them all carefully among the
thickets and rocks. He then marshaled the remainder of his forces in
the valley, and sent them up the valley to meet Henry as he was
descending. This body of troops, which was to advance openly to meet the
king, as if they constituted the whole of William's force, were
to fight a pretended battle with the vanguard, and then to retreat,
in hopes to draw the whole train after them in a pursuit so eager
as to throw them into confusion; and then, when the column, thus
disarranged, should reach the place of ambuscade, the Normans were
to come down upon them suddenly from their hiding-places, and
complete their discomfiture.

The plan was well laid, and wisely and bravely executed; and it was most
triumphantly successful in its result. The vanguard of Henry's army were
deceived by the pretended flight of the Norman detachment.

They supposed, too, that it constituted the whole body of their enemies.
They pressed forward, therefore, with great exultation and eagerness to
pursue them.
"Sir Richard," he announced, his voice lowered portentously, "there are
some men here who insist upon seeing you."

Mr. Caryll wheeled in his chair. "Surely they did not ask for him by
name?" he inquired in the same low key employed by the valet.

The man nodded in silence. Mr. Caryll swore through his teeth. Sir
Richard rose.

"I am occupied at present," he said in a calm voice. "I can receive
nobody. Desire to know their business. If it imports, bid them come
again to-morrow."

"It is over-urgent for that, Sir Richard Everard," came the soft voice
of Mr. Green, who thrust himself suddenly forward past the servant.
Other figures were seen moving behind him in the ante-room.

"Sir," cried Sir Richard angrily. "This is a most insolent intrusion.
Bentley, show this fellow the door."

Bentley set a hand on Mr. Green's shoulder. Mr. Green nimbly twisted
out of it, and produced a paper. "I have here a warrant for your
apprehension, Sir Richard, from my Lord Carteret, the secretary of
state."

Mr. Caryll advanced menacingly upon the tipstaff. Mr. Green stepped
back, and fell into a defensive attitude, balancing a short but
formidable-looking life-preserver.

"Keep your distance, sir, or 'twill be the worse for you," he
threatened. "Hi!" he called. "Jerry! Beattie!"

Jerry, Beattie, and two other ruffians crowded to the doorway, but
advanced little beyond the threshold. Mr. Caryll turned to Sir Richard.
But Mr. Green was the first to speak.

"Sir Richard," said he, "you'll see that we are but instruments of the
law. It grieves me profoundly to have you for our object. But ye'll
see that 'tis no affair of ours, who have but to do the duty that we're
ordered. Ye'll not give these poor fellows trouble, I trust. Ye'll
surrender quietly."

Sir Richard's answer was to pull open a drawer in the writing-table, by
which he was standing, and whip out a pistol.

What exactly he may have intended, he was never allowed to announce. An
explosion shook the room, coming from the doorway, upon which Mr. Caryll
had turned his shoulder; there was a spurt of flame, and Sir Richard
collapsed forward onto the table, and slithered thence to the ground.

Jerry, taking fright at the sight of the pistol Sir Richard had
produced, had forestalled what he supposed to be the baronet's
intentions by firing instantly upon him, with this disastrous result.

Confusion ensued. Mr. Caryll, with no more thought for the tipstaves
than he had for the smoke in his eyes or the stench of powder in his
nostrils, sped to Sir Richard. In a passion of grief and anxiety, he
raised his adoptive father, aided by Bentley, what time Mr. Green was
abusing Jerry, and Jerry was urging in exculpation how he had acted
purely in Mr. Green's interest, fearing that Sir Richard might have been
on the point of shooting him.

The spy went forward to Mr. Caryll. "I am most profoundly sorry--" he
began.

"Take your sorrow to hell," snarled Mr. Caryll, his face livid, his eyes
blazing uncannily. "I believe ye've murdered him."

"Ecod! the fool shall smart for't if Sir Richard dies," grumbled Mr.
Green.

"What's that to me? You may hang the muckworm, and what shall that
profit any one? Will it restore me Sir Richard's life? Send one of your
ruffians for a doctor, man. And bid him hasten."

Mr. Green obeyed with alacrity. Apart from his regrets at this happening
for its own sake, it would suit his interests not at all that Sir
Richard should perish thus. Meanwhile, with the help of the valet, who
was blubbering like a child--for he had been with Sir Richard for over
ten years, and was attached to him as a dog to its master--they opened
the wounded man's sodden waistcoat and shirt, and reached the hurt,
which was on the right side of the breast.

Between them they lifted him up gently. Mr. Green would have lent a
hand, but a snarl from Mr. Caryll drove him back in sheer terror, and
alone those two bore the baronet into the next room and laid him on
his bed. Here they did the little that they could; propping him up
and stemming the bleeding, what time they waited through what seemed
a century for the doctor's coming, Mr. Caryll mad--stark mad for the
time--with grief and rage.

The physician arrived at last--a small, bird-like man under a great
gray periwig, with pointed features and little eyes that beamed brightly
behind horn-rimmed spectacles.

In the ante-room he was met by Mr. Green, who in in a few words told
him what had happened. Then the doctor entered the bedchamber alone, and
deposing hat and cane, went forward to make his examination.

Mr. Caryll and Bentley stood aside to give place to him. He stooped,
felt the pulse, examined the lips of the wound, estimating the locality
and direction of the bullet, and his mouth made a clucking sound as of
deprecation.

"Very deplorable, very deplorable!" he muttered. "So hale a man, too,
despite his years. Very deplorable!" He looked up. "A Jacobite, ye say
he is, sir?"

"Will he live?" inquired Mr. Caryll shortly, by way of recalling the man
of medicine to the fact that politics was not the business on which he
had been summoned.

The doctor pursed his lips, and looked at Mr. Caryll over the top of his
spectacles. "He will live--"

"Thank God!" breathed Mr. Caryll.

"--perhaps an hour," the doctor concluded, and never knew how near was
Mr. Caryll to striking him. He turned again to his patient, producing a
probe. "Very deplorable!" Mr. Caryll heard him muttering, parrot-like.

A pause ensued, and a silence broken only by occasional cluckings from
the little doctor, and Mr. Caryll stood by, a prey to an anguish more
poignant than he had ever known. At last there was a groan from the
wounded man. Mr. Caryll started forward.

Sir Richard's eyes were open, and he was looking about him at the
doctor, the valet, and, lastly, at his adopted son. He smiled faintly
at the latter. Then the doctor touched Mr. Caryll's sleeve, and drew him
aside.

"I cannot reach the bullet," he said. "But 'tis no matter for that." He
shook his head solemnly. "The lung has been pierced. A little time now,
and--I can do nothing more."

Mr. Caryll nodded in silence, his face drawn with pain. With a gesture
he dismissed the doctor, who went out with Bentley.

When the valet returned, Mr. Caryll was on his knees beside the bed, Sir
Richard's hand in his, and Sir Richard was speaking in a feeble, hoarse
voice--gasping and coughing at intervals.

"Don't--don't grieve, Justin," he was saying. "I am an old man. My
time must have been very near. I--I am glad that it is thus. It is much
better than if they had taken me. They'd ha' shown me no mercy. 'Tis
swifter thus, and--and easier."

Silently Justin wrung the hand he held.

"You'll miss me a little, Justin," the old man resumed presently. "We
have been good friends, lad--good friends for thirty years."

"Father!" Justin cried, a sob in his voice.

Sir Richard smiled. "I would I were your father in more than name,
Justin. Hast been a good son to me--no son could have been more than
you."

Bentley drew nigh with a long glass containing a cordial the doctor had
advised. Sir Richard drank avidly, and sighed content when he returned
the glass. "How long yet, Justin?" he inquired.

"Not long, father," was the gloomy answer.

"It is well. I am content. I am happy, Justin. Believe me, I am happy.
What has my life been? Dissipated in the pursuit of a phantom." He
spoke musingly, critically calm, as one who already upon the brink of
dissolution takes already but an impersonal interest in the course he
has run in life.

Judging so, his judgment was clearer than it had yet been; it grew sane,
and was freed at last from the hackles of fanaticism; and there was
something that he saw in its true proportions. He sighed heavily.

"This is a judgment upon me," he said presently. He turned his great
eyes full upon Justin, and their dance was infinitely wistful. "Do you
remember, Justin, that night at your lodging--that first night on which
we talked here in London of the thing you were come to do--the thing to
which I urged you? Do you recall how you upbraided me for having set you
a task hat was unworthy and revolting?"

"I remember," answered Justin, with an inward shudder, fearful of what
might follow.

"Oh, you were right, Justin; right, and I was entirely wrong--wickedly
wrong. I should have left vengeance to God. He is wreaking it.
Ostermore's whole life has been a punishment; his end will be a
punishment. I understand it now. We do no wrong in life, Justin, for
which in this same life payment is not exacted. Ostermore has been
paying. I should have been content with that. After all, he is your
father in the flesh, and it was not for you to raise your hand against
him. 'Tis what you have felt, and I am glad you should have felt it, for
it proves your worthiness. Can you forgive me?"

"Nay, nay, father! Speak not of forgiveness."

"I have sore need of it."

"Ah, but not from me; not from me! What is there I should forgive? There
is a debt between us I had hoped to repay some day when you were grown
truly old. I had looked to tend you in your old age, to be the comfort
of it, and the support that you were to my infancy."

"It had been sweet, Justin," sighed Sir Richard, smiling upon his
adopted son, and putting forth an unsteady hand to stroke the white,
drawn face. "It had been sweet. It is sweet to hear that you so
proposed."

A shudder convulsed him. He sank back coughing, and there was froth
and blood on his lips. Reverently Justin wiped them, and signed for the
cordial to Bentley, who stood, numbed, in the background.

"It is the end," said Sir Richard feebly. "God has been good to me
beyond my deserts, and this is a crowning mercy. Consider, Justin, it
might have been the gibbet and a crowd--instead of this snug bed, and
you and Bentley here--just two good friends."

Bentley, losing all self-control at this mention of himself, sank
weeping to his knees. Sir Richard put out a hand, and touched his head.

"You will serve Mr. Caryll, Bentley. You'll find him a good master if
you are as good a servant to him as you have been to me."

Then suddenly he made the quick movement of one who bethinks himself of
something. He waved Bentley away.

"There is a case in the drawer yonder," he said, when the servant was
beyond earshot. "It contains papers that concern you--certificates of
your birth and of your mothers death. I brought them with me as proofs
of your identity, against the time when the hour of vengeance upon
Ostermore should strike. They twill serve no purpose now. Burn them.
They are best destroyed."

Mr. Caryll nodded understanding, and on Sir Richard's part there
followed another fight for breath, another attack of coughing, during
which Bentley instinctively approached again.

When the paroxysm was past, Sir Richard turned once more to Justin, who
was holding him in his arms, upright, to ease his breathing. "Be good to
Bentley," he murmured, his voice very faint and exhausted now. "You are
my heir, Justin. All that I have--I set all in order ere I left Paris.
It--it is growing dark. You have not snuffed the candles, Bentley. They
are burning very low."

Suddenly he started forward, held as he was in Justin's arms. He
half-raised his arms, holding out his hands toward the foot of the bed.
His eyes dilated; the expression of his livid face grew first surprised,
then joyous--beatific. "Antoinette!" he cried in a loud voice. "Antoi--"

And thus, abruptly, but in great happiness, he passed.


CHAPTER XVII. AMID THE GRAVES


What time Sir Richard had been dying in the inner room, Mr. Green and
two of his acolytes had improved the occasion by making a thorough
search in Sir Richard's writing-table and a thorough investigation of
every scrap of paper found there. From which you will understand how
much Mr. Green was a gentleman who set business above every other
consideration.

The man who had shot Sir Richard had been ordered by Mr. Green to take
himself off, and had been urged to go down on his knees, for once in
a way, and pray Heaven that his rashness might not bring him to the
gallows as he so richly deserved.

His fourth myrmidon Mr. Green had dispatched with a note to my Lord
Rotherby, and it was entirely upon the answer he should receive that it
must depend whether he proceeded or not, forthwith, to the apprehension
of Mr. Caryll. Meanwhile the search went on amain, and was extended
presently to the very bedroom where the dead Sir Richard lay. Every
nook and cranny was ransacked; the very mattress under the dead man was
removed, and investigated, and even Mr. Caryll and Bentley had to
submit to being searched. But it all proved fruitless. Not a line of
treasonable matter was to be found anywhere. To the certificates upon
Mr. Caryll the searcher made the mistake of paying but little heed in
view of their nature.

But if there were no proofs of plots and treasonable dealings, there
was, at least, abundant proof of Sir Richard's identity, and Mr. Green
appropriated these against any awkward inquiries touching the manner in
which the baronet had met his death.

Of such inquiries, however, there were none. It was formally sworn
to Lord Carteret by Green and his men that the secretary's messenger,
Jerry--the fellow owned no surname--had shot Sir Richard in
self-defence, when Sir Richard had produced firearms upon being arrested
on a charge of high treason, for which they held the secretary's own
warrant.

At first Lord Carteret considered it a thousand pities that they should
not have contrived matters better so as to take Sir Richard alive; but
upon reflection he was careful not to exaggerate to himself the loss
occasioned by his death, for Sir Richard, after all, was a notoriously
stubborn man, not in the least likely to have made any avowals worth
having. So that his trial, whilst probably resulting sterile of such
results as the government could desire, would have given publicity to
the matter of a plot that was hatching; and such publicity at a time
of so much unrest was the last thing the government desired. Where
Jacobitism was concerned, Lord Carteret had the wise discretion to
proceed with the extremest caution. Publicity might serve to fan the
smouldering embers into a blaze, whereas it was his cunning aim quietly
to stifle them as he came upon them.

So, upon the whole, he was by no means sure but that Jerry had done
the state the best possible service in disposing thus summarily of that
notorious Jacobite agent, Sir Richard Everard. And his lordship saw to
it that there was no inquiry and that nothing further was heard of the
matter.

As for Lord Rotherby, had the affair transpired twenty-four hours
earlier, he would certainly have returned Mr. Green a message to effect
the arrest of Mr. Caryll upon suspicion. But as it chanced, he had
that very afternoon received a visit from his mother, who came in great
excitement to inform him that she had forced from Lord Ostermore an
acknowledgment that he was plotting with Mr. Caryll to go over to King
James.

So, before they could move further against Mr. Caryll, it behooved
them to ascertain precisely to what extent Lord Ostermore might not be
incriminated, as otherwise the arrest of Caryll might lead to exposures
that would ruin the earl more thoroughly than could any South Sea bubble
revelations. Thus her ladyship to her son. He turned upon her.

"Why, madam," said he, "these be the very arguments I used t'other day
when we talked of this; and all you answered me then was to call me a
dull-witted clod, for not seeing how the thing might be done without
involving my lord."

"Tcha!" snapped her ladyship, beating her knuckles impatiently with her
fan. "A dull-witted clod did I call you? 'Twas flattery--sheer flattery;
for I think ye're something worse. Fool, can ye not see the difference
that lies betwixt your disclosing a plot to the secretary of state, and
causing this Caryll to disclose it--as might happen if he were seized?
First discover the plot--find out in what it may consist, and then go to
Lord Carteret to make your terms."

He looked at her, out of temper by her rebuke. Death was denounced; that
frightful sound Which even the best can hardly bear, He took the summons
void of fear; And unconcern'dly cast his eyes around; As if to
find and dare the grisly challenger.

What death could do he lately tried, When in four days he more than
died.
The same assurance all his words did grace; The same majestic mildness
held its place:
Nor lost the monarch in his dying face.
Intrepid, pious, merciful, and brave, He look'd as when he conquer'd
and forgave.

VII.

As if some angel had been sent To lengthen out his government, And
to foretell as many years again, As he had number'd in his happy
reign, So cheerfully he took the doom Of his departing breath; Nor
shrunk nor stepp'd aside for death; But with unalter'd pace kept
on, Providing for events to come, When he resign'd the throne.

Still he maintain'd his kingly state; And grew familiar with his
fate.
Kind, good, and gracious to the last, On all he loved before his
dying beams he cast:
Oh, truly good, and truly great, For glorious as he rose, benignly so
he set!
All that on earth he held most dear, He recommended to his care, To whom
both Heaven, The right had given And his own love bequeathed supreme
command:
He took and press'd that ever loyal hand Which could in peace secure his
reign, Which could in wars his power maintain, That hand on which no
plighted vows were ever vain.
Well for so great a trust he chose A prince who never disobey'd:
Not when the most severe commands were laid; Nor want, nor exile
with his duty weigh'd:
A prince on whom, if Heaven its eyes could close, The welfare of
the world it safely might repose.

VIII.

That king[92] who lived to God's own heart, Yet less serenely died than
he:
Charles left behind no harsh decree For schoolmen with laborious
art To salve from cruelty:
Those for whom love could no excuses frame, He graciously forgot
to name.

Thus far my Muse, though rudely, has design'd Some faint resemblance
of his godlike mind:
But neither pen nor pencil can express The parting brothers'
tenderness:
Though that's a term too mean and low; The blest above a kinder
word may know.
But what they did, and what they said, The monarch who triumphant went,
The militant who staid, Like painters, when their heightening arts are
spent, I cast into a shade.

That all-forgiving king, The type of Him above, That inexhausted spring
Of clemency and love; Himself to his next self accused, And asked that
pardon--which he ne'er refused:
For faults not his, for guilt and crimes Of godless men, and of rebellious
times:
For an hard exile, kindly meant, When his ungrateful country sent Their
best Camillus into banishment:
And forced their sovereign's act--they could not his consent.

Oh, how much rather had that injured chief Repeated all his sufferings
past, Than hear a pardon begg'd at last, Which, given, could give
the dying no relief!
He bent, he sunk beneath his grief:
His dauntless heart would fain have held From weeping, but his eyes
rebell'd.

Perhaps the godlike hero in his breast Disdain'd, or was ashamed to show,
So weak, so womanish a woe, Which yet the brother and the friend
so plenteously confess'd.

IX.

Amidst that silent shower, the royal mind An easy passage found, And left
its sacred earth behind:
Nor murmuring groan express'd, nor labouring sound, Nor any least
tumultuous breath; Calm was his life, and quiet was his death.

Soft as those gentle whispers were, In which the Almighty did appear;
By the still voice the prophet[93] knew him there.

That peace which made thy prosperous reign to shine, That peace thou
leavest to thy imperial line, That peace, oh, happy shade, be ever
thine!

X.

For all those joys thy restoration brought, For all the miracles it
wrought, For all the healing balm thy mercy pour'd Into the nation's
bleeding wound, And care that after kept it sound, For numerous
blessings yearly shower'd, And property with plenty crown'd; For
freedom, still maintain'd alive-- Freedom!

which in no other land will thrive-- Freedom! an English subject's sole
prerogative, Without whose charms even peace would be But a dull,
quiet slavery:
For these and more, accept our pious praise; 'Tis all the subsidy
The present age can raise, The rest is charged on late posterity:
Posterity is charged the more, Because the large abounding store
To them and to their heirs, is still entail'd by thee.

Succession of a long descent Which chastely in the channels ran, And
from our demi-gods began, Equal almost to time in its extent, Through
hazards numberless and great, Thou hast derived this mighty blessing down,
And fix'd the fairest gem that decks the imperial crown Not faction, when
it shook thy regal seat, Not senates, insolently loud, Those echoes
of a thoughtless crowd, Not foreign or domestic treachery, Gould
warp thy soul to their unjust decree.

So much thy foes thy manly mind mistook, Who judged it by the
mildness of thy look:
Like a well-temper'd sword it bent at will; But kept the native
toughness of the steel.

XI.

Be true, O Clio, to thy hero's name!
But draw him strictly so, That all who view the piece may know.

He needs no trappings of fictitious fame:
The load's too weighty: thou mayest choose Some parts of praise, and
some refuse:
Write, that his annals may be thought more lavish than the Muse.
In scanty truth thou hast confined The virtues of a royal mind,
Forgiving, bounteous, humble, just, and kind:
His conversation, wit, and parts, His knowledge in the noblest
useful arts, Were such, dead authors could not give; But habitudes
of those who live; Who, lighting him, did greater lights receive:
He drain'd from all, and all they knew; His apprehension quick, his
judgment true:
That the most learn'd, with shame, confess His knowledge more, his
reading only less.

XII.

Amidst the peaceful triumphs of his reign, What wonder if the kindly
beams he shed Revived the drooping Arts again; If Science raised
her head, And soft Humanity, that from rebellion fled!

Our isle, indeed, too fruitful was before; But all uncultivated lay Out
of the solar walk and Heaven's highway; With rank Geneva weeds run
o'er, And cockle, at the best, amidst the corn it bore.

The royal husbandman appear'd, And plough'd, and sow'd, and till'd; The
thorns he rooted out, the rubbish clear'd, And bless'd the obedient
field:
When straight a double harvest rose; Such as the swarthy Indian mows;
Or happier climates near the line, Or Paradise manured and dress'd
by hands divine.

XIII.

As when the new-born Phoenix takes his way, His rich paternal regions
to survey, Of airy choristers a numerous train Attends his wondrous
progress o'er the plain; So, rising from his father's urn, So
glorious did our Charles return; The officious Muses came along--
A gay harmonious quire, like angels ever young:
The Muse that mourns him now, his happy triumph sung, Even they
could thrive in his auspicious reign; And such a plenteous crop
they bore Of purest and well-winnow'd grain, As Britain never knew
before.

Though little was their hire, and light their gain, Yet somewhat to their
share he threw; Fed from his hand, they sung and flew, Like birds
of Paradise that lived on morning dew.

Oh, never let their lays his name forget!
The pension of a prince's praise is great.
Live, then, thou great encourager of arts!

Live ever in our thankful hearts; Live blest above, almost invoked below;
Live and receive this pious vow, Our patron once, our guardian
angel now!

Thou Fabius of a sinking state, Who didst by wise delays divert our fate,
When faction like a tempest rose, In death's most hideous form,
Then art to rage thou didst oppose, To weather-out the storm:
Not quitting thy supreme command, Thou held'st the rudder with a
steady hand, Till safely on the shore the bark did land:
The bark that all our blessings brought, Charged with thyself and
James, a doubly royal fraught.

XIV.

Oh, frail estate of human things, And slippery hopes below!
Now to our cost your emptiness we know, For 'tis a lesson dearly
bought, Assurance here is never to be sought.

The best, and best beloved of kings, And best deserving to be so, When
scarce he had escaped the fatal blow Of faction and conspiracy, Death
did his promised hopes destroy:
He toil'd, he gain'd, but lived not to enjoy.
What mists of Providence are these, Through which we cannot see!
So saints, by supernatural power set free, Are left at last in
martyrdom to die; Such is the end of oft-repeated miracles.

Forgive me, Heaven, that impious thought!
'Twas grief for Charles, to madness wrought, That question'd thy
supreme decree.

Thou didst his gracious reign prolong, Even in thy saints' and angels'
wrong, His fellow-citizens of immortality:
For twelve long years of exile borne, Twice twelve we number'd since
his blest return:
So strictly wert thou just to pay, Even to the driblet of a day.

Yet still we murmur and complain, The quails and manna should no longer
rain; Those miracles 'twas needless to renew; The chosen stock has
now the promised land in view.

XV.

A warlike prince ascends the regal state, A prince long exercised by
fate:
Long may he keep, though he obtains it late!

Heroes in Heaven's peculiar mould are cast, They and their poets are
not form'd in haste; Man was the first in God's design, and man was
made the last.
False heroes, made by flattery so, Heaven can strike out, like sparkles,
at a blow; But ere a prince is to perfection brought, He costs Omnipotence
a second thought.
With toil and sweat, With hardening cold, and forming heat, The Cyclops
did their strokes repeat, Before the impenetrable shield was
wrought.

It looks as if the Maker would not own The noble work for His, Before
'twas tried and found a masterpiece.

XVI.

View, then, a monarch ripen'd for a throne!
Alcides thus his race began, O'er infancy he swiftly ran; The future god
at first was more than man:
Dangers and toils, and Juno's hate, Even o'er his cradle lay in
wait; And there he grappled first with fate:
In his young hands the hissing snakes he press'd, So early was the
deity confess'd.

Thus by degrees he rose to Jove's imperial seat; Thus difficulties
prove a soul legitimately great.

Like his, our hero's infancy was tried; Betimes the Furies did their snakes
provide; And to his infant arms oppose His father's rebels, and his
brother's foes; The more oppress'd, the higher still he rose:
Those were the preludes of his fate, That form'd his manhood, to
subdue The Hydra of the many-headed hissing crew.

XVII.

As after Numa's peaceful reign, The martial Ancus did the sceptre
wield, Furbish'd the rusty sword again, Resumed the long-forgotten
shield, And led the Latins to the dusty field; So James the drowsy
genius wakes Of Britain, long entranced in charms, Restive and
slumbering on its arms:
'Tis roused, and with a new-strung nerve, the spear already shakes,
No neighing of the warrior steeds, No drum, or louder trumpet, needs
To inspire the coward, warm the cold-- His voice, his sole appearance
makes them bold.

Gaul and Batavia dread the impending blow; Too well the vigour of
that arm they know; They lick the dust, and crouch beneath their fatal
foe.
Long may they fear this awful prince, And not provoke his lingering
sword; Peace is their only sure defence, Their best security his word:

In all the changes of his doubtful state, His truth, like Heaven's, was
kept inviolate, For him to promise is to make it fate.
His valour can triumph o'er land and main; With broken oaths his
fame he will not stain; With conquest basely bought, and with
inglorious gain.

XVIII.

For once, O Heaven! unfold thy adamantine book; And let his wondering
senate see, If not thy firm immutable decree, At least the second page
of strong contingency; Such as consists with wills originally free:

Let them with glad amazement look On what their happiness may be:
Let them not still be obstinately blind, Still to divert the good
thou hast design'd, Or with malignant penury, To starve the royal
virtues of his mind.

Faith is a Christian's and a subject's test, O give them to believe,
and they are surely blest!
They do; and with a distant view I see The amended vows of English
loyalty.
And all beyond that object, there appears The long retinue of a
prosperous reign, A series of successful years, In orderly array,
a martial, manly train.

Behold even the remoter shores, A conquering navy proudly spread;
The British cannon formidably roars, While starting from his oozy
bed, The asserted Ocean rears his reverend head; To view and recognise
his ancient lord again:
And with a willing hand, restores The fasces of the main

.

* * * * *

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 90: 'An eagre:' a tide swelling above another tide--observed
on the River Trent.]

[Footnote 91: 'Short and Hobbes:' two physicians who attended on the
king.]

[Footnote 92: 'King:' King David.]
[Footnote 93: 'The prophet:' Elijah

.]
* * * * *

VENI CREATOR SPIRITUS, PARAPHRASED.

CREATOR SPIRIT, by whose aid The world's foundations first were laid,
Come, visit every pious mind; Come, pour thy joys on human kind; From
sin and sorrow set us free, And make thy temples worthy thee.

O source of uncreated light, The Father's promised Paraclete!
Thrice holy fount, thrice holy fire, Our hearts with heavenly love
inspire; Come, and thy sacred unction bring To sanctify us, while
we sing!

Plenteous of grace, descend from high, Rich in thy sevenfold
energy!
Thou strength of his Almighty hand, Whose power does heaven and earth
command:

Proceeding Spirit, our defence, Who dost the gifts of tongues dispense,
And crown'st thy gift with eloquence!

Refine and purge our earthly parts; But, oh, inflame and fire our
hearts!
Our frailties help, our vice control, Submit the senses to the soul;
And when rebellious they are grown, Then lay thy hand, and hold
them down!

Chase from our minds the infernal foe, And peace, the fruit
of love, bestow; And, lest our feet should step astray, Protect and
guide us in the way.

Make us eternal truths receive, And practise all that we believe:
Give us thyself, that we may see The Father, and the Son, by thee.

Immortal honour, endless fame, Attend the Almighty Father's name The
Saviour Son be glorified, Who for lost man's redemption died:
And equal adoration be, Eternal Paraclete, to thee!

* * * * *

THE HIND AND THE PANTHER.

A POEM, IN THREE PARTS.

--Antiquam exquirite matrem.

Et vera incessa patuit Dea.

VIRG.

* * * * *

PREFACE.

The nation is in too high a ferment for me to expect either fair war, or
even so much as fair quarter, from a reader of the opposite party.

All men are engaged either on this side or that; and though conscience
is the common word, which is given by both, yet if a writer fall among
enemies, and cannot give the marks of _their_ conscience, he is
knocked down before the reasons of his own are heard. A preface,
therefore, which is but a bespeaking of favour, is altogether useless.
What I desire the reader should know concerning me, he will find in the
body of the poem, if he have but the patience to peruse it.

Only this advertisement let him take beforehand, which relates to the
merits of the cause. No general characters of parties (call them
either Sects or Churches) can be so fully and exactly drawn, as to
comprehend all the several members of them; at least all such as are
received under that denomination.

For example, there are some of the Church by law established, who envy not
liberty of conscience to Dissenters, as being well satisfied that,
according to their own principles, they ought not to persecute them.
Yet these, by reason of their fewness, I could not distinguish from
the numbers of the rest, with whom they are embodied in one common name.
On the other side, there are many of our sects, and more indeed than I
could reasonably have hoped, who have withdrawn themselves from
the communion of the Panther, and embraced this gracious indulgence
of his Majesty in point of toleration.

But neither to the one nor the other of these is this satire any way
intended: it is aimed only at the refractory and disobedient on
either side.

For those who are come over to the royal party are consequently
supposed to be out of gun-shot.

Our physicians have observed, that, in process of time, some diseases
have abated of their virulence, and have in a manner worn out their
malignity, so as to be no longer mortal; and why may not I suppose
the same concerning some of those who have formerly been enemies
to kingly government, as well as Catholic religion?

I hope they have now another notion of both, as having found, by
comfortable experience, that the doctrine of persecution is far
from being an article of our faith.

It is not for any private man to censure the proceedings of a foreign
prince; but, without suspicion of flattery, I may praise our own,
who has taken contrary measures, and those more suitable to the
spirit of Christianity.

Some of the Dissenters, in their addresses to his Majesty, have said,
"that he has restored God to his empire over conscience." I confess I
dare not stretch the figure to so great a boldness; but I may
safely say, that conscience is the royalty and prerogative of every
private man.

He is absolute in his own breast, and accountable to no earthly power,
for that which passes only betwixt God and him. Those who are driven
into the fold are, generally speaking, rather made hypocrites than
converts.

This indulgence being granted to all the sects, it ought in reason
to be expected, that they should both receive it, and receive it
thankfully.

For, at this time of day, to refuse the benefit, and adhere to those
whom they have esteemed their persecutors, what is it else, but
publicly to own, that they suffered not before for conscience-sake,
but only out of pride and obstinacy, to separate from a church for
those impositions, which they now judge may be lawfully obeyed?

After they have so long contended for their classical ordination
(not to speak of rites and ceremonies) will they at length submit
to an episcopal?

If they can go so far, out of complaisance to their old enemies,
methinks a little reason should persuade them to take another step, and
see whither that would lead them.

Of the receiving this toleration thankfully I shall say no more, than
that they ought, and I doubt not they will consider from what hand they
received it.

It is not from a Cyrus, a heathen prince, and a foreigner, but from a
Christian king, their native sovereign; who expects a return in
specie from them, that the kindness, which he has graciously shown
them, may be retaliated on those of his own persuasion.

As for the poem in general, I will only thus far satisfy the reader,
that it was neither imposed on me, nor so much as the subject given me
by any man.

It was written during the last winter, and the beginning of this spring;
though with long interruptions of ill health and other hindrances.

About a fortnight before I had finished it, his Majesty's declaration for
liberty of conscience came abroad; which, if I had so soon expected, I
might have spared myself the labour of writing many things which
are contained in the third part of it.

But I was always in some hope, that the Church of England might have
been persuaded to have taken off the penal laws and the test, which
was one design of the poem, when I proposed to myself the writing
of it.

It is evident that some part of it was only occasional, and not first
intended: I mean that defence of myself, to which every honest man is
bound, when he is injuriously attacked in print; and I refer myself
to the judgment of those who have read the Answer to the Defence
of the late King's Papers, and that of the Duchess (in which last
I was concerned), how charitably I have been represented there.

I am now informed both of the author and supervisors of this pamphlet,
and will reply, when I think he can affront me; for I am of Socrates's
opinion, that all creatures cannot.

In the mean time let him consider whether he deserved not a more
severe reprehension than I gave him formerly, for using so little
respect to the memory of those whom he pretended to answer; and at
his leisure, look out for some original treatise of humility, written
by any Protestant in English; I believe I may say in any other
tongue: for the magnified piece of Duncomb on that subject, which
either he must mean, or none, and with which another of his fellows
has upbraided me, was translated from the Spanish of Rodriguez;
though with the omission of the seventeenth, the twenty-fourth, the
twenty-fifth, and the last chapter, which will be found in comparing
of the books.

He would have insinuated to the world, that her late Highness died
not a Roman Catholic.

He declares himself to be now satisfied to the contrary, in which
he has given up the cause; for matter of fact was the principal
debate betwixt us.

In the mean time, he would dispute the motives of her change; how
preposterously, let all men judge, when he seemed to deny the subject
of the controversy, the change itself.

And because I would not take up this ridiculous challenge, he tells the
world I cannot argue: but he may as well infer, that a Catholic cannot
fast, because he will not take up the cudgels against Mrs James,
to confute the Protestant religion.

I have but one word more to say concerning the poem as such, and
abstracting from the matters, either religious or civil, which are
handled in it.

The first part, consisting most in general characters and narration,
I have endeavoured to raise, and give it the majestic turn of heroic
poesy. The second being matter of dispute, and chiefly concerning
Church authority, I was obliged to make as plain and perspicuous
as possibly I could; yet not wholly neglecting the numbers, though
I had not frequent occasions for the magnificence of verse.

The third, which has more of the nature of domestic conversation, is, or
ought to be, more free and familiar than the two former.

There are in it two episodes, or fables, which are interwoven with
the main design; so that they are properly parts of it, though they
are also distinct stories of themselves.

In both of these I have made use of the commonplaces of satire, whether
true or false, which are urged by the members of the one Church against
the other: at which I hope no reader of either party will be scandalized,
because they are not of my invention, but as old, to my knowledge, as
the times of Boccace and Chaucer on the one side, and as those of the
Reformation on the other.

* * * * *

PART I.

A milk-white Hind, immortal and unchanged, Fed on the lawns, and
in the forest ranged; Without unspotted, innocent within, She fear'd
no danger, for she knew no sin.

Yet had she oft been chased with horns and hounds, And Scythian shafts;
and many winged wounds Aim'd at her heart; was often forced to fly, And
doom'd to death, though fated not to die.

Not so her young; for their unequal line Was hero's make, half human,
half divine. 10 Their earthly mould obnoxious was to fate,
The immortal part assumed immortal state.

"Tell Lord Ostermore--tell him all," he
begged her. "Be guided by him. His decision for you will represent the
decision of the world."

"What is the world to me? You are the world to me," she cried.

There was a rap upon the door. He put her from him, and went to open. It
was Humphries with a lighted taper. He took it, thanked the man with a
word, and shut the door in his face, ignoring the fact that the fellow
was attempting to tell him something.

He returned to the desk. "Let us make quite sure that this is all," he
said, and held the taper so that the light shone into the recess. It
seemed empty at first; then, as the light penetrated farther, he saw
something that showed white at the back of the cachette. He thrust in
his hand, and drew out a small package bound with a ribbon that once
might have been green but was faded now to yellow. He set it on the
desk, and returned to his search. There was nothing else. The recess
was empty. He closed the trap and replaced the drawer. Then he sat down
again, the taper at his elbow, Mistress Winthrop looking on, facing him
across the top of the secretaire, and he took up the package.

The ribbon came away easily, and some half-dozen sheets fell out and
scattered upon the desk. They gave out a curious perfume, half of
age, half of some essence with which years ago they had been imbued.
Something took Mr. Caryll in the throat, and he could never explain
whether it was that perfume or some premonitory emotion, some prophetic
apprehension of what he was about to see.

He opened the first of those folded sheets, and found it to be a letter
written in French and in an ink that had paled to yellow with the years
that were gone since it had been penned. The fine, pointed writing was
curiously familiar to Mr. Caryll. He looked at the signature at the
bottom of the page. It swam before his eyes--ANTOINETTE-"Celle qui
l'adore, Antoinette," he read, and the whole world seemed blotted out
for him; all consciousness, his whole being, his every sense, seemed
concentrated into his eyes as they gazed upon that relic of a deluded
woman's dream.

He did not read. It was not for him to commit the sacrilege of reading
what that girl who had been his mother had written thirty years ago to
the man she loved--the man who had proved false as hell.

He turned the other letters over; opened them one by one, to make sure
that they were of the same nature as the first, and what time he did so
he found himself speculating upon the strangeness of Ostermore's having
so treasured them. Perhaps he had thrust them into that secret recess,
and there forgotten them; 'twas an explanation that sorted better with
what Mr. Caryll knew of his father, than the supposition that so dull
and practical and self-centered a nature could have been irradiated by
a gleam of such tenderness as the hoarding of those letters might have
argued.

He continued to turn them over, half-mechanically, forgetful of the
urgent need to burn the treasonable documents he had secured, forgetful
of everything, even Hortensia's presence. And meantime she watched him
in silence, marvelling at this delay, and still more at the gray look
that had crept into his face.

"What have you found?" she asked at last.

"A ghost," he answered, and his voice had a strained, metallic ring. He
even vented an odd laugh. "A bundle of old love-letters."

"From her ladyship?"

"Her ladyship?" He looked up, an expression on his face which seemed to
show that he could not at the moment think who her ladyship might be.
Then as the picture of that bedaubed, bedizened and harsh-featured
Jezebel arose in his mind to stand beside the sweet girl--image of
his mother--as he knew her from the portrait that hung at Maligny--he
laughed again. "No, not from her ladyship," said he. "From a woman who
loved him years ago." And he turned to the seventh and last of those
poor ghosts-the seventh, a fateful number.

He spread it before him; frowned down on it a moment with a sharp hiss
of indrawn breath. Then he twisted oddly on his chair, and sat bolt
upright, staring straight before him with unseeing eyes. Presently he
passed a hand across his brow, and made a queer sound in his throat.

"What is it?" she asked.

But he did not answer; he was staring at the paper again. A while he
sat thus; then with swift fevered fingers he took up once more the other
letters. He unfolded one, and began to read. A few lines he read, and
then--"O God!" he cried, and flung out his arms under stress of 'his
emotions. One of them caught the taper that stood upon the desk; and
swept it, extinguished, to the floor. He never heeded it, never gave a
thought to the purpose for which it had been fetched, a purpose not yet
served. He rose. He was white as the dead are white, and she observed
that he was trembling. He took up the bundle of old letters, and thrust
them into an inside pocket of his coat.

"What are you doing?" she cried, seeking at last to arouse him from the
spell under which he appeared to have fallen. "Those letters--"

"I must see Lord Ostermore," he answered wildly, and made for the door,
reeling like a drunkard in his walk.


CHAPTER XIX. THE END OF LORD OSTERMORE

In the ante-room communicating with Lord Ostermore's bedroom the
countess was in consultation with Rotherby, who had been summoned by his
mother when my lord was stricken.

Her ladyship occupied the window-seat; Rotherby stood beside
her, leaning slightly against the frame of the open window. Their
conversation was earnest and conducted in a low key, and one would
naturally have conjectured that it had for subject the dangerous
condition of the earl. And so it had--the dangerous condition of the
earl's political, if not physical, affairs. To her ladyship and her son,
the matter of their own future was of greater gravity than the matter
of whether his lordship lived or died--which, whatever it may be, is
not unreasonable. Since the impeachment of my lord and the coming of
the messengers to arrest him, the danger of ruin and beggary were become
more imminent--indeed, they impended, and measures must be concerted
to avert these evils. By comparison with that, the earl's succumbing or
surviving was a trivial matter; and the concern they had manifested in
Sir James' news--when the important, well-nourished physician who had
bled his lordship came to inform them that there was hope--was outward
only, and assumed for pure decorum's sake.

"Whether he lives or dies," said the viscount pertinently, after the
doctor had departed to return to his patient, "the measures to be
taken are the same." And he repeated the substance of their earlier
discussions upon this same topic. "If we can but secure the evidence of
his treason with Caryll," he wound up, "I shall be able to make terms
with Lord Carteret to arrest the proceedings the government may intend,
and thus avert the restitution it would otherwise enforce."

"But if he were to die," said her ladyship, as coldly, horribly
calculating as though he were none of hers, "there would be an end to
this danger. They could not demand restitution of the dead, nor impose
fines upon him."

Rotherby shook his head. "Believe not that, madam," said he. "They can
demand restitution of his heirs and impose their fines upon the estate.
'Twas done in the case of Chancellor Craggs, though he shot himself."

She raised a haggard face to his. "And do you dream that Lord Carteret
would make terms with you?"

"If I can show him--by actual proof--that a conspiracy does exist, that
the Stuart supporters are plotting a rising. Proof of that should be of
value to Lord Carteret, of sufficient value to the government to warrant
the payment of the paltry price I ask--that the impeachment against my
father for his dealings with the South Sea Company shall not be allowed.

"But it might involve the worse betrayal of your father, Charles, and if
he were to live--"

"'Sdeath, mother, why must you harp on that? I a'n't the fool you think
me," he cried. "I shall make it a further condition that my father have
immunity. There will be no lack of victims once the plot is disclosed;
and they may begin upon that coxcomb Caryll--the damned meddler who is
at the bottom of all this garboil."

She sat bemused, her eyes upon the sunlit gardens below, where a faint
breeze was stirring the shrub tops.

"There is," she said presently, "a secret drawer somewhere in his desk.
If he has papers they will, no doubt, be there. Had you not best be
making search for them?"

He smiled darkly. "I have seen to that already," he replied.

"How?" excitedly. "You have got the papers?"

"No; but I have set an experienced hand to find them, and one, moreover,
who has the right by virtue of his warrant--the messenger of the
secretary of state."

She sat up, rigid. "'Sdeath! What is't ye mean?"

"No need for alarm," he reassured her. "This fellow Green is in my pay,
as well as in the secretary's, and it will profit him most to keep faith
with me. He's a self-seeking dog, content to run with the hare and hunt
with the hounds, so that there be profit in it, and he'd sacrifice his
ears to bring Mr. Caryll to the gallows. I have promised him that and a
thousand pounds if we save the estates from confiscation."

She looked at him, between wonder and fear. "Can ye trust him?" she
asked breathlessly.

He laughed softly and confidently. "I can trust him to earn a thousand
pounds," he answered. "When he heard of the impeachment, he used such
influence as he has to be entrusted with the arrest of his lordship;
and having obtained his warrant, he came first to me to tell me of it. A
thousand pounds is the price of him, body and soul. I bade him seek not
only evidence of my lord's having received that plaguey stock, but also
papers relating to this Jacobite plot into which his lordship has been
drawn by our friend Caryll. He is at his work at present. And I shall
hear from him when it is accomplished."

She nodded slowly, thoughtfully. "You have very well disposed, Charles,"
she approved him. "If your father lives, it should not be a difficult
matter--"

She checked suddenly and turned, while Rotherby, too, looked up and
stepped quickly from the window-embrasure where he had stood.

The door of the bedroom had been suddenly pulled open, and Sir James
came out, very pale and discomposed.

"Madam--your ladyship--my lord!" he gasped, his mouth working, his hands
waving foolishly.

The countess rose to confront him, tall, severe and harsh. The viscount
scowled a question. Sir James quailed before them, evidently in
affliction.

"Madam--his lordship," he said, and by his eloquent gesture of dejection
announced what he had some difficulty in putting into words.

She stepped forward, and took him by the wrist. "Is he dying?" she
inquired.

"Have courage, madam," the doctor besought her.

The apparent irrelevancy of the request at such a moment, angered
her. Her mood was dangerously testy. And had the doctor but known it,
sympathy was a thing she had not borne well these many years.

"I asked you was he dying," she reminded him, with a cold sternness that
beat aside all his attempts at subterfuge.

"Your ladyship--he is dead," he faltered, with lowered eyes.

"Dead?" she echoed dully, and her hand went to the region of her heart,
her face turned livid under its rouge. "Dead?" she said again, and
behind her, Rotherby echoed the dread word in a stupor almost equal to
her own. Her lips moved to speak, but no words came. She staggered where
she stood, and put her hand to her brow. Her son's arms were quickly
about her. He supported her to a chair, where she sank as if all her
joints were loosened.

Sir James flew for restoratives; bathed her brow with a dampened
handkerchief; held strong salts to her nostrils, and murmured words
of foolish, banal consolation, whilst Rotherby, in a half-dreaming
condition, stunned by the suddenness of the blow, stood beside her,
mechanically lending his assistance and supporting her.

Gradually she mastered her agitation. It was odd that she should feel so
much at losing what she valued so little. Leastways, it would have been
odd, had it been that. It was not--it was something more. In the awful,
august presence of death, stepped so suddenly into their midst, she felt
herself appalled.

For nigh upon thirty years she had been bound by legal and churchly
ties in a loveless union with Lord Ostermore--married for the handsome
portion that had been hers, a portion which he had gamed away and
squandered until, for their station, their circumstances were now
absolutely straitened. They had led a harsh, discordant life, and the
coming of a son, which should have bridged the loveless gulf between
them, seemed but to have served to dig it wider. And the son had been
just the harsh, unfeeling offspring that might be looked for from such
a union. Thirty years of slavery had been her ladyship's, and in those
thirty years her nature had been soured and warped, and what inherent
sweetness it may once have known had long since been smothered and
destroyed. She had no cause to love that man who had never loved her,
never loved aught of hers beyond her jointure. And yet, there was the
habit of thirty years. For thirty years they had been yoke-fellows,
however detestable the yoke. But yesterday he had been alive and strong,
a stupid, querulous thing maybe, but a living. And now he was so much
carrion that should be given to the earth. In some such channel ran
her ladyship's reflections during those few seconds in which she was
recovering. For an instant she was softened. The long-since dried-up
springs of tenderness seemed like to push anew under the shock of this
event. She put out a hand to take her son's.

"Charles!" she said, and surprised him by the tender note.

A moment thus; then she was herself again. "How did he die?" she asked
the doctor; and the abruptness of the resumption of her usual manner
startled Sir James more than aught in his experience of such scenes.

"It was most sudden, madam," answered he. "I had the best grounds
for hope. I was being persuaded we should save him. And then, quite
suddenly, without an instant's warning, he succumbed. He just heaved a
sigh, and was gone. I could scarcely believe my senses, madam."

He would have added more particulars of his feelings and emotions--for
he was of those who believe that their own impressions of a phenomenon
are that phenomenon's most interesting manifestations--but her ladyship
waved him peremptorily into silence.

He drew back, washing his hands in the air, an expression of polite
concern upon his face. "Is there aught else I can do to be of service to
your ladyship?" he inquired, solicitous.

"What else?" she asked, with a fuller return to her old self. "Ye've
killed him. What more is there you can do?"

"Oh, madam--nay, madam! I am most deeply grieved that my--my--"

"His lordship will wait upon you to the door," said she, designating her
son.

The eminent physician effaced himself from her ladyship's attention. It
was his boast that he could take a hint when one was given him; and so
he could, provided it were broad enough, as in the present instance.

He gathered up his hat and gold-headed cane--the unfailing insignia of
his order--and was gone, swiftly and silently.

Rotherby closed the door after him, and returned slowly, head bowed, to
the window where his mother was still seated. They looked at each other
gravely for a long moment.

"This makes matters easier for you," she said at length.

"Much easier. It does not matter now how far his complicity may be
betrayed by his papers. I am glad, madam, to see you so far recovered
from your weakness."

She shivered, as much perhaps at his tone as at the recollections he
evoked. "You are very indifferent, Charles," said she.

He looked at her steadily, then slightly shrugged. "What need to wear
a mask? Bah! Did he ever give me cause to feel for him?" he asked.
"Mother, if one day I have a son of my own, I shall see to it that he
loves me."

"You will be hard put to it, with your nature, Charles," she told him
critically. Then she rose. "Will you go to him with me?" she asked.

He made as if to acquiesce, then halted. "No," he said, and there was
repugnance in his tone and face. "Not--not now."

There came a knocking at the door, rapid, insistent. Grateful for the
interruption, Rotherby went to open.

Mr. Green staggered forward with swollen eyes, his face inflamed with
rage, and with something else that was not quite apparent to Rotherby.

"My lord!" he cried in a loud, angry voice.

Rotherby caught his wrist and checked him. "Sh! sir," he said gravely.
"Not here." And he pushed him out again, her ladyship following them.

It was in the gallery--above the hall, in which the servants still stood
idly about--that Mr. Green spattered out his wrathful tale of what had
befallen in the library.

Rotherby shook him as if he had been a rat. "You cursed fool!" he cried.
"You left him there--at the desk?"

"What help had I?" demanded Green with spirit. "My eyes were on fire. I
couldn't see, and the pain of them made me helpless."

"Then why did ye not send word to me at once, you fool?"

"Because I was concerned only to stop my eyes from burning," answered
Mr. Green, in a towering rage at finding reproof where he had come in
quest of sympathy. "I have come to you at the first moment, damn you!"
he burst out, in full rebellion. "And you'll use me civilly now that I
am come, or--ecod!--it'll be the worse for your lordship."

Rotherby considered him through a faint mist that rage had set before
his eyes. To be so spoken to--damned indeed!--by a dirty spy! Had he
been alone with the man, there can be little doubt but that he would
have jeopardized his very precarious future by kicking Mr. Green
downstairs. But his mother saved him from that rashness. It may be that
she saw something of his anger in his kindling eye, and thought it well
to intervene.

She set a hand on his sleeve. "Charles!" she said to him in a voice that
was dead cold with warning.

He responded to it, and chose discretion. He looked Green over,
nevertheless. "I vow I'm very patient with you," said he, and Green
had the discretion on his side to hold his tongue. "Come, man, while we
stand talking here that knave may be destroying precious evidence."

And his lordship went quickly down the stairs, Mr. Green following hard
upon his heels, and her ladyship bringing up the rear.

At the door of the library Rotherby came to a halt, and turned the
handle. The door was locked. He beckoned a couple of footmen across the
hall, and bade them break it open.


CHAPTER XX. Mr. CARYLL'S IDENTITY


"I must see Lord Ostermore!" had been Mr. Caryll's wild cry, as he
strode to the door.

From the other side of it there came a sound of steps and voices. Some
one was turning the handle.

Hortensia caught Mr. Caryll by the sleeve. "But the letters!" she cried
frantically, and pointed to the incriminating papers which he had left,
forgotten, upon the desk.

He stared at her a moment, and memory swept upon him in a flood. He
mastered the wild agitation that had been swaying him, thrust the paper
that he was carrying into his pocket, and turned to go back for the
treasonable letters.

"The taper!" he exclaimed, and pointed to the extinguished candle on the
floor. "What can we do?"

A sharp blow fell upon the lock of the door. He stood still, looking
over his shoulder.

"Quick! Make haste!" Hortensia admonished him in her excitement. "Get
them! Conceal them, at least! Do the best you can since we have not the
means to burn them."

A second blow was struck, succeeded instantly by a third, and something
was heard to snap. The door swung open, and Green and Rotherby sprang
into the room, a brace of footmen at their heels. They were followed
more leisurely by the countess; whilst a little flock of servants
brought up the rear, but checked upon the threshold, and hung there to
witness events that held out such promise of being unusual.

Mr. Caryll swore through set teeth, and made a dash for the desk. But he
was too late to accomplish his object. His hand had scarcely closed upon
the letters, when he was, himself, seized. Rotherby and Green, on
either side of him, held him in their grasp, each with one hand upon his
shoulder and the other at his wrist. Thus stood he, powerless between
them, and, after the first shock of it, cool and making no effort to
disengage himself. His right hand was tightly clenched upon the letters.

Rotherby called a servant forward. "Take those papers from the thief's
hand," he commanded.

"Stop!" cried Mr. Caryll. "Lord Rotherby, may I speak with you alone
before you go further in a matter you will bitterly regret?"

"Take those papers from him," Rotherby repeated, swearing; and the
servant bent to the task. But Mr. Caryll suddenly wrenched the hand away
from the fellow and the wrist out of Lord Rotherby's grip.

"A moment, my lord, as you value your honor and your possessions!" he
insisted. "Let me speak with Lord Ostermore first. Take me before him."

"You are before him now," said Rotherby. "Say on!"

"I demand to see Lord Ostermore."

"I am Lord Ostermore," said Rotherby.

"You? Since when?" said Mr. Caryll, not even beginning to understand.

"Since ten minutes ago," was the callous answer that first gave that
household the news of my lord's passing.

There was a movement, a muttering among the servants. Old Humphries
broke through the group by the door, his heavy chops white and
trembling, and in that moment Hortensia turned, awe-stricken, to ask her
ladyship was this true. Her ladyship nodded in silence. Hortensia cried
out, and sank to a chair as if beaten down by the news, whilst the old
servant, answered, too, withdrew, wringing his hands and making foolish
laments; and the tears of those were the only tears that watered the
grave of John Caryll, fifth Earl of Ostermore.

As for Mr. Caryll, the shock of that announcement seemed to cast a spell
upon him. He stood still, limp and almost numbed. Oh, the never-ceasing
irony of things! That his father should have died at such a moment.

"Dead?" quoth he. "Dead? Is my lord dead? They told me he was
recovering."

"They told you false," answered Rotherby. "So now--those papers!"

Mr. Caryll relinquished them. "Take them," he said. "Since that is
so--take them."

Rotherby received them himself. "Remove his sword," he bade a footman.

Mr. Caryll looked sharply round at him. "My sword?" quoth he. "What do
you mean by that? What right?"

"We mean to keep you by us, sir," said Mr. Green on his other side,
"until you have explained what you were doing with those papers--what is
your interest in them."

Meanwhile a servant had done his lordship's bidding, and Mr. Caryll
stood weaponless amid his enemies. He mastered himself at once. Here it
was plain that he must walk with caution, for the ground, he perceived,
was of a sudden grown most insecure and treacherous. Rotherby and Green
in league! It gave him matter for much thought.

"There's not the need to hold me," said he quietly. "I am not likely to
tire myself by violence. There's scarcely necessity for so much."

Rotherby looked up sharply. The cool, self-possessed tone had an
intimidating note. But Mr. Green laughed maliciously, as he continued
to mop his still watering eyes. He was acquainted with Mr. Caryll's
methods, and knew that, probably, the more at ease he seemed, the less
at ease he was.

Rotherby spread the letters on the desk, and scanned them with a glowing
eye, Mr. Green at his elbow reading with him. The countess swept forward
that she, too, might inspect this find.

"They'll serve their turn," said her son, and added to Caryll: "And
they'll help to hang you."

"No doubt you find me mentioned in them," said Mr. Caryll.

"Ay, sir," snapped Green, "if not by name, at least as the messenger
who is to explain that which the writers--the royal writer and the
other--have out of prudence seen fit to exclude."

Hortensia looked up and across the room at that, a wild fear clutching
at her heart. But Mr. Caryll laughed pleasantly, eyebrows raised as
if in mild surprise. "The most excellent relations appear to prevail
between you," said he, looking from Rotherby to Green. "Are you, too, my
lord, in the secretary's pay."

His lordship flushed darkly. "You'll clown it to the end," he sneered.

"And that's none so far off," snarled Mr. Green, who since the peppering
of his eyes, had flung aside his usual cherubic air. "Oh, you may sneer,
sir," he mocked the prisoner. "But we have you fast. This letter was
brought hither by you, and this one was to have been carried hence by
you."

"The latter, sir, was a matter for the future, and you can hardly prove
what a man will do; so we'll let that pass. As for the former--the
letter which you say I brought--you'll remember that you searched me at
Maidstone--"

"And I have your admission that the letter was upon you at the time,"
roared the spy, interrupting him--"your admission in the presence of
that lady, as she can be made to witness."

Mistress Winthrop rose. "'Tis a lie," she said firmly. "I can not be
made to witness."

Mr. Caryll smiled, and nodded across to her. "'Tis vastly kind in you,
Mistress Winthrop. But the gentleman is mistook." He turned to Green.
"Harkee, sirrah did I admit that I had carried that letter?"

Mr. Green shrugged. "You admitted that you carried a letter. What other
letter should it have been but that?"

"Nay," smiled Mr. Caryll. "'Tis not for you to ask me. Rather is it for
you to prove that the letter I admitted having carried and that letter
are one and the same. 'Twill take a deal of proving, I dare swear."

"Ye'll be forsworn, then," put in her ladyship sourly. "For I can
witness to the letter that you bore. Not only did I see it--a letter on
that same fine paper--in my husband's hands on the day you came here and
during your visit, but I have his lordship's own word for it that he was
in the plot and that you were the go-between."

"Ah!" chuckled Mr. Green. "What now, sir? What now? By what fresh piece
of acrobatics will you get out of that?"

"Ye're a fool," said Mr. Caryll with calm contempt, and fetched out his
snuff-box. "D'ye dream that one witness will suffice to establish so
grave a charge? Pah!" He opened his snuff-box to find it empty, and
viciously snapped down the lid again. "Pah!" he said again, "ye've cost
me a whole boxfull of Burgamot."

"Why did ye throw it in my face?" demanded Mr. Green. "What purpose did
ye look to serve but one of treason? Answer me that!"

"I didn't like the way ye looked at me. 'Twas wanting respect, and I
bethought me I would lessen the impudence of your expression. Have ye
any other foolish questions for me?" And he looked again from Green to
Rotherby, including both in his inquiry. "No?" He rose. "In that case,
if you'll give me leave, and--"

"You do not leave this house," Rotherby informed him.

"I think you push hospitality too far. Will you desire your lackey to
return me my sword? I have affairs elsewhere."

"Mr. Caryll, I beg that you will understand," said his lordship, with a
calm that he was at some pains to maintain, "that you do not leave this
house save in the care of the messengers from the secretary of state."

Mr. Caryll looked at him, and yawned in his face. "Ye're prodigiously
tiresome," said he, "did ye but know how I detest disturbances. What
shall the secretary of state require of me?"

"He'll require you on a charge of high treason," said Mr. Green.

"Have you a warrant to take me?"

"I have not, but--"

"Then how do you dare detain me, sir?" demanded Mr. Caryll sharply.
"D'ye think I don't know the law?"

"I think you'll know a deal more of it shortly," countered Mr. Green.

"Meanwhile, sirs, I depart. Offer me violence at your peril." He moved a
step, and then, at a sign from Rotherby, the lackey's hands fell on him
again, and forced him back and down into his chair.

"Away with you for the warrant," said Rotherby to Green. "We'll keep him
here till you return."

Mr. Green grinned at the prisoner, and was gone in great haste.

Mr. Caryll lounged back in his chair, and threw one leg over the other.
"I have always endeavored," said he, "to suffer fools as gladly as a
Christian should. So since you insist, I'll be patient until I have the
ear of my Lord Carteret--who, I take it, is a man of sense. But if I
were you, my lord, and you, my lady, I should not insist. Believe me,
you'll cut poor figures. As for you, my lord, ye're in none such good
odor, as it is."

"Let that be," snarled his lordship.

"If I mention it at all, I but do so in your lordship's own interests.
It will be remembered that ye attempted to murder me once, and that will
not be of any great help to such accusations as you may bring against
me. Besides which, there is the unfortunate circumstance that it's
widely known ye're not a man to be believed."

"Will you be silent?" roared his lordship, in a towering passion.

"If I trouble myself to speak at all, it is out of concern for your
lordship," Mr. Caryll insisted sweetly. "And in your own interest,
and your ladyship's, too, I'd counsel you to hear me a moment without
witnesses."

His tone was calculatedly grave. Lord Rotherby looked at him, sneering;
not so her ladyship. Less acquainted with his ways, the absolute
confidence and unconcern of his demeanor was causing her uneasiness. A
man who was perilously entrammelled would not bear himself so easily,
she opined. She rose, and crossed to her son's side.

"What have you to say?" she asked Mr. Caryll.

"Nay, madam," he replied, "not before these." And he indicated the
servants.

"'Tis but a pretext to have them out of the room," said Rotherby.

Mr. Caryll laughed the notion to scorn. "If you think that--I give you
my word of honor to attempt no violence, nor to depart until you shall
give me leave," said he.

Rotherby, judging Mr. Caryll by his knowledge of himself, still
hesitated. But her ladyship realized, in spite of her detestation of the
man, that he was not of the temper of those whose word is to be doubted.
She signed to the footmen.

"Go," she bade them. "Wait within call."

They departed, and Mr. Caryll remained seated for all that her ladyship
was standing; it was as if by that he wished to show how little he was
minded to move.

Her ladyship's eye fell upon Hortensia. "Do you go, too, child," she
bade her.

Instead, Hortensia came forward. "I wish to remain, madam," she said.

"Did I ask you what you wished?" demanded the countess.

"My place is here," Hortensia explained. "Unless Mr. Caryll should,
himself, desire me to depart."

"Nay, nay," he cried, and smiled upon her fondly--so fondly that the
countess's eyes grew wider. "With all my heart, I desire you to remain.
It is most fitting you should hear that which I have to say."

"What does it mean?" demanded Rotherby, thrusting himself forward, and
scowling from one to the other of them. "What d'ye mean, Hortensia?"

"I am Mr. Caryll's betrothed wife," she answered quietly.

Rotherby's mouth fell open, but he made no sound. Not so her ladyship.
A peal of shrill laughter broke from her. "La! What did I tell you,
Charles?" Then to Hortensia: "I'm sorry for you, ma'am," said she. "I
think ye've been a thought too long in making up your mind." And she
laughed again.

"Lord Ostermore lies above stairs," Hortensia reminded her, and her
ladyship went white at the reminder, the indecency of her laughter borne
in upon her.

"Would ye lesson me, girl?" she cried, as much to cover her confusion
as to vent her anger at the cause of it. "Ye've an odd daring, by God!
Ye'll be well matched with his impudence, there."

Rotherby, singularly self-contained, recalled her to the occasion.

"Mr. Caryll is waiting," said he, a sneer in his voice.

"Ah, yes," she said, and flashing a last malignant glance upon
Hortensia, she sank to a chair beside her, but not too near her.

Mr. Caryll sat back, his legs crossed, his elbows on his chair-arms, his
finger-tips together. "The thing I have to tell you is of some gravity,"
he announced by way of preface.

Rotherby took a seat by the desk, his hand upon the treasonable
letters. "Proceed, sir," he said, importantly. Mr. Caryll nodded, as in
acknowledgment of the invitation.

"I will admit, before going further, that in spite of the cheerful
countenance I maintained before your lordship's friend, the bumbailiff,
and your lackeys, I recognize that you have me in a very dangerous
position."

"Ah!" from his lordship in a breath of satisfaction, and

"Ah!" from Hortensia in a gasp of apprehension.

Her ladyship retained a stony countenance, and a silence that sorted
excellently with it.

"There is," Mr. Caryll proceeded, marking off the points on his fingers,
"the incident at Maidstone; there is your ladyship's evidence that I
was the bearer of just such a letter on the day that first I came here;
there is the dangerous circumstance--of which Mr. Green, I am sure, will
not fail to make a deal--of my intimacy with Sir Richard Everard, and
my constant visits to his lodging, where I was, in fact, on the occasion
when he met his death; there is the fact that I committed upon Mr. Green
an assault with my snuff box for motives that, after all, admit of but
one acceptable explanation; and, lastly, there is the circumstance that,
apparently, if interrogated, I can show no good reason why I should be
in England at all, where no apparent interest has called me or keeps me.

"Now, these matters are so trivial that taken separately they have no
value whatever; taken conjointly, their value is not great; they do
not contain evidence enough to justify the hanging of a dog. And yet,
I realize that disturbed as the times are, fearful of sedition as the
government finds itself in consequence of the mischief done to public
credit by the South Sea disaster, and ready as the ministry is to see
plots everywhere and to make examples, pour discourager les autres, if
the accusation you intend is laid against me, backed by such evidence
as this, it is not impossible--indeed, it is not improbable--that it
may--ah--tend to shorten my life."

"Sir," sneered Rotherby, "I declare you should have been a lawyer. We
haven't a pleader of such parts and such lucidity at the whole bar."

Mr. Caryll nodded his thanks. "Your praise is very flattering, my lord,"
said he, with a wry smile, and then proceeded: "It is because I see my
case to be so very nearly desperate, that I venture to hope you will not
persevere in the course you are proposing to adopt."

Lord Rotherby laughed noiselessly. "Can you urge me any reasons why we
should not?"

"If you could urge me any reasons why you should," said Mr. Caryll, "no
doubt I should be able to show you under what misapprehensions you
are laboring." He shot a keen glance at his lordship, whose face had
suddenly gone blank. Mr. Caryll smiled quietly. "There is in this
something that I do not understand," he resumed. "It does not satisfy
me to suppose, as at first might seem, that you are acting out of sheer
malice against me. You have scarcely cause to do that, my lord; and you,
my lady, have none. That fool Green--patience--he conceives that he has
suffered at my hands. But without your assistance Mr. Green would be
powerless to hurt me. What, then, is it that is moving you?"

He paused, looking from one to the other of his declared enemies. They
exchanged glances--Hortensia watching them, breathless, her own mind
working, too, upon this question that Mr. Caryll had set, yet nowhere
finding an answer.

"I had thought," said her ladyship at last, "that you promised to tell
us something that it was in our interest to hear. Instead, you appear to
be asking questions."

Mr. Caryll shifted in his chair. One glance he gave the countess, then
smiled. "I have sought at your hands the reasons why you should desire
my death," said he slowly. "You withhold them. Be it so. I take it
that you are ashamed of them; and so, their nature is not difficult to
conjecture."

"Sir--" began Rotherby, hotly, half-starting from his seat.

"Nay, let him trundle on, Charles," said his mother. "He'll be the
sooner done."

"Instead," proceeded Mr. Caryll, as if there had been no interruption,
"I will now urge you my reasons why you should not so proceed."

"Ha!" snapped Rotherby. "They will need to be valid."

Mr. Caryll twisted farther round, to face his lordship more fully. "They
are as valid," said he very impressively--so impressively and sternly
that his hearers felt themselves turning cold under his words, filled
with some mysterious apprehension. "They are as valid as were my reasons
for holding my hand in the field out yonder, when I had you at the mercy
of my sword, my lord. Neither more nor less. From that, you may judge
them to be very valid."

"But ye don't name them," said her ladyship, attempting to conquer her
uneasiness.

"I shall do so," said he, and turned again to his lordship. "I had no
cause to love you that morning, nor at any time, my lord; I had no cause
to think--as even you in your heart must realize, if so be that you have
a heart, and the intelligence to examine it--I had no cause to think, my
lord, that I should be doing other than a good deed by letting drive my
blade. That such an opinion was well founded was proven by the thing you
did when I turned my back upon you after sparing your useless life."

Rotherby broke in tempestuously, smiting the desk before him. "If you
think to move us to mercy by such--"

"Oh, not to mercy would I move you," said Mr. Caryll, his hand raised
to stay the other, "not to mercy, but to horror of the thing you
contemplate." And then, in an oddly impressive manner, he launched his
thunderbolt. "Know, then, that if that morning I would not spill your
blood, it was because I should have been spilling the same blood that
flows in my own veins; it was because you are my brother; because your
father was my father. No less than that was the reason that withheld my
hand."

He had announced his aim of moving them to horror; and it was plain that
he had not missed it, for in frozen horror sat they all, their eyes upon
him, their cheeks ashen, their mouths agape--even Hortensia, who from
what already Mr. Caryll had told her, understood now more than any of
them.

After a spell Rotherby spoke. "You are my brother?" he said, his voice
colorless. "My brother? What are you saying?"

And then her ladyship found her voice. "Who was your mother?" she
inquired, and her very tone was an insult, not to the man who sat there
so much as to the memory of poor Antoinette de Maligny. He flushed to
the temples, then paled again.

"I'll not name her to your ladyship," said he at, last, in a cold,
imperious voice.

"I'm glad ye've so much decency," she countered.

"You mistake, I think," said he. "'Tis respect for my mother that
inspires me." And his green eyes flashed upon the painted hag. She rose
up a very fury.

"What are you saying?" she shrilled. "D'ye hear the filthy fellow,
Rotherby? He'll not name the wanton in my presence out of respect for
her."

"For shame, madam! You are speaking of his mother," cried Hortensia, hot
with indignation.

"Pshaw! 'Tis all an impudent lie--a pack of lies!" cried Rotherby. "He's
crafty as all the imps of hell."

Mr. Caryll rose. "Here in the sight of God and by all that I hold
most sacred, I swear that what I have said is true. I swear that Lord
Ostermore--your father--was my father. I was born in France, in the
year 1690, as I have papers upon me that will prove, which you may see,
Rotherby."

His lordship rose. "Produce them," said he shortly.

Mr. Caryll drew from an inner pocket of his coat the small leather case
that Sir Richard Everard had given him. From this he took a paper which
he unfolded. It was a certificate of baptism, copied from the register
of the Church of St. Antoine in Paris.

Rotherby held out his hand for it. But Mr. Caryll shook his head. "Stand
here beside me, and read it," said he.

Obeying him, Rotherby went and read that authenticated copy, wherein it
was declared that Sir Richard Everard had brought to the Church of St.
Antoine for baptism a male child, which he had declared to be the son of
John Caryll, Viscount Rotherby, and Antoinette de Maligny, and which had
received in baptism the name of Justin.

Rotherby drew away again, his head sunk on his breast. Her ladyship was
seated, her eyes upon her son, her fingers drumming absently at the arms
of her chair. Then Rotherby swung round again.

"How do I know that you are the person designated there--this Justin
Caryll?"

"You do not; but you may. Cast your mind back to that night at White's
when you picked your quarrel with me, my lord. Do you remember how
Stapleton and Collis spoke up for me, declared that they had known me
from boyhood at Oxford, and had visited me at my chateau in France? What
was the name of that chateau, my lord--do you remember?"

Rotherby looked at him, searching his memory. But he did not need to
search far. At first glance the name of Maligny had seemed familiar to
him. "It was Maligny," he replied, "and yet--"

"If more is needed to convince you, I can bring a hundred witnesses
from France, who have known me from infancy. You may take it that I can
establish my identity beyond all doubt."

"And what if you do?" demanded her ladyship suddenly. "What if you do
establish your identity as my lord's bastard? What claim shall that be
upon us?"

"That, ma'am," answered Mr. Caryll very gravely, "I wait to learn from
my brother here."


CHAPTER XXI. THE LION'S SKIN

For a spell there was utter silence in that spacious, pillared chamber.
Mr. Caryll and her ladyship had both resumed their chairs: the former
spuriously calm; the latter making no attempt to conceal her agitation.
Hortensia leant forward, an eager spectator, watching the three actors
in this tragicomedy.

As for Rotherby, he stood with bent head and furrowed brow. It was for
him to speak, and yet he was utterly at a loss for words. He was not
moved at the news he had received, so much as dismayed. It dictated a
course that would interfere with all his plans, and therefore a course
unthinkable. So he remained puzzled how to act, how to deal with this
unexpected situation.

It was her ladyship who was the first to break the silence. She had been
considering Mr. Caryll through narrowing eyes, the corners of her mouth
drawn down. She had caught the name of Maligny when it was uttered, and
out of the knowledge which happened to be hers--though Mr. Caryll was
ignorant of this--it set her thinking.

"I do not believe that you are the son of Mademoiselle de Maligny," she
said at last. "I never heard that my lord had a son; I cannot believe
there was so much between them."

Mr. Caryll stared, startled out of his habitual calm. Rotherby turned to
her with an exclamation of surprise. "How?" he cried. "You knew, then?
My father was--"

She laughed mirthlessly. "Your father would have married her had he
dared," she informed them. "'Twas to beg his father's consent that
he braved his banishment and came to England. But his father was as
headstrong as himself; held just such views as he, himself, held later
where you were concerned. He would not hear of the match. I was to be
had for the asking. My father was a man who traded in his children, and
he had offered me, with a jointure that was a fortune, to the Earl of
Ostermore as a wife for his son."

Mr. Caryll was listening, all ears. Some light was being shed upon much
that had lain in darkness.

"And so," she proceeded, "your grandfather constrained your father to
forget the woman he had left in France, and to marry me. I know not
what sins I had committed that I should have been visited with such a
punishment. But so it befell. Your father resisted, dallying with the
matter for a whole year. Then there was a duel fought. A cousin of
Mademoiselle de Maligny's crossed to England, and forced a quarrel upon
your father. They met, and M. de Maligny was killed. Then a change set
in in my lord's bearing, and one day, a month or so later, he gave way
to his father's insistence, and we were wed. But I do not believe that
my lord had left a son in France--I do not believe that had he done
so, I should not have known it; I do not believe that under such
circumstances, unfeeling as he was, he would have abandoned Mademoiselle
de Maligny."

"You think, then," said Rotherby, "that this man has raked up this story
to--"

"Consider what you are saying," cut in Mr. Caryll, with a flash of
scorn. "Should I have come prepared with documents against such a
happening as this?"

"Nay, but the documents might have been intended for some other purpose
had my lord lived--some purpose of extortion," suggested her ladyship.

"But consider again, madam, that I am wealthy--far wealthier than was
ever my Lord Ostermore, as my friends Collis, Stapleton and many another
can be called to prove. What need, then, had I to extort?"

"How came you by your means, being what you say you are?" she asked him.

Briefly he told her how Sir Richard Everard had cared for him, for his
mother's sake; endowed him richly upon adopting him, and since made
him heir to all his wealth, which was considerable. "And for the rest,
madam, and you, Rotherby, set doubts on one side. Your ladyship says
that had my lord had a son you must have heard of it. But my lord,
madam, never knew he had a son. Tell me--can you recall the date, the
month at least, in which my lord returned to England?"

"I can, sir. It was at the end of April of '89. What then?"

Mr. Caryll produced the certificate again. He beckoned Rotherby, and
held the paper under his eyes. "What date is there--the date of birth?"

Rotherby read: "The third of January of 1690."

Mr. Caryll folded the paper again. "That will help your ladyship to
understand how it might happen that my lord remained in ignorance of my
birth." He sighed as he replaced the case in his pocket. "I would he had
known before he died," said he, almost as if speaking to himself.

And now her ladyship lost her temper. She saw Rotherby wavering, and
it angered her; and angered, she committed a grave error. Wisdom lay in
maintaining the attitude of repudiation; it would at least have afforded
some excuse for her and Rotherby. Instead, she now recklessly flung off
that armor, and went naked down into the fray.

"A fig for't all!" she cried, and snapped her fingers. She had risen,
and she towered there, a lean and malevolent figure, her head-dress
nodding foolishly. "What does it matter that you be what you claim to
be? Is it to weigh with you, Rotherby?"

Rotherby turned grave eyes upon her. He was, it seemed, not quite rotten
through and through; there was still in him--in the depths of him--a
core that was in a measure sound; and that core was reached. Most of all
had the story weighed with him because it afforded the only explanation
of why Mr. Caryll had spared his life that morning of the duel. It was a
matter that had puzzled him, as it had puzzled all who had witnessed the
affront that led to the encounter.

Between that and the rest--to say nothing of the certificate he had
seen, which he could not suppose a forgery--he was convinced that Mr.
Caryll was the brother that he claimed to be. He gathered from his
mother's sudden anger that she, too, was convinced, in spite of herself,
by the answers Mr. Caryll had returned to all her arguments against the
identity he claimed.

He hated Mr. Caryll no whit less for what he had learnt; if anything, he
hated him more. And yet a sense of decency forbade him from persecuting
him now, as he had intended, and delivering to the hangman. From
ordinary murder, once in the heat of passion--as we have seen--he had
not shrunk. But fratricide appeared--such is the effect of education--a
far, far graver thing, even though it should be indirect fratricide of
the sort that he had contemplated before learning that this man was his
brother.

There seemed to be one of two only courses left him: to provide Mr.
Caryll with the means of escape, or else to withhold such evidence as
he intended to supply against him, and to persuade--to compel, if
necessary--his mother to do the same. When all was said, his interests
need not suffer very greatly. His position would not be quite so strong,
perhaps, if he but betrayed a plot without delivering up any of the
plotters; still, he thought, it should be strong enough. His father
dead, out of consideration of the signal loyalty his act must manifest,
he thought the government would prove grateful and forbear from
prosecuting a claim for restitution against the Ostermore estates.

He had, then, all but resolved upon the cleaner course, when, suddenly,
something that in the stress of the moment he had gone near to
overlooking, was urged upon his attention.

Hortensia had risen and had started forward at her ladyship's last
words. She stood before his lordship now with pleading eyes, and hands
held out. "My lord," she cried, "you cannot do this thing! You cannot do
it!"

But instead of moving him to generosity, by those very words she
steeled his heart against it, and proved to him that, after all, his
potentialities for evil were strong enough to enable him to do the very
thing she said he could not. His brow grew black as midnight; his dark
eyes raked her face, and saw the agony of apprehension for her lover
written there. He drew breath, hissing and audible, glanced once at
Caryll; then: "A moment!" said he.

He strode to the door and called the footmen, then turned again.

"Mr. Caryll," he said in a formal voice, "will you give yourself the
trouble of waiting in the ante-room? I need to consider upon this
matter."

Mr. Caryll, conceiving that it was with his mother that Rotherby
intended to consider, rose instantly. "I would remind you, Rotherby,
that time is pressing," said he.

"I shall not keep you long," was Rotherby's cold reply, and Mr. Caryll
went out.

"What now, Charles?" asked his mother. "Is this child to remain?"

"It is the child that is to remain," said his lordship. "Will your
ladyship do me the honor, too, of waiting in the ante-room?" and he held
the door for her.

"What folly are you considering?" she asked.

"Your ladyship is wasting time, and time, as Mr. Caryll has said, is
pressing."

She crossed to the door, controlled almost despite herself by the calm
air of purpose that was investing him. "You are not thinking of--"

"You shall learn very soon of what I am thinking, ma'am. I beg that you
will give us leave."

She paused almost upon the threshold. "If you do a rashness, here,
remember that I can still act without you," she reminded him. "You may
choose to believe that that man is your brother, and so, out of that,
and"--she added with a cruel sneer at Hortensia--"other considerations,
you may elect to let him go. But remember that you still have me to
reckon with. Whether he prove of your blood or not, he cannot prove
himself of mine--thank God!"

His lordship bowed in silence, preserving an unmoved countenance,
whereupon she cursed him for a fool, and passed out. He closed the door,
and turned the key, Hortensia watching him in a sort of horror. "Let
me go!" she found voice to cry at last, and advanced towards the
door herself. But Rotherby came to meet her, his face white, his eyes
glowing. She fell away before his opening arms, and he stood still,
mastering himself.

"That man," he said, jerking a backward thumb at the closed door, "lives
or dies, goes free or hangs, as you shall decide, Hortensia."

She looked at him, her face haggard, her heart beating high in her
throat as if to suffocate her. "What do you mean?" she asked.

"You love him!" he growled. "Pah! I see it in your eyes--in your
tremors--that you do. It is for him that you are afraid, is't not?"

"Why do you mock me with it?" she inquired with dignity.

"I do not mock you, Hortensia. Answer me! Is it true that you love him?"

"It is true," she answered steadily. "What is't to you?"

"Everything!" he answered hotly. "Everything! It is Heaven and Hell to
me. Ten days ago, Hortensia, I asked you to marry me--"

"No more," she begged him, an arm thrown out to stay him.

"But there is more," he answered, advancing again. "This time I can
make the offer more attractive. Marry me, and Caryll is not only free
to depart, but no evidence shall be laid against him. I swear it! Refuse
me, and he hangs as surely--as surely as you and I talk together here
this moment."

A given height above the sea level under the parallel of 30°
may have the same climate as places under that of 35°, and similar Flora
and Fauna. At the head-waters of the Delaware, where I write, the
latitude is that of Boston, but the region has a much greater
elevation, and hence a climate that compares better with the northern
part of the State and of New England.

Half a day's drive to the southeast brings me down into quite a
different temperature, with an older geological formation, different
forest timber, and different birds,--even with different mammals.

Neither the little Gray Rabbit nor the little Gray Fox is found in
my locality, but the great Northern Hare and the Red Fox are seen here.
In the last century a colony of beavers dwelt here, though the
oldest inhabitant cannot now point to even the traditional site of
their dams.

The ancient hemlocks, whither I propose to take the reader, are rich
in many things beside birds. Indeed, their wealth in this respect
is owing mainly, no doubt, to their rank vegetable growths, their fruitful
swamps, and their dark, sheltered retreats.

Their history is of an heroic cast.

Ravished and torn by the tanner in his thirst for bark, preyed upon
by the lumberman, assaulted and beaten back by the settler, still
their spirit has never been broken, their energies never paralyzed.

Not many years ago a public highway passed through them, but it was at
no time a tolerable road; trees fell across it, mud and limbs
choked it up, till finally travellers took the hint and went around;
and now, walking along its deserted course, I see only the footprints
of coons, foxes, and squirrels.

Nature loves such woods, and places her own seal upon them. Here she
shows me what can be done with ferns and mosses and lichens.
"Save him,
and you shall find me ever a dutiful wife to you, my lord--a dutiful
wife."

"And loving?" he demanded greedily.

"Even that. I promise it," she answered.

With a hoarse cry, he stooped to kiss her; then, with an oath, he
checked, and flung her from him so violently that she hurtled to a chair
and sank to it, overbalanced. "No," he roared, like a mad thing now.
"Hell and damnation--no!"

A wild frenzy of jealousy had swept aside his tenderness. He was sick
and faint with the passion of it of this proof of how deeply she must
love that other man. He strove to control his violence. He snarled at
her, in his endeavors to subdue the animal, the primitive creature that
he was at heart. "If you can love him so much as that, he had better
hang, I think." He laughed on a high, fierce note. "You have spoke his
sentence, girl! D'ye think I'd take you so--at second hand? Oh, s'death!
What d'ye deem me?"

He laughed again--in his throat now, a quivering; half-sobbing laugh of
anger--and crossed to the door, her eyes following him, terrified; her
mind understanding nothing of this savage. He turned the key, and flung
wide the door with a violent gesture. "Bring him in!" he shouted.

They entered--Mr. Caryll with the footmen at his heels, a frown between
his brows, his eyes glancing quickly and searchingly from Rotherby to
Hortensia. After him came her ladyship, no less inquisitive of look.
Rotherby dismissed the lackeys, and closed the door again. He flung out
an arm to indicate Hortensia.

"This little fool," he said to Caryll, "would have married me to save
your life."

Mr. Caryll raised his brows. The words relieved his fears. "I am glad,
sir, that you perceive she would have been a fool to do so. You, I take
it, have been fool enough to refuse the offer."

"Yes, you damned play-actor! Yes!" he thundered. "D'ye think I want
another man's cast-offs?"

"That is an overstatement," said Mr. Caryll. "Mistress Winthrop is no
cast-off of mine."

"Enough said!" snapped Rotherby. He had intended to say much, to do some
mighty ranting. But before Mr. Caryll's cold half-bantering reduction of
facts to their true values, he felt himself robbed of words. "You hang!"
he ended shortly.

"Ye're sure of that?" questioned Mr. Caryll.

"I would I were as sure of Heaven."

"I think you may be--just about as sure," Mr. Caryll rejoined, entirely
unperturbed, and he sauntered forward towards Hortensia. Rotherby and
his mother watched him, exchanging glances.

Then Rotherby shrugged and sneered. "'Tis his bluster," said he. "He'll
be a farceur to the end. I doubt he's half-witted."

Mr. Caryll never heeded him. He was bending beside Hortensia. He took
her hand, and bore it to his lips. "Sweet," he murmured, "'twas a
treason that you intended. Have you, then, no faith in me? Courage,
sweetheart, they cannot hurt me."

She clutched his hands, and looked up into his eyes. "You but say that
to comfort me!" she cried.

"Not so," he answered gravely. "I tell you no more than what is true.
They think they hold me. They will cheat, and lie and swear falsely to
the end that they may destroy me. But they shall have their pains for
nothing."

"Ay--depend upon that," Rotherby mocked him. "Depend upon it--to the
gallows."

Mr Caryll's curious eyes smiled upon his brother, but his lips were
contemptuous. In Windsor Castle is the celebrated painting representing
"_The Interview of Henry the Eighth with Francis the First_," between
Guisnes and Ardres, near Calais, in the year 1520, on an open plain,
since denominated _Le Champ de Drap d'or_. "After the execution of
Charles the First," says Britton, "the parliament appointed commissioners
to dispose of his effects, and an agent from France began a treaty
with them for this painting.

Philip, Earl of Pembroke, an eminent admirer of the arts, who considered
the picture as a valuable appendage to an English palace, resolved, if
possible, to prevent the bargain being concluded, and went privately to
the royal apartments, cut out the head of King Henry from the canvass,
placed it in his pocket-book, and retired unnoticed.

The agent, finding the picture so materially mutilated, declined to
purchase; and it remained in its station till Cromwell, having obtained
the supreme command, prevented any further disposal of the collection.
On the Restoration, the then Earl of Pembroke delivered the dissevered
fragment to Charles the Second, who ordered it to be reinserted in its
place. By looking sideways at the picture in a proper light, the reparation
becomes visible."
P.T.W.

* * * * *
MEMORY.

It is reported of the Emperor Claudius, that he retained in memory
all Homer, Sallust, Demosthenes, Avicen, and Aristotle's Metaphysics.

Tully and Seneca never heard any thing material but it was imprinted
in their memory.

Scaliger said he learned Homer in twelve days, and all the Greek
poets in four months.

Seneca, the philosopher, could repeat two thousand names in the exact
order in which they were rehearsed to him.

Themistocles, when he was promised to be taught the art of memory,
said, "I had rather be taught the art of forgetfulness, for I
remember those things I would not, and I cannot forget those things
I would

."
* * * * *
ROYAL PLEASURE.

In the midst of the distresses with which France was harassed in
the reign of Charles VII., and whilst the English were in possession
of Paris, Charles amused himself and his mistresses with balls and
entertainments.
The brave La Hire, coming to Charles one day, to talk to him on
some business of importance, whilst the luxurious prince was occupied
in arranging one of his parties of pleasure, was interrupted by the
monarch, who asked him what he thought of his arrangement.Poor Rotherby! From my soul I pity you!"

"Pity me? Death! You impudent rogue! Keep your pity for those that need
it."

"That is why I offer it you, Rotherby," said Mr. Caryll, almost sadly.
"In all my life, I have not met a man who stood more sorely in need of
it, nor am I ever like to meet another."

There was a movement without, a tap at the door; and Humphries entered
to announce Mr. Green's return, accompanied by Mr. Second Secretary
Templeton, and without waiting for more, he ushered them into the room.


CHAPTER XXII. THE HUNTERS


To the amazement of them all, there entered a tall gentleman in a
full-bottomed wig, with a long, pale face, a resolute mouth, and a pair
of eyes that were keen, yet kindly. Close upon the heels of the second
secretary came Mr. Green. Humphries withdrew, and closed the door.

Mr. Templeton made her ladyship a low bow.

"Madam," said he very gravely, "I offer your ladyship--and you, my
lord--my profoundest condolence in the bereavement you have suffered,
and my scarcely less profound excuses for this intrusion upon your
grief."

Mr. Templeton may or may not have reflected that the grief upon which he
deplored his intrusion was none so apparent.

"I had not ventured to do so," he continued, "but that your lordship
seemed to invite my presence."

"Invited it, sir?" questioned Rotherby with deference. "I should
scarcely have presumed so far as to invite it."

"Not directly, perhaps," returned the second secretary. His was a deep,
rich voice, and he spoke with great deliberateness, as if considering
well each word before allowing it utterance. "Not directly, perhaps; but
in view of your message to Lord Carteret, his lordship has desired me
to come in person to inquire into this matter for him, before proceeding
farther. This fellow," indicating Green, "brought information from you
that a Jacobite--an agent of James Stuart--is being detained here,
and that your lordship has a communication to make to the secretary of
state."

Rotherby bowed his assent. "All I desired that Mr. Green should do
meanwhile," said he, "was to procure a warrant for this man's arrest. My
revelations would have followed that. Has he the warrant?"

"Your lordship may not be aware," said Mr. Templeton, with an increased
precision of diction, "that of late so many plots have been disclosed
and have proved in the end to be no plots at all, that his lordship has
resolved to proceed now with the extremest caution. For it is not held
desirable by his majesty that publicity should be given to such matters
until there can be no doubt that they are susceptible to proof. Talk of
them is disturbing to the public quiet, and there is already disturbance
enough, as it unfortunately happens. Therefore, it is deemed expedient
that we should make quite sure of our ground before proceeding to
arrests."

"But this plot is no sham plot," cried Rotherby, with the faintest show
of heat, out of patience with the other's deliberateness. "It is a very
real danger, as I can prove to his lordship."

"It is for the purpose of ascertaining that fact," resumed the second
secretary, entirely unruffled, "for the purpose of ascertaining it
before taking any steps that would seem to acknowledge it, that my
Lord Carteret has desired me to wait upon you--that you may place me in
possession of the circumstances that have come to your knowledge."

Rotherby's countenance betrayed his growing impatience. "Why, for that
matter, it has come to my knowledge that a plot is being hatched by the
friends of the Stuart, and that a rising is being prepared, the present
moment being considered auspicious, while the people's confidence in the
government is shaken by the late South Sea Company disaster."

Mr. Templeton wagged his head gently. "That, sir--if you will permit the
observation--is the preface of all the disclosures that have lately been
made to us. The consolation, sir, for his majesty's friends, has been
that in no case did the subsequent matter make that preface good."

"It is in that particular, then, that my disclosures shall differ
from those others," said Rotherby, in a tone that caused Mr. Templeton
afterwards to describe him as "a damned hot fellow."

"You have evidence?"

"Documentary evidence. A letter from the Pretender himself amongst it."

A becoming gravity overspread Mr. Templeton's clear-cut face. "That
would be indeed regrettable," said he. It was plain that whatever the
second secretary might display when the plot was disclosed to him, he
would display none of that satisfaction upon which Rotherby had counted.
"To whom, sir, let me ask, is this letter indited?"

"To my late father," answered his lordship.

Mr. Templeton made an exclamation, whose significance was not quite
clear.

"I have discovered it since his death," continued Rotherby. "I was but
in time to wrest it from the hands of that spy of the Pretender's, who
was in the act of destroying it when I caught him. My devotion to his
majesty made my course clear, sir--and I desired Mr. Green to procure a
warrant for this traitor's arrest."

"Sir," said Mr. Templeton, regarding him with an eye in which
astonishment was blent with admiration, "this is very loyal in you--very
loyal under the--ah--peculiar circumstances of the affair. I do not
think that his majesty's government, considering to whom this letter was
addressed, could have censured you even had you suppressed it. You have
conducted yourself, my lord--if I may venture upon a criticism of your
lordship's conduct--with a patriotism worthy of the best models of
ancient Rome. And I am assured that his majesty's government will not be
remiss in signifying appreciation of this very lofty loyalty of yours."

Lord Rotherby bowed low, in acknowledgment of the compliment. Her
ladyship concealed a cynical smile under cover of her fan. Mr.
Caryll--standing in the background beside Hortensia's chair--smiled,
too, and poor Hortensia, detecting his smile, sought to take comfort in
it.

"My son," interposed the countess, "is, I am sure, gratified to hear you
so commend his conduct."

Mr. Templeton bowed to her with a great politeness. "I should be a
stone, ma'am, did I not signify my--ah--appreciation of it."

"There is a little more to follow, sir," put in Mr. Caryll, in that
quiet manner of his. "I think you will find it blunt the edge of his
lordship's lofty loyalty--cause it to savor less like the patriotism of
Rome, and more like that of Israel."

Mr. Templeton turned upon him a face of cold displeasure. He would have
spoken, but that whilst he was seeking words of a becoming gravity,
Rotherby forestalled him.

"Sir," he exclaimed, "what I did, I did though my ruin must have
followed. I know what this traitor has in mind. He imagines I have a
bargain to make. But you must see, sir, that in no sense is it so, for,
having already surrendered the facts, it is too late now to attempt
to sell them. I am ready to yield up the letters that I have found. No
consideration could induce me to do other; and yet, sir, I venture to
hope that in return, the government will be pleased to see that I have
some claim upon my country's recognition for the signal service I am
rendering her--and in rendering which I make a holocaust of my father's
honor."

"Surely, surely, sir," murmured Mr. Templeton, but his countenance told
of a lessening enthusiasm in his lordship's Roman patriotism. "Lord
Carteret, I am sure, would never permit so much--ah--devotion to his
majesty to go unrewarded."

"I only ask, sir--and I ask it for the sake of my father's name, which
stands in unavoidable danger of being smirched--that no further shame
be heaped upon it than that which must result from the horror with which
the discovery of this plot will inspire all right-thinking subjects."

Mr. Caryll smiled and nodded. He judged in a detached spirit--a mere
spectator at a play--and he was forced to admit to himself that it was
subtly done of his brother, and showed an astuteness in this thing, at
least, of which he had never supposed him capable.

I know of no language so well fitted to describe that victorious advance
to Moscow, and the utter humiliation of the retreat, as the language of
the prophet with respect to the advance and subsequent destruction of
the host of Sennacherib. 'When they arose early in the morning, behold
they were all dead corpses,' applies almost literally to that memorable
night of frost, in which twenty thousand horses perished, and the
strength of the French army was utterly broken. Human instruments,
no doubt, were employed in the remainder of the work; nor would I
deny to Germany and to Prussia the glories of the year 1813, nor to
England the honour of her victories in Spain, or of the crowning
victory of Waterloo.

But at the distance of thirty years, those who lived in the time of
danger and remember its magnitude, and now calmly review what
there was in human strength to avert it, must acknowledge, I think,
beyond all controversy, that the deliverance of Europe from the dominion
of Napoleon was effected neither by Russia, nor by Germany, nor by
England, but by the hand of God alone."

The question, whether some races of men possess an inherent superiority
over others, is mooted by Dr Arnold, in his dissertation on military
science.

Without laying down any universal rule, it may be stated that such a
superiority can be predicated of no European nation.

Frederick the Great defeated the French at Rosbach, as easily as
Napoleon overcame the Prussians at Jena. If Marlborough was uniformly
successful, William III. was always beaten by Luxembourg, and the
Duke of Cumberland by D'Etrées and Saxe. It seems, therefore, a
fair inference, that no civilized European nation possesses
over its neighbours that degree of superiority which greater genius
in the general, or greater discipline in the troops of its antagonists,
will not be sufficient to counteract.
The defeat of the Vendéans in France, by the soldiers of the garrison
of Mentz; and the admirable conduct of our own Sepoys under British
generals, are, no doubt, strong instances to show the prodigious
importance of systematic discipline.

Still, we cannot quite coincide with Dr Arnold's opinion on this subject.
We are quite ready to admit--who, indeed, for a moment would deny?

--in military as well as in all other subjects, the value of professional
attainments and long experience. We cannot, however, consider them
superior to those great qualities of our nature which discipline
may regulate and embellish, but which it can never destroy or
supersede.

As every man is bound to form his own opinion on religious matters, though
he may not be a priest, every man is obliged to defend his country
when invaded, though he may not be a soldier.

Nor can the miseries which such a state of things involves, furnish any
argument against its necessity.

All war must be attended with misfortunes, which freeze the blood and
make the soul sick in their contemplation; but these very misfortunes
deter those who wield the reins of empire from appealing wantonly
to its determination.

The resistance of Saragossa was not the less glorious, it does not the
less fire the heart of every reader with a holy and passionate enthusiasm,
because it was not conducted according to the strict forms of military
tactics, because citizens and even women participated in its fame. The
inextinguishable hatred of the Spanish nation for its oppressor--which
wore down the French armies, which no severities, no violence, no
defeat, could subdue--will be, as long as time shall last, a terrible
lesson to ambitious conquerors.

They will learn that there is in the fury of an insulted nation a
danger which the most exquisite military combinations cannot remove, which
the most perfectly served artillery cannot sweep away, before which
all the bayonets, and gunpowder, and lines of fortification in the world
are useless--and compared with which the science of the commander is
pedantry, and strategy but a word.

They will discover that something more than mechanical power, however
great--something more than the skill of the practised officer, or the
instinct of well-trained soldiers, are requisite for success--where
every plain is a Marathon, and every valley a Thermopylæ.

Would to God that the same reproach urged against the Spanish nation--that
they defended their native soil irregularly--that they fought like
freemen rather than like soldiers--that they transgressed the rules of
war by defending one side of a street while the artillery of the enemy,
with its thousand mouths, was pouring death upon them from the
other--that they struggled too long, that they surrendered too late,
that they died too readily, could have been applied to Poland--one
fearful instance of success would have been wanting to encourage
the designs of despotism!

I but caught him in time, as
my servants can bear witness, as they can also bear witness to the
circumstance that we were compelled to force an entrance here, and to
use force to him to obtain the letters from him."

Mr. Templeton nodded. "'Tis a clear case, then," said he, and dipped his
pen.

"And yet," put in Mr. Caryll, in an indolent, musing voice, "it might be
made to look as clear another way."

Mr. Templeton scowled at him. "The opportunity shall be afforded you,"
said he. "Meanwhile--what is your name?"

Mr. Caryll looked whimsically at the secretary a moment; then flung his
bomb. "I am Justin Caryll, Sixth Earl of Ostermore, and your very humble
servant, Mr. Secretary."

The effect was ludicrous--from Mr. Caryll's point of view--and yet it
was disappointing. Five pairs of dilating eyes confronted him, five
gaping mouths. Then her ladyship broke into a laugh.

"The creature's mad--I've long suspected it." And she meant to be taken
literally; his many whimsicalities were explained to her at last. He
was, indeed, half-witted, as he now proved.

Mr. Templeton, recovering, smote the table angrily. He thought he had
good reason to lose his self-control on this occasion, though it was a
matter of pride with him that he could always preserve an unruffled
calm under the most trying circumstances. "What is your name, sir?" he
demanded again.

"You are hard of hearing, sir, I think. I am Lord Ostermore. Set down
that name in the warrant if you are determined to be bubbled by that
fellow there and made to look foolish afterwards with my Lord Carteret."

Mr. Templeton sat back in his chair, frowning; but more from utter
bewilderment now than anger.

"Perhaps," said Mr. Caryll, "if I were to explain, it would help you
to see the imposture that is being practiced upon you. As for the
allegations that have been made against me--that I am a Jacobite spy and
an agent of the Pretender's--" He shrugged, and waved an airy hand. "I
scarce think there will remain the need for me to deny them when you
have heard the rest."

Rotherby took a step forward, his face purple, his hands clenched. Her
ladyship thrust out a bony claw, clutched at his sleeve, and drew him
back and into the chair beside her. "Pho! Charles," she said; "give the
fool rope, and he'll hang himself, never doubt it--the poor, witless
creature."

Mr. Caryll sauntered over to the secretaire, and leaned an elbow on the
top of it, facing all in the room.

"I admit, Mr. Secretary," said he, "that I had occasion to assault
Mr. Green, to the end that I might possess myself of the papers he was
seeking in this desk."

"Why, then--" began Mr. Templeton.

"Patience, sir! I admit so much, but I admit no more. I do not, for
instance, admit that the object--the object itself--of my search was
such as has been represented."

"What then? What else?" growled Rotherby.

"Ay, sir--what else?" quoth Mr. Templeton.

"Sir," said Mr. Caryll, with a sorrowful shake of, the head, "I have
already startled you, it seems, by one statement. I beg that you will
prepare yourself to be startled by another." Then he abruptly dropped
his languor. "I should think twice, sir," he advised, "before signing
that warrant, were I in your place, to do so would be to render yourself
the tool of those who are plotting my ruin, and ready to bear false
witness that they may accomplish it. I refer," and he waved a hand
towards the countess and his brother, "to the late Lord Ostermore's
mistress and his natural son, there."

In their utter stupefaction at the unexpectedness and seeming wildness
of the statement, neither mother nor son could find a word to say. No
more could Mr. Templeton for a moment. Then, suddenly, wrathfully: "What
are you saying, sir?" he roared.

"The truth, sir."

"The truth?" echoed the secretary.

"Ay, sir--the truth. Have ye never heard of it?"

Mr. Templeton sat back again. "I begin to think," said he, surveying
through narrowing eyes the slender graceful figure before him, "that her
ladyship is right that you are mad; unless--unless you are mad of the
same madness that beset Ulysses. You remember?"

"Let us have done," cried Rotherby in a burst of anger, leaping to his
feet. "Let us have done, I say! Are we to waste the day upon this Tom
o' Bedlam? Write him down as Caryll--Justin Caryll--'tis the name he's
known by; and let Green see to the rest."

Mr. Templeton made an impatient sound, and poised his pen.

"Ye are not to suppose, sir," Mr. Caryll stayed him, "that I cannot
support my statements. I have by me proofs--irrefragable proofs of what
I say."

"Proofs?" The word seemed to come from, every member of that little
assembly--if we except Mr. Green, whose face was beginning to betray
his uneasiness. He was not so ready as the others to believe, that Mr.
Caryll was mad. For him, the situation asked some other explanation.

"Ay--proofs," said Mr. Caryll. He had drawn the case from his pocket
again. From this he took the birth-certificate, and placed it before Mr.
Templeton, "Will you glance at that, sir--to begin, with?--"

Mr. Templeton complied. His face became more and more grave. He looked
at Mr. Caryll; then at Rotherby, who was scowling, and at her ladyship,
who was breathing hard. His glance returned to Mr. Caryll.

"You are the person designated here?" he inquired.

"As I can abundantly prove," said Mr. Caryll. "I have no lack of friends
in London who will bear witness to that much."

"Yet," said Mr. Templeton, frowning, perplexed, "this does not make
you what you claim to be. Rather does it show you to be his late
lordship's--"

"There's more to come," said Mr. Caryll, and placed another document
before the secretary. It was an extract from the register of St. Etienne
of Maligny, relating to his mother's death.

"Do you know, sir, in what year this lady went through a ceremony of
marriage with my father--the late Lord Ostermore? It was in 1690, I
think, as the lady will no doubt confirm."

"To what purpose, this?" quoth Mr. Templeton.

"The purpose will be presently apparent. Observe that date," said Mr.
Caryll, and he pointed to the document in Mr. Templeton's hand.

Mr. Templeton read the date aloud--"1692"--and then the name of the
deceased--"Antoinette de Beaulieu de Maligny. What of it?" he demanded.

"You will understand that when I show you the paper I took from this
desk, the paper that I obtained as a consequence of my violence to Mr.
Green. I think you will consider, sir, that if ever the end justified
the means, it did so in this case. Here was something very different
from the paltry matter of treason that is alleged against me."

And he passed the secretary a third paper.

Over Mr. Templeton's shoulder, Rotherby and his mother, who--drawn by
the overpowering excitement that was mastering them--had approached
in silence, were examining the document with wide-open, startled eyes,
fearing by very instinct, without yet apprehending the true nature of
the revelation that was to come.

"God!" shrieked her ladyship, who took in the meaning of this thing
before Rotherby had begun to suspect it. "'Tis a forgery!"

"That were idle, when the original entry in the register is to be seen
in, the Church of St. Antoine, madam," answered Mr. Caryll. "I rescued
that document, together with some letters which my mother wrote my
father when first he returned to England--and which are superfluous
now--from a secret drawer in that desk, an hour ago."

"But what is it?" inquired Rotherby huskily. "What is it?"

"It is the certificate of the marriage of my father, the late Lord
Ostermore, and my mother, Antoinette de Maligny, at the Church of St.
Antoine in Paris, in the year 1689." He turned to Mr. Templeton. "You
apprehend the matter, sir?" he demanded, and recapitulated. "In 1689
they were married; in 1692 she died; yet in 1690 his lordship went
through a form of marriage with Mistress Sylvia Etheridge, there."

Mr. Templeton nodded very gravely, his eyes upon the document before
him, that they might avoid meeting at that moment the eyes of the woman
whom the world had always known as the Countess of Ostermore.

"Fortunate is it for me," said Mr. Caryll, "that I should have possessed
myself of these proofs in time. Does it need more to show how urgent
might be the need for my suppression--how little faith can be attached
to an accusation levelled against me from such a quarter?"

"By God--" began Rotherby, but his mother clutched his wrist.

"Be still, fool!" she hissed in his ear. She had need to keep her wits
about her, to think, to weigh each word that she might utter. An
abyss had opened in her path; a false step, and she and her son were
irrevocably lost--sent headlong to destruction. Rotherby, already
reduced to the last stage of fear, was obedient as he had never been,
and fell silent instantly.

Mr. Templeton folded the papers, rose, and proffered them to their
owner. "Have you any means of proving that this was the document you
sought?" he inquired.

"I can prove that it was the document he found." It was Hortensia who
spoke; she had advanced to her lover's side, and she controlled her
amazement to bear witness for him. "I was present in this room when he
went through that desk, as all in the house know; and I can swear to his
having found that paper in it."

Mr. Templeton bowed. "My lord," he said to Caryll, "your contentions
appear clear. It is a matter in which I fear I can go no further; nor
do I now think that the secretary of state would approve of my issuing
a warrant upon such testimony as we have received. The matter is one for
Lord Carteret himself."

"I shall do myself the honor of waiting upon his lordship within the
hour," said the new Lord Ostermore. "As for the letter which it is
alleged I brought from France--from the Pretender,"--he was smiling now,
a regretful, deprecatory smile, "it is a fortunate circumstance that,
being suspected by that very man Green, who stands yonder, I was
subjected, upon my arrival in England, to a thorough search at
Maidstone--a search, it goes without saying, that yielded nothing. I was
angry at the time, at the indignity I was forced to endure. We little
know what the future may hold. And to-day I am thankful to have that
evidence to rebut this charge."

"Your lordship is indeed to be congratulated," Mr. Templeton agreed.
"You are thus in a position to clear yourself of even a shadow of
suspicion."

"You fool!" cried she who until that hour had been Countess of
Ostermore, turning fiercely upon Mr. Templeton. "You fool!"

"Madam, this is not seemly," cried the second secretary, with awkward
dignity.

"Seemly, idiot?" she stormed at him. "I swear, as I've a soul to be
saved, that in spite of all this, I know that man to be a traitor and
a Jacobite--that it was the letter from the king he sought, whatever he
may pretend to have found."

Mr. Templeton looked at her in sorrow, for all that in her overwrought
condition she insulted him. "Madam, you might swear and swear, and yet
no one would believe you in the face of the facts that have come to
light."

"Do you believe me?" she demanded angrily.

"My beliefs can matter nothing," he compromised, and made her a
valedictory bow. "Your servant, ma'am," said he, from force of habit.
He nodded to Rotherby, took up his hat and cane, and strode to the door,
which Mr. Green had made haste to open for him. From the threshold he
bowed to Mr. Caryll. "My lord," said he, "I shall go straight to Lord
Carteret. He will stay for you till you come."

"I shall not keep his lordship waiting," answered Caryll, and bowed in
his turn.

The second secretary went out. Mr. Green hesitated a moment, then
abruptly followed him. The game was ended here; it was played and lost,
he saw, and what should such as Mr. Green be doing on the losing side?


CHAPTER XXIII. THE LION


The game was played and lost. All realized it, and none so keenly as
Hortensia, who found it in her gentle heart to pity the woman who had
never shown her a kindness.

She set a hand upon her lover's arm. "What will you do, Justin?" she
inquired in tones that seemed to plead for mercy for those others; for
she had not paused to think--as another might have thought--that there
was no mercy he could show them.

Rotherby and his mother stood hand in hand; it was the woman who had
clutched at her son for comfort and support in this bitter hour of
retribution, this hour of the recoil upon themselves of all the evil
they had plotted.

Mr. Caryll considered them a moment, his face a mask, his mind entirely
detached. They interested him profoundly. This subjugation of two
natures that in themselves were arrogant and cruel was a process very
engrossing to observe. He tried to conjecture what they felt, what
thoughts they might be harboring. And it seemed to him that a sort of
paralysis had fallen on their wits. They were stunned under the shock
of the blow he had dealt them. Anon there would be railings and to
spare--against him, against themselves, against the dead man above
stairs, against Fate, and more besides. For the present there was this
horrid, almost vacuous calm.

Presently the woman stirred. Instinct--the instinct of the stricken
beast to creep to hiding--moved her, while reason was still bound in
lethargy. She moved to step, drawing at her son's hand. "Come, Charles,"
she said, in a low, hoarse voice. "Come!"

The touch and the speech awakened him to life. "No!" he cried harshly,
and shook his hand free of hers. "It ends not thus."

He looked almost as he would fling himself upon his brother, his figure
erect now, defiant and menacing; his face ashen, his eyes wild. "It ends
not thus!" he repeated, and his voice rang sinister.

"No," Mr. Caryll agreed quietly. "It ends not thus."

He looked sadly from son to mother. "It had not even begun thus, but
that you would have it so. You would have it. I sought to move you to
mercy. I reminded you, my brother, of the tie that bound us, and I would
have turned you from fratricide, I would have saved you from the crime
you meditated--for it was a crime."

"Fratricide!" exclaimed Rotherby, and laughed angrily. "Fratricide!" It
was as if he threatened it.

But Mr. Caryll continued to regard him sorrowfully. From his soul
he pitied him; pitied them both--not because of their condition, but
because of the soullessness behind it all. To him it was truly tragic,
tragic beyond anything that he had ever known.

"You said some fine things, sir, to Mr. Templeton of your regard for
your father's memory," said Mr. Caryll. Alternatively, this term
may derive from mainstream slang `canned' for being laid off or
fired.

:can't happen: The traditional program comment for code executed under
a condition that should never be true, for example a file size
computed as negative.

Often, such a condition being true indicates data corruption or a faulty
algorithm; it is almost always handled by emitting a fatal error message
and terminating or crashing, since there is little else that can
be done.

Some case variant of "can't happen" is also often the text emitted if the
`impossible' error actually happens! Although "can't happen" events
are genuinely infrequent in production code, programmers wise enough to
check for them habitually are often surprised at how frequently they are
triggered during development and how many headaches checking for
them turns out to head off. See also {firewall code} (sense 2).

:candygrammar: /n./ A programming-language grammar that is mostly
{syntactic sugar}; the term is also a play on `candygram'.

{COBOL}, Apple's Hypertalk language, and a lot of the so-called
`4GL' database languages share this property.
The usual intent of such designs is that they be as English-like as
possible, on the theory that they will then be easier for unskilled
people to program. This intention comes to grief on the reality that
syntax isn't what makes programming hard; it's the mental effort and
organization required to specify an algorithm precisely that costs.

Thus the invariable result is that `candygrammar' languages are just
as difficult to program in as terser ones, and far more painful for the
experienced hacker.

[The overtones from the old Chevy Chase skit on Saturday Night Live
should not be overlooked. This was a "Jaws" parody.
Someone lurking outside an apartment door tries all kinds of bogus
ways to get the occupant to open up, while ominous music plays in
the background.

The last attempt is a half-hearted "Candygram!" When the door is
opened, a shark bursts in and chomps the poor occupant. There is
a moral here for those attracted to candygrammars. Note that, in many
circles, pretty much the same ones who remember Monty Python sketches,
all it takes is the word "Candygram!", suitably timed, to get people
rolling on the floor. -- GLS]

:canonical: /adj./ [historically, `according to religious law'] The
usual or standard state or manner of something.

This word has a somewhat more technical meaning in mathematics. Two
formulas such as 9 + x and x + 9 are said to be equivalent because
they mean the same thing, but the second one is in `canonical form'
because it is written in the usual way, with the highest power of
x first.

Usually there are fixed rules you can use to decide whether
something is in canonical form. The jargon meaning, a relaxation of
the technical meaning, acquired its present loading in computer-science
culture largely through its prominence in Alonzo Church's work in
computation theory and mathematical logic (see {Knights of the
Lambda Calculus}).

Compare {vanilla}.

Non-technical academics do not use the adjective `canonical' in any
of the senses defined above with any regularity; they do however
use the nouns `canon' and `canonicity' (not **canonicalness or
**canonicality). The `canon' of a given author is the complete body of
authentic works by that author (this usage is familiar to Sherlock
Holmes fans as well as to literary scholars). `*The* canon' is the
body of works in a given field (e.g., works of literature, or of art,
or of music) deemed worthwhile for students to study and for scholars
to investigate.

"Lord Carteret is a man of the world. He will understand the
far-reaching disturbance that must result from the disclosure of the
truth of this affair. He will pledge Mr. Templeton to silence, and the
truth, madam, will never be disclosed. That, I think, is all, madam."

"By God, sir," cried Rotherby, "that's damned handsome of you!"

"You epitomize it beautifully," said Mr. Caryll, with a reversion to his
habitual manner.

His mother, however, had no words at all. She advanced a step towards
Mr. Caryll, put out her hands, and then--portent of portents!--two tears
were seen to trickle down her cheeks, playing havoc, ploughing furrows
in the paint that overlaid them.

Mr. Caryll stepped forward quickly. The sight of those tears,
springing from that dried-up heart--withered by God alone knew what
blight--washing their way down those poor bedaubed cheeks, moved him to
a keener pity than anything he had ever looked upon. He took her hands,
and pressed them a moment, giving way for once to an impulse he could
not master.

She would have kissed his own in the abasement and gratitude of the
moment. But he restrained her.

"No more, your ladyship," said he, and by thus giving her once more the
title she had worn, he seemed to reinstate her in the station from which
in self-defence he had pulled her down. "Promise that you'll bear no
witness against me should so much be needed, and I'll cry quits with
you. Without your testimony, they cannot hurt me, even though they were
disposed to do so, which is scarcely likely."

"Sir--sir--" she faltered brokenly. "Could you--could you suppose--"

"Indeed, no. So no more, ma'am. You do but harass yourself. Fare you
well, my lady. If I may trespass for a few moments longer upon the
hospitality of Stretton House, I'll be your debtor."

"The house--and all--is yours, sir," she reminded him.

"There's but one thing in it that I'll carry off with me," said he. He
held the door for her.

She looked into his face a moment. "God keep you!" said she, with a
surprising fervor in one not over-fluent at her prayers. "God reward you
for showing this mercy to an old woman--who does not deserve so much."

"Fare you well, madam," he said again, bowing gravely. "And fare you
well, Lord Ostermore," he added to her son.

His brother looked at him a moment; seemed on the point of speaking, and
then--taking his cue, no doubt, from his mother's attitude--he held out
his hand.

Conceive only the difference between a ground-plan and a picture. The
mere plan geography of Italy gives us its shape, as I have observed,
and the position of its towns; to these it may add a semicircle
of mountains round the northern boundary to represent the Alps, and
another long line stretching down the middle of the country to
represent the Apennines.

But let us carry on this a little further, and give life and meaning
and harmony to what is at present at once lifeless and confused.
Observe, in the first place, how the Apennine line, beginning from
the southern extremity of the Alps, runs across Italy to the very
edge of the Adriatic, and thus separates naturally the Italy proper
of the Romans, from Cisalpine Gaul.

"One thing I want--I lack--to esteem
myself greater than any king that rules."

"I like that better," she laughed, and suddenly she was in tears. "Oh,
why do you mock, and make-believe that your heart is on your lips and
nowhere else?" she asked him. "Is it your aim to be accounted trifling
and shallow--you who can do such things as you have done but now? Oh, it
was noble! You made me very proud."

"Proud?" he echoed. "Ah! Then it must be that you are resolved to take
this impudent, fleering coxcomb for a husband," he said, rallying her
with the words she had flung at him that night in the moonlit Croydon
garden.

"How I was mistook in you!" quoth she.

He made philosophy. "'Tis ever those in whom we are mistook that are
best worth knowing," he informed her. "The man or woman whom you can
read at sight, is read and done with."

"Yet you were not mistook in me," said she.

"I was," he answered, "for I deemed you woman."

"What other have you found me?" she inquired.

He flung wide his arms, and bade her into them. "Here to my heart," he
cried, "and in your ear I'll whisper it."