Ever since that time there has been an increasing demand by those
whose wealth, culture and good taste have made them the dominant force
in American society, for the services of the leading exponents of the
creative art of the dance. To the ballrooms of the great mansions that
adorn every city of any considerable size there have come brilliant
assemblages of the men and women who by reason of their special
qualifications are recognized as social leaders, to see, enjoy and
appreciate the charm and beauty of "woven paces and of weaving arms."
The hosts whose invitation includes the announcement "special dances
by Miss ---- or Mr. ----" know that there will be few declinations
because of other engagements. The fortunate ones who are able to
command the presence of any of the well known stars in the dancing
firmament at a social gathering, are assured that their guests will
carry away with them only pleasant recollections of a delightful
occasion.

Even to those who may have often seen the artist in public
performances, there is an additional charm in the dances as given in
the more intimate conditions of a private gathering. The knowledge
that the audience appreciates every detail, down to the slightest
touch, stimulates the dancer to the highest mood of artistic endeavor.
"Art," wrote William Morris, "is the expression of man's joy in his
work." Emphatically is this true of the dancer's art, and the
exaltation of joyousness into perfect harmony of motion comes only
when the artist knows that the message conveyed is understood by the
onlookers.

To those who wish to make their impress upon society by distinctive
gatherings, the artist affords an ever new and always pleasing
entertainment.

As knowledge of the illimitable possibilities of the dance expands,
there is certain to be a growing demand for the types of dancers whose
gifts make them peculiarly adapted to the exercise of their art at
social functions.

[Illustration: NW]


UNIVERSAL APPRECIATION OF THE DANCE

[Illustration]


The chief reason why dancing as a public entertainment will always
maintain its present popularity, and will be in even greater demand in
the future than in the past, is to be found in the fact that to
appreciate and enjoy to the fullest degree the work of the creative
dancer requires no special knowledge of the art itself on the part of
the spectator. There are many who do not understand or appreciate
classical music. To many others the speaking drama makes no appeal.
Still others care nothing for the motion picture, and cannot be
induced to witness a performance on the screen. But everyone--men and
women, young or mature, can enjoy the beauty, harmony, and
exhilaration of a well conceived and well executed dance. There is
something in the nature of us all that responds immediately to the
message that the dancer conveys. Perfection of form, grace of
movement, harmony of action with appropriate music, all combine to
make up a spectacle that thrills and inspires. To slightly paraphrase
Robert Browning:

     "Others may reason and welcome,
     But seeing the dance, we know."

