ARTEMUS WARD (CHARLES FARRAR BROWNE) PART 2

THE COMPLETE WORKS OF ARTEMUS WARD PART 2, WAR.

(CHARLES FARRAR BROWNE)

With a biographical sketch by Melville D. Landon, "Eli Perkins"

CONTENTS.

PART II.

War.

2.1.  The Show is Confiscated.

2.2.  Thrilling Scenes in Dixie.

2.3.  Fourth of July Oration.

2.4.  The War Fever in Baldinsville.

2.5.  A War Meeting.

2.6.  The Draft in Baldinsville.

2.7.  Surrender of Cornwallis.

2.8.  Things in New York.

2.9.  Touching Letter from a Gory Member Of The Home Guard

2.10.  In Canada.

2.11.  The Noble Red Man.

2.12.  Artemus Ward in Richmond.

2.13.  Artemus Ward to the Prince of Wales.


PART II.  WAR.


2.1.  THE SHOW IS CONFISCATED.

You hav perhaps wondered wharebouts I was for these many dase
gone and past.  Perchans you sposed I'd gone to the Tomb of
the Cappylets, tho I don't know what those is.  It's a popler
noospaper frase.

Listen to my tail, and be silent that ye may here I've been
among the Seseshers, a earnin my daily peck by my legitimit
perfeshun, and havn't had no time to weeld my facile quill for
"the Grate Komick paper," if you'll allow me to kote from your
troothful advertisement.

My success was skaly, and I likewise had a narrer scape of my
life.  If what I've bin threw is "Suthren hosspitality," 'bout
which we've hearn so much, then I feel bound to obsarve that
they made two much of me.  They was altogether two lavish with
their attenshuns.

I went amung the Seseshers with no feelins of annermosity.  I
went in my perfeshernal capacity.  I was actooated by one of
the most Loftiest desires which can swell the human Buzzum,
viz.:--to giv the peeple their money's worth, by showin them
Sagashus Beests, and Wax Statoots, which I venter to say air
onsurpast by any other statoots anywheres.  I will not call
that man who sez my statoots is humbugs a lier and a hoss
thief, but bring him be4 me and I'll wither him with one of my
scornful frowns.

But to proseed with my tail.  In my travels threw the Sonny
South I heared a heap of talk about Seceshon and bustin up the
Union, but I didn't think it mounted to nothin.  The
politicians in all the villages was swearin that Old Abe
(sometimes called the Prahayrie flower) shouldn't never be
noggerated.  They also made fools of theirselves in varis
ways, but as they was used to that I didn't let it worry me
much, and the Stars and Stripes continued for to wave over my
little tent.  Moor over, I was a Son of Malty and a member of
several other Temperance Societies, and my wife she was a
Dawter of Malty, an I sposed these fax would secoor me the
infloonz and pertectiun of all the fust families.  Alas!  I
was dispinted.  State arter State seseshed and it growed
hotter and hotter for the undersined.  Things came to a
climbmacks in a small town in Alabamy, where I was premtorally
ordered to haul down the Stars & Stripes.  A deppytashun of
red-faced men cum up to the door of my tent ware I was standin
takin money (the arternoon exhibishun had commenst, an' my
Italyun organist was jerkin his sole-stirrin chimes.)  "We air
cum, Sir," said a millingtary man in a cockt hat, "upon a hi
and holy mishun.  The Southern Eagle is screamin threwout this
sunny land--proudly and defiantly screamin, Sir!"

"What's the matter with him?" sez I; "don't his vittles sit
well on his stummick?"

"That Eagle, Sir, will continner to scream all over this Brite
and tremenjus land!"

"Wall, let him SCREAM.  If your Eagle can amuse hisself by
screamin, let him went!"  The men anoyed me, for I was Bizzy
makin change.

"We are cum, Sir, upon a matter of dooty--"

"You're right, Capting.  It's every man's dooty to visit my
show," said I.

"We air cum--"

"And that's the reason you are here!" sez I, larfin one of my
silvery larfs.  I thawt if he wanted to goak I'd giv him sum
of my sparklin eppygrams.

"Sir, you're inserlent.  The plain question is, will you haul
down the Star-Spangled Banner, and hist the Southern flag!"

"Nary hist!"  Those was my reply.

"Your wax works and beests is then confisticated, & you air
arrested as a Spy!"

Sez I, "My fragrant roses of the Southern clime and Bloomin
daffodils, what's the price of whisky in this town, and how
many cubic feet of that seductive flooid can you individooally
hold?"

They made no reply to that, but said my wax figgers was
confisticated.  I axed them if that was ginerally the stile
among thieves in that country, to which they also made no
reply, but said I was arrested as a Spy, and must go to
Montgomry in iuns.  They was by this time jined by a large
crowd of other Southern patrits, who commenst hollerin "Hang
the baldheaded aberlitionist, and bust up his immoral
exhibition!"  I was ceased and tied to a stump, and the crowd
went for my tent--that water-proof pavilion, wherein
instruction and amoosment had been so muchly combined, at 15
cents per head--and tore it all to pieces.  Meanwhile dirty-
faced boys was throwin stuns and empty beer bottles at my
massiv brow, and takin other improper liberties with my
person.  Resistance was useless, for a varity of reasons, as I
readily obsarved.

The Seseshers confisticated my statoots by smashin them to
attums.  They then went to my money box and confisticated all
the loose change therein contaned.  They then went and bust in
my cages, lettin all the animils loose, a small but helthy
tiger among the rest.  This tiger has a excentric way of
tearin dogs to peaces, and I allers sposed from his gineral
conduck that he'd hav no hesitashun in servin human beins in
the same way if he could get at them.  Excuse me if I was
crooil, but I larfed boysterrusly when I see that tiger spring
in among the people.  "Go it, my sweet cuss!" I inardly
exclaimed.  "I forgive you for bitin off my left thum with all
my heart!  Rip 'em up like a bully tiger whose Lare has bin
inwaded by Seseshers!"

I can't say for certain that the tiger serisly injured any of
them, but as he was seen a few days after, sum miles distant,
with a large and well selected assortment of seats of trowsis
in his mouth, and as he lookt as tho he'd been havin sum
vilent exercise, I rayther guess he did.  You will therefore
perceive that they didn't confisticate him much.

I was carried to Montgomry in iuns and placed in durans vial.
The jail was a ornery edifiss, but the table was librally
surplied with Bakin an Cabbidge.  This was a good variety, for
when I didn't hanker after Bakin I could help myself to the
cabbige.

I had nobody to talk to nor nothin to talk about, howsever,
and I was very lonely, specially on the first day; so when the
jailer parst my lonely sell I put the few stray hairs on the
back part of my hed (I'm bald now, but thare was a time when I
wore sweet auburn ringlets) into as dish-hevild a state as
possible, & rollin my eyes like a manyyuck, I cride:  "Stay,
jaler, stay!  I am not mad, but soon shall be if you don't
bring me suthin to Talk!"  He brung me sum noospapers, for
which I thanked him kindly.

At larst I got a interview with Jefferson Davis, the President
of the Southern Conthieveracy.  He was quite perlite, and axed
me to sit down and state my case.  I did it, when he larfed
and said his gallunt men had been a little 2 enthoosiastic in
confisticatin my show.

"Yes," sez I, "they confisticated me too muchly.  I had sum
hosses confisticated in the same way onct, but the
confisticaters air now poundin stun in the States Prison in
Injinnapylus."

"Wall, wall Mister Ward, you air at liberty to depart; you air
friendly to the South, I know.  Even now we hav many frens in
the North, who sympathize with us, and won't mingle with this
fight."

"J. Davis, there's your grate mistaik.  Many of us was your
sincere frends, and thought certin parties amung us was fussin
about you and meddlin with your consarns intirely too much.
But J. Davis, the minit you fire a gun at the piece of dry-
goods called the Star-Spangled Banner, the North gits up and
rises en massy, in defence of that banner.  Not agin you as
individooals,--not agin the South even--but to save the flag.
We should indeed be weak in the knees, unsound in the heart,
milk-white in the liver, and soft in the hed, if we stood
quietly by, and saw this glorus Govyment smashed to pieces,
either by a furrin or a intestine foe.  The gentle-harted
mother hates to take her naughty child across her knee, but
she knows it is her dooty to do it.  So we shall hate to whip
the naughty South, but we must do it if you don't make back
tracks at onct, and we shall wallup you out of your boots!  J.
Davis, it is my decided opinion that the Sonny South is makin
a egrejus mutton-hed of herself!"

"Go on, sir, you're safe enuff.  You're two small powder for
me!" sed the President of the Southern Conthieveracy.

"Wait till I go home and start out the Baldinsville Mounted
Hoss Cavalry!  I'm Capting of that Corpse, I am, and J. Davis,
beware!  Jefferson D., I now leave you!  Farewell my gay Saler
Boy!  Good-bye, my bold buccaneer!  Pirut of the deep blue
sea, adoo! adoo!"

My tower threw the Southern Conthieveracy on my way home was
thrillin enuff for yeller covers.  It will form the subjeck of
my next.  Betsy Jane and the projeny air well.

Yours respectively,

A. Ward.


2.2.  THRILLING SCENES IN DIXIE.

I had a narrer scape from the sonny South.  "The swings and
arrers of outrajus fortin," alluded to by Hamlick, warn't
nothin in comparison to my trubles.  I come pesky near swearin
sum profane oaths more'n onct, but I hope I didn't do it, for
I've promist she whose name shall be nameless (except that her
initials is Betsy J.) that I'll jine the Meetin House at
Baldinsville, jest as soon as I can scrape money enuff
together so I can 'ford to be piuss in good stile, like my
welthy nabers.  But if I'm confisticated agin I'm fraid I
shall continner on in my present benited state for sum time.

I figgered conspicyusly in many thrillin scenes in my tower
from Montgomry to my humsted, and on sevril occasions I
thought "the grate komick paper" wouldn't be inriched no more
with my lubrications.  Arter biddin adoo to Jefferson D. I
started for the depot.  I saw a nigger sittin on a fence a
playin on a banjo, "My Afrikan Brother," sed I, coting from a
Track I onct red, "you belong to a very interestin race.  Your
masters is goin to war excloosively on your account."

"Yes, boss," he replied, "an' I wish 'em honorable graves!"
and he went on playin the banjo, larfin all over and openin
his mouth wide enuff to drive in an old-fashioned 2 wheeled
chaise.

The train of cars in which I was to trust my wallerable life,
was the scaliest, rickytiest lookin lot of consarns that I
ever saw on wheels afore.  "What time does this string of
second-hand coffins leave?" I inquired of the depot master.
He sed direckly, and I went in & sot down.  I hadn't more'n
fairly squatted afore a dark lookin man with a swinister
expression onto his countenance entered the cars, and lookin
very sharp at me, he axed what was my principles?

"Secesh!" I ansered.  "I'm a Dissoluter.  I'm in favor of Jeff
Davis, Bowregard, Pickens, Capt. Kidd, Bloobeard, Munro
Edards, the devil, Mrs. Cunningham and all the rest of 'em."

"You're in favor of the war?"

"Certingly.  By all means.  I'm in favor of this war and also
of the next war.  I've been in favor of the next war for over
sixteen years!"

"War to the knife!" sed the man.

"Blud, Eargo, Blud!" sed I, tho them words isn't orrigernal
with me, them words was rit by Shakspeare, who is ded.  His
mantle fell onto the author of "The Seven Sisters," who's goin
to hav a Spring overcoat made out of it.

We got under way at larst, an' proceeded on our jerney at
about the rate of speed which is ginrally obsarved by
properly-conducted funeral processions.  A hansum yung gal,
with a red musketer bar on the back side of her hed, and a
sassy little black hat tipt over her forrerd, sot in the seat
with me.  She wore a little Sesesh flag pin'd onto her hat,
and she was a goin for to see her troo love, who had jined the
Southern army, all so bold and gay.  So she told me.  She was
chilly and I offered her my blanket.

"Father livin?" I axed.

"Yes, sir."

"Got any Uncles?"

"A heap.  Uncle Thomas is ded, tho."

"Peace to Uncle Thomas's ashes, and success to him!  I will be
your Uncle Thomas!  Lean on me, my pretty Secesher, and linger
in Blissful repose!"  She slept as secoorly as in her own
housen, and didn't disturb the sollum stillness of the night
with 'ary snore!

At the first station a troop of Sojers entered the cars and
inquired if "Old Wax Works" was on bored.  That was the
disrespectiv stile in which they referred to me.  "Becawz if
Old Wax Works is on bored," sez a man with a face like a
double-breasted lobster, "we're going to hang Old Wax Works!"

"My illustrious and patriotic Bummers!" sez I, a gittin up and
takin orf my Shappo, "if you allude to A. Ward, it's my
pleasin dooty to inform you that he's ded.  He saw the error
of his ways at 15 minutes parst 2 yesterday, and stabbed
hisself with a stuffed sled-stake, dyin in five beautiful
tabloos to slow moosic!  His last words was:  'My perfeshernal
career is over!  I jerk no more!'"

"And who be you?"

"I'm a stoodent in Senator Benjamin's law offiss.  I'm going
up North to steal some spoons and things for the Southern
Army."

This was satisfactory and the intossicated troopers went orf.
At the next station the pretty little Secessher awoke and sed
she must git out there.  I bid her a kind adoo and giv her sum
pervisions.  "Accept my blessin and this hunk of ginger bred!"
I sed.  She thankt me muchly and tript galy away.  There's
considerable human nater in a man, and I'm afraid I shall
allers giv aid and comfort to the enemy if he cums to me in
the shape of a nice young gal.

At the next station I didn't get orf so easy.  I was dragged
out of the cars and rolled in the mud for several minits, for
the purpose of "takin the conseet out of me," as a Secesher
kindly stated.

I was let up finally, when a powerful large Secesher came up
and embraced me, and to show that he had no hard feelins agin
me, put his nose into my mouth.  I returned the compliment by
placin my stummick suddenly agin his right foot, when he
kindly made a spittoon of his able-bodied face.  Actooated by
a desire to see whether the Secesher had bin vaxinated I then
fastened my teeth onto his left coat-sleeve and tore it to the
shoulder.  We then vilently bunted out heads together for a
few minutes, danced around a little, and sot down in a
mudpuddle.  We riz to our feet agin and by a sudden and adroit
movement I placed my left eye agin the Secesher's fist.  We
then rushed into each other's arms and fell under a two-hoss
wagon.  I was very much exhaustid and didn't care about gettin
up agin, but the man sed he reckoned I'd better, and I
conclooded I would.  He pulled me up, but I hadn't bin on my
feet more'n two seconds afore the ground flew up and hit me in
the hed.  The crowd sed it was high old sport, but I couldn't
zackly see where the lafture come in.  I riz and we embraced
agin.  We careered madly to a steep bank, when I got the upper
hands of my antaggernist and threw him into the raveen.  He
fell about forty feet, striking a grindstone pretty hard.  I
understood he was injured.  I haven't heard from the
grindstone.

A man in a cockt hat cum up and sed he felt as though a
apology was doo me.  There was a mistake.  The crowd had taken
me for another man!  I told him not to mention it, and axed
him if his wife and little ones was so as to be about, and got
on bored the train, which had stopped at that station "20
minits for refreshments."  I got all I wantid.  It was the
hartiest meal I ever et.

I was rid on a rale the next day, a bunch of blazin fire
crackers bein tied to my coat tales.  It was a fine spectycal
in a dramatic pint of view, but I didn't enjoy it.  I had
other adventers of a startlin kind, but why continner?  Why
lasserate the Public Boozum with these here things?  Suffysit
to say I got across Mason & Dixie's line safe at last.  I made
tracks for my humsted, but she to whom I'm harnist for life
failed to recognize, in the emashiated bein who stood before
her, the gushin youth of forty-six summers who had left her
only a few months afore.  But I went into the pantry, and
brought out a certin black bottle.  Raisin it to my lips, I
sed "Here's to you, old gal!"  I did it so natral that she
knowed me at once.  "Those form!  Them voice!  That natral
stile of doin things!  'Tis he!" she cried, and rushed into my
arms.  It was too much for her & she fell into a swoon.  I cum
very near swoundin myself.

No more to-day from yours for the Pepetration of the Union,
and the bringin of the Goddess of Liberty out of her present
bad fix.


2.3.  FOURTH OF JULY ORATION.

Delivered July 4th, at Weathersfield, Connecticut, 1859.

[I delivered the follerin, about two years ago, to a large and
discriminating awjince.  I was 96 minits passin a givin pint.
I have revised the orashun, and added sum things which makes
it approposser to the times than it otherwise would be.  I
have also corrected the grammers and punktooated it.  I do my
own punktooatin now days.  The Printers in "Vanity Fair"
offiss can't punktooate worth a cent.]

FELLER CITIZENS:  I've bin honored with a invite to norate
before you to-day; and when I say that I skurcely feel ekal to
the task, I'm sure you will believe me.

Weathersfield is justly celebrated for her onyins and
patritism the world over, and to be axed to paws and address
you on this my fust perfeshernal tower threw New Englan,
causes me to feel--to feel--I may say it causes me to FEEL.
(Grate applaws.  They thought this was one of my
eccentricities, while the fact is I was stuck.  This between
you and I.)

I'm a plane man.  I don't know nothin about no ded languages
and am a little shaky on livin ones.  There4, expect no flowry
talk from me.  What I shall say will be to the pint, right
strate out.

I'm not a politician and my other habits air good.  I've no
enemys to reward, nor friends to sponge.  But I'm a Union man.
I luv the Union--it is a Big thing--and it makes my hart bleed
to see a lot of ornery peple a-movin heaven--no, not heaven,
but the other place--and earth, to bust it up.  Toe much good
blud was spilt in courtin and marryin that hily respectable
female the Goddess of Liberty, to git a divorce from her now.
My own State of Injianny is celebrated for unhitchin marrid
peple with neatness and dispatch, but you can't get a divorce
from the Goddess up there.  Not by no means.  The old gal has
behaved herself too well to cast her off now.  I'm sorry the
picters don't give her no shoes or stockins, but the band of
stars upon her hed must continner to shine undimd, forever.
I'm for the Union as she air, and withered be the arm of every
ornery cuss who attempts to bust her up.  That's me.  I hav
sed!  [It was a very sweaty day, and at this pint of the
orashun a man fell down with sunstroke.  I told the awjince
that considerin the large number of putty gals present I was
more afraid of a DAWTER STROKE.  This was impromptoo, and
seemed to amoose them very much.]

Feller Citizens--I hain't got time to notis the growth of
Ameriky frum the time when the Mayflowers cum over in the
Pilgrim and brawt Plymouth Rock with them, but every skool boy
nose our kareer has been tremenjis.  You will excuse me if I
don't prase the erly settlers of the Kolonies.  Peple which
hung idiotic old wimin for witches, burnt holes in Quakers'
tongues and consined their feller critters to the tredmill and
pillery on the slitest provocashun may hav bin very nice folks
in their way, but I must confess I don't admire their stile,
and will pass them by.  I spose they ment well, and so, in the
novel and techin langwidge of the nusepapers, "peas to their
ashis."  Thare was no diskount, however, on them brave men who
fit, bled and died in the American Revolushun.  We needn't be
afraid of setting 'em up two steep.  Like my show, they will
stand any amount of prase.  G. Washington was abowt the best
man this world ever sot eyes on.  He was a clear-heded,
warm-harted, and stiddy goin man.  He never slopt over!  The
prevailin weakness of most public men is to SLOP OVER!  [Put
them words in large letters--A. W.]  They git filled up and
slop.  They Rush Things.  They travel too much on the high
presher principle.  They git on to the fust poplar hobbyhoss
whitch trots along, not carin a sent whether the beest is even
goin, clear sited and sound or spavined, blind and bawky.  Of
course they git throwed eventooally, if not sooner.  When they
see the multitood goin it blind they go Pel Mel with it,
instid of exerting theirselves to set it right.  They can't
see that the crowd which is now bearin them triumfantly on its
shoulders will soon diskiver its error and cast them into the
hoss pond of Oblivyun, without the slitest hesitashun.
Washington never slopt over.  That wasn't George's stile.  He
luved his country dearly.  He wasn't after the spiles.  He was
a human angil in a 3 kornerd hat and knee britches, and we
shan't see his like right away.  My frends, we can't all be
Washingtons but we kin all be patrits & behave ourselves in a
human and a Christian manner.  When we see a brother goin down
hill to Ruin let us not give him a push, but let us seeze rite
hold of his coat tails and draw him back to Morality.

Imagine G. Washington and P. Henry in the character of
seseshers!  As well fancy John Bunyan and Dr. Watts in
spangled tites, doin the trapeze in a one-horse circus!

I tell you, feller-citizens, it would have bin ten dollars in
Jeff Davis's pocket if he'd never bin born!

      *      *      *      *      *      *      *      *

Be shure and vote at leest once at all elecshuns.  Buckle on
yer armer and go to the Poles.  See two it that your naber is
there.  See that the kripples air provided with carriages.  Go
to the poles and stay all day.  Bewair of the infamous lise
whitch the Opposishun will be sartin to git up fur perlitical
effek on the eve of eleckshun.  To the poles and when you git
there vote jest as you darn please.  This is a privilege we
all persess, and it is 1 of the booties of this grate and free
land.

I see mutch to admire in New Englan.  Your gals in partickular
air abowt as snug bilt peaces of Calliker as I ever saw.  They
air fully equal to the corn fed gals of Ohio and Injianny and
will make the bestest kind of wives.  It sets my Buzzum on
fire to look at 'em.

             Be still, my sole, be still,
             & you, Hart, stop cuttin up!

I like your skool houses, your meetin houses, your enterprise,
gumpshun &c., but your favorit Bevridge I disgust.  I allude
to New England Rum.  It is wuss nor the korn whisky of
Injianny, which eats threw stone jugs & will turn the stummuck
of the most shiftliss Hog.  I seldom seek consolashun in the
flowin Bole, but tother day I wurrid down some of your Rum.
The fust glass indused me to sware like a infooriated trooper.
On takin the secund glass I was seezed with a desire to break
winders, & arter imbibin the third glass I knockt a small boy
down, pickt his pocket of a New York Ledger, and wildly
commenced readin Sylvanus Kobb's last Tail.  Its drefful
stuff--a sort of lickwid litenin, gut up under the personal
supervishun of the devil--tears men's inards all to peaces and
makes their noses blossum as the Lobster.  Shun it as you
would a wild hyeny with a firebrand tied to his tale, and
while you air abowt it you will do a first-rate thing for
yourself and everybody abowt you by shunnin all kinds of
intoxicatin lickers.  You don't need 'em no more'n a cat needs
2 tales, sayin nothin abowt the trubble and sufferin they
cawse.  But unless your inards air cast iron, avoid New
England's favorite Bevrige.

My frends, I'm dun.  I tear myself away from you with tears in
my eyes & a pleasant oder of Onyins abowt my close.  In the
langwidge of Mister Catterline to the Rummuns, I go, but
perhaps I shall cum back agin.  Adoo, people of Weathersfield.
Be virtoous & you'll be happy!


2.4.  THE WAR FEVER IN BALDINSVILLE.

As soon as I'd recooperated my physikil system, I went over
into the village.  The peasantry was glad to see me.  The
skoolmaster sed it was cheerin to see that gigantic intelleck
among 'em onct more.  That's what he called me.  I like the
skoolmaster, and allers send him tobacker when I'm off on a
travelin campane.  Besides, he is a very sensible man.  Such
men must be encouraged.

They don't git news very fast in Baldinsville, as nothin but a
plank road runs in there twice a week, and that's very much
out of repair.  So my nabers wasn't much posted up in regard
to the wars.  'Squire Baxter sed he'd voted the dimicratic
ticket for goin on forty year, and the war was a dam black
republican lie.  Jo. Stackpole, who kills hogs for the Squire,
and has got a powerful muscle into his arms, sed he'd bet 5
dollars he could lick the Crisis in a fair stand-up fight, if
he wouldn't draw a knife on him.  So it went--sum was for war,
and sum was for peace.  The skoolmaster, however, sed the
Slave Oligarky must cower at the feet of the North ere a year
had flowed by, or pass over his dead corpse.  "Esto perpetua!"
he added!  "And sine qua non also!" sed I, sternly, wishing to
make a impression onto the villagers.  "Requiescat in pace!"
sed the skoolmaster, "Too troo, too troo!" I anserd, "it's a
scanderlus fact!"

The newspapers got along at last, chock full of war, and the
patriotic fever fairly bust out in Baldinsville.  'Squire
Baxter sed he didn't b'lieve in Coercion, not one of 'em, and
could prove by a file of "Eagles of Liberty" in his garrit,
that it was all a Whig lie, got up to raise the price of
whisky and destroy our other liberties.  But the old 'Squire
got putty riley, when he heard how the rebels was cuttin up,
and he sed he reckoned he should skour up his old muskit and
do a little square fitin for the Old Flag, which had allers
bin on the ticket HE'D voted, and he was too old to Bolt now.
The 'Squire is all right at heart, but it takes longer for him
to fill his venerable Biler with steam than it used to when he
was young and frisky.  As I previously informed you, I am
Captin of the Baldinsville Company.  I riz gradooally but
majestically from drummer's Secretary to my present position.
But I found the ranks wasn't full by no means, and commenced
for to recroot.  Havin notist a gineral desire on the part of
young men who are into the crisis to wear eppylits, I
detarmined to have my company composed excloosviely of
offissers, everybody to rank as Brigadeer-Ginral.  The
follerin was among the varis questions which I put to
recroots:

  Do you know a masked battery from a hunk of gingerbread?

  Do you know a eppylit from a piece of chalk?

  If I trust you with a real gun, how many men of your own
company do you speck you can manage to kill durin the war?

  Hav you ever heard of Ginral Price of Missouri, and can you
avoid simler accidents in case of a battle?

  Have you ever had the measles, and if so, how many?

  How air you now?

  Show me your tongue, &c., &c.  Sum of the questions was
sarcusstical.

The company filled up rapid, and last Sunday we went to the
meetin house in full uniform.  I had a seris time gittin into
my military harness, as it was bilt for me many years ago; but
I finally got inside of it, tho' it fitted me putty clost.
Howsever, onct into it, I lookt fine--in fact, aw-inspirin.
"Do you know me, Mrs. Ward?" sed I, walking into the kitchin.

"Know you, you old fool?  Of course I do."

I saw at once she did.

I started for the meetin house, and I'm afraid I tried to walk
too strate, for I cum very near fallin over backards; and in
attemptin to recover myself, my sword got mixed up with my
legs, and I fell in among a choice collection of young ladies,
who was standin near the church door a-seein the sojer boys
come up.  My cockt hat fell off, and sumhow my coat tales got
twisted round my neck.  The young ladies put their
handkerchers to their mouths and remarked:  "Te he," while my
ancient female single friend, Sary Peasley, bust out in a loud
larf.  She exercised her mouth so vilently that her new false
teeth fell out onto the ground.

"Miss Peaseley," sed I, gittin up and dustin myself, "you must
be more careful with them store teeth of your'n or you'll have
to gum it agin!"

Methinks I had her.

I'd bin to work hard all the week, and I felt rather snoozy.
I'm 'fraid I did git half asleep, for on hearin the minister
ask, "Why was man made to mourn?" I sed, "I giv it up," havin
a vague idee that it was a condrum.  It was a onfortnit
remark, for the whole meetin house lookt at me with mingled
surprise and indignation.  I was about risin to a pint of
order, when it suddenly occurd to me whare I was, and I kept
my seat, blushin like the red, red rose--so to speak.

The next mornin I 'rose with the lark (N.B.--I don't sleep
with the lark, tho.'  A goak).

My little dawter was execootin ballids, accompanyin herself
with the Akordeon, and she wisht me to linger and hear her
sing:  "Hark I hear a angel singin, a angel now is onto the
wing."

"Let him fly, my child!" sed I, a-bucklin on my armer; "I must
forth to my Biz."

We air progressin pretty well with our drill.  As all air
commandin offissers, there ain't no jelusy, and as we air all
exceedin smart, it t'aint worth while to try to outstrip each
other.  The idee of a company composed excloosively of
Commanders-in-Chiefs, orriggernated, I spose I skurcely need
say, in these Brane.  Considered AS a idee, I flatter myself
it is putty hefty.  We've got all the tackticks at our tongs'
ends, but what we particly excel in is restin muskits.  We can
rest muskits with anybody.

Our corpse will do its dooty.  We go to the aid of Columby--we
fight for the stars!

We'll be chopt into sassige meat before we'll exhibit our
cote-tales to the foe.

We'll fight till there's nothin left of us but our little toes
and even they shall defiantly wiggle!

                                "Ever of thee,"
                                                 A. Ward.


2.5.  A WAR MEETING.

Our complaint just now is war meetin's.  They've bin havin 'em
bad in varis parts of our cheerful Republic, and nat'rally we
caught 'em here in Baldinsville.  They broke out all over us.
They're better attended than the Eclipse was.

I remember how people poured into our town last Spring to see
the Eclipse.  They labored into a impression that they
couldn't see it to home, and so they cum up to our place.  I
cleared a very handsome amount of money by exhibitin' the
Eclipse to 'em, in an open-top tent.  But the crowds is bigger
now.  Posey County is aroused.  I may say, indeed, that the
pra-hay-ories of Injianny is on fire.

Our big meetin' came off the other night, and our old friend
of the "Bugle" was elected Cheerman.

The "Bugle-Horn of Liberty" is one of Baldinsville's most
eminentest institootions.  The advertisements are well-
written, and the deaths and marriages are conducted with
signal ability.  The editor, MR. SLINKERS, is a polish'd,
skarcastic writer.  Folks in these parts will not soon forgit
how he used up the "Eagle of Freedom," a family journal
published at Snootville, near here.  The controversy was about
a plank road.  "The road may be, as our cotemporary says, a
humbug; but OUR aunt isn't bald-heded, and WE haven't got a
one-eyed sister Sal!  Wonder if the Editor of the "Eagle of
Freedom" sees it?"  This used up the "Eagle of Freedom"
feller, because his aunt's head does present a skinn'd
appearance, and his sister SARAH is very much one-eyed.  For a
genteel home-thrust, MR. SLINKERS has few ekals.  He is a man
of great pluck likewise.  He has a fierce nostril, and I
believe upon my soul that if it wasn't absolootly necessary
for him to remain here and announce in his paper, from week to
week, that "our Gov'ment is about to take vig'rous measures to
put down the rebellion"--I b'lieve, upon my soul, this
illustris man would enlist as a Brigadier Gin'ral, and git his
Bounty.
                         .  .  .  .

I was fixin myself up to attend the great war meetin', when my
daughter entered with a young man who was evijently from the
city, and who wore long hair, and had a wild expression into
his eye.  In one hand he carried a port-folio, and his other
paw claspt a bunch of small brushes.  My daughter introduced
him as MR. SWEIBIER, the distinguished landscape painter from
Philadelphy.

"He is a artist, papa.  Here is one of his master-pieces--a
young mother gazin' admirin'ly upon her first-born," and my
daughter showed me a really pretty picter, done in ile.  "Is
it not beautiful, papa?  He throws so much soul into his
work."

"Does he? does he?" said I--"well, I reckon I'd better hire
him to whitewash our fence.  It needs it.  What will you
charge, sir," I continued, "to throw some soul into my fence?"

My daughter went out of the room in very short meeter, takin'
the artist with her, and from the emphatical manner in which
the door slam'd, I concluded she was summat disgusted at my
remarks.  She closed the door, I may say, in ITALICS.  I went
into the closet and larfed all alone by myself for over half
an hour.  I larfed so vi'lently that the preserve jars rattled
like a cavalry offisser's sword and things, which it aroused
my BETSY, who came and opened the door pretty suddent.  She
seized me by the few lonely hairs that still linger sadly upon
my bare-footed hed, and dragged me out of the closet,
incidentally obsarving that she didn't exactly see why she
should be compelled, at her advanced stage of life, to open a
assylum for sooperanooated idiots.

My wife is one of the best wimin on this continent, altho' she
isn't always gentle as a lamb, with mint sauce.  No, not
always.

But to return to the war meetin'.  It was largely attended.
The Editor of the "Bugle" arose and got up and said the fact
could no longer be disguised that we were involved in a war.
"Human gore," said he, "is flowin'.  All able-bodied men
should seize a musket and march to the tented field.  I repeat
it sir, to the tented field."

A voice--"Why don't you go yourself, you old blowhard?"

"I am identified, young man, with a Arkymedian leaver which
moves the world," said the Editor, wiping his auburn brow with
his left coat-tail; "I allude, young man, to the press:
Terms, two dollars a year, invariably in advance.  Job
printing executed with neatness and dispatch!"  And with this
brilliant bust of elekance the Editor introduced Mr. J. Brutus
Hinkins, who is suffering from an attack of College in a
naberin' place.  Mr. Hinkins said Washington was not safe.
Who can save our national capeetle?

"DAN SETCHELL," I said.  "He can do it afternoons.  Let him
plant his light and airy form onto the Long Bridge, make faces
at the hirelin' foe, and they'll skedaddle!  Old SETCH can do
it."

"I call the Napoleon of Showmen," said the Editor of the
"Bugle,"--"I call that Napoleonic man, whose life is adorned
with so many noble virtues, and whose giant mind lights up
this warlike scene--I call him to order."

I will remark, in this connection, that the Editor of the
"Bugle" does my job printing.

"You," said Mr. Hinkins, "who live away from the busy haunts
of men do not comprehend the magnitood of the crisis.  The
busy haunts of men is where people comprehend this crisis.  We
who live in the busy haunts of men--that is to say, we dwell,
as it were, in the busy haunts of men."

"I really trust that the gen'l'man will not fail to say
suthin' about the busy haunts of men before he sits down,"
said I.

"I claim the right to express my sentiments here," said Mr.
Hinkins, in a slightly indignant tone, "and I shall brook no
interruption, if I am a Softmore."

"You couldn't be MORE SOFT, my young friend," I observed,
whereupon there was cries of Order! order!"

"I regret I can't mingle in this strife personally," said the
young man.

"You might inlist as a liberty-pole," said I, in a silvery
whisper.

"But," he added, "I have a voice, and that voice is for war."
The young man then closed his speech with some strikin and
orginal remarks in relation to the star-spangled banner.  He
was followed by the village minister, a very worthy man
indeed, but whose sermons have a tendency to make people sleep
pretty industriously.

"I am willin' to inlist for one," he said.

"What's your weight, parson?" I asked.

"A hundred and sixty pounds," he said.

"Well, you can inlist as a hundred and sixty pounds of
morphine, your dooty bein' to stand in the hospitals arter a
battle, and preach while the surgical operations is bein'
performed!  Think how much you'd save the Gov'ment in
morphine."

He didn't seem to see it; but he made a good speech, and the
editor of the "Bugle" rose to read the resolutions, commencin'
as follers:

RESOLVED, That we view with anxiety the fact that there is now
a war goin' on, and

RESOLVED, That we believe Stonewall Jackson sympathizes with
the secession movement, and that we hope the nine-months men--

At this point he was interrupted by the sounds of silvery
footsteps on the stairs, and a party of wimin, carryin' guns
and led by BETSY JANE, who brandish'd a loud and rattlin'
umbereller, burst into the room.

"Here," cried I, "are some nine-months wimin!"

"Mrs. Ward," said the editor of the "Bugle"--"Mrs. WARD and
ladies, what means this extr'ord'n'ry demonstration?"

"It means," said that remarkable female "that you men air
makin' fools of yourselves.  You air willin' to talk and urge
others to go to the wars, but you don't go to the wars
yourselves.  War meetin's is very nice in their way, but they
don't keep STONEWALL JACKSON from comin' over to Maryland and
helpin' himself to the fattest beef critters.  What we want is
more cider and less talk.  We want you able-bodied men to stop
speechifying, which don't 'mount to the wiggle of a sick cat's
tail, and to go fi'tin'; otherwise you can stay to home and
take keer of the children, while we wimin will go to the
wars!"

"Gentl'man," said I, "that's my wife!  Go in, old gal!" and I
throw'd up my ancient white hat in perfeck rapters.

"Is this roll-book to be filled up with the names of men or
wimin?" she cried.

"With men--with men!" and our quoty was made up that very
night.

There is a great deal of gas about these war meetin's.  A war
meetin', in fact, without gas, would be suthin' like the play
of HAMLET with the part of OTHELLO omitted.

Still believin' that the Goddess of Liberty is about as well
sot up with as any young lady in distress could expect to be,
I am
                         Yours more'n anybody else's,
                                                 A. Ward.

