Transcribed from the 1900 Macmillan and Co. edition by David Price,
email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


MODERN BROODS, or DEVELOPMENTS UNLOOKED FOR


CHAPTER I--TORTOISES AND HARES


"Whate'er is good to wish, ask that of Heaven,
Though it be what thou canst not hope to see."
- HARTLEY COLERIDGE.


The scene was a drawing-room, with old-fashioned heavy sash windows
opening on a narrow brick-walled town-garden sloping down to a river,
and neatly kept.  . * * * I invoke you, and I make it in some sort
a personal appeal--personal so far as it tends to our assistance
in Virginia--I do invoke you, in your demonstrations of popular
opinion, in your exhibitions of official intent, to give no countenance
to this idea of reconstruction.

[Many voices, emphatically, 'never,' and applause.]
"In Virginia," resumed he, "they all say, if reduced to the dread dilemma
of this memorable alternative, they will espouse the cause of the
South as against the interest of the Northern Confederacy, but they
whisper of reconstruction, and they say Virginia must abide in the
Union, with the idea of reconstructing the Union which you have
annihilated. I pray you, gentlemen, rob them of that idea.

Proclaim to the World that upon no condition, and under no
circumstances, will South Carolina ever again enter into political
association with the Abolitionists of New England. [Cries of 'never,'
and applause.]
"Do not distrust Virginia," he continued; "as sure as tomorrow's
sun will rise upon us, just so sure will Virginia be a member of
this Southern Confederation.

[Applause.]

And I will tell you, gentlemen, what will put her in the Southern
Confederacy in less than an hour by Shrewsbury clock--STRIKE A BLOW!

[Tremendous applause.]

The very moment that blood is shed, old Virginia will make common
cause with her sisters of the South. [Applause.]

It is impossible she should do otherwise."
The question of the necessity of "Striking a Blow"--of the immediate
"shedding of blood"--was not only discussed before the Southern
people for the purpose of inflaming their rebellious zeal, but was
also the subject of excited agitation in the Confederate Cabinet
at this time.

In a speech made by ex-United States Senator Clemens of Alabama,
at Huntsville, Alabama, at the close of the Rebellion, he told the
Alabamians how their State, which, as we have seen, was becoming
decidedly shaky in its allegiance to the "Sham of Southern
Independence," was kept in the Confederacy.

Said he: "In 1861, shortly after the Confederate Government was put
in operation, I was in the city of Montgomery.

One day (April 11, 1861) I stepped into the office of the Secretary
of War, General Walker, and found there, engaged in a very excited
discussion, Mr. Jefferson Davis (the President), Mr. Memminger (Secretary
of the Treasury), Mr. Benjamin (Attorney-General), Mr. Gilchrist,
a member of our Legislature from Loundes county, and a number of other
prominent gentlemen. They were discussing the propriety of immediately
opening fire on Fort Sumter, to which General Walker, the Secretary
of War, appeared to be opposed.

Mr.

Gilchrist said to him, 'Sir, unless you sprinkle blood in the face
of the people of Alabama, they will be back in the old Union in
less than ten days!'

THE NEXT DAY GENERAL BEAUREGARD OPENED HIS BATTERIES ON SUMTER, AND
ALABAMA WAS SAVED TO THE CONFEDERACY."

On the 8th of April, G. T. Beauregard, "Brigadier General Commanding"
the "Provisional Army C.

S. A." at Charleston, S.

C., notified the Confederate Secretary of War (Walker) at Montgomery,
Ala., that "An authorized messenger from President Lincoln has
just informed Gov.

Pickens and myself that provisions will be sent to Fort Sumter
peaceably, or otherwise by force."

On the 10th, Confederate Secretary Walker telegraphed to Beauregard:
"If you have no doubt of the authorized character of the agent who
communicated to, you the intention of the Washington Government to
supply Fort Sumter by force, you will at once demand its evacuation,
and, if this is refused, proceed, in such manner as you may determine,
to reduce it."

To this Beauregard at once replied: "The demand will be made to-morrow
at 12 o'clock." Thereupon the Confederate Secretary telegraphed again:
"Unless there are special reasons connected with your own condition,
it is considered proper that you should make the demand at an
earlier hour." And Beauregard answered: "The reasons are special
for 12 o'clock."

On the 11th General Beauregard notified Secretary Walker: "The demand
was sent at 2 P. M., and until 6 was allowed for the answer."

Best, who had been bravely presiding over a
high-school boarding-house ever since her husband, a railway
engineer, had been killed by an accident, and left her with two
children to bring up.  "Dear children, they are very good to me."

"I am sure you have been goodness itself to us," said Magdalen, "in
taking the care of these poor little ones when their mother died.  I
don't know how to be thankful enough to you and for all the blessings
we have had!  And that this should have come just now, especially
when my life with Lady Milsom is coming to an end."

"Indeed!"

"Yes, the little boys are old enough for school, and the Colonel is
going to take a house at Shrewsbury, where his mother will live with
them, and want me no longer."

"You have been there seven years."

"Yes, and very happy.  When Fanny married, Lady Milsom was left
alone, and would not part with me, and then came the two little boys
from India, so that she had an excuse for retaining me; but that is
over now, or will be in a few weeks time.  I had been trying for an
engagement, and finding that beside your high-school diploma young
ladies I am considered quite passee--"

"My dear!  With your art, and music, and all!"

"Too true!  And while I was digesting a polite hint that my terms
were too high, and therewith Agatha's earnest appeal to be sent to
Girton, there comes this inheritance!  Taking my burthen off my back,
and making me ready to throw up my heels like a young colt."

"Ah! you will be taking another burthen, perhaps."

"No doubt, I suppose so, but let me find it out by degrees.  I can
only think as yet of having my dear girls to myself, moi, as the
French would say, after having seen so little of them."

"It has been very unfortunate.  Epidemics have been strangely
inconvenient."

"Yes.  First there was whooping cough here to destroy the summer
holidays; then came the Milsoms' measles, and I could not go and
carry infection.  Oh! and then Freddy broke his leg, and his
grandmother was too nervous to be left with him.  And by and by some
one told her the scarlatina was in the town."

"It really was, you know."

"Any way, it would have been sheer selfish inhumanity to leave her,
and then she had a real illness, which frightened us all very much.
Next came influenza to every one.  And these last holidays!  What
should the newly-come little one from India do, but catch a fever in
the Red Sea, and I had to keep guard over the brothers at Weymouth
till she was reported safe, and I don't believe it was infectious
after all!  Still, I am tired of 'other people's stairs.'"

"It is nearly five years since you have been with them, except for
that one peep you took at Weston."

"And that is a great deal at their age.  Agatha was a vehement
reader; she would hardly look at me, so absorbed was she in 'The York
and Lancaster Rose' which I had brought her."

"She is rather like that now.  I conclude that you will wish to take
them away?"

"Not this time, at any rate till the house is fit to put over their
heads.  Besides, you have so mothered them, dear Sophy, that I could
not bear to make a sudden parting."

"There will be pain, especially over little Thekla and Polly.  But if
George comes home this spring, and I go out to Queensland with him,
perhaps I should have asked you to take this house off my hands.  May
be it would be prudent in you to do so even now, considering all
things; only I believe that transplanting would be good for them
all."

"I am glad you think so, for I have a perfect longing for that little
house of my own."

"You will be able to give them a superior kind of society to what
they have had access to here.  There is a good deal that I should
like to talk over with you before they come in."

"Agatha seems to be in despair at her failure."

"So is all the house, for we were very proud of her, and, of course,
we all thought it a fad of the examiners, but perhaps our
headmistress might not say the same.  She is a good, hardworking girl
though, and ambitious, and quite worth further training."

"I am glad of being able to secure it to her at least, and by the
time her course is finished I shall be able to judge about the
others."

"You thought of taking them in hand yourself?"

"Certainly; how nice it will be to teach my own kin, and not endless
strangers, lovable as they have been!"

"It will be very good for them all to see something of life and
manners superior to what I can give them here.  You will take them
into a fresh sphere, and--as things were--besides that, I could not--
I did not know whether their lives would not lie among our people
here."

"Dear Sophy, don't concern yourself.  I am quite certain you would
never let them fall in with anything hurtful."

"Why, no!  I hope not; but if I had known what was coming, I don't
think I should have asked you to consent to Vera and Thekla's
spending their holidays at Mr. Waring's country house."

"Very worthy people, you said.  I remember Tom Waring, a very nice
boy; and Jessie Dale went to school with us--I liked her.  Fancy them
having a country house."

"Waring Grange they call it.  He has got on wonderfully as
upholsterer, decorator, and auctioneer.  It is a very handsome one,
with a garden that gets the prizes at the horticultural shows.  They
are thoroughly good people, but I was afraid afterwards that there
had been a good deal of noisiness among the young folks at Christmas.
Hubert Delrio was there, and I fancy there was some nonsense going
on."

"Ah, the Delrios!  Are they here?"

"Yes, poor Fred did not make his art succeed when he had a family to
provide for, and he is the head of the Art School here.  His son has
a good deal of talent, and very prudently has got taken on by the
firm of Eccles and Co., who do a great deal of architectural
decoration.  The boy is doing very well, but there have been giggles
and whispers that make me rejoice that Vera should be out of the
neighbourhood."

"Is she not very pretty?"

"You will be very much struck with her, I think; and Paulina is
pretty too, and more thoughtful.  She would not go with Thekla,
because Waring Grange is far from church, and she would not disturb
her Christmas and Epiphany.  She is the most religious of them all,
and puts me in mind of our old missionary castles in the air."

"Ah, what castles they were!  And they seem further off than ever!
Or perhaps you will fulfil them, and go and teach the Australian
blacks!"

"A very unpromising field," said Mrs. Best, "though I hear there is a
Sister Angela at the station who does wonders with them.  I hear the
quarter striking--they will be back directly."

"Ah! before they come, we ought to talk over means!  Something is
owing for these last holidays.  Oh! Sophy, I cannot find words to say
how thankful I am to you for having helped me through this time, even
to your own loss!  It has made our life possible."

"Indeed, I was most thankful to do all I could for poor Agnes'
children; and though I did not gain by them like my other boarders, I
never LOST, and they have been a great joy to me, yes, and a help, by
giving my house a character."

"When I recollect how utterly crushed down I felt, seven years ago,
when their mother died, and Aunt Magdalen refused help, and how
despairingly I prayed, I feel all the more that there is an answer to
even feeble almost worldly prayer."

"That it could not be when it was that you might be enabled to do the
duty that was laid on you, my dear."

And with the exchange of a kiss, the two good women set themselves to
practical pounds, shillings, and pence, which was just concluded when
the patter of feet up the stone steps and voices in the hall
announced the return of Mrs. Best's boarders.

Just as Magdalen was opening the door, there darted up, with the air
of a privileged favourite, a little person of ten years old, with
flying brown hair and round rosy cheeks, exclaiming breathlessly, "Is
she come?"

The answer was to take her up with a motherly hug, and "My dear
little Thekla!"  There was not time for more than a hurried glance
and embrace of the three on the steps of the stair, in their sailor
hats and blue serge; but when in ten minutes more, the whole party,
twenty in number, were seated round the dining table, observation was
possible.  Agatha, as senior scholar, sat at the foot of the table,
fully occupied in dispensing Irish stew.  She had a sensible face, to
which projecting teeth gave a character, and a brow that would have
shown itself finer but for the overhanging mass of hair.  Vera and
Paulina were so much alike and so nearly of the same age that they
were often taken for twins, but on closer inspection Vera proved to
be the prettiest, with a more delicately cut nose, clearer
complexion, and bluer eyes; but Paulina, with paler cheeks, had
softer eyes, and more pencilled brows, as well as a prettier lip and
chin, though she would not strike the eye so much as her sister.
Little Thekla was a round-faced, rosy little thing, childish for her
nearly eleven years, smiling broadly and displaying enough white
teeth to make Magdalen forebode that they would need much attention
if they were not to be a desight like Agatha's.

She sat between Mrs. Best and Magdalen; and in the first pause, when
the first course had just been distributed, she looked up with a
great pair of grey eyes, and asked, in a shrill, clear little voice,
"Sister, may I have a bicycle?"

"We will see about it, my dear," returned Magdalen, unwilling to
pledge herself.

"But haven't you got a fortune?" undauntedly demanded Thekla.

"Something like it, Thekla.  You shall hear about it after dinner."
And Magdalen felt her colour flushing up under all those young eyes.

"Kitty Best said--"

But here Mrs. Best interposed.  "We don't talk over such things at
table, Thekla.  Take care with the gravy.  Did Mr. Jones give a
lesson, this morning?"

"Yes, a very long one," said Vera.

"It was about the exact force of the words in the Revised Version,"
added Agatha, "compared with the Greek."

"That must have been very interesting!" said Magdalen.

Vera and her neighbour looked at one another and shrugged their
shoulders; while some one else broke in with the news that another
girl had not come back because she was down with influenza; and
Magdalen, suspecting that "shop" was not talked at table, and also
that the Scripture passage could not well be discussed there, saw
that it was wise to let the conversation drift off, by Mrs. Best's
leading, into anecdotes of the influenza.

All were glad when grace was chanted, and the five sisters could
retreat into the drawing-room, which Mrs. Best let them have to
themselves for the half hour before Magdalen's train, and the young
ones' return to the High School.  She was at once established with
Thekla on her lap, and the others perched round on chairs and
footstools.  Of course the first question was, "And is it really
true?"

"It is true, my dears, that my old great aunt has left me a house and
some money; but you must not flatter yourselves that it is a great
estate."

"Only mayn't I have a bicycle?" began Thekla again.

"Child, I believe you have bicycles on the brain," said Agatha.
"But, sister, you do mean that we shall be better off, and I shall be
able to go on with my education?"

"Yes, my dear, I think I can promise you so much," said Magdalen,
caressing the serge shoulder.

"O thanks!  Girton?" cried Agatha.

"There is much that I must inquire about before I decide--"

Again came, "Elsie Warner has a bicycle, and she is no older than me!
Please, sister!"

"Hush now, my little Thekla," said the sister kindly; "I will talk to
Mrs. Best, and see whether she thinks it will be good for you."

Thekla subsided with a pout, and Magdalen was able to explain her
circumstances and plans a little more in detail; seeing however that
the girls had no idea of the value of money, Paulina asked whether it
meant being as well off as the Colonel and Lady Mary -

"Who keep a carriage and pair, and a butler," interposed Vera.

"Oh no, my dear.  If I keep any kind of carriage it will be only a
basket or governess cart, and a pony or donkey."

"That's all right," said Agatha.  "I would not be rich and stupid for
the world."

"Small fear of that!" said Magdalen, laughing.  "Our home, the Goyle,
is not more than a cottage, in a beautiful Devonshire valley--"

"What's the name of it?"

"The Goyle.  I believe it is a diminutive of Gully, a narrow ravine.
It is lovely even now, and will be delightful when you come to me in
April--"

"Shall I leave school?" asked Vera.  "I shall be seventeen in May."

"You will all leave school.  Mrs. Best has made it easy to me by her
wonderful goodness in keeping you on cheaper terms; but if Agatha
goes to the University you must be content to work for a time with
me."

"Oh!" cried Thekla.  "Shall I have always holidays?  My bicycle!"

Everybody burst out laughing at this--not a very trained
cachinnation, but more of the giggle, even in Agatha; and Magdalen
answered:

"You will have plenty of time for bicycling if the hills are not too
steep, but I hope to make your lessons pleasant to you."  She did not
know whether to mention Mrs. Best's intention of soon giving up her
house, which would have much increased her difficulties but for her
legacy; and Agatha said, "You know, I think, that Vera and Polly both
ought to make a real study of music.  They both have talent, and
cultivation would do a great deal for it."

Agatha spoke in a dogmatic way that amused Magdalen, and she said,
"Well, I shall be able to judge when we are at the Goyle.  Vera, I
think you sing--"

Vera looked shy, and Agatha said, "She has a good voice, and Madame
Lardner thinks it would answer to send her to some superior
Conservatoire in process of time."

Vera did not commit herself as to her wishes, and Mrs. Best returned
to say that if Miss Prescott wished to see the headmistress it was
time to set out for the school; and accordingly the whole party
walked up together to the school, Magdalen with Agatha, who was
chiefly occupied in explaining how entirely it was owing to the one-
sidedness of the examiners that she had not gained the scholarship.
Magdalen had heard of such examiners before from the mothers of her
pupils.

She had to wish her sisters good-bye for the next three months, not
having gathered very much about them, except their personal
appearance.  She administered a sovereign to each of them as they
parted.  Agatha thanked her in a tone as if afraid to betray what a
boon it was; Vera, with an eager kiss, asking if she could spend it
as she liked; Paulina, with a certain grave propriety; and Thekla, of
course, wanted to know whether it would buy a bicycle, or, if not,
how many rides could be purchased from it.

When they were absorbed in the routine of the day, the interview with
the head mistress disclosed, what Magdalen had expected, that Agatha,
was an industrious, ambitious girl, with very good abilities quite
worth cultivating, though not extraordinary; that Vera had a certain
sort of cleverness, but no application and not much taste for
anything but music; and that Paulina was a good, dutiful, plodding
girl, who surpassed brighter powers by dint of diligence.  The little
one was a mere child, who had not yet come much under notice from the
higher authorities.

On the whole, Magdalen went away with pleasant hopes, and the
affectionate impulses of kindred blood rising within her, to complete
her term with Lady Milsom, by whom she could not well be spared till
towards Easter; while, in the meantime, her house was being repaired.


CHAPTER II--THE GOYLE


"A poor thing, but mine own."--SHAKESPEARE.

"Thaay stwuns, thaay stwuns, thaay stwuns, thaay stwuns."
--T. HUGHES, Scouring of the White Horse.

Magdalen Prescott stood on her own little terrace.  Her house was,
like many Devonian ones, built high on the slope of a steep hill,
running down into a narrow valley, and her abode was almost at the
narrowest part, where a little lively brawling stream descended from
the moor amid rocks and brushwood.  If the history of the place were
told, it had been built for a shooting box, then inherited by a
lawyer who had embellished and spent his holidays there, and
afterwards, his youngest daughter, a lonely and retiring woman, had
spent her latter years there.

That Revolution has been distinguished by a boldness and completeness
of success rarely equaled in the history of Civil Commotions. Its
overthrow of the Federal authority has not only been sudden and
wide-spread, but has been marked by excesses which have alarmed all
and been sources of profound humiliation to a large portion of the
American People.
Its history is a history of surprises and treacheries and ruthless
spoliations. The Forts of the United States have been captured and
garrisoned, and hostile flags unfurled upon their ramparts. Its
arsenals have been seized, and the vast amount of public arms they
contained appropriated to the use of the captors; while more than
half a million dollars, found in the Mint at New Orleans, has been
unscrupulously applied to replenish the coffers of Louisiana.
Officers in command of revenue cutters of the United States have been
prevailed on to violate their trusts and surrender the property
in their charge; and instead of being branded for their crimes, they,
and the vessels they betrayed, have been cordially received into the
service of the Seceded States. These movements were attended
by yet more discouraging indications of immorality.
It was generally believed that this Revolution was guided and urged on
by men occupying the highest positions in the public service, and
who, with the responsibilities of an oath to support the
Constitution still resting upon their consciences, did not hesitate
secretly to plan and openly to labor for, the dismemberment of the
Republic whose honors they enjoyed and upon whose Treasury they
were living.

As examples of evil are always more potent than those of good, this
spectacle of demoralization on the part of States and statesmen
could not fail to produce the most deplorable consequences. The
discontented and the disloyal everywhere took courage. In other States,
adjacent to and supposed to sympathize in sense of political wrong
with those referred to, Revolutionary schemes were set on foot,
and Forts and arms of the United States seized. The unchecked
prevalence of the Revolution, and the intoxication which its
triumphs inspired, naturally suggested wilder and yet more desperate
enterprises than the conquest of ungarrisoned Forts, or the plunder
of an unguarded Mint. At what time the armed occupation of Washington
City became a part of the Revolutionary Programme, is not certainly
known. More than six weeks ago, the impression had already extensively
obtained that a Conspiracy for the accomplishment of this guilty
purpose was in process of formation, if not fully matured. The earnest
endeavors made by men known to be devoted to the Revolution, to hurry
Virginia and Maryland out of the Union, were regarded as preparatory
steps for the subjugation of Washington. This plan was in entire harmony
with the aim and spirit of those seeking the subversion of the
Government, since no more fatal blow at its existence could be
struck than the permanent and hostile possession of the seat of its
power.

It was in harmony, too, with the avowed designs of the Revolutionists,
which looked to the formation of a Confederacy of all the Slave
States, and necessarily to the Conquest of the Capital within their
limits. It seemed not very indistinctly prefigured in a Proclamation
made upon the floor of the Senate, without qualification, if not
exultingly, that the Union was already dissolved--a Proclamation
which, however intended, was certainly calculated to invite, on
the part of men of desperate fortunes or of Revolutionary States,
a raid upon the Capital.

In view of the violence and turbulent disorders already exhibited in
the South, the public mind could not reject such a scheme as at all
improbable.

That a belief in its existence was entertained by multitudes, there can
be no doubt, and this belief I fully shared. My conviction rested not
only on the facts already alluded to, but upon information, some of
which was of a most conclusive character, that reached the
Government from many parts of the Country, not merely expressing
the prevalence of the opinion that such an organization had been
formed, but also often furnishing the plausible grounds on which the
opinion was based.
Superadded to these proofs, were the oft-repeated declarations of
men in high political positions here, and who were known to have
intimate affiliations with the Revolution--if indeed they did not
hold its reins in their hands--to the effect that Mr.

Magdalen felt as if these speeches were so many drops of water in her
face and that of her beautiful Goyle, but she rose in its defence.

"It actually is less than three miles," she said.  "I have walked it
several times, and the cabs only charge three."

"That is testimony," said Mrs. Best, smiling; "but hills, perhaps,
reckon for miles in one's feelings!"

"Particularly before you are rested," said Magdalen, setting her down
in a comfortable wicker chair.  "You will think little of it on your
own feet, Vera, and the church is much nearer, Paulina, only on the
other side of the hill."

"May I have a bicycle of my own?" burst in Thekla, again; while every
one began laughing, and Agatha told her that Sister would think her
brains were cycling.


"With centric and concentric scribbled o'er
Cycle and epicycle orb in orb."


"Epicycle?" cried Vera.  "I saw it advertised in the Queen.  A
splendid one."

"Ah!  Magdalen, you will think I have not taught them their Milton,"
said Mrs. Best, as both elders burst out laughing; and Agatha said,
in an undertone, "Don't make yourself such a goose, Vera."

"I should think it rather rough sailing for bikes," said Paulina.

"I should have thought so, myself," returned Magdalen; "but the
Clipstone girls do not seem to think so.  I see them sailing merrily
into Rockstone."

"You have neighbours, then?" said Vera.

"Certainly.  Rockstone supplies a good deal.  

* * * * * * *
"Is there such perfect identity of interests among the States to
compose a new Union, as to produce harmony only, and prevent renewed
Secession?

Plainly, the central idea of Secession is the essence of anarchy.
A majority, held in restraint by Constitutional checks and
limitations and always changing easily with deliberate changes of
popular opinions and sentiments, is the only true sovereign of a
Free People.

Whoever rejects it, does, of necessity, fly to anarchy, or to
despotism.
Unanimity is impossible; the rule of a minority, as a permanent
arrangement, is wholly inadmissible; so that, rejecting the majority
principle, anarchy or despotism in some form is all that is left.

* * * * * * *
"Physically speaking, we cannot separate. We cannot remove our
respective Sections from each other, nor build an impassable wall
between them.

A husband and wife may be divorced, and go out of the presence and
beyond the reach of each other; but the different parts of our
Country cannot do this.

They cannot but remain face to face; and intercourse, either amicable
or hostile, must continue between them.

Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more
advantageous or more satisfactory after separation than before?

Can aliens make treaties, easier than friends can make laws? Can
treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens, than laws can
among friends?

Suppose you go to War, you cannot fight always; and when, after
much loss on both sides, and no gain on either you cease fighting,
the identical old questions, as to terms of intercourse, are again
upon you.

"This Country, with its Institutions, belongs to the People who
inhabit it.

Whenever they shall grow weary of the existing Government, they
can exercise their Constitutional right of amending it, or their
Revolutionary right to dismember or overthrow it.

I cannot be ignorant of the fact that many worthy and patriotic
citizens are desirous of having the National Constitution amended.

While I make no recommendations of Amendments, I fully recognize
the rightful authority of the People over the whole subject, to be
exercised in either of the modes prescribed in the instrument itself;
and I should, under existing circumstances, favor, rather than
oppose, a fair opportunity being afforded the People to act upon
it. * * *
"The Chief Magistrate derives all his authority from the People,
and they have conferred none upon him to fix terms for the separation
of the States.

CHAPTER III--THE FIRST SUNDAY


"Speed on, speed on, the footpath way,
   And merrily hunt the stile-a;
A merry heart goes all the way,
   A sad tires in a mile-a."
- SHAKESPEARE.


Sunday morning rose with new and bright hopes.  The girls looked out
at their window, and saw that it was a beautiful morning, and that
the spring sunshine glowed upon the purple summits of the hills.
Agatha supposed there would be a pleasant walk to church; Paulina
said she had heard good accounts of the services in that part of the
country; Vera hoped that they would see what their neighbours were
like, and Thekla was delighted with the jolly garden and places to
scramble in.

On this first Sunday they were let alone to explore the garden before
the walk to church, which Magdalen foresaw would be a long affair
with Mrs. Best.  After their decorous stillness at breakfast, it was
a contrast to hear the merry voices and laughter outside, but it
subsided as soon as she approached, though she did not hear the
murmured ripple, "Here comes maiden aunt!  Behold--Quite a spicy
hat!"

In truth, Magdalen's hat was a pretty new one, not by any means
unsuitable to her age and appearance, and altogether her air was more
stylish than the country town breeding was accustomed to; her dress
perfectly plain, but well made.

Vera was perhaps the most sensible of the perfection of the turn-out;
Agatha chiefly felt that her more decorated skirt and mantle had
their inconveniences in walking through the red mud of the lanes,
impeded by books and umbrella, which left no leisure to admire the
primroses that studded the deep banks and which delighted Thekla in
the freedom of short skirts.

Magdalen herself had enough to do in steering along such a
substantial craft as poor Mrs. Best, used to church-going along a
street, and shrouded under a squirrel mantle of many pounds weight.

Barely in time was the convoy when at last the exhausted lady was
helped over the stone stile that led to the churchyard.  Highly
picturesque was the grey structure outside, but within modernism had
not done much; the chancel was feebly fitted after the ideas of the
"fifties," but the faded woodwork of the nave was intact, and
Magdalen still had to sit in the grim pew of her predecessors.

The girls' looks at each other might have suited the entrance to a
condemned cell, and the pulpit towered above them with a faded green
cushion, that seemed in danger of tumbling down over their heads.

The service was a plain one, but reverent and careful; the music had
a considerable element of harmonium mixed with schoolchild voices,
and the sermon from an elderly man was a good one; but when the move
to go out was made, and the young ones were beyond ear-shot of their
elders, the exclamations were, "Well, I never thought to have gone
back to Georgian era."

"Exactly the element of our maiden aunt."

"And nobody to be seen."

"Naggie, why do they shut one up in boxes?"

"Just to daunt Flapsy's roving eye, Tickle, my dear."

"Don't, Polly.  There was nobody to be seen if we hadn't been in a
box.  Of course no one comes there but stately old farmers and their
smart daughters.  I saw one with a Gainsborough hat, and a bunch of
cock's feathers, with a scarlet cactus cocking it up behind."

"Flapsy made use of her opportunities, you see.  Being 'emparocked in
a pew' cannot daunt her spirit of research."

"Now, Nag, I only meant to show you what impossible people they are."

"Natives who will repay the study perhaps," continued Agatha, reading
as though from a book of travels.  "We were able to observe a group
of the aborigines at their devotions.  Conspicuous was a not
ungraceful young female, whose head, ornamented with a plume of
feathers, towered above the enclosure in which she was secluded,
while an aged fakir, hakem or medicine man pronounced from a loftier
structure resembling a sentry box."

"Children, children, that's the wrong way," came Magdalen's voice
from behind.  "You must turn into that lane.  Wait a moment."

They waited till Mrs. Best's lagging steps allowed Magdalen to come
up with them, but dead silence fell on them when Mrs. Best observed,
"You were very merry."  They could not speak of the cause.  Perhaps
Magdalen divined something, for she said, "We hope to make some
improvements, and so indeed does Mr. Earl, but he is very poor.
Besides, newcomers must work slowly."

Harris, in his _Life of Lord Chancellor Hardwicke_ (i. 221.),
give the lines as quoted by Lord Mansfield, with the exception of the
last and only important line, which they give, after the note to
Erskine's speeches, as
"Who are judges alike of the facts and the laws."
And Lord Campbell (who refers to _State Trials_, xxi.) says that Lord
Mansfield, in the Dean of St. Asaph's Case, misquoted the lines
"to suit his purpose, or from lapse of memory."The early dinner passed in all demureness and formality, and the poor
visitor was too much tired for any more services to be thought of for
her.  Magdalen explained that when the days would be longer, she
thought of walking to Rockstone for evensong, but now the best way
was to go to the chapel at Clipstone, which was nearer than either of
the others.

"There is a lovely little chapel there, beautifully fitted up by Lord
Rotherwood and Sir Jasper Merrifield, for the hamlet," she said.

"How far?" asked Mrs. Best.

"About a mile and a half across the fields; further by the road.  Asaph
(1784), wherein was raised the important and interesting question,
whether in libel cases the jury were judges of the law as well as
the fact, Lord Mansfield, in giving judgment, remarked in reference
to trials for libel, before Lord Raymond:
"I by accident (from memory only I speak now) recollect one where
the _Craftsman_ was acquitted; and I recollect it from a famous,
witty, and ingenious ballad that was made at the time by Mr.

"You love your old parish church, like a faithful old churchwoman,"
said Magdalen.  "Well, you see, I am faithful enough to go to my
parish in the morning, but I think we may be discursive afterwards.
There is a Sunday school in which I was waiting to offer help till
our party was made up."

Magdalen had looked twice for a responding smile, first from Agatha,
and then from Paulina, but none was awakened.  The girls clustered
together in the bedroom, and the word "Goody" passed between them.

"Tempered by respect for my Lord and Sir Jasper," added Agatha.

"And avoiding St. Kenelm's because it is the real correct church,"
said Paulina.

"Oh, yes!" cried Vera.  "Mr. Hubert Delrio went to see it in case
Eccles and Beamster should have an order.  We must go there."

"Of course," said Paulina, with a sympathetic nod.

"But," said Agatha, "there will be an embargo on all acquaintance
except the grandees at Clipstone."

"I shall never drop old friends," cried Vera.  And the resolutions
adopted were even still more abject in tone than the speeches.]
But the South at present was too busy in perfecting its long-cherished
plans for the disruption of the Union, to more than grimly smile
at this evidence of what it chose to consider "a divided sentiment"
in the North.

While it weakened the North, it strengthened the South, and instead
of mollifying the Conspirators against the Union, it inspired them
with fresh energy in their fell purpose to destroy it.

This was a
sentiment, and it gave hopes of something like an argument and a
conversation, but they were at that moment overtaken by the
neighbouring farmer's wife, who wanted to give Miss Prescott some
information about a setting of eggs, which she did at some length,
and with a rapid utterance of dialect that amused, while it puzzled,
Magdalen, and her inquiries and comments were decided to be
"thoroughly good-wife" by all save Thekla, who hailed the possible
ownership of a hen and chicken as almost equal to that of a bicycle.

Magdalen further discovered that Thekla's name in common use was
"Tickle," or else "Tick-tick"; Paulina was, of course, Paula or
Polly; Vera had her old baby title of Flapsy, which somehow suited
her restless nervous motions, and Agatha had become Nag.  Well, it
was the fashion of the day, though not a pretty one; but Magdalen
recollected, with some pain, her father's pleasure in the selection
of saintly names for his little daughters, and she wondered how he
would have liked to hear them thus transmuted.  There had been
something bordering on sentiment in her father's character, and
something in Paulina's expression made her hope to see it repeated by
inheritance.  She saw the countenance brighten out of the morning's
antagonistic air when they entered the little chapel at Clipstone,
and saw the altar adorned and carefully decked with white narcissus
and golden daffodils.

