 So the coachman set a purposely unreasonable value
upon poor Meg, and Rachel reduced the sum to what had been given for it
three years before; but Bessie begged her brother to look at the animal
and give his opinion.

"Is that what you are after?" he exclaimed.

"Indeed, Alick, I thought it was the greatest kindness I could do her;
she is so very eager about this plan, and so anxious to find poor Meg a
good home."

"Purely to oblige her?"

"Of course, Alick, it was much more convenient to her than if she had
had to send about to horse-dealers or to advertise. I doubt if she could
have done it at all; and it is for her asylum, you know."

"Then give the coachman's sixty guineas at once."

"Ah, Alick, that's your infatuation!" and she put on a droll gesture of
pity. "But excuse me, where would be the fine edge of delicacy in giving
a manifestly fancy price? Come and look at her."

"I never meddle with horse-dealing."

"Stuff, as if you weren't the best-mounted man in the regiment. I shall
send a note to Captain Sykes if you won't; he knows how to drive a
bargain."

"And give a fancy price the other way. Well, Bessie, on one condition
I'll go, and that is, that Meg goes to Bishopsworthy the day she is
yours. I won't have her eating Lady Temple's corn, and giving her
servants trouble."

"As if I should think of such a thing."

Captain Keith's estimate of the value of the steed precisely agreed with
Rachel's demand of the original price. Bessie laughed, and said there
was collusion.

"Now seriously, Alick, do you think her worth so much? Isn't it a pity,
when you know what a humbug poor Rachel is going to give it to?" and she
looked half comical, half saucy.

"If she were going to throw it into the sea, I don't see what difference
that would make."

"Ah! you are far too much interested. Nothing belonging to her can bear
a vulgar price."

"Nothing belonging to me is to gain profit by her self-denial," said
Alick, gravely. "You cannot do less than give her what she gave for it,
if you enter on the transaction at all."

"You mean that it would look shabby. You see we womankind never quite
know the code of the world on such matters," she said, candidly.

"There is something that makes codes unnecessary, Bessie," he said.

"Ah! I can make allowances. It is a cruel stroke. I don't wonder you
can't bear to see any one else on her palfrey; above all as a sacrifice
to the landscape painter."

"Then spare my feelings, and send the mare to Bishopsworthy," said
Alick, as usual too careless of the imputation to take the trouble to
rebut it or to be disconcerted.

Bessie was much tickled at his acceptance, and laughed heartily.

"To be sure," she said, "it is past concealment now. You must have been
very far gone, indeed, to have been taken in to suppose me to be making
capital of her 'charitable purposes.'"

"Your acting is too like life," he said, not yet induced to laugh, and
she rattled on with her droll, sham sentimental air. "Is it the long
words, Alick, or is it 'the great eyes, my dear;' or is it--oh, yes, I
know what is the great attraction--that the Homestead doesn't possess a
single spot where one could play at croquet!"

"Quite irresistible!" replied Alick, and Bessie retreated from the
colloquy still not laughing at but with him; that is, if the odd,
quaint, inward mirth which only visibly lengthened his sleepy eyes,
could be called a laugh.

Next time Captain Keith rode to Avonmouth he met the riding party on the
road, Bessie upon Rachel's mare, and it appeared that Lady Temple had
considered it so dreadful that Meg should not share her hospitality,
that it had been quite impossible to send her away. "So, Alick, your
feelings must endure the dreadful spectacle."

Meanwhile Rachel was hard at work with the subscribers to the "Christian
Knowledge Society." Beginning with the A's, and working down a page a
day, she sent every member a statement of the wrongs of the lacemakers,
and the plans of the industrial establishment, at a vast expense of
stamps; but then, as she calculated, one pound thus gained paid for two
hundred and forty fruitless letters.

"And pray," said Alick, who had ridden on to call at the Homestead, "how
do you reconcile yourself to the temptation to the postmen?"

"They don't see what my letters are about?"

"They must be dull postmen if they don't remark on the shower of
envelopes that pass through their hands--ominous money-letters, all with
the same address, and no detection remember. You don't know who will
answer and who will not."

"I never thought of that," said Rachel; "but risks must be run when any
great purpose is in hand."

"The corruption of one postman versus the rescue of--how many children
make a postman?" asked Captain Keith, with his grave, considering look.

"The postman would be corrupt already," said Grace, as Rachel thought
the last speech too mocking to be worthy of reply, and went on picking
up her letters.

"There is another objection," added Captain Keith, as he watched her
busy fingers. "Have you considered how you are frightening people out of
the society? It is enough to make one only subscribe as Michael Miserly
or as Simon Skinflint, or something equally uninviting to applications."

"I shall ask you to subscribe by both names!" said Rachel, readily. "How
much for Simon Skinflint?"

"Ten pounds. Stop--when Mr. Mauleverer gives him a reference."

"That's ungenerous. Will Michael Miserly make up for it?"

"Yes, when the first year's accounts have been audited."

"Ah! those who have no faith to make a venture can never effect any
good."

"You evidently build on a great amount of faith from the public. How do
you induce them to believe--do you write in your own name?"

"No, it makes mamma unhappy. I was going to put R. C., but Grace said
people would think it meant Roman Catholic. Your sister thought I had
better put the initials of Female Union for Lacemaker's Employment."

"You don't mean that Bessie persuaded you to put that?" exclaimed Alick
Keith, more nearly starting up than Rachel had ever seen him.

"Yes. There is no objection, is there?"

"Oh, Rachel, Rachel, how could we have helped thinking of it?" cried
Grace, nearly in a state of suffocation.

Rachel held up her printed appeal, where subscriptions were invited to
the address of F. U. L. E., the Homestead, Avonmouth.

"Miss Curtis, though you are not Scottish, you ought to be well read in
Walter Scott."

"I have thought it waste of time to read incorrect pictures of
pseudo-chivalry since I have been grown up," said Rachel. "But that has
nothing to do with it."

"Ah, Rachel, if we had been more up in our Scotch, we should have known
what F. U. L. E. spells," sighed Grace.

A light broke in upon Rachel. "I am sure Bessie never could have
recollected it," was her first exclamation. "But there," she continued,
too earnest to see or stumble at straws, "never mind. It cannot be
helped, and I dare say not one person in ten will be struck by it."

"Stay," said Grace, "let it be Englishwoman's Employment. See, I can
very easily alter the L into an E."

Rachel would hardly have consented, but was forced to yield to her
mother's entreaties. However, the diligent transformation at L's did
not last long, for three days after a parcel was left at the Homestead
containing five thousand printed copies of the appeal, with the E
rightly inserted. Bessie laughed, and did not disavow the half reluctant
thanks for this compensation for her inadvertence or mischief,
whichever it might be, laughing the more at Rachel's somewhat ungrateful
confession that she had rather the cost had gone into a subscription for
the F. U. E. E. As Bessie said to herself, it was much better and
more agreeable for all parties that it should so stand, and she would
consider herself in debt to Alick for the amount. Indeed, she fully
expected him to send her in the bill, but in the meantime not one
word was uttered between the brother and sister on the subject. They
understood one another too well to spend useless words.

Contrary to most expectation, there was result enough from Rachel's
solicitations to serve as justification for the outlay in stamps. The
very number of such missives that fly about the world proves that
there must be a great amount of uninquiring benevolence to render the
speculation anything but desperate, and Rachel met with very tolerable
success. Mr. Mauleverer called about once a week to report progress on
his side, and, in his character of treasurer, to take charge of the sums
that began to accumulate. But Rachel had heard so much on all sides of
the need of caution in dealing with one so entirely a stranger, that
she resolved that no one should blame her for imprudence, and therefore
retained in her own name, in the Avoncester Bank, all the sums that
she received. Mr. Mauleverer declared himself quite contented with
this arrangement, and eagerly anticipated the apologies that Rachel was
ashamed even to make to him.

Enough was collected to justify a beginning on a small scale. A house
was to be taken where Mr. Mauleverer and a matron would receive the
first pupils, teach them wood engraving, and prepare the earlier numbers
of the magazine. When a little more progress had been made, the purchase
of a printing-press might be afforded, and it might be struck off by
the girls themselves, but in the meantime they must be dependent on the
regular printer. On this account Mr. Mauleverer thought it best to open
the establishment, not at Avonmouth, but at St. Herbert's, where he had
acquaintance that would facilitate the undertaking.

Rachel was much disappointed. To be in and out constantly, daily
teaching and watching the girls, and encouraging them by learning the
employment herself, had been an essential portion of her vision. She
had even in one of her most generous moods proposed to share the delight
with the Williamses, and asked Ermine if she would not, if all things
suited, become the resident matron. However, Mr. Mauleverer said
that there was an individual of humbler rank, the widow of a National
Schoolmaster, so anxious to devote herself to the work, that he had
promised she should share it whenever he was in a condition to set the
asylum on foot; and he assured Rachel that she would find this person
perfectly amenable to all her views, and ready to work under her.
He brought letters in high praise of the late school master, and
recommendations of his widow from the clergyman of the parish where
they had lived; and place and name being both in the "Clergy List," even
Ermine and Alison began to feel ashamed of their incredulity, whilst as
to Grace, she had surrendered herself completely to the eager delight of
finding a happy home for the little children in whom she was interested.
Grace might laugh a little at Rachel, but in the main her trust in her
sister's superiority always led her judgment, and in the absence of
Colonel Keith, Fanny was equally willing to let Rachel think for her
when her own children were not concerned.

Rachel did not give up her hopes of fixing the asylum near her till
after a considerable effort to get a house for it at Avonmouth, but this
was far from easy. The Curtises' unwillingness to part with land for
building purposes enhanced the price of houses, and in autumn and winter
the place was at its fullest, so that she could not even rent a house
but at a ruinous price. It would be the best way to build on Homestead
land, but this would be impracticable until spring, even if means were
forthcoming, as Rachel resolved they should be, and in the meantime
she was obliged to acquiesce in Mr. Mauleverer's assurance that a small
house in an overbuilt portion of St. Norbert's would be more eligible
than one in some inland parish. Anything was better than delay. Mr.
Mauleverer was to superintend from his lodgings.

Rachel went with Grace and her mother to St. Norbert's, and inspected
the house, an ordinary cheap one, built to supply lodgings for the more
economical class of visitors. It was not altogether what Rachel wished,
but must serve till she could build, and perhaps it would be best to
form her experience before her plans. Mr. Mauleverer's own lodgings
were near at hand, and he could inspect progress. The furniture was
determined upon--neat little iron beds for the dormitories, and all that
could serve for comfort and even pleasure, for both Mr. Mauleverer and
Rachel were strong against making the place bare and workhouse-like,
insulting poverty and dulling the spirit.

Grace suggested communication with the clergyman of the parish; but the
North Hill turned out not to belong to St. Norbert's proper, being a
part of a great moorland parish, whose focus was twelve miles off. A
district was in course of formation, and a church was to be built; but
in the meantime the new houses were practically almost pastorless, and
the children and their matron must take their chance on the free seats
of one of the churches of St. Norbert's. The staff of clergy there were
so busy that no one liked to add extra parochial work to their necessary
duties, and there was not sufficient acquaintance with them to judge how
they would view Mr. Mauleverer's peculiarities. Clerical interference
was just what Rachel said she did not want; it was an escape that she
did not call it meddling.

One bit of patronage at least she could exercise; a married pair of
former Homestead servants had set up a fuel store at St. Norbert's,
receiving coal from the ships, and retailing it. They were to supply
the F. U. E. E. with wood, coal, and potatoes; and this was a great
ingredient in Mrs. Curtis's toleration. The mother liked anything that
brought custom to Rossitur and Susan.

The establishment was at present to consist of three children: the funds
were not sufficient for more. One was the child of the matron, and the
other two were Lovedy Kelland and the daughter of a widow in ill health,
whose family were looking very lean and ill cared for. Mrs. Kelland was
very unwilling to give Lovedy up, she had always looked to receiving the
apprentice fee from the Burnaby bargain for her as soon as the child
was fourteen, and she had a strong prejudice against any possible
disturbance to the lace trade; but winter would soon come and her sale
was uncertain; her best profit was so dependent on Homestead agency that
it was impolitic to offend Miss Curtis; and, moreover, Lovedy was so
excited by the idea of learning to make pictures to books that she
forgot all the lace dexterity she had ever learnt, and spoilt more than
she made, so that Mrs. Kelland was reduced to accept the kind proposal
that Lovedy should be Lady Temple's nominee, and be maintained, by her
at the F. U. E. E. at seven shillings a week.

Fanny, however, asked the clergyman's consent first, telling him, with
her sweet, earnest smile, how sorry she was for the little girl, and
showing him the high testimonials to Mrs. Rawlins. He owned that they
were all that could be wished, and even said at her request that he
would talk to Mr. Mauleverer. What the talk amounted to they never knew;
but when Fanny said "she hoped he had found nothing unsatisfactory,
the poor man must be so glad to be of use;" Mr. Touchett replied with,
"Indeed, it is an unfortunate situation;" and his opposition might
therefore be considered as suspended.

"Of course," cried Bessie, "we know by what witchery!" But Alison
Williams, her listener, turned on her such great eyes of wilful want of
comprehension, that she held her peace.

Rachel and Grace united in sending Mary Morris, the other child; they
really could do nothing more, so heavily had their means been drawn upon
for the first expenses; but Rachel trusted to do more for the future,
and resolved that her dress should henceforth cost no more than Alison
Williams's; indeed, she went through a series of assertions by way of
examining Alison on the expenses of her wardrobe.

The house was taken from Michaelmas, and a few days after, the two
little victims, as Bessie laughingly called them, were taken over to St.
Norbert's in the Homestead carriage, Lady Temple chaperoning the three
young ladies to see the inauguration, and the height of Rachel's glory.

They were received by Mr. Mauleverer at the door, and slightly in the
rear saw the matron, Mrs. Rawlins, a handsome pale woman, younger than
they expected, but whose weeds made Fanny warm to her directly; but she
was shy and retiring, and could not be drawn into conversation; and
her little Alice was only three years old, much younger than Rachel had
expected as a pupil, but a very pretty creature with great black eyes.

Tea and cake were provided by way of an inauguration feast, and the
three little girls sat up in an atmosphere of good cheer, strongly
suggestive of school feasts, and were left in the midst, with many
promises of being good, a matter that Lovedy seemed to think would be
very easy in this happy place, with no lace to make.

Mrs. Rawlins, whose husband had been a trained schoolmaster, was to
take the children to church, and attend to their religious instruction;
indeed, Mr. Mauleverer was most anxious on this head, and as Rachel
already knew the scruples that withheld him from ordination were only
upon the absolute binding himself to positive belief in minor technical
points, that would never come in the way of young children.

Altogether, the neat freshness of the room, the urbanity of Mr.
Mauleverer, the shy grief of the matron, all left a most pleasant
impression. Rachel was full of delight and triumph, and Grace and Fanny
quite enthusiastic; the latter even to the being sure that the Colonel
would be delighted, for the Colonel was already beginning to dawn on the
horizon, and not alone. He had written, in the name of his brother, to
secure a cottage of gentility of about the same calibre as Myrtlewood,
newly completed by a speculator on one of the few bits of ground
available for building purposes. A name was yet wanting to it; but the
day after the negotiation was concluded, the landlord paid the delicate
compliment to his first tenant by painting "Gowanbrae" upon the
gate-posts in letters of green. "Go and bray," read Bessie Keith as she
passed by; "for the sake of the chief of my name, I hope that it is not
an omen of his occupations here."

The two elder boys were with her; and while Francis, slowly apprehending
her meaning in part, began to bristle up with the assurance that
"Colonel Keith never brayed in his life," Conrade caught the point with
dangerous relish, and dwelt with colonial disrespect, that alarmed
his mother, on the opinion expressed by some unguarded person in his
hearing, that Lord Keith was little better than an old donkey. "He is
worse than Aunt Rachel," said Conrade, meditatively, "now she has saved
Don, and keeps away from the croquet."

Meantime Rachel studied her own feelings. A few weeks ago her heart
would have leapt at the announcement; but now her mission had found her
out, and she did not want to be drawn aside from it. Colonel Keith
might have many perfections, but alike as Scotsman, soldier, and
High-Churchman, he was likely to be critical of the head of the F. U. E.
E., and matters had gone too far now for her to afford to doubt, or
to receive a doubting master. Moreover, it would be despicable to be
diverted from a great purpose by a courtship like any ordinary woman;
nor must marriage settlements come to interfere with her building
and endowment of the asylum, and ultimate devotion of her property
thereunto. No, she would school herself into a system of quiet
discouragement, and reserve herself and her means as the nucleus of the
great future establishment for maintaining female rights of labour.


CHAPTER XI. LADY TEMPLE'S TROUBLES.


 "The pheasant in the falcon's claw,
  He scarce will yield, to please a daw."--SCOTT.


Early in the afternoon of a warm October day, the brothers arrived at
Avomnouth, and ten minutes after both were upon the lawn at Myrtlewood,
where croquet was still in progress. Shouts of delight greeted the
Colonel, and very gracefully did Bessie Keith come to meet him, with the
frank confiding sweetness befitting his recent ward, the daughter of his
friend. A reassuring smile and monosyllable had scarcely time to pass
between him and the governess before a flood of tidings was poured
on him by the four elder boys, while their mother was obliged to be
mannerly, and to pace leisurely along with the elder guest, and poor Mr.
Touchett waited a little aloof, hammering his own boot with his mallet,
as if he found the enchanted ground failing him. But the boys had no
notion of losing their game, and vociferated an inquiry whether the
Colonel knew croquet. Yes, he had several times played with his cousins
in Scotland. "Then," insisted Conrade, "he must take mamma's place,
whilst she was being devoured, and how surprised she would be at being
so helped on!"

"Not now, not to-day," he answered. "I may go to your sister, Ailie?
Yes, boys, you must close up your ranks without me."

"Then please," entreated Hubert, "take him away," pointing to the
engrosser of their mother.

"Do you find elder brothers so easily disposed of, Hubert?" said the
Colonel. "Do you take Conrade away when you please?"

"I should punch him," returned Francis.

"He knows better," quoth Conrade in the same breath, both with infinite
contempt for Hubert.

"And I know better," returned Colonel Keith; "never mind, boys, I'll
come back in--in reasonable time to carry him off," and he waved a gay
farewell.

"Surely you wish to go too," said Bessie to Alison, "if only to relieve
them of the little girl! I'll take care of the boys. Pray go."

"Thank you," said Alison, surprised at her knowledge of the state of
things, "but they are quite hardened to Rose's presence, and I think
would rather miss her."

And in fact Alison did not feel at all sure that, when stimulated by
Bessie's appreciation of their mischief, her flock might not in her
absence do something that might put their mother in despair, and make
their character for naughtiness irretrievable; so Leoline and Hubert
were summoned, the one from speculations whether Lord Keith would have
punched his brother, the other from amaze that there was anything our
military secretary could not do, and Conrade and Francis were arrested
in the midst of a significant contraction of the nostrils and opening
of the mouth, which would have exploded in an "eehaw" but for Bessie's
valiant undertaking to be herself and Lady Temple both at once.

Soon Colonel Keith was knocking at Ermine's door, and Rose was clinging
to him, glowing and sparkling with shy ecstasy; while, without sitting
down again after her greeting, Rachel resolutely took leave, and walked
away with firm steps, ruminating on her determination not to encourage
meetings in Mackarel Lane.

"Better than I expected!" exclaimed Colonel Keith, after having
ushered her to the door in the fulness of his gratitude. "I knew it was
inevitable that she should be here, but that she should depart so fast
was beyond hope!"

"Yes," said Ermine, laughing, "I woke with such a certainty that she
would be here and spend the first half hour in the F. U. E, E. that I
wasted a great deal of resignation. But how are you, Colin? You are much
thinner! I am sure by Mrs. Tibbie's account you were much more ill than
you told me."

"Only ill enough to convince me that the need of avoiding a northern
winter was not a fallacy, and likewise to make Tibbie insist on coming
here for fear Maister Colin should not be looked after. It is rather
a responsibility to have let her come, for she has never been farther
south than Edinburgh, but she would not be denied. So she has been to
see you! I told her you would help her to find her underlings. I thought
it might be an opening for that nice little girl who was so oppressed
with lace-making."

"Ah! she has gone to learn wood-cutting at the F. U. E. E.; but I hope
we have comfortably provided Tibbie with a damsel. She made us a long
visit, and told us all about Master Colin's nursery days. Only I am
afraid we did not understand half."

"Good old body," said the Colonel, in tones almost as national as
Tibbie's own. "She was nursery girl when I was the spoilt child of the
house, and hers was the most homelike face that met me. I wish she may
be happy here. And you are well, Ermine?"

"Very well, those drives are so pleasant, and Lady Temple so kind! It is
wonderful to think how many unlooked-for delights have come to us; how
good every one is;" and her eyes shone with happy tears as she looked
up at him, and felt that he was as much her own as ever. "And you have
brought your brother," she said; "you have been too useful to him to be
spared. Is he come to look after you or to be looked after!"

"A little of both I fancy," said the Colonel, "but I suspect he is
giving me up as a bad job. Ermine, there are ominous revivifications
going on at home, and he has got himself rigged out in London, and had
his hair cut, so that he looks ten years younger."

"Do you think he has any special views!"

"He took such pains to show me the charms of the Benorchie property that
I should have thought it would have been Jessie Douglas, the heiress
thereof, only coming here does not seem the way to set about it, unless
be regards this place as a bath of youth and fashion. I fancy he has
learnt enough about my health to make him think me a precarious kind of
heir, and that his views are general. I hope he may not be made a fool
of, otherwise it is the best thing that could happen to us."

"It has been a dreary uncomfortable visit, I much fear," said Ermine.

"Less so than you think. I am glad to have been able to be of use to
him, and to have lived on something like brotherly terms. We know and
like each other much better than we had a chance of doing before, and we
made some pleasant visits together, but at home there are many things
on which we can never be of one mind, and I never was well enough at
Gowanbrae to think of living there permanently."

"I was sure you had been very unwell! You are better though?"

"Well, since I came into Avonmouth air," said he, "I fear nothing but
cold. I am glad to have brought him with me, since he could not stay
there, for it is very lonely for him."

"Yet you said his daughter was settled close by."

"Yes; but that makes it the worse. In fact, Ermine, I did not know
before what a wretched affair he had made of his daughters' marriages.
Isabel he married when she was almost a child to this Comyn Menteith,
very young too at the time, and who has turned out a good-natured,
reckless, dissipated fellow, who is making away with his property as
fast as he can, and to whom Keith's advice is like water on a duck's
back. It is all rack and ruin and extravagance, a set of ill-regulated
children, and Isabel smiling and looking pretty in the midst of them,
and perfectly impervious to remonstrance. He is better out of sight of
them, for it is only pain and vexation, an example of the sort of match
he likes to make. Mary, the other daughter, was the favourite, and used
to her own way, and she took it. Keith was obliged to consent so as to
prevent an absolute runaway wedding, but he has by no means forgiven
her husband, and they are living on very small means on a Government
appointment in Trinidad. I believe it would be the bitterest pill to him
that either son-in-law should come in for any part of the estate."

"I thought it was entailed."

"Gowanbrae is, but as things stand at present that ends with me, and the
other estates are at his disposal."

"Then it would be very hard on the daughters not to have them."

"So hard that the death of young Alexander may have been one of the
greatest disasters of my life, as well as of poor Keith's. However, this
is riding out to meet perplexities. He is most likely to outlive me;
and, moreover, may marry and put an end to the difficulty. Meantime,
till my charge is relieved, I must go and see after him, and try if I
can fulfil Hubert's polite request that I would take him away. Rosie, my
woman, I have hardly spoken to you. I have some hyacinth roots to bring
you to-morrow."

In spite of these suspicions, Colonel Keith was not prepared for what
met him on his return to Myrtlewood. On opening the drawing-room door,
he found Lady Temple in a low arm-chair in an agony of crying, so that
she did not hear his approach till he stood before her in consternation.
Often had he comforted her before, and now, convinced that something
dreadful must have befallen one of the children, he hastily, though
tenderly, entreated her to tell him which, and what he could do.

"Oh, no, no!" she exclaimed, starting up, and removing her handkerchief,
so that he saw her usually pale cheeks were crimson--"Oh, no," she
cried, with panting breath and heaving chest. "It is all well with them
as yet. But--but--it's your brother."

He was at no loss now as to what his brother could have done, but he
stood confounded, with a sense of personal share in the offence, and his
first words were--"I am very sorry. I never thought of this."

"No, indeed," she exclaimed, "who could? It was too preposterous to be
dreamt of by any one. At his age, too, one would have thought he might
have known better."

A secret sense of amusement crossed the Colonel, as he recollected that
the disparity between Fanny Curtis and Sir Stephen Temple had been far
greater than that between Lady Temple and Lord Keith, but the little
gentle lady was just at present more like a fury than he had thought
possible, evidently regarding what had just passed as an insult to her
husband and an attack on the freedom of all her sons. In answer to a few
sympathising words on the haste of his brother's proceeding, she burst
out again with indignation almost amusing in one so soft--"Haste! Yes!
I did think that people would have had some respect for dear, dear Sir
Stephen," and her gush of tears came with more of grief and less of
violence, as if she for the first time felt herself unprotected by her
husband's name.

"I am very much concerned," he repeated, feeling sympathy safer than
reasoning. "If I could have guessed his intentions, I would have tried
to spare you this; at least the suddenness of it. I could not have
guessed at such presumptuous expectations on so short an acquaintance."

