1. Read this chapter fully, and learn how you would have to manage your
water, food and sanitation problems if you had to spend a week or two in
a fallout shelter, especially a home shelter.


DURING AN EMERGENCY

1. If you are in a _public_ fallout shelter, do exactly what the shelter
manager tells you to do. He will take care of you to the best of his
ability.

2. If you are in a _home_ shelter, follow the advice given in this
chapter concerning water, food and sanitation. Take care of your water
and food supplies, keep them clean, and make them last for the period
you may have to stay in shelter. If necessary, set up an emergency
toilet, keep it clean, and make sure it is used properly.


WATER, FOOD, AND SANITATION IN A SHELTER

At all times and under all conditions, human beings must have sufficient
water, adequate food and proper sanitation in order to stay alive and
healthy. When people are living in a fallout shelter--even for a week or
two--water and food may be scarce, and it may be difficult to maintain
normal sanitary conditions. Water and food supplies may have to be
"managed"--that is, taken care of, kept clean, and rationed to each
person in the shelter. Sanitation also may have to be managed and
controlled, perhaps by setting up emergency toilets and rules to insure
that they are used properly.

If you go to a _public_ fallout shelter in a time of attack, you
probably would not need to know a great deal about managing water, food,
and sanitation. A shelter manager and his assistants would handle these
problems with the cooperation of all in the shelter. He would make the
best use of whatever water and food supplies were available, provide
emergency toilets if necessary, set up rules for living in the shelter,
arrange for the shelter occupants to carry on various activities
necessary for health and well-being, and decide when it was safe for the
group to leave shelter and for how long at a time.

In a _home_ fallout shelter, however, you and your family would be
largely on your own. You would have to take care of yourselves, solve
your own problems, make your own living arrangements, subsist on the
supplies you had previously stocked, and find out for yourself (probably
by listening to the radio) when it was safe to leave shelter. In this
situation, one of your most important tasks would be to manage your
water and food supplies, and maintain sanitation. The following guidance
is intended to help you do this.


CARE AND USE OF WATER SUPPLIES

The average person in a shelter would need at least 1 quart of water or
other liquids per day to drink, but more would be useful (to allow some
for washing, etc.). Therefore a rationing plan might be required in your
home shelter, so as to make your available liquids last for 14 days.
(Many communities may continue to have potable water available, and
families could relax their rationing plans.)

In addition to water stored in containers, there is usually other water
available in most homes that is drinkable, such as:

--Water and other liquids normally found in the kitchen, including ice
cubes, milk, soft  drinks, and fruit and vegetable juices.

--Water (20 to 60 gallons) in the hot water tank.

--Water in the _flush tanks_ (not the bowls) of home toilets.

--Water in the pipes of your home plumbing system. In a time of nuclear
attack, local authorities may instruct householders to _turn off_ the
main water valves in their homes to avoid having water drain away in
case of a break and loss of pressure in the water mains. With the main
valve in your house closed, all the pipes in the house would still be
full of water. To use this water, _turn on_ the faucet that is located
at the _highest_ point in your house, to let air into the system; and
then draw water, as needed, from the faucet that is located at the
_lowest_ point in your house.

In a home shelter, occupants should drink first the water they know is
uncontaminated, such as that mentioned above. Of course, if local
authorities tell you the regular water is drinkable, it should be used.

If necessary, "suspicious" water--such as cloudy water from regular
faucets or perhaps some muddy water from a nearby stream or pond--can be
used after it has been purified. This is how to purify it:

1. Strain the water through a paper towel or several thicknesses of
clean cloth, to remove dirt and fallout particles, if any. Or else let
the water "settle" in a container for 24 hours, by which time any solid
particles would have sunk to the bottom. A handful of clay soil in each
gallon of water would help this settling process.

2. After the solid particles have been removed, boil the water if
possible for 3 to 5 minutes, or add a water-purifying agent to it. This
could be either: (_a_) water-purifying tablets, available at drug
stores, or (_b_) two percent tincture of iodine, or (_c_) liquid
chlorine household  bleach, provided the label says that it contains
hypochlorite as its _only_ active ingredient. For each gallon of water,
use 4 water-purifying tablets, or 12 drops of tincture of iodine, or 8
drops of liquid chlorine bleach. If the water is cloudy, these amounts
should be doubled.

There would not be much danger of drinking radioactive particles in
water, as they would sink quickly to the bottom of the container or
stream. Very few would dissolve in the water. Although open reservoirs
might contain some radioactive iodine in the first few days after an
attack, this danger is considered minor except to very young children.


CARE AND USE OF FOOD SUPPLIES

Food also should be rationed carefully in a home shelter, to make it
last for at least a 2-week period of shelter occupancy. Usually, half
the normal intake would be adequate, except for growing children or
pregnant women.

In a shelter, it is especially important to be sanitary in the storing,
handling and eating of food, so as to avoid digestive upsets or other
more serious illness, and to avoid attracting vermin. Be sure to:

--Keep all food in covered containers.

--Keep cooking and eating utensils clean.

--Keep all garbage in a closed container, or dispose of it outside the
home when it is safe to go outside. If possible, bury it. Avoid letting
garbage or trash accumulate inside the shelter, both for fire and
sanitation reasons.


EMERGENCY TOILET FACILITIES

In many home shelters, people would have to use emergency toilets until
it was safe to leave shelter for brief periods of time.

An emergency toilet, consisting of a watertight container with a
snug-fitting cover, would be necessary. It could be a garbage container,
or a pail or bucket. If the container is small, a larger container, also
with a cover, should be  available to empty the contents into for later
disposal. If possible, both containers should be lined with plastic
bags.

This emergency toilet could be fitted with some kind of seat, especially
for children or elderly persons. Or it may be possible to remove the
seat from a wooden chair, cut a hole in it, and place the container
underneath. For privacy, the toilet could be screened from view.

Every time someone uses the toilet, he should pour or sprinkle into it a
small amount of regular household disinfectant, such as creosol or
chlorine bleach, to keep down odors and germs. After each use, the lid
should be put back on.

When the toilet container needs to be emptied, and outside radiation
levels permit, the contents should be buried outside in a hole 1 or 2
feet deep. This would prevent the spread of disease by rats and insects.

If the regular toilets inside the home--or the sewer lines--are not
usable for any reason, an outside toilet should be built when it is safe
to do so.

If anyone has been outside and fallout particles have collected on his
shoes or clothing, they should be brushed off before he enters the
shelter area again.

        *       *       *       *       *


CHAPTER 8

FIRE HAZARDS

SUMMARY


BEFORE AN EMERGENCY

1. Follow the normal fire prevention rules given in this chapter.

2. Keep on hand at home the basic fire fighting tools mentioned in
this chapter.


DURING AN EMERGENCY

1. Close doors, windows, venetian blinds, shades, and drapes in your
house.

2. Unless otherwise advised, fill buckets and other containers with
water, for emergency fire fighting as well as other purposes.

3. If a fire should occur, fight it promptly, following the recommended
  procedures.


FIRE HAZARDS

Fire, always a danger, could be even more of a disaster during a nuclear
attack emergency when the fire department might not be available to help
you. Also, the risk of fire would be greater at that time.

Normal fire-prevention rules are of special importance in an emergency.
They include familiar commonsense precautions such as not allowing trash
to accumulate, especially near heat sources; exercising extreme caution
in the use of flammable fluids such as gasoline, naphtha, etc.; storage
of such fluids outdoors when possible; care in the use of electricity;
repairing of faulty wiring and avoiding overloaded circuits; and repair
of faulty heating systems.

These special fire precautions should be taken in a time of nuclear
emergency, especially if you plan to use a home shelter:

(1) Keep some of the intense heat rays from nuclear explosions from
entering your house by closing your doors, windows, venetian blinds,
window shades and drapes. If the climate will not permit this for an
extended period of time, close as many as possible, then close the rest
when the Attack Warning Signal is given.

(2) Unless local authorities advise otherwise, fill buckets, bathtubs
and other containers with water, for use in emergency fire fighting.

If a fire does occur, your home might be saved if you know how to fight
fires, and have on hand some basic firefighting tools. These should
include a garden hose, a ladder, buckets filled with sand, containers
filled with water, and a fire extinguisher. Keep in mind that
vaporizing-liquid types of fire extinguishers can produce dangerous
fumes when used in small enclosed spaces.

Remember the 3 basic ways to put out a fire:

* Take away its fuel.

* Take away its air (smother it).

* Cool it with water or fire-extinguisher chemicals.


_Ordinary fires_ should be fought by:

--Getting the burning material out of the house (carry it out, or throw
it out of a door or window if you can); or

--Putting out the fire with water, sand, earth or fire-extinguisher
chemicals; or

--Smothering the fire with a rug or blanket, preferably wet.

_Special types of fires_ require special methods:

--If it is an _electrical fire_, be sure to shut off the electricity
first. Then put out the flames with water or anything else available. If
you can't shut off the electricity, don't use water on an electrical
fire.

--If it is an _oil or grease fire_, shut off the supply of whatever is
burning. Then smother the flames with sand, earth, rugs, or other heavy
materials. Don't use water.

--If it is a _gas fire_, shut off the gas supply. Then use water, sand,
or earth to put out whatever is burning.

       *       *       *       *       *


CHAPTER 9

EMERGENCY CARE OF THE SICK AND INJURED

SUMMARY

BEFORE AN EMERGENCY

1. Take the Medical Self-Help course, or a First Aid course.

2. If this is not possible, obtain a good first aid manual, study it,
and keep it at home; or study the emergency medical instructions given
in this chapter, and keep this handbook at home.

3. Obtain a good first aid kit, and keep your home medicine chest well
stocked with supplies you may need in a time of emergency.


DURING AN EMERGENCY

1. Try to get a doctor or nurse (or at least a person trained in first
aid) to treat anyone who is injured or sick.

2. If no one better qualified is available, take charge yourself.


EMERGENCY CARE OF THE SICK AND INJURED

A nuclear attack on the United States would cause great numbers of
casualties, and there would be fewer doctors, nurses and hospitals
available to care for them. Even in areas where no nuclear weapons
exploded, radioactive fallout could prevent doctors and nurses from
reaching injured or sick persons for a considerable period of time.

People would have to help each other during the emergency. Those in a
stocked public fallout shelter would have available the basic medical
kit stored there, and perhaps one or more shelter occupants might be a
doctor, nurse, or trained first-aider. But persons in a home shelter
would have only the medical supplies available at home, and would have
to depend on their own knowledge of first aid and emergency medical
care.

Both adults and teenagers can acquire these valuable skills now by
taking free courses that are offered in many communities, such as the
Medical Self-Help course or a First Aid course.

The following information is no substitute for one of these courses.
This basic guidance may save lives during a nuclear emergency, however,
by helping untrained persons take care of the sick and injured when
professional medical assistance may not be immediately available.


GENERAL RULES FOR ANY MEDICAL EMERGENCY

1. First of all, _do no harm_. Often, well-meaning but untrained persons
worsen the injury or illness in their attempts to help. Get competent
medical assistance, if possible. Do not assume responsibility for a
patient if you can get the help of a doctor, nurse, or experienced
first-aid worker. But if no one better qualified is available, take
charge yourself.

2. _Look for stoppage of breathing, and for serious bleeding._ These are
the two most life-threatening conditions you can do something about.
They demand _immediate_ treatment (see pages 58 and 61).

8. _Prevent shock, or treat it._ Shock, a serious condition of acute
circulatory failure, usually accompanies a severe or painful injury, a
serious loss of blood, or a severe emotional upset. If you _expect_
shock, and take prompt action, you can prevent it or lessen its
severity. This may save the patient's life. (Treatment of shock is
discussed on page 62).

4. _Don't move the patient immediately_. Unless there is real danger of
the patient receiving further injury where he is, he should not be moved
until breathing is restored, bleeding is stopped, and suspected broken
bones are splinted.

5. _Keep calm, and reassure the patient._ Keep him lying down and
comfortably warm, but do not apply heat to his body, or make him sweat.

6. _Never attempt to give liquids to an unconscious person_. If he is
not able to swallow, he may choke to death or drown. Also, don't give
him any liquids to drink if he has an abdominal injury.


IF THE PATIENT HAS STOPPED BREATHING

Quick action is required. You must get air into his lungs again
immediately or he may die. The best and simplest way of doing this is to
use mouth-to-mouth artificial respiration. Here is how to do it:

1. Place the patient on his back. Loosen his collar.

2. Open his mouth and use your fingers to remove any food or foreign
matter. If he has false teeth or removable dental bridges, take them
out.

3. Tilt the patient's head back so that his chin points upward. Lift his
lower jaw from beneath and behind so that it juts out. This will move
his tongue away from the back of his throat, so it does not block the
air passage to his lungs. Placing a pillow or something else under his
shoulders will help get his head into the right position. Some patients
will start breathing as soon as you take these steps, and no further
help is necessary.

4. Open your mouth as wide as possible, and place it tightly over the
patient's mouth, so his mouth is  completely covered by yours. With one
hand, pinch his nostrils shut. With your other hand, hold his lower jaw
in a thrust-forward position and keep his head tilted back. With a baby
or small child, place your mouth over both his nose and mouth, making a
tight seal.

5. Blow a good lungful of air into an adult patient's mouth, continuing
to keep his head tilted back and his jaw jutting out so that the air
passage is kept open. (Air can be blown through an unconscious person's
teeth, even though they may be clenched tightly together.) Watch his
chest as you blow. When you see his chest rise, you will know that you
are getting air into his lungs.

6. Remove your mouth from the patient's mouth, and listen for him to
breathe out the air you breathed into him. You also may feel his breath
on your cheek and see his chest sink as he exhales.

7. Continue your breathing for the patient. If he is an adult, blow a
good breath into his mouth every 5 seconds, or 12 times a minute, and
listen for him to breathe it back out again. _Caution_: If the patient
is an infant or small child, blow _small puffs_ of air into him about 20
times a minute. You may rupture his lung if you blow in too much air at
one time. Watch his chest rise to make sure you are giving him the right
amount of air with each puff.

8. If you are _not_ getting air into the patient's lungs, or if he is
not breathing out the air you blew into him, first make sure that his
head is tilted back and his jaw is jutting out in the proper position.
Then use your fingers to make sure nothing in his mouth or throat is
obstructing the air passage to his lungs. If this does not help, turn
him on his side and strike him sharply with the palm of your hand
several times between his shoulder blades. This should dislodge any
obstruction in the air passage. Then place him again on his back, with
his head tilted back and his jaw jutting out, and resume blowing air
into his mouth. If this doesn't work, try closing his mouth and blowing
air through his nose into his lungs.

9. If you wish to avoid placing your mouth directly on the patient's
face, you may hold a cloth (handkerchief, gauze or other porous
material) over his mouth and breathe through the cloth. But don't waste
precious time looking for a cloth if you don't have one.

10. _Important_: Even if the patient does not respond, continue your
efforts for 1 hour or longer, or until you are completely sure he is
dead. If possible, have this confirmed by at least one other person.


TO STOP SERIOUS BLEEDING

1. Apply firm, even pressure to the wound with a dressing, clean cloth,
or sanitary napkin. If you don't have any of these, use your bare hand
until you can get something better. Remember, you must keep blood from
running out of the patient's body. Loss of 1 or 2 quarts will seriously
endanger his life.

2. Hold the dressing in place with your hand until you can bandage the
dressing in place. In case of an arm or leg wound, make sure the bandage
is not so tight as to cut off circulation; and raise the arm or leg
above the level of the patient's heart. (But if the arm or leg appears
broken, be sure to splint it first.)

3. Treat the patient for shock (see page 62).

4. If blood soaks through the dressing, do _not_ remove the dressing.
Apply more dressings.

5. SPECIAL ADVICE ON TOURNIQUETS: Never use a tourniquet unless you
cannot stop excessive, life-threatening bleeding by any other method.
Using a tourniquet increases the chances that the arm or leg will have
to be amputated later. If you are _forced_ to use a tourniquet to keep
the patient from bleeding to death (for example, when a hand or foot has
been accidentally cut off), follow these instructions carefully:

--Place the tourniquet _as close to the wound as possible_, between the
wound and the patient's heart.

--After the tourniquet has been applied, do not permit it to be loosened
(even temporarily, or even though the bleeding has stopped) by anyone
except a physician, who can control the bleeding by other methods and
replace the blood that the patient has lost.

--Get a physician to treat the patient as soon as possible.


PREVENTING AND TREATING SHOCK

Being "in shock" means that a person's circulatory system is not working
properly, and not enough blood is getting to the vital centers of his
brain and spinal cord.

These are the symptoms of shock: The patient's pulse is weak or rapid,
or he may have no pulse that you can find. His skin may be pale or blue,
cold, or moist. His breathing may be shallow or irregular. He may have
chills. He may be thirsty. He may get sick at his stomach and vomit.

A person can be "in shock" whether he is conscious or unconscious.

_Important: All seriously-injured persons should be treated for shock,
even though they appear normal and alert_. Shock may cause death if not
treated promptly, even though the injuries which brought on shock might
not be serious enough to cause death. In fact, persons may go into shock
without having any physical injuries.

Here is how to treat any person who may be in shock:

1. Keep him lying down and keep him from chilling, but do _not_ apply a
hot water bottle or other heat to his body. Also, loosen his clothing.

2. Keep his head a little lower than his legs and hips. But if he has a
head or chest injury, or has difficulty in breathing, keep his head and
shoulders slightly higher than the rest of his body.

3. Encourage him to drink fluids if he is conscious and not nauseated,
and if he does not have abdominal injuries. Every 15 minutes give him a
half-glass of this solution until he no longer wants it: One teaspoonful
of salt and a half-teaspoonful of baking soda to one quart of water.

4. Do _not_ give him alcohol.


BROKEN BONES

Any break in a bone is called a fracture. If you think a person may have
a fracture, treat it as though it were one. Otherwise, you may cause
further injury. For example, if an arm or leg is injured and bleeding,
splint it as well as bandage it.

With any fracture, first look for bleeding and control it. Keep the
patient comfortably warm and quiet, preferably lying down. If you have
an ice bag, apply it to the fracture to ease the pain. Do not move the
patient (unless his life is in danger where he is) without first
applying a splint or otherwise immobilizing the bone that may be
fractured. Treat the patient for shock.

A FRACTURED ARM OR LEG should be straightened out as much as possible,
preferably by having 2 persons gently stretch it into a normal position.
Then it should be "splinted"--that is, fastened to a board or something
else to prevent motion and keep the ends of the broken bone together. As
a splint, use a board, a trimmed branch from a tree, a broomstick, an
umbrella, a roll of newspapers, or anything else rigid enough to keep
the arm or leg straight. Fasten the arm or leg to the splint with
bandages, strips of cloth, handkerchiefs, neckties, or belts. After
splinting, keep the injured arm or leg a little higher than the rest of
the patient's body. From time to time, make sure that the splint is not
too tight, since the arm or leg may swell, and the blood circulation
might be shut off. If the broken bone is sticking out through the skin
but the exposed part of it is  clean, allow it to slip back naturally
under the skin (but don't push it in) when the limb is being
straightened. However, if the exposed part of the bone is dirty, cover
it with a clean cloth and bandage the wound to stop the bleeding. Then
splint the arm or leg without trying to straighten it out, and try to
find a doctor or nurse to treat the patient.

