There were reasons why the invitation was a difficult one to
decline. Mrs. Virginia Witherspoon was the daughter of a Confederate
general whose name you read in every history-book; and she had a
famous old home in the country which was falling about her ears--her
husband being seldom sober enough to know what was happening. She
had also three blossoming daughters, whom she must manage to get out
of the home before the plastering of the drawing-room fell upon the
heads of their suitors; so that the ardour of her husband-hunting
was one of the jokes of the State. Naturally, under such
circumstances, the Witherspoons had to be treated with consideration
by the Castlemans. One might snub rich Yankees, and chasten the
suddenly-prosperous; but a family with an ancient house in ruins,
and with faded uniforms and battle-scarred sabres in the
cedar-chests in its attic--such a family can with difficulty
overdraw its social bank account. 

Dolly Witherspoon, the oldest daughter, had been Sylvia's rival for
the palm as the most beautiful girl in Castleman County. And Sylvia
had triumphed, and Dolly had failed. So, in her secret heart she
hated Sylvia, and the mother hated her; and yet--such was the social
game--they had to invite Sylvia and her sister to their
card-parties, and Sylvia and her sister had to go. They had to go
and be the most striking figures there: Celeste, slim and pale from
sorrow, virginal, in clinging white chiffon; and Sylvia, regal and
splendid, shimmering like a mermaid in a gown of emerald green. 

The mermaid imagined that she noticed a slight agitation underneath
the cordiality of her hostess. The next person to greet her was Mrs.
Armistead; and Sylvia was sure that she did not imagine the
suppressed excitement in that lady's manner. But even while she was
speculating and suspecting, she was led toward the drawing-room. It
was late, her hostess explained; the other guests were waiting, so
if they did not mind, the play would start at once. Celeste was to
sit at that table over there, with Mr. Witherspoon's crippled
brother, and old Mr. Perkins, who was deaf; and Sylvia was to come
this way--the table in the corner. Sylvia moved toward it, and Dolly
Witherspoon and her sister, Emma, greeted her cordially, and then
stepped out of the way to let her to her seat; and Sylvia gave one
glance--and found herself face to face with Frank Shirley! 

22. Frank's face was scarlet; and Sylvia had a moment of blind
terror, when she wanted to turn and fly. But there about her was the
circle of her enemies; a whole roomful of people, breathless with
curiosity, drinking in with eyes and ears every hint of distress
that she might give. And the next morning the whole town would, in
imagination, attend the scene! 

"Good-evening, Julia," said Sylvia, to Mrs. Witherspoon's youngest
daughter, the other lady at the table. "Good-evening, Malcolm"--to
Malcolm McCallum, an old "beau" of hers. And then, taking the seat
which Malcolm sprang to move out for her, "How do you do, Frank?" 

Frank's eyes had fallen to his lap. "How do you do?" he murmured.
The sound of his voice, low and trembling, full of pain, was like
the sound of some old funeral bell to Sylvia; it sent the blood
leaping in torrents to her forehead. Oh, horrible, horrible! 

For a moment her eyes fell like his, and she shuddered, and was
beaten. But there was the roomful of people, watching; there was
Mrs. Armistead, there were the Witherspoon women gloating. She
forced a tortured smile to her lips, and asked, "What are we
playing?" 

"Oh, didn't you know that?" said Julia. "Progressive whist." 

"Thank-you," said Sylvia. "When do we begin?" And she looked
about--anywhere but at Frank Shirley, with his face grown so old in
four years. 

No one said anything, no one made a move. Was everybody in the room
conspiring to break her down? "I thought we were late," she said,
desperately; and then, with another effort--"Shall I cut?" she
asked, of Julia. 

"If you please," said the girl; but she did not make a motion to
pass the cards. Her manner seemed to say, You may cut all night, but
it won't help you to rob me of this satisfaction. 

Sylvia made a still more determined effort. If the game was to be
postponed indefinitely, so that people might watch her and
Frank--well, she would have to find something to talk about. 

"It is a surprise to see you again, Frank Shirley!" she exclaimed. 

"Yes," he said. His voice was a mumble, and he did not lift his
eyes. 

"You have been in the West, I understand?" 

"Yes," again; but still he did not lift his eyes. 

Sylvia managed to lift hers as far as his cravat; and she saw in it
an old piece of imitation jewelry which she had picked up once on
the street, and had handed to him in jest. He had worn it all these
years! He had not thrown it away--not even when she had thrown him
away! 

Again came a surge of emotion; and out of the mist she looked about
her and saw the faces of tormenting demons, leering. "Well," she
demanded, "are we going to play?" 

"We were waiting for you to cut," said Julia, graciously; and
Sylvia's fury helped to restore her self-posession. She cut the
cards; and fate was kind, sparing both her and Frank the task of
dealing. 

But then a new difficulty arose. Julia dealt, and thirteen cards lay
in front of Frank Shirley; but he did not seem to know that he ought
to pick them up. And when the opposing lady called him to time, in
what seemed an unnecessarily penetrating voice, he found that he was
physically unable to get the cards from the table. And when with his
fumbling efforts he got them into a bunch, he could not straighten
them out--to say nothing of the labour of sorting them according to
suit, which all whist-players know to be an indispensable
preliminary to the game. When the opposing lady prodded him again,
Frank's face changed from vivid scarlet to a dark and alarming
purple. 

Miss Julia led the tray of clubs; and Frank, whose turn came next,
spilled three cards upon the table, and finally selected from them
the king of hearts to play--hearts being trumps. "But you have a
club there, Mr. Shirley," said his opponent; something that was
pardonable, inasmuch as the nine of clubs lay face up where he had
shoved it aside. 

"Oh--I beg pardon," he stammered, and took back his king, and
reached into his hand and pulled out the six of clubs, and a diamond
with it. 

It was evident that this could not go on. Sylvia might be equal to
the emergency, but Frank was not. He was too much of a human being
and too little of a social automaton. Something must be done. 

"Don't they play whist out West, Mr. Shirley," asked Julia, still
smiling benevolently. 

And Sylvia lowered her cards. "Surely, my dear, you must
understand," she said, gently. "Mr. Shirley is too much embarrassed
to think about cards." 

"Oh!" said the other, taken aback. (_L'audace, touljours l'audace!_
runs the formula!) 

"You see," continued Sylvia, "this is the first time that Frank has
seen me in more than three years. And when two people have been as
much in love as he and I were, they are naturally disturbed when
they meet, and cannot put their minds upon a game of cards." 

Julia was speechless. And Sylvia let her glance wander casually
about the room. She saw her hostess and her daughters standing
watching; and near the wall at the other side of the room stood the
head-devil, who had planned this torment. 

"Mrs. Armistead," Sylvia called, "aren't you going to play
to-night?" Of course everybody in the room heard this; and after it,
anyone could have heard a pin drop. 

"I'm to keep score," said Mrs. Armistead. 

"But it doesn't need four to keep score," objected Sylvia--and
looked at the three Witherspoon ladies. 

