   "This country would soon cure a man of his ambition, I think, and make
   him content with his lot.  The intense heat, and other stagnation
   except you have some disagreeable incident, would tame the most
   enthusiastic; a thin, miserable tent under which you sit, with the
   perspiration pouring off you.  A month of this life, and you would be
   dissatisfied with your lot."

Gordon had kept up some very interesting correspondence with an old
friend in China; an old officer in Gordon's "Ever victorious Army," Li
Hung Chang.  While Gordon is feeling unwell, and disposed to send his
resignation to the Khedive--he writes in his journal:--

   July 21st, 1879.

   "I shall (D.V.) leave for Cairo in ten days, and I hope to see you
   soon; but I may have to go to Johannis before I go to Cairo.  I am a
   wreck, like the portion of the 'Victory' towed into Gibraltar after
   Trafalgar; but God has enabled me, or rather has used me, to do what I
   wished to do--that is, break down the slave trade.  "Those that honour
   me I will honour."  May I be ground to dust, if He will glorify
   Himself in me; but give me a humble heart, for then he dwells there in
   comfort.  I wrote you a letter about my illness and tore it up.  The
   author appears to have confused the relative situations of the two
   rivers here mentioned. The smaller one should, we think, have been
   mentioned first. The larger one was plainly the St Francis, and the
   smaller one the Nicolette.

168. This would seem to be the _Baie la Vallure_, at the southwestern
extremity of Lake St. Peter.

   169. The
   author here refers to the islands at the western extremity of Lake
St.

   Peter, which are very numerous. On
   Charlevoix's Carte de la Rivière de Richelieu they are called
_Isles de Richelieu_.

   The more prominent are Monk Island, Isle de Grace, Bear Island. Isle St
   Ignace, and Isle du Pas. Champlain refers to these islands again
   in 1609, with perhaps a fuller description--_Vide_ Vol. II. p. 206.
   
   170. The Richelieu, flowing from Lake Champlain to the St. Lawrence.
   For description of this river, see Vol. II. p. 210, note 337. In 1535
   the Indians at Montreal pointed out this river as leading to Florida.--
   _Vide Brief Récit_, par Jacques Cartier, 1545, D'Avezac ed.
   

   171. The Hurons, Algonquins, and Montagnais were at war with the
   Iroquois, and the savages assembled here were composed of some or
   all of these tribes.
   
   172. The rapids in the river here were too strong for the French
   barque, or even the skiff, but were not difficult to pass with the
   Indian canoe, as was fully proved in 1609.--_Vide_ Vol. II. p. 207
   of this work.

   
   173.

   The course
   of the Richelieu
   is nearly from the south to the north.

174.

The rapids of Chambly.

175. Lake Champlain, discovered by him in 1609.--_Vide_ Vol. II. ch.
ix.

176. Lake George. Champlain either did not comprehend his Indian informants,
or they greatly exaggerated the comparative size of this lake.

177. The Hudson River--_Vide_ Vol. II. p. 218, note 347.

CHAPTER VIII.

ARRIVAL AT THE FALL.--DESCRIPTION OF THE SAME AND ITS REMARKABLE
CHARACTER.--REPORTS OF THE SAVAGES IN REGARD TO THE END OF THE GREAT
RIVER.

Setting out from the River of the Iroquois, we came to anchor three
leagues from there, on the northern shore. All this country is low, and
filled with the various kinds of trees which I have before mentioned.

On the first day of July we coasted along the northern shore, where
the woods are very open; more so than in any place we had before
seen. The soil is also everywhere favorable for cultivation.

I went in a canoe to the southern shore, where I saw a large number of
islands, [178] which abound in fruits, such as grapes, walnuts,
hazel-nuts, a kind of fruit resembling chestnuts, and cherries; also in
oaks, aspens, poplar, hops, ash, maple, beech, cypress, with but
few pines and firs.

There were, moreover, other fine-looking trees, with which I am not
acquainted.

   There are also a great many strawberries, raspberries, and currants,
   red, green, and blue, together with numerous small fruits which
   grow in thick grass. There are also many wild beasts, such as orignacs,
   stags, hinds, does, bucks, bears, porcupines, hares, foxes, bearers,
   otters, musk-rats, and some other kinds of animals with which I am not
   acquainted, which are good to eat, and on which the savages
   subsist. [179]
   We passed an island having a very pleasant appearance, some four leagues
   long and about half a league wide. [180] I saw on the southern shore two
   high mountains, which appeared to be some twenty leagues in the
   interior.
[181] The savages told me that this was the first fall of the River
of the Iroquois.
On Wednesday following, we set out from this place, and made some
five or six leagues. We saw numerous islands; the land on them was
low, and they were covered with trees like those of the River of
the Iroquois. On the following day we advanced some few leagues,
and passed by a great number of islands, beautiful on account of
the many meadows, which are likewise to be seen on the mainland as
well as on the islands. [182] The trees here are all very small in
comparison with those we had already passed.
We arrived finally, on the same day, having a fair wind, at the
entrance to the fall. We came to an island almost in the middle of
this entrance, which is a quarter of a league long. [183] We passed
to the south of it, where there were from three to five feet of
water only, with a fathom or two in some places, after which we
found suddenly only three or four feet. There are many rocks and
little islands without any wood at all, and on a level with the
water. From the lower extremity of the above-mentioned island in
the middle of the entrance, the water begins to come with great
force.
Although we had a very favorable wind, yet we could not, in spite
of all our efforts, advance much. Still, we passed this island at
the entrance of the fall.Gordon says, "I could not but like this poor
   simple-minded peasantry."

Again he writes:--

   "We are about a days march from the river Taczzi, which joins the Nile
   at Berber.  Nearing the Palace, if so I may call it, I was met by the
   King's body guard.  I was of course wearing the Crest and Field
   Marshal's uniform; the soldiers were sitting on their heels and never
   got up.  Passing through them I found my mule so tired that I got down
   and walked.  On arrival at the Palace, I was admitted to the King, who
   sat upon a raised dais, with the Itage, or Chief Priest on the ground
   at his left hand.  Then guns were fired, and the King said, "That is
   in your honour, and you can retire," which I did, to see him again
   shortly.  Again Gordon visited the Royal personage, and was granted
   permission to present his case, but Gordon considered himself unduly
   humbled as he was ordered to stand afar off; a stool at length was
   placed for him to sit upon.  This humble position Gordon would at
   other times have accepted and tolerated, but not here and now; he must
   show his dignity as the representative of a Foreign, powerful monarch;
   he seized the stool and carried it up to near where the King sat, and
   placed it by his side, saying, "Though in your hands I may be a
   prisoner, I am a man as much as you are, and can only meet you as an
   equal."    His sable Majesty was greatly annoyed at Gordon's audacious
   conduct, and remarking said, "Gordon Pasha don't you know I am the
   King, and could kill you if I wished."  "I am perfectly aware of
   that," said Gordon, "Do so at once if it is your Royal pleasure, I am
   ready."  "What," said the King, "Ready to be killed?"  "Certainly,"
   said Gordon, "I am always ready to die, and so far from fearing you
   putting me to death, you would confer a favour on me by so doing, for
   you would be doing for me that which I am precluded by my religious
   convictions from doing for myself.  You would relieve me from all the
   troubles the future may have in store for me."  "Then my power has no
   terror for you, Gordon!"  "None whatever," he replied.  So Gordon
   proved more than a match for this half-civilized Abyssinian King.  His
   visit, however, could not be considered successful as his Majesty was
   unreasonable in all his demands, and so put out of the power of Gordon
   to reach any settlement.  So he left the King without effecting what
   he came to do.  How to get away now was to him a source of anxiety.  As
   he surmised, they were not likely to allow him to carry back the
   valuables he had in his possession.  It required all his tact and wit
   and discretion in this perilous position.  He, however, at the cost of
   about 1,400 pounds in bribes and gifts, managed to get away.  Then he
   had to find his way back alone.  This was a severe ordeal.  Over
   mountains covered with snow, and through defiles of rocky places, now
   meeting with wild hordes of the dog-faced baboons, then with the
   uncivilized tribes of the human species none the less dangerous.  He,
   however, by the care of an ever watchful Providence, had escaped
   serious harm and reached Khartoum in safety."


CHAPTER VI.


   "There is no death, what seems so is transition.
   This life of mortal breath is but the suburb of the life Elysian,
         Whose portals we call Death."--LONGFELLOW.

Gordon had felt for some time uneasy in his position, as the under
officials looked upon him as a religious fanatic, and too strict to
govern; they tried to annoy him, and they succeeded: so he sent in his
resignation to the Khedive, and as soon as he could conveniently, he
turned his face homeward.

First of course he visited the Khedive, and he received from him a
princely welcome, being addressed by him in these words: "I am glad to
see you Gordon Pasha again amongst us, and have great pleasure in once
more personally acknowledging the loyalty with which you always served my
country, and my government.  I should very much like you to remain in my
service, but if you must retire from us, as you say you must, then I am
reluctantly compelled to accept your resignation.  I regret, my dear
Gordon, to lose so valued a counsellor and friend, and the hearty
co-operation of so useful a servant: and in parting from you, I desire to
express my sincere thanks to you; assuring you that my remembrance of you
and of your services to this country will never be forgotten."

Gordon was greatly in need of the rest he now seemed to have secured by
his resignation.  His over sensitive nature could not have borne up much
longer; a frame of iron must have gone under in such circumstances; for
on his own individual shoulders he carried each man's burden, causing him
days of anxiety and nights of unrest.  At Alexandria he was examined by
Dr. MacKie the surgeon to the British Consulate, who certified that he
was "suffering from symptoms of nervous exhaustion.  I have recommended
him (the Dr. adds) to retire for several months for complete rest, and
quiet--and that he may be able to enjoy fresh and wholesome food, as I
consider much of this illness is the result of continued bodily fatigue,
anxiety and indigestible food.  I have strongly insisted on his
abstaining from all exciting work--especially such as implies business or
political excitement."  Splendid advice, but would Gordon follow it?
Could his active life be suppressed even for so short a time?  None find
it harder to rest than those who need it most.  Gordon had often thought
of what pleasure in rest he would find when his retirement was an
accomplished fact.  He would lie in bed until dinner.  He would take
short walks after dinner.  He would undertake no long journeys, either
driving or by railway.  He would not be tempted to go to dinner parties.
He would really have a quiet time; it was, however, only for a short
period.

The private secretaryship to Lord Ripon was vacant, and it was offered to
Gordon; he accepted it, but on landing at Bombay he found the position
would not be to his liking.  He says of Lord Ripon, "we parted perfect
friends."  After Gordon left Egypt someone there wrote to our press
saying, "The name of Gordon whenever and wherever mentioned sends a
thrill of admiration and love throughout the vast Soudan territory.  For
a hand so strong, yet withal so beneficent, has never before ruled the
peoples of this unhappy country."  Gordon left the Soudan peaceful,
prosperous and happy, comparatively.  After his resignation of the
position of private secretary to Lord Ripon, he was invited to visit
China again by Mr. Hart, Chinese Commissioner of Customs at Pekin, who
said to Gordon, "I am directed to invite you here (that is to say China).
Please come and see for yourself.  This opportunity for doing really
useful work on a large scale ought not to be lost: work, position,
conditions can all be arranged with yourself here to your satisfaction.
Do take six months leave and come."  It was characteristic of Gordon that
he replied as follows:--"Inform Hart, Gordon will leave for Shanghai
first opportunity; as for the conditions, Gordon is indifferent."

The plate was then placed on the ground, in the midst of the company, and
all danced around it, singing at the same time. An address was then
made by one of the chiefs, setting forth the great importance of this
time-honored custom, particularly as a safeguard and protection
against their enemies.
Then, taking the plate, the speaker cast its contents into the boiling
cauldron at the base of the falls, the act being accompanied by a
loud shout from the assembled multitude. This fall, named the _Chaudière_,
or cauldron, by Champlain, formed in fact the limit above which the
Iroquois rarely if ever went in hostile pursuit of the Algonquins. The
region above was exceedingly difficult of approach, and from which it
was still more difficult, in case of an attack, to retreat. But the
Iroquois often lingered here in ambush, and fell upon the unsuspecting
inhabitants of the upper Ottawa as they came down the river. It was,
therefore, a place of great danger; and the Indians, enslaved by their
fears and superstitions, did not believe it possible to make a prosperous
journey, without observing, as they passed, the ceremonies above
described.

On reaching Montreal, three additional ships had arrived from France with
a license to carry on trade from the Prince de Condé, the viceroy, making
seven in all in port. The trade with the Indians for the furs
brought in the eighty canoes, which had come with Champlain to
Montreal, was soon despatched.They were taxed and levied so unjustly and
unmercifully that whole districts were reduced to absolute destitution.
The general rising of the natives against this dire oppression, threw
them into the arms of the Madhi.  He very soon had a most powerful
following, and he quickly mobilized an army that in 1882 was believed to
number not less than 200,000 fighting men.  In July of that year this
boastful usurper pushed his forces into conflict with the Egyptians, when
the latter were worsted with terrible loss.  About 6,000 of their bravest
men were either killed in battle or left wounded on the field and the
remainder were routed.  Shortly after another great battle followed.  This
also went in favour of the usurper, and a loss of 10,000 men inflicted.
One engagement followed another and all went to show that the Madhi had
won the sympathy and support of the masses of the people, and it appeared
likely he would soon have undisputed sway over the entire Soudan.  Still
another effort was to be made to hurl back this powerful and persistent
foe.  Hicks Pasha, "a brave leader," "a noble general," with an army of
10,000 men, with 6,000 camels, a large number of pack horses and mules,
was sent to arrest the advance of this desperate foe.  For some time no
news reached us, as he was shut out from all means of communication with
the outer world.  At length the appalling news came, not only of his
defeat, but of his utter destruction.  One man only was known to have
escaped to tell the tale.  He states, "We were led by a treacherous guide
into a mountain pass or defile, and there shut in by rocks; we were
confronted and surrounded by probably 100,000 of the enemy.  For three
days and nights the battle raged; the few British officers fought like
lions against these overwhelming odds, until, so completely cut up by
sword, bullet and spear, that he feared he was the only man who managed
to escape."  This large army was literally annihilated--1,200 officers
perished in this one battle.  The Madhi took 17,000 Remington rifles, 7
Krupp guns, 6 Nordenfelts, 29 brass mounted cannon, and a very large
amount of ammunition.  So that he appeared to be master of the situation.
"What next for the Soudan?" was being everywhere asked in Egypt and in
the Soudan.  "Oh that Gordon was here," was the cry of many of the poor
down-trodden Soudanese.  They believed him to be the only man who could
bring peace to their desolate and unhappy country.

Gordon was at that time taking a quiet rest near Jaffa, in the Holy Land,
and making investigations into places specially spoken of in the
Scriptures.  He thought he could locate the place where Samuel took Agag
and hewed him to pieces.  Also the well, called "Jacob's Well," and other
places of interest.  It is said at this juncture, things in the Soudan
had become hopeless.  A gentleman sent to one of the papers at Cairo the
following message: "Would to God that an angel would stand at the elbow
of Lord Granville in London, and say, And now send men to Joppa, and call
for one Gordon, and he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do."  Strange
to say, about this time, Gordon was sent for to London, where he had
interviews with Lord Hartington, Secretary of State for War, Lord
Granville, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lord Northbrook, First Lord of
the Admiralty, and Sir Charles Dilke, President of the Local Government
Board, at the War Office, and in a very short space of time, the
question, which was destined to have far reaching results, was settled,
and Gordon declared his willingness to go to Khartoum at the earliest
possible date.  Indeed he said, "At once," and to go alone.

Something like the following conversation is said to have taken place
between Gordon and one of his very intimate friends: "Well, General, have
you got your kit ready?"  His reply was, "I have got what I always have:
this hat is good enough, so are these clothes, my boots I think are
strong enough."  "And how are you off for cash?"  "Ah! I was nearly
forgetting that.  I had to borrow 25 pounds from the King of the Belgians
to bring me home from Palestine; this I must repay, and I shall of course
need a little more for common daily use."  The information thus obtained
is to be considered in connection with the natural features of the
country through which the expedition passed, with such allowance for
inexactness as the history, nature, and circumstances of the evidence
render necessary.

The map of 1632 is only at best an outline, drafted on a very small
scale, and without any exact measurements or actual surveys. It
pictures general features, and in connection with the journal may be
of great service.

Champlain's distances, as given in his journal, are estimates made under
circumstances in which accuracy was scarcely possible. He was
journeying along the border of lakes and over the face of the country,
in company with some hundreds of wild savages, hunting and fishing
by the way, marching in an irregular and desultory manner, and his
statements of distances are wisely accompanied by very wide margins,
and are of little service, taken alone, in fixing the site of an
Indian town.

But when natural features, not subject to change, are described,
we can easily comprehend the meaning of the text.

   The engraving of the fort may
   or may not have been sketched by Champlain
   on the spot: parts of it may have
   been and doubtless were supplied
   by memory, and it is decisive
   authority, not in its minor, but
   in its general features.
   
   With these observations, we are
   prepared to examine the evidence
   that points to the site of the
   Iroquois fort.
   
   When the expedition, emerging from
   Quinté Bay, arrived at the
   eastern end of Lake Ontario, at the
   point where the lake ends and the
   River St.
   Lawrence begins, they crossed over
   the lake, passing large and beautiful
   islands. Some of these islands
   will be found laid down on the
   map of 1632. They then proceeded, a
   distance, according to their estimation, of about fourteen leagues,
to the southern side of Lake Ontario, where they landed and concealed
their canoes.

The distance to the southern side of the lake is too indefinitely
stated, even if we knew at what precise point the measurement began,
to enable us to fix the exact place of the landing.

They marched along the sandy shore about four leagues, and then struck
inland. If we turn to the map of 1632, on which a line is drawn
to rudely represent their course, we shall see that on striking inland
they proceeded along the banks of a small river to which several
small lakes or ponds are tributary.

Little Salmon River being fed by numerous small ponds or lakes may
well be the stream figured by Champlain. The text says they
discovered an excellent country along the lake before they struck inland,
with fine forest-trees, especially the chestnut, with abundance of vines.
For several miles along Lake Ontario on the north-east of Little
Salmon River the country answers to this description.

--_Vide MS. Letters of the Rev. James Cross, D.D., LL.D._, and of S.
We trust that your Excellency will adopt the most effective
measures for the accomplishment of your mission in this respect, and
that, after completing the evacuation, you will take the necessary steps
for establishing an organized Government in the different provinces of
the Soudan, for the maintenance of order, and the cessation of disasters,
and incitement to revolt.  We have full confidence in your tried
abilities and tact, and are convinced that you will accomplish your
mission according to your desire."

This was hardly in harmony with a telegram from Lord Granville who said
that "_undertaking military expeditions was beyond the scope of the
Commission he held_, _and at variance with the pacific policy which was
the purpose of his mission to the Soudan_."  Between the Khedive's
instructions and commission to Gordon, and his holding commission as an
officer of the Crown, Gordon was in a very difficult position, and those
who have blamed Mr. Gladstone, for what they may have been pleased to
call "desertion of Gordon," should acquaint themselves with all the
circumstances of the case before doing so, and when all is known, such
blame will be withheld.

Gordon, without lingering in Cairo, hastened to cross the desert and get
to Khartoum as quickly as possible.  Thus our hero went forth with a
gallantry never surpassed, if ever equalled.  He rode his camel across
that land of storm and drought, trusting only in Him, who had so often
"covered his defenceless head, beneath the shadow of His wing."


CHAPTER VII.


   "Not all who seem to fail have failed indeed,
   Not all who fail have therefore worked in vain;
   There is no failure for the good and wise;
   What though the seed should fall by the way-side,
   And the birds snatch it; yet the birds are fed,
   Or they may bear it far across the tide
   To give rich harvests after thou art dead."

   KINGSLEY.

Sir E. Baring wired to Lord Granville, "The interview between Gordon and
the Khedive was very satisfactory."  Again--"Gordon leaves Cairo in good
spirits."

His arrival at Khartoum, it is stated, was marked by wonderful
demonstrations of welcome by the people; thousands of them pressing
towards him to kiss his feet: calling him the "Sultan of the Soudan."  His
first speech was received with the wildest enthusiasm.  He said, "I come
not with soldiers but with God on my side, to redress the wrongs of the
Soudan."  The day after he held a levee at the palace, when vast
multitudes thronged around him, kissing the ground on which he walked,
calling him "Father," "Sultan," "Saviour."  He appreciated highly their
apparent loyalty and devotion, and he had offices opened at once where
everyone who had a grievance might bring it, have it heard and judged.

Those friendly to Champlain were quite ready to act as pioneers in his
explorations and discoveries, but they expected and demanded in return
that he should give them active personal assistance in their wars.
Influenced, doubtless, by policy, the spirit of the age, and his early
education in the civil conflicts of France, Champlain did not
hesitate to enter into an alliance and an exchange of services on these
terms.

In the preceding year, two journeys into distant regions had been
planned for exploration and discovery.Many of them were there simply on suspicion, and had never had a hearing.
The cases were quickly and carefully enquired into, and before sunset
that day, most of the unhappy wretches had their chains struck off and
their freedom given them.

Antoine_, [8]
N. Kind of salt water discharging into the sea, with ebb and flood,
abundance of fish and shell-fish, and in some places oysters of not very
good flavor. [9]
P. _Port aux Coquilles_, an island at the mouth of the River St.The Madhi was not to be cheated of
what he thought his rightful authority and dominion.  The following
letter recorded in Gordon's journal was received by him from the Madhi:--

   "In the name of God the merciful and compassionate;
   Praise be to God, the bountiful ruler, and blessing
   on our Lord Mahomet and peace.  From the servant who
   trusts in God--Mahomet, the son of Abdallah.

