It is the pestiferous purple which renders the progress of
civilization a curse, and warps the understanding, till men of
sensibility doubt whether the expansion of intellect produces a
greater portion of happiness or misery.  But the nature of the
poison points out the antidote; and had Rousseau mounted one step
higher in his investigation; or could his eye have pierced through
the foggy atmosphere, which he almost disdained to breathe, his
active mind would have darted forward to contemplate the perfection
of man in the establishment of true civilization, instead of taking
his ferocious flight back to the night of sensual ignorance.


CHAPTER 2.

THE PREVAILING OPINION OF A SEXUAL CHARACTER DISCUSSED.

To account for, and excuse the tyranny of man, many ingenious
arguments have been brought forward to prove, that the two sexes,
in the acquirement of virtue, ought to aim at attaining a very
different character:  or, to speak explicitly, women are not
allowed to have sufficient strength of mind to acquire what really
deserves the name of virtue.  Yet it should seem, allowing them to
have souls, that there is but one way appointed by providence to
lead MANKIND to either virtue or happiness.

If then women are not a swarm of ephemeron triflers, why should
they be kept in ignorance under the specious name of innocence?
the world is full of Bogies. _I_'m the biggest of them all In the
minds of many croakers who ne'er saw the Chinese Wall, But are
frightened at the spreading of my kindred--on the map; For I'm
semi-Asiatic, and half Tartar, dear old chap.

Now put this and that together, think of Pamir, Turkestan, Of
Persia, of the Dardanelles!--I think you'll see, old man, That
though this ramping Dragon _you_ may wish to tie and tame, A Benevolent
Neutrality is rather more _my_ game.

* * * * *
A PLAYGOER'S "LAST WORD."

(_AN ECHO FROM THE PIT._)
The Season is--_has_ been for some time--silly, And lengthy correspondences
are rife.
We have, alas! to read them willy-nilly; They take a deal of pleasure
out of life.
To flee such evils here's an easy way-- Let morning dailies idly
rant or vapour, At the Lyceum go and see the play, The programme
there's the finest DALY paper.[2]
[Footnote 2: A Correspondent, signing himself "A Knight of the Free
Lists," suggests that free admissions to the Lyceum should be known,
during the American Company's season, as "The Best Daly 'Paper

.'"]
* * * * *
MOTTO FOR A DEPRESSED TEETOTALLER.--"Whine and Water."
* * * * *
[Illustration: FAMILY TIES.

JOHN BULL. "AIN'T YOU GOING TO LEND A HAND?"
RUSSIA. "WELL, I DON'T KNOW;--YOU SEE HE'S A SORT OF RELATION
OF MINE!!"]
* * * * *
TIPPLING SALLY.

_A SONG OF SORROW ON ZOO SUNDAY._
[SALLY, the Chimpanzee (late of the Zoo), is stated to have
"drunk beer daily."]

Of all the monkeys at the Zoo There's none like Tippling SALLY.

She was the first who quenched her thirst Quite al-co-hol-i-cally.

A draught of beer made her not queer, But seemed her strength
to rally.
MORTIMER GRANVILLE well might cheer Three cheers for Tippling
SALLY.

Of all the days within the week I chiefly favoured one day, That
was the day when children seek The rapture called "Zoo Sunday." For
then full drest all in my best I'd go and visit SALLY, And see her
soothe her hairy breast So al-co-hol-i-cally!

But now no more poor SALLY's tricks With glee
fill girl or boy full; No mug of beer
her soul can cheer, Nor glass of
O-be-joyful!
We yet may see some Chimpanzee With Drink's temptations dally, To
WILFRID's woe; but no, ah!

no!
It won't be Tippling SALLY!

* * * * *

AN ESSAY IN REVIEWING.

We are obliged to "Beginner" for the proffered
contribution to our collection of Book
Reviews. That is, however,
a department of the paper our noble
friend the BARON DE BOOK-WORMS reserves
for his own pen. But as _Mr. Punch_
has never been known to discourage
beginners, he finds room here for the interesting
contribution, which perhaps should
more appropriately have been
addressed to his _confrère_ at the office of the _Athenæum_:--
[Illustration] 
_Don Quixote_.

By MIGUEL CERVANTES. We have conscientiously plodded through
this voluminous work, which is certainly not entirely without
merit. It purports to recount the daily doings of a resident
in a village of La Mancha (Spain) who, accompanied by a clownish
retainer, went forth in search of adventures.

He was not very happy, his day's sport being invariably rounded oft
by a sound drubbing, received either by himself, his Squire,
or both. We wish Lord MACAULAY had lived to see the publication of
this work, and had with fuller leisure relieved us of the task of
reviewing it. Remembering his method of procedure as illustrated
in his article on Dr.

NARE's _Memoirs of Lord Burleigh_, he would doubtless by careful
enumeration have been able to show that from first to last _Don
Quixote_ had more ribs broken than any man has actually possessed
since ADAM was privy to a diminution of their original number.
He seems also to have had a perpetual renewal of teeth, keeping
pace with their frequent removal by brute force. As for the number
of legs and arms he had fractured, MACAULAY's Schoolboy would have
shrunk from the task of computing their aggregate.

These are blemishes upon a work that is, at least, well intentioned,
and which might have been more successful had our author been
inclined to give his hero credit for more acumen. When he represents
_Don Quixote_ as running tilt at windmills under the impression
that they are armed knights, and when he pictures him charging a
flock of sheep in the belief that it is an ordered army, we think
he too grossly trifles with the assumed credulity of his readers.

Exaggeration is, indeed, the bane of a work that, from first page to
last, bears evidence of the drawback of extreme youth on the part
of the author.
We have been pleased to notice some indications of humour in
the conversation of _Sancho Panza_. But it is the pennyworth of
sack to an intolerably large quantity of bread. What we have
written has been without desire to discourage Mr. CERVANTES, whom
we shall be glad to meet with again, bringing with him the
fruits of unremitted practice and of maturer views of life.

* * * * *
TO ARAMINTA.

(_AFTER HEARING MR. SAMSON'S LECTURE._)
["To keep the family true, refined, affectionate, faithful, is the
woman's task--a task that needs the entire energies and life of
woman; and to mix up this sacred duty with the grosser occupation
of politics and trade, is to unfit her for it as much as if a
priest were to embark in the business of money-lender."--FREDERIC
HARRISON.]
[Illustration]
I Prithee, ARAMINTA, hear What FREDERIC HARRISON has said:
Don't read for College honours, dear, And put a towel round
your head.
Don't sully what should surely be An unstained soul, with tricks of
trade; Leave stern official work to me, While you remain a simple
maid.

Don't prate of woman's function, sweet, Your only duty is
to charm; Leave platform spouting, as is meet, To men; it cannot
do them harm.
Your influence comes from gracious ways, Your glory in the home doth
lie; The guardian angel of our days, Until you bless us when we
die.

Don't enter on ignoble strife With man, 'tis yours to soar above--
To all the higher things of life, Divine compassion, and pure love.

'Tis yours to stimulate, refine, To win men by a kindly heart; Not
grovel with us where the sign Of Mammon hangs above the mart.

Thine is the task to reign supreme Within the sacred sphere of home;
To make our life one happy dream, Thine own as spotless as the
foam.
To trade, to toil, to head the feast, To seek the politician's gain,
Were hateful:--ay, as though the priest Took usury, within the
fane!

* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

[Illustration]

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS owns to being easily affected by a pathetic
episode. He well remembers how years ago in the course of a
discussion among literary men about books and their writers, the
Baron acknowledged that in spite of his having been told how the
pathos of DICKENS was all a trick, and how the sentiment of that
great novelist was for the most part false, he still felt
a choking sensation in his throat and a natural inclination to
blow his nose strenuously whenever he re-read the death of _Little
Paul_, the death of _Dora_, and some passages about _Tiny Tim_.

There was no dissentient voice as to the death of _Colonel Newcome_;
all admitted the recurrence of that peculiar choking sensation,
read they their THACKERAY never so often.
Now the Baron differs from _Josh Sedley_ in, as he thinks, many
respects, but he is almost as "easily moved to tears" as was
that stout hero. Wherefore this preface? Well, 'tis because the
Baron owns to having "snivelled," if you will, when reading a
delightful story, published by MACMILLAN in one volume ("bless
all good stories in _one_ vol., clearly printed!" says the
Baron, parenthetically), entitled simply, _Tim_. No relation to
_Tiny Tim_ already mentioned; quite another child. The Baron
strongly recommends _this_ story, and especially to Etonians past
and present, as giving a life-like picture which the latter will
recognise, of the career at that great public school of a
fragile little chap entirely unfitted by nature for the rough and
tumble of such a life. The considerate tutor, too, is no effort
of imagination; he exists; and, perhaps, such an one may have
always existed since the division between Collegers and Oppidans
first began. The Baron in his own time, nigh forty years ago,
knew an exceptional species of this rare genus; but there are
plenty of witnesses to the truth of the Etonian portion of _Tim_.
"_Tolle, lege_!" quoth the Baron, and be not ashamed if in reading
the latter portion of the story you have to search for your
pocket-handkerchief, and, glancing furtively around, murmur
to yourself, "But soft! I am observed!"

Then when unobserved, "_wipe_ the other eye!" and thank the
unknown author of _Tim_; at the same time not forgetting your guide,
philosopher, and friend,
THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

* * * * *
[Illustration: DESIGN FOR THE POSTER FOR THE NEXT GERMAN EXHIBITION
IN LONDON.]
* * * * *
A FALLEN LEADER.

CHARLES STEWART PARNELL.

BORN, JUNE 27TH, 1846. DIED, OCTOBER 6TH, 1891.

"The falcon-crest and plumage gone, Can that be haughty MARMION?"

_Sir Walter Scott_.

Fallen!

And not as leaders love to fall, In battle's forefront, loved and
mourned by all; But fiercely fighting, as for his own hand,
With the scant remnant of a broken band; His chieftainship,
well-earned in many a fray, Rent from him--by himself!
None did betray This sinister strong fighter to his foes; He fell
by his own action, as he rose.
He had fought all--himself he could not fight, Nor rise to the
clear air of patient right.
Somewhere his strenuous soul unsoundly rang, When closely tested.
Let the laurels hang About his tomb, for, with whatever fault, He
led with valour cool a fierce assault Upon a frowning fortress,
densely manned With strong outnumbering enemies. He planned
Far-seen campaigns apparently forlorn; He fronted headlong hate
and scourging scorn, Impassively persistent.

But the task Of coldly keeping up the Stoic mask O'ertaxed him at the
last; it fell, and lo!
Another face was bared to friend and foe.
Scarce to his foes will generous judgment lean-- Foes mean as merciless,
and false as mean, Their poisoned pens, which even softening Death,
Which hate should hush and stifle slander's breath, May not deprive
of venom, prodding still The unresponsive corse they helped to kill,
Is an ignoble sight. Turn, turn away!
Mean hates pursue the MARMION of our day, A nobler foe, like DOUGLAS,
well may rue His fall, and sigh, "'Tis pity of him, too!"

* * * * *
MOTTO FOR THE MOMENT.

(_BY A MILITANT RADICAL CANDIDATE._)
Ah! I must trounce the Tory foe, And love my Toiling neighbour.
The cry with which to fight I go Is "Labour and _Be_labour!"
* * * * *
[Illustration: "WHEN A MAN DOES NOT LOOK HIS BEST."--NO. 2.

WHEN THE ROAD-CAR STOPS SUDDENLY JUST AS HE IS CAUTIOUSLY
DESCENDING THE STAIRCASE!]
* * * * *
THE G.P. AND THE G.P.O.

(_A DIALOGUE STRICTLY ACCORDING TO PRECEDENT._)
_General Public_.

I am sorry to say the condition of the Postal Service is really
extremely defective. The delay in the delivery of letters is most
annoying. Frequently a note which should be received in
the evening is not obtained until the following morning--proof of
this being given by the post-marks.

[Illustration]
_General Post Office_. Your complaint shall receive
consideration.

_G.P._ You are most kind. Next, a telegram despatched from one
part of London to another part, sometimes takes eight hours, and
the reason given is that the counter-clerk has a discretionary
power to retain telegrams until he has what he considers a sufficient
supply for the messenger to take out for delivery. This naturally
causes much delay and consequent inconvenience.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ You are too good. Next, the carelessness at Branch Offices
is extremely irritating. For instance, it is often the case
that the words of telegrams have been altered and changed during
transmission.
It is unnecessary to point out that such mistakes are liable to
create annoyance, not to say disaster.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ Very many thanks. Then, at offices where females are engaged,
rudeness is very common.

Would-be purchasers of postage-stamps are frequently kept waiting
while the clerks chatter to one another about matters entirely
unconnected with the Department.

And this habit is gaining ground in those offices in which male
labour is only employed, especially in the immediate neighbourhood
of St. Martin's-le-Grand itself. It is useless to call attention
to this practice, as a simple denial from an official implicated
is accepted by the authorities as proof (almost) positive of his
or her innocence.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ Again, thanks for your courtesy. But about these and many
other grievances, the same stereotyped answer has invariably been
received.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ Exactly! That is the very answer. And it is felt that no other
outcome will result from agitation. It seems utterly impossible
to make the officials in charge realise their responsibility to
the taxpayers.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

_G.P._ Of course; the same parrot-cry! And it may be for years,
and it be for ever, before reform is introduced. The probability
is, that the present unsatisfactory condition of affairs may exist
at St.
Martin's-le-Grand until the hour of doom.

_G.P.O._ Your complaint shall receive consideration.

* * * * *
REFLECTION BY A GENERAL READER.

I have been reading books wherein 'tis shown (In diction autocratic,
sour, un-civil), That nothing can be absolutely known, Save that
the Universe is wholly evil!
And even this poor result is only plain To Genius--which, of
course, is quite a rarity.
_I_ should have thought this would have given it pain, And
moved it to both modesty and charity; But what surprises _me_
(--ZOILUS, to mock sure, Will whip me with sham-epigrams would-be
witty,--) Is that Agnostics seem so awfully pure, And Pessimists
so destitute of pity.

* * * * *
ANNALS OF A WATERING-PLACE
THAT HAS "SEEN ITS DAY."
[Illustration]
The weather which, in Mr. DUNSTABLE's varied experience of
five-and-twenty years, he assures me, has never been so bad, having
at length afforded some indications of "breaking" I make the
acquaintance, through Mrs. COBBLER, of Mr. WISTERWHISTLE, the
Proprietor of the one Bath-chair available for the invalid of
Torsington-on-Sea, who, like myself, stands in need of the salubrious
air of that health-giving resort, but who is ordered by his medical
adviser to secure it with the least possible expenditure of physical
strength.

[Illustration: A Mess Dinner.]
Both Mr. WISTERWHISTLE and his chair are peculiar in their respective
ways, and each has a decided history. Mr. WISTERWHISTLE, growing
confidential over his antecedents, says, "You see, Sir, I wasn't
brought up to the Bath-chair business, so to speak, for I began in
the Royal Navy, under His Majesty King WILLIAM THE FOURTH. Then I
took to the Coast-Guard business, and having put by a matter of
thirty pound odd, and hearing 'she' was in the market,"--Mr.
WISTERWHISTLE always referred to his Bath-chair as "she," evidently
regarding it from the nautical stand-point as of the feminine
gender,--"and knowing, saving your presence, Sir, that old BLOXER,
of whom I bought her, had such a good crop of cripples the last
season or two, that he often touched two-and-forty shillings a-week
with 'em, I dropped Her Majesty's Service, and took to this 'ere.
But, Lor, Sir, the business ain't wot it wos. Things is changed
woeful at Torsington since I took her up.
Then from 9 o'clock, as you might say, to 6 P.M., every hour was
took up; and, mind you, by real downright 'aristocracy,'--real live
noble-men, with gout on 'em, as thought nothink of a two hours'
stretch, and didn't 'aggle, savin' your presence, over a extra
sixpence for the job either way. But, bless you, wot's it come to
now?
Why, she might as well lay up in a dry dock arf the week, for wot's
come of the downright genuine invalid, savin' your presence, blow'd
if I knows. One can see, of course, Sir, in arf a jiffy, as you is
touched in the legs with the rheumatics, or summat like it; but
besides you and a old gent on crutches from Portland Buildings,
there ain't no real invalid public 'ere at all, and one can't expect
to make a livin' out of you two; for if you mean to do the thing
ever so 'ansome, it ain't reasonable to expect you and the old gent
I was a referring to, to stand seven hours a day goin' up and down
the Esplanade between you, and you see even that at a bob an hour
ain't no great shakes when you come to pay for 'ousing her and
keepin' her lookin' spic and span, with all her brass knobs a shining
and her leather apron fresh polished with patent carriage blackin':
and Lor, Sir, you'd not b'lieve me if I was to tell you what a deal
of show some parties expects for their one bob an hour. Why, it was
only the other day that Lady GLUMPLEY (a old party with a front of
black curls and yaller bows in her bonnet, as I dare say you've
noticed me a haulin' up and down the Parade when the band's a
playin'), says to me, says she, 'It ain't so much the easy goin'
of your chair, Mr.
WISTERWHISTLE, as makes me patronise it, as its general genteel
appearance. For there's many a chair at Brighton that can't hold a
candle to it!'" But at this point he was interrupted by the appearance
of a dense crowd that half filled the street, and drew up in silent
expectation opposite my front door. Dear me, I had quite forgotten
I had sent for him. But the boy who cleans the boots and knives has
returned, and brought with him _the One Policeman_!

* * * * *
THE BOY THE FATHER OF THE MAN.
(_A CHAPTER FROM A SEA STORY OF THE FUTURE._)
"Lash the lubber to the top-gallant yard and give him five hundred
with the cat o' ninetails!" shouted the pirate Captain, blue with
passion.
There was a murmur amongst his crew. Because their messmate had
forgotten to touch his cap, it seemed hard to their poor untutored
minds he should receive so heavy a punishment.
"What, mutiny!" cried the ruffian skipper, "here take this and this
and this!" and he distributed the contents of his revolver amongst
the sailors aft.
In the meanwhile, the poor wretch was hanging to the topgallant
yard, expecting every moment to be his last.
"A sail, Sir," said the boatswain, saluting, as he mounted to the
quarter-deck.
"Get ready the torpedoes, and serve out per man a hundredweight of
smokeless powder cartridges. We shall have rough work." Then he
added, "By the way, what is the time?"
"About half-past two, Sir," returned the other, and then, as his
Captain made an unsuccessful grab, he muttered, "No you don't!"I must, therefore, if I
reason consequentially, as strenuously maintain, that they have the
same simple direction, as that there is a God.

It follows then, that cunning should not be opposed to wisdom,
little cares to great exertions, nor insipid softness, varnished
over with the name of gentleness, to that fortitude which grand
views alone can inspire.

I shall be told, that woman would then lose many of her peculiar
graces, and the opinion of a well known poet might be quoted to
refute my unqualified assertions.  For Pope has said, in the name
of the whole male sex,

"Yet ne'er so sure our passions to create,
As when she touch'd the brink of all we hate."

In what light this sally places men and women, I shall leave to the
judicious to determine; meanwhile I shall content myself with
observing, that I cannot discover why, unless they are mortal,
females should always be degraded by being made subservient to love
or lust.

To speak disrespectfully of love is, I know, high treason against
sentiment and fine feelings; but I wish to speak the simple
language of truth, and rather to address the head than the heart.
To endeavour to reason love out of the world, would be to out
Quixote Cervantes, and equally offend against common sense; but an
endeavour to restrain this tumultuous passion, and to prove that it
should not be allowed to dethrone superior powers, or to usurp the
sceptre which the understanding should ever coolly wield, appears
less wild.

Youth is the season for love in both sexes; but in those days of
thoughtless enjoyment, provision should be made for the more
important years of life, when reflection takes place of sensation.
But Rousseau, and most of the male writers who have followed his
steps, have warmly inculcated that the whole tendency of female
education ought to be directed to one point to render them
pleasing.

Let me reason with the supporters of this opinion, who have any
knowledge of human nature, do they imagine that marriage can
eradicate the habitude of life?  The woman who has only been taught
to please, will soon find that her charms are oblique sun-beams,
and that they cannot have much effect on her husband's heart when
they are seen every day, when the summer is past and gone.  Will
she then have sufficient native energy to look into herself for
comfort, and cultivate her dormant faculties? or, is it not more
rational to expect, that she will try to please other men; and, in
the emotions raised by the expectation of new conquests, endeavour
to forget the mortification her love or pride has received?  When
the husband ceases to be a lover--and the time will inevitably
come, her desire of pleasing will then grow languid, or become a
spring of bitterness; and love, perhaps, the most evanescent of all
passions, gives place to jealousy or vanity.

I now speak of women who are restrained by principle or prejudice;
such women though they would shrink from an intrigue with real
abhorrence, yet, nevertheless, wish to be convinced by the homage
of gallantry, that they are cruelly neglected by their husbands;
or, days and weeks are spent in dreaming of the happiness enjoyed
by congenial souls, till the health is undermined and the spirits
broken by discontent.  How then can the great art of pleasing be
such a necessary study? it is only useful to a mistress; the chaste
wife, and serious mother, should only consider her power to please
as the polish of her virtues, and the affection of her husband as
one of the comforts that render her task less difficult, and her
life happier.  But, whether she be loved or neglected, her first
wish should be to make herself respectable, and not rely for all
her happiness on a being subject to like infirmities with herself.

The amiable Dr. Gregory fell into a similar error.  I respect his
heart; but entirely disapprove of his celebrated Legacy to his
Daughters.

He advises them to cultivate a fondness for dress, because a
fondness for dress, he asserts, is natural to them.  I am unable to
comprehend what either he or Rousseau mean, when they frequently
use this indefinite term.  If they told us, that in a pre-existent
state the soul was fond of dress, and brought this inclination with
it into a new body, I should listen to them with a half smile, as I
often do when I hear a rant about innate elegance.  But if he only
meant to say that the exercise of the faculties will produce this
fondness, I deny it.  It is not natural; but arises, like false
ambition in men, from a love of power.

Dr. Gregory goes much further; he actually recommends
dissimulation, and advises an innocent girl to give the lie to her
feelings, and not dance with spirit, when gaiety of heart would
make her feet eloquent, without making her gestures immodest.  In
the name of truth and common sense, why should not one woman
acknowledge that she can take more exercise than another? or, in
other words, that she has a sound constitution; and why to damp
innocent vivacity, is she darkly to be told, that men will draw
conclusions which she little thinks of?  Let the libertine draw
what inference he pleases; but, I hope, that no sensible mother
will restrain the natural frankness of youth, by instilling such
indecent cautions.  Out of the abundance of the heart the mouth
speaketh; and a wiser than Solomon hath said, that the heart should
be made clean, and not trivial ceremonies observed, which it is not
very difficult to fulfill with scrupulous exactness when vice
reigns in the heart.

Women ought to endeavour to purify their hearts; but can they do so
when their uncultivated understandings make them entirely dependent
on their senses for employment and amusement, when no noble pursuit
sets them above the little vanities of the day, or enables them to
curb the wild emotions that agitate a reed over which every passing
breeze has power?  To gain the affections of a virtuous man, is
affectation necessary?

Nature has given woman a weaker frame than man; but, to ensure her
husband's affections, must a wife, who, by the exercise of her mind
and body, whilst she was discharging the duties of a daughter,
wife, and mother, has allowed her constitution to retain its
natural strength, and her nerves a healthy tone, is she, I say, to
condescend, to use art, and feign a sickly delicacy, in order to
secure her husband's affection? Weakness may excite tenderness, and
gratify the arrogant pride of man; but the lordly caresses of a
protector will not gratify a noble mind that pants for and deserves
to be respected.  Fondness is a poor substitute for friendship!

In a seraglio, I grant, that all these arts are necessary; the
epicure must have his palate tickled, or he will sink into apathy;
but have women so little ambition as to be satisfied with such a
condition?  Can they supinely dream life away in the lap of
pleasure, or in the languor of weariness, rather than assert their
claim to pursue reasonable pleasures, and render themselves
conspicuous, by practising the virtues which dignify mankind?
Surely she has not an immortal soul who can loiter life away,
merely employed to adorn her person, that she may amuse the languid
hours, and soften the cares of a fellow-creature who is willing to
be enlivened by her smiles and tricks, when the serious business of
life is over.

Besides, the woman who strengthens her body and exercises her mind
will, by managing her family and practising various virtues, become
the friend, and not the humble dependent of her husband; and if she
deserves his regard by possessing such substantial qualities, she
will not find it necessary to conceal her affection, nor to pretend
to an unnatural coldness of constitution to excite her husband's
passions.  In fact, if we revert to history, we shall find that the
women who have distinguished themselves have neither been the most
beautiful nor the most gentle of their sex.

Nature, or to speak with strict propriety God, has made all things
right; but man has sought him out many inventions to mar the work.
I now allude to that part of Dr. Gregory's treatise, where he
advises a wife never to let her husband know the extent of her
sensibility or affection.  Voluptuous precaution; and as
ineffectual as absurd.  Love, from its very nature, must be
transitory.  To seek for a secret that would render it constant,
would be as wild a search as for the philosopher's stone, or the
grand panacea; and the discovery would be equally useless, or
rather pernicious to mankind.  The most holy band of society is
friendship.  It has been well said, by a shrewd satirist, "that
rare as true love is, true friendship is still rarer."

This is an obvious truth, and the cause not lying deep, will not
elude a slight glance of inquiry.

Love, the common passion, in which chance and sensation take place
of choice and reason, is in some degree, felt by the mass of
mankind; for it is not necessary to speak, at present, of the
emotions that rise above or sink below love.  This passion,
naturally increased by suspense and difficulties, draws the mind
out of its accustomed state, and exalts the affections; but the
security of marriage, allowing the fever of love to subside, a
healthy temperature is thought insipid, only by those who have not
sufficient intellect to substitute the calm tenderness of
friendship, the confidence of respect, instead of blind admiration,
and the sensual emotions of fondness.

This is, must be, the course of nature--friendship or indifference
inevitably succeeds love.  And this constitution seems perfectly to
harmonize with the system of government which prevails in the moral
world.  Passions are spurs to action, and open the mind; but they
sink into mere appetites, become a personal momentary
gratification, when the object is gained, and the satisfied mind
rests in enjoyment.  The man who had some virtue whilst he was
struggling for a crown, often becomes a voluptuous tyrant when it
graces his brow; and, when the lover is not lost in the husband,
the dotard a prey to childish caprices, and fond jealousies,
neglects the serious duties of life, and the caresses which should
excite confidence in his children are lavished on the overgrown
child, his wife.

In order to fulfil the duties of life, and to be able to pursue
with vigour the various employments which form the moral character,
a master and mistress of a family ought not to continue to love
each other with passion.  I mean to say, that they ought not to
indulge those emotions which disturb the order of society, and
engross the thoughts that should be otherwise employed.  The mind
that has never been engrossed by one object wants vigour--if it can
long be so, it is weak.

A mistaken education, a narrow, uncultivated mind, and many sexual
prejudices, tend to make women more constant than men; but, for the
present, I shall not touch on this branch of the subject.  I will
go still further, and advance, without dreaming of a paradox, that
an unhappy marriage is often very advantageous to a family, and
that the neglected wife is, in general, the best mother.  And this
would almost always be the consequence, if the female mind was more
enlarged; for, it seems to be the common dispensation of
Providence, that what we gain in present enjoyment should be
deducted from the treasure of life, experience; and that when we
are gathering the flowers of the day and revelling in pleasure, the
solid fruit of toil and wisdom should not be caught at the same
time.  The way lies before us, we must turn to the right or left;
and he who will pass life away in bounding from one pleasure to
another, must not complain if he neither acquires wisdom nor
respectability of character.

Supposing for a moment, that the soul is not immortal, and that man
was only created for the present scene; I think we should have
reason to complain that love, infantine fondness, ever grew insipid
and palled upon the sense.  Let us eat, drink, and love, for
to-morrow we die, would be in fact the language of reason, the
morality of life; and who but a fool would part with a reality for
a fleeting shadow?  But, if awed by observing the improvable powers
of the mind, we disdain to confine our wishes or thoughts to such a
comparatively mean field of action; that only appears grand and
important as it is connected with a boundless prospect and sublime
hopes; what necessity is there for falsehood in conduct, and why
must the sacred majesty of truth be violated to detain a deceitful
good that saps the very foundation of virtue?  Why must the female
mind be tainted by coquetish arts to gratify the sensualist, and
prevent love from subsiding into friendship or compassionate
tenderness, when there are not qualities on which friendship can be
built?  Let the honest heart show itself, and REASON teach passion
to submit to necessity; or, let the dignified pursuit of virtue and
knowledge raise the mind above those emotions which rather imbitter
than sweeten the cup of life, when they are not restrained within
due bounds.

I do not mean to allude to the romantic passion, which is the
concomitant of genius.  Who can clip its wings?  But that grand
passion not proportioned to the puny enjoyments of life, is only
true to the sentiment, and feeds on itself.  The passions which
have been celebrated for their durability have always been
unfortunate.  They have acquired strength by absence and
constitutional melancholy.  The fancy has hovered round a form of
beauty dimly seen--but familiarity might have turned admiration
into disgust; or, at least, into indifference, and allowed the
imagination leisure to start fresh game.  With perfect propriety,
according to this view of things, does Rousseau make the mistress
of his soul, Eloisa, love St. Preux, when life was fading before
her; but this is no proof of the immortality of the passion.

Of the same complexion is Dr. Gregory's advice respecting delicacy
of sentiment, which he advises a woman not to acquire, if she has
determined to marry.  This determination, however, perfectly
consistent with his former advice, he calls INDELICATE, and
earnestly persuades his daughters to conceal it, though it may
govern their conduct:  as if it were indelicate to have the common
appetites of human nature.

Noble morality! and consistent with the cautious prudence of a
little soul that cannot extend its views beyond the present minute
division of existence.  If all the faculties of woman's mind are
only to be cultivated as they respect her dependence on man; if,
when she obtains a husband she has arrived at her goal, and meanly
proud, is satisfied with such a paltry crown, let her grovel
contentedly, scarcely raised by her employments above the animal
kingdom; but, if she is struggling for the prize of her high
calling, let her cultivate her understanding without stopping to
consider what character the husband may have whom she is destined
to marry.  Let her only determine, without being too anxious about
present happiness, to acquire the qualities that ennoble a rational
being, and a rough, inelegant husband may shock her taste without
destroying her peace of mind.  She will not model her soul to suit
the frailties of her companion, but to bear with them:  his
character may be a trial, but not an impediment to virtue.

If Dr. Gregory confined his remark to romantic expectations of
constant love and congenial feelings, he should have recollected,
that experience will banish what advice can never make us cease to
wish for, when the imagination is kept alive at the expence of
reason.

I own it frequently happens, that women who have fostered a
romantic unnatural delicacy of feeling, waste their lives in
IMAGINING how happy they should have been with a husband who could
love them with a fervid increasing affection every day, and all
day.  But they might as well pine married as single, and would not
be a jot more unhappy with a bad husband than longing for a good
one.  That a proper education; or, to speak with more precision, a
well stored mind, would enable a woman to support a single life
with dignity, I grant; but that she should avoid cultivating her
taste, lest her husband should occasionally shock it, is quitting a
substance for a shadow.  To say the truth, I do not know of what
use is an improved taste, if the individual be not rendered more
independent of the casualties of life; if new sources of enjoyment,
only dependent on the solitary operations of the mind, are not
opened.  People of taste, married or single, without distinction,
will ever be disgusted by various things that touch not less
observing minds.  On this conclusion the argument must not be
allowed to hinge; but in the whole sum of enjoyment is taste to be
denominated a blessing?

The question is, whether it procures most pain or pleasure?  The
answer will decide the propriety of Dr. Gregory's advice, and show
how absurd and tyrannic it is thus to lay down a system of slavery;
or to attempt to educate moral beings by any other rules than those
deduced from pure reason, which apply to the whole species.

Gentleness of manners, forbearance, and long suffering, are such
amiable godlike qualities, that in sublime poetic strains the Deity
has been invested with them; and, perhaps, no representation of his
goodness so strongly fastens on the human affections as those that
represent him abundant in mercy and willing to pardon.  Gentleness,
considered in this point of view, bears on its front all the
characteristics of grandeur, combined with the winning graces of
condescension; but what a different aspect it assumes when it is
the submissive demeanour of dependence, the support of weakness
that loves, because it wants protection; and is forbearing, because
it must silently endure injuries; smiling under the lash at which
it dare not snarl.  Abject as this picture appears, it is the
portrait of an accomplished woman, according to the received
opinion of female excellence, separated by specious reasoners from
human excellence.  Or, they (Vide Rousseau, and Swedenborg) kindly
restore the rib, and make one moral being of a man and woman; not
forgetting to give her all the "submissive charms."

How women are to exist in that state where there is to be neither
marrying nor giving in marriage, we are not told.  For though
moralists have agreed, that the tenor of life seems to prove that
MAN is prepared by various circumstances for a future state, they
constantly concur in advising WOMAN only to provide for the
present.  Gentleness, docility, and a spaniel-like affection are,
on this ground, consistently recommended as the cardinal virtues of
the sex; and, disregarding the arbitrary economy of nature, one
writer has declared that it is masculine for a woman to be
melancholy.  She was created to be the toy of man, his rattle, and
it must jingle in his ears, whenever, dismissing reason, he chooses
to be amused.

To recommend gentleness, indeed, on a broad basis is strictly
philosophical.  A frail being should labour to be gentle.  But when
forbearance confounds right and wrong, it ceases to be a virtue;
and, however convenient it may be found in a companion, that
companion will ever be considered as an inferior, and only inspire
a vapid tenderness, which easily degenerates into contempt.  Still,
if advice could really make a being gentle, whose natural
disposition admitted not of such a fine polish, something toward
the advancement of order would be attained; but if, as might
quickly be demonstrated, only affectation be produced by this
indiscriminate counsel, which throws a stumbling block in the way
of gradual improvement, and true melioration of temper, the sex is
not much benefited by sacrificing solid virtues to the attainment
of superficial graces, though for a few years they may procure the
individual's regal sway.

As a philosopher, I read with indignation the plausible epithets
which men use to soften their insults; and, as a moralist, I ask
what is meant by such heterogeneous associations, as fair defects,
amiable weaknesses, etc.? If there is but one criterion of morals,
but one archetype for man, women appear to be suspended by destiny,
according to the vulgar tale of Mahomet's coffin; they have neither
the unerring instinct of brutes, nor are allowed to fix the eye of
reason on a perfect model.  They were made to be loved, and must
not aim at respect, lest they should be hunted out of society as
masculine.

But to view the subject in another point of view.  Do passive
indolent women make the best wives?  Confining our discussion to
the present moment of existence, let us see how such weak creatures
perform their part?  Do the women who, by the attainment of a few
superficial accomplishments, have strengthened the prevailing
prejudice, merely contribute to the happiness of their husbands?
Do they display their charms merely to amuse them?  And have women,
who have early imbibed notions of passive obedience, sufficient
character to manage a family or educate children?  So far from it,
that, after surveying the history of woman, I cannot help agreeing
with the severest satirist, considering the sex as the weakest as
well as the most oppressed half of the species.  What does history
disclose but marks of inferiority, and how few women have
emancipated themselves from the galling yoke of sovereign man?  So
few, that the exceptions remind me of an ingenious conjecture
respecting Newton:  that he was probably a being of a superior
order, accidentally caged in a human body.  In the same style I
have been led to imagine that the few extraordinary women who have
rushed in eccentrical directions out of the orbit prescribed to
their sex, were MALE spirits, confined by mistake in a female
frame.  But if it be not philosophical to think of sex when the
soul is mentioned, the inferiority must depend on the organs; or
the heavenly fire, which is to ferment the clay, is not given in
equal portions.

But avoiding, as I have hitherto done, any direct comparison of the
two sexes collectively, or frankly acknowledging the inferiority of
woman, according to the present appearance of things, I shall only
insist, that men have increased that inferiority till women are
almost sunk below the standard of rational creatures.  Let their
faculties have room to unfold, and their virtues to gain strength,
and then determine where the whole sex must stand in the
intellectual scale.  Yet, let it be remembered, that for a small
number of distinguished women I do not ask a place.

It is difficult for us purblind mortals to say to what height human
discoveries and improvements may arrive, when the gloom of
despotism subsides, which makes us stumble at every step; but, when
morality shall be settled on a more solid basis, then, without
being gifted with a prophetic spirit, I will venture to predict,
that woman will be either the friend or slave of man.  We shall
not, as at present, doubt whether she is a moral agent, or the link
which unites man with brutes.  But, should it then appear, that
like the brutes they were principally created for the use of man,
he will let them patiently bite the bridle, and not mock them with
empty praise; or, should their rationality be proved, he will not
impede their improvement merely to gratify his sensual appetites.
He will not with all the graces of rhetoric, advise them to submit
implicitly their understandings to the guidance of man.  He will
not, when he treats of the education of women, assert, that they
ought never to have the free use of reason, nor would he recommend
cunning and dissimulation to beings who are acquiring, in like
manner as himself, the virtues of humanity.

Surely there can be but one rule of right, if morality has an
eternal foundation, and whoever sacrifices virtue, strictly so
called, to present convenience, or whose DUTY it is to act in such
a manner, lives only for the passing day, and cannot be an
accountable creature.

The poet then should have dropped his sneer when he says,

"If weak women go astray,
The stars are more in fault than they."

For that they are bound by the adamantine chain of destiny is most
certain, if it be proved that they are never to exercise their own
reason, never to be independent, never to rise above opinion, or to
feel the dignity of a rational will that only bows to God, and
often forgets that the universe contains any being but itself, and
the model of perfection to which its ardent gaze is turned, to
adore attributes that, softened into virtues, may be imitated in
kind, though the degree overwhelms the enraptured mind.

If, I say, for I would not impress by declamation when reason
offers her sober light, if they are really capable of acting like
rational creatures, let them not be treated like slaves; or, like
the brutes who are dependent on the reason of man, when they
associate with him; but cultivate their minds, give them the
salutary, sublime curb of principle, and let them attain conscious
dignity by feeling themselves only dependent on God.  Teach them,
in common with man, to submit to necessity, instead of giving, to
render them more pleasing, a sex to morals.

Further, should experience prove that they cannot attain the same
degree of strength of mind, perseverance and fortitude, let their
virtues be the same in kind, though they may vainly struggle for
the same degree; and the superiority of man will be equally clear,
if not clearer; and truth, as it is a simple principle, which
admits of no modification, would be common to both.  Nay, the order
of society, as it is at present regulated, would not be inverted,
for woman would then only have the rank that reason assigned her,
and arts could not be practised to bring the balance even, much
less to turn it.

These may be termed Utopian dreams.  Thanks to that Being who
impressed them on my soul, and gave me sufficient strength of mind
to dare to exert my own reason, till becoming dependent only on him
for the support of my virtue, I view with indignation, the mistaken
notions that enslave my sex.

I love man as my fellow; but his sceptre real or usurped, extends
not to me, unless the reason of an individual demands my homage;
and even then the submission is to reason, and not to man.  In
fact, the conduct of an accountable being must be regulated by the
operations of its own reason; or on what foundation rests the
throne of God?

It appears to me necessary to dwell on these obvious truths,
because females have been insulted, as it were; and while they have
been stripped of the virtues that should clothe humanity, they have
been decked with artificial graces, that enable them to exercise a
short lived tyranny.  Love, in their bosoms, taking place of every
nobler passion, their sole ambition is to be fair, to raise emotion
instead of inspiring respect; and this ignoble desire, like the
servility in absolute monarchies, destroys all strength of
character.  Liberty is the mother of virtue, and if women are, by
their very constitution, slaves, and not allowed to breathe the
sharp invigorating air of freedom, they must ever languish like
exotics, and be reckoned beautiful flaws in nature; let it also be
remembered, that they are the only flaw.

As to the argument respecting the subjection in which the sex has
ever been held, it retorts on man.  The many have always been
enthralled by the few; and, monsters who have scarcely shown any
discernment of human excellence, have tyrannized over thousands of
their fellow creatures.  Why have men of superior endowments
submitted to such degradation?  For, is it not universally
acknowledged that kings, viewed collectively, have ever been
inferior, in abilities and virtue, to the same number of men taken
from the common mass of mankind--yet, have they not, and are they
not still treated with a degree of reverence, that is an insult to
reason?  China is not the only country where a living man has been
made a God.  MEN have submitted to superior strength, to enjoy with
impunity the pleasure of the moment--WOMEN have only done the same,
and therefore till it is proved that the courtier, who servilely
resigns the birthright of a man, is not a moral agent, it cannot be
demonstrated that woman is essentially inferior to man, because she
has always been subjugated.

Brutal force has hitherto governed the world, and that the science
of politics is in its infancy, is evident from philosophers
scrupling to give the knowledge most useful to man that determinate
distinction.

I shall not pursue this argument any further than to establish an
obvious inference, that as sound politics diffuse liberty, mankind,
including woman, will become more wise and virtuous.


CHAPTER 3.

THE SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED.

Bodily strength from being the distinction of heroes is now sunk
into such unmerited contempt, that men as well as women, seem to
think it unnecessary:  the latter, as it takes from their feminine
graces, and from that lovely weakness, the source of their undue
power; and the former, because it appears inimical with the
character of a gentleman.

That they have both by departing from one extreme run into another,
may easily be proved; but it first may be proper to observe, that a
vulgar error has obtained a degree of credit, which has given force
to a false conclusion, in which an effect has been mistaken for a
cause.

People of genius have, very frequently, impaired their
constitutions by study, or careless inattention to their health,
and the violence of their passions bearing a proportion to the
vigour of their intellects, the sword's destroying the scabbard has
become almost proverbial, and superficial observers have inferred
from thence, that men of genius have commonly weak, or to use a
more fashionable phrase, delicate constitutions.  Yet the contrary,
I believe, will appear to be the fact; for, on diligent inquiry, I
find that strength of mind has, in most cases, been accompanied by
superior strength of body, natural soundness of constitution, not
that robust tone of nerves and vigour of muscles, which arise from
bodily labour, when the mind is quiescent, or only directs the
hands.

Dr. Priestley has remarked, in the preface to his biographical
chart, that the majority of great men have lived beyond forty-five.
And, considering the thoughtless manner in which they lavished
their strength, when investigating a favourite science, they have
wasted the lamp of life, forgetful of the midnight hour; or, when,
lost in poetic dreams, fancy has peopled the scene, and the soul
has been disturbed, till it shook the constitution, by the passions
that meditation had raised; whose objects, the baseless fabric of a
vision, faded before the exhausted eye, they must have had iron
frames.  Shakespeare never grasped the airy dagger with a nerveless
hand, nor did Milton tremble when he led Satan far from the
confines of his dreary prison.  These were not the ravings of
imbecility, the sickly effusions of distempered brains; but the
exuberance of fancy, that "in a fine phrenzy" wandering, was not
continually reminded of its material shackles.

I am aware, that this argument would carry me further than it may
be supposed I wish to go; but I follow truth, and still adhering to
my first position, I will allow that bodily strength seems to give
man a natural superiority over woman; and this is the only solid
basis on which the superiority of the sex can be built.  But I
still insist, that not only the virtue, but the KNOWLEDGE of the
two sexes should be the same in nature, if not in degree, and that
women, considered not only as moral, but rational creatures, ought
to endeavour to acquire human virtues (or perfections) by the SAME
means as men, instead of being educated like a fanciful kind of
HALF being, one of Rousseau's wild chimeras.

But, if strength of body be, with some show of reason, the boast of
men, why are women so infatuated as to be proud of a defect?
Rousseau has furnished them with a plausible excuse, which could
only have occurred to a man, whose imagination had been allowed to
run wild, and refine on the impressions made by exquisite senses,
that they might, forsooth have a pretext for yielding to a natural
appetite without violating a romantic species of modesty, which
gratifies the pride and libertinism of man.

Women deluded by these sentiments, sometimes boast of their
weakness, cunningly obtaining power by playing on the WEAKNESS of
men; and they may well glory in their illicit sway, for, like
Turkish bashaws, they have more real power than their masters:  but
virtue is sacrificed to temporary gratifications, and the
respectability of life to the triumph of an hour.

Women, as well as despots, have now, perhaps, more power than they
would have, if the world, divided and subdivided into kingdoms and
families, was governed by laws deduced from the exercise of reason;
but in obtaining it, to carry on the comparison, their character is
degraded, and licentiousness spread through the whole aggregate of
society.  The many become pedestal to the few.  I, therefore will
venture to assert, that till women are more rationally educated,
the progress of human virtue and improvement in knowledge must
receive continual checks.  And if it be granted, that woman was not
created merely to gratify the appetite of man, nor to be the upper
servant, who provides his meals and takes care of his linen, it
must follow, that the first care of those mothers or fathers, who
really attend to the education of females, should be, if not to
strengthen the body, at least, not to destroy the constitution by
mistaken notions of beauty and female excellence; nor should girls
ever be allowed to imbibe the pernicious notion that a defect can,
by any chemical process of reasoning become an excellence.  In this
respect, I am happy to find, that the author of one of the most
instructive books, that our country has produced for children,
coincides with me in opinion; I shall quote his pertinent remarks
to give the force of his respectable authority to reason.*

(*Footnote.  A respectable old man gives the following sensible
account of the method he pursued when educating his daughter.  "I
endeavoured to give both to her mind and body a degree of vigour,
which is seldom found in the female sex.  As soon as she was
sufficiently advanced in strength to be capable of the lighter
labours of husbandry and gardening, I employed her as my constant
companion.  Selene, for that was her name, soon acquired a
dexterity in all these rustic employments which I considered with
equal pleasure and admiration.  If women are in general feeble both
in body and mind, it arises less from nature than from education.
We encourage a vicious indolence and inactivity, which we falsely
call delicacy; instead of hardening their minds by the severer
principles of reason and philosophy, we breed them to useless arts,
which terminate in vanity and sensuality.  In most of the countries
which I had visited, they are taught nothing of an higher nature
than a few modulations of the voice, or useless postures of the
body; their time is consumed in sloth or trifles, and trifles
become the only pursuits capable of interesting them.  We seem to
forget, that it is upon the qualities of the female sex, that our
own domestic comforts and the education of our children must
depend.  And what are the comforts or the education which a race of
beings corrupted from their infancy, and unacquainted with all the
duties of life, are fitted to bestow?  To touch a musical
instrument with useless skill, to exhibit their natural or affected
graces, to the eyes of indolent and debauched young men, who
dissipate their husbands' patrimony in riotous and unnecessary
expenses:  these are the only arts cultivated by women in most of
the polished nations I had seen.  "But the fact is, TOBY,
dear boy, I could not stand the weather. I am of a sensitive
nature, and it cut me to the heart to see cold winds nipping the
fruit and trees, the flood of rain beating down the corn, the oats,
and the mangel-wurzel.

People make a mistake about me. They regard me as an ambitious
politician, caring for nothing but the House of Commons and the
world of politics. At heart I am an agriculturist. Give me three
acres and a cow--anybody's, I don't care--and I will
settle down in peace and quietness, remote from political strife,
never turning an ear to listen to the roll of battle at Westminster.

I am often distraught between the attractions of interludes in the
lives of CINCINNATUS and of WILLIAM OF ORANGE's great Minister. Of
the two I think I am more drawn towards the rose-garden at Sheen
than by CINCINNATUS's unploughed land. Before I die I should
like to create a new rose and call it 'The Grand Old Man.'"
Quite a revelation this of the true inwardness of the SQUIRE. Would
astonish some people in London, I fancy, if ever I were to
mention this conversation. But, to quote once more from a revered
authority:
"We all live a dual life, and are not actually that which, upon
cursory regard, the passer-by believes us to be.

Every gentleman, in whatever part of the House he may sit, has a
skeleton in the cupboard of his valet."
The SQUIRE stayed here only a morning, passing on to other scenes.

I watched his departure with mingled feelings; sorrow at losing a
delightful companion, and apprehension of what might happen if he
were to remain here to go through the full cure.

The place is, as SARK says, the most brimstony on the same level.
You breathe brimstone, drink it, bathe in it, and take it in at the
pores. At the end of three weeks or a month you are dangerously
saturated with the chemical. An ordinary lucifer match is
nothing to a full-bodied patient at the end of three weeks treatment
at Aix-la-Chapelle. If the SQUIRE had stayed on, I should never have
seen his towering frame pass underneath a doorway without my heart
leaping to my mouth. Some day he would have accidentally struck
his head against the lintel and would have ignited as sure as a
gun.

If CHARLEMAGNE were now alive, I feel certain from what I know of
him, he would have exhausted the resources of civilisation in
search of a preventive of this ever-present and dangerous risk.
Under CAROLO MAGNO the patient might have gone about the streets of
Aix-la-Chapelle with sweet carelessness, knowing that, however much
brimstone he carried, he would strike only on the box.

* * * * *
[Illustration: OUR COMPATRIOTS ABROAD.

"AND HOW DID YOU LIKE SWITZERLAND?"
"OH, IMMENSELY! IT WAS OUR FIRST VISIT, YOU KNOW!"
"AND DID YOU GO ON INTO ITALY?"
"WELL, NO. WE FOUND A HOTEL AT LAUSANNE WHERE THERE WAS A FIRST-RATE
TENNIS-LAWN, YOU KNOW--QUITE AS GOOD AS OURS AT HOME. SO WE SPENT
THE WHOLE OF OUR HOLIDAY THERE, AND PLAYED LAWN-TENNIS ALL DAY
LONG!"]
* * * * *
FAMILY TIES.

["The journal (the _Grashdanin_) is of opinion that in making common
cause with the other European Powers against China, Russia would
but serve the ends of ... England to the prejudice of her own
interests, which demand that she should not jeopardise the security
of her Asiatic shores, or contribute to the complete ascendancy
of Great Britain in the Pacific Ocean, by arousing the antagonism
of China."--_Times_.]
_Muscovite loquitur_:--
"Won't you help me bind the Dragon?" says the Briton to the Russ.

Oho!

ingenuous JOHNNY! I'm opposed to needless fuss, And have other
fish to fry--say near the Oxus! Not a hang Do I care for what
may happen on the great Yang-tse-Kiang.

I approve Non-intervention. 'Tis your favourite doctrine, JOHN, And
you stick to it _so_ closely, and that's just why you get on.
If you think that Dragon's dangerous--I hold 'tis but his play!--
There's but one thing you've got to do--clear out of the brute's
way.
I am sure he doesn't want you where you've stayed a deal too long;
He wishes you would up and go to--well _not_ to Hong-Kong, But the
natural home of all such "Foreign Devils," in _his_ view.Rousseau respected--almost
adored virtue--and yet allowed himself to love with sensual
fondness.  His imagination constantly prepared inflammable fuel for
his inflammable senses; but, in order to reconcile his respect for
self-denial, fortitude and those heroic virtues, which a mind like
his could not coolly admire, he labours to invert the law of
nature, and broaches a doctrine pregnant with mischief, and
derogatory to the character of supreme wisdom.

His ridiculous stories, which tend to prove that girls are
NATURALLY attentive to their persons, without laying any stress on
daily example, are below contempt.  And that a little miss should
have such a correct taste as to neglect the pleasing amusement of
making O's, merely because she perceived that it was an ungraceful
attitude, should be selected with the anecdotes of the learned
pig.*

(*Footnote.  "I once knew a young person who learned to write
before she learned to read, and began to write with her needle
before she could use a pen.  At first indeed, she took it into her
head to make no other letter than the O:  this letter she was
constantly making of all sizes, and always the wrong way.
Unluckily one day, as she was intent on this employment, she
happened to see herself in the looking glass; when, taking a
dislike to the constrained attitude in which she sat while writing,
she threw away her pen, like another Pallas, and determined against
making the O any more.  Her brother was also equally averse to
writing:  it was the confinement, however, and not the constrained
attitude, that most disgusted him."
Rousseau's "Emilius.")

I have, probably, had an opportunity of observing more girls in
their infancy than J. J. Rousseau.  I can recollect my own
feelings, and I have looked steadily around me; yet, so far from
coinciding with him in opinion respecting the first dawn of the
female character, I will venture to affirm, that a girl, whose
spirits have not been damped by inactivity, or innocence tainted by
false shame, will always be a romp, and the doll will never excite
attention unless confinement allows her no alternative.  Girls and
boys, in short, would play harmless together, if the distinction of
sex was not inculcated long before nature makes any difference.  I
will, go further, and affirm, as an indisputable fact, that most of
the women, in the circle of my observation, who have acted like
rational creatures, or shown any vigour of intellect, have
accidentally been allowed to run wild, as some of the elegant
formers of the fair sex would insinuate.

The baneful consequences which flow from inattention to health
during infancy, and youth, extend further than is supposed,
dependence of body naturally produces dependence of mind; and how
can she be a good wife or mother, the greater part of whose time is
employed to guard against or endure sickness; nor can it be
expected, that a woman will resolutely endeavour to strengthen her
constitution and abstain from enervating indulgences, if artificial
notions of beauty, and false descriptions of sensibility, have been
early entangled with her motives of action.  Most men are sometimes
obliged to bear with bodily inconveniences, and to endure,
occasionally, the inclemency of the elements; but genteel women
are, literally speaking, slaves to their bodies, and glory in their
subjection.

I once knew a weak woman of fashion, who was more than commonly
proud of her delicacy and sensibility.  She thought a
distinguishing taste and puny appetite the height of all human
perfection, and acted accordingly.  I have seen this weak
sophisticated being neglect all the duties of life, yet recline
with self-complacency on a sofa, and boast of her want of appetite
as a proof of delicacy that extended to, or, perhaps, arose from,
her exquisite sensibility:  for it is difficult to render
intelligible such ridiculous jargon.  Yet, at the moment, I have
seen her insult a worthy old gentlewoman, whom unexpected
misfortunes had made dependent on her ostentatious bounty, and who,
in better days, had claims on her gratitude.  Is it possible that a
human creature should have become such a weak and depraved being,
if, like the Sybarites, dissolved in luxury, every thing like
virtue had not been worn away, or never impressed by precept, a
poor substitute it is true, for cultivation of mind, though it
serves as a fence against vice?

Such a woman is not a more irrational monster than some of the
Roman emperors, who were depraved by lawless power.  Yet, since
kings have been more under the restraint of law, and the curb,
however weak, of honour, the records of history are not filled with
such unnatural instances of folly and cruelty, nor does the
despotism that kills virtue and genius in the bud, hover over
Europe with that destructive blast which desolates Turkey, and
renders the men, as well as the soil unfruitful.

Women are every where in this deplorable state; for, in order to
preserve their innocence, as ignorance is courteously termed, truth
is hidden from them, and they are made to assume an artificial
character before their faculties have acquired any strength.
Taught from their infancy, that beauty is woman's sceptre, the mind
shapes itself to the body, and, roaming round its gilt cage, only
seeks to adorn its prison.  Men have various employments and
pursuits which engage their attention, and give a character to the
opening mind; but women, confined to one, and having their thoughts
constantly directed to the most insignificant part of themselves,
seldom extend their views beyond the triumph of the hour.  But was
their understanding once emancipated from the slavery to which the
pride and sensuality of man and their short sighted desire, like
that of dominion in tyrants, of present sway, has subjected them,
we should probably read of their weaknesses with surprise.  I must
be allowed to pursue the argument a little farther.

Perhaps, if the existence of an evil being was allowed, who, in the
allegorical language of scripture, went about seeking whom he
should devour, he could not more effectually degrade the human
character than by giving a man absolute power.

This argument branches into various ramifications.  Birth, riches,
and every intrinsic advantage that exalt a man above his fellows,
without any mental exertion, sink him in reality below them.  In
proportion to his weakness, he is played upon by designing men,
till the bloated monster has lost all traces of humanity.  And that
tribes of men, like flocks of sheep, should quietly follow such a
leader, is a solecism that only a desire of present enjoyment and
narrowness of understanding can solve.  Educated in slavish
dependence, and enervated by luxury and sloth, where shall we find
men who will stand forth to assert the rights of man; or claim the
privilege of moral beings, who should have but one road to
excellence? Slavery to monarchs and ministers, which the world will
be long in freeing itself from, and whose deadly grasp stops the
progress of the human mind, is not yet abolished.

Let not men then in the pride of power, use the same arguments that
tyrannic kings and venal ministers have used, and fallaciously
assert, that woman ought to be subjected because she has always
been so.  But, when man, governed by reasonable laws, enjoys his
natural freedom, let him despise woman, if she do not share it with
him; and, till that glorious period arrives, in descanting on the
folly of the sex, let him not overlook his own.

Women, it is true, obtaining power by unjust means, by practising
or fostering vice, evidently lose the rank which reason would
assign them, and they become either abject slaves or capricious
tyrants.  They lose all simplicity, all dignity of mind, in
acquiring power, and act as men are observed to act when they have
been exalted by the same means.

It is time to effect a revolution in female manners, time to
restore to them their lost dignity, and make them, as a part of the
human species, labour by reforming themselves to reform the world.
It is time to separate unchangeable morals from local manners.  If
men be demi-gods, why let us serve them!  And if the dignity of the
female soul be as disputable as that of animals, if their reason
does not afford sufficient light to direct their conduct whilst
unerring instinct is denied, they are surely of all creatures the
most miserable and, bent beneath the iron hand of destiny, must
submit to be a FAIR DEFECT in creation.  But to justify the ways of
providence respecting them, by pointing out some irrefragable
reason for thus making such a large portion of mankind accountable
and not accountable, would puzzle the subtlest casuist.

The only solid foundation for morality appears to be the character
of the Supreme Being; the harmony of which arises from a balance of
attributes; and, to speak with reverence, one attribute seems to
imply the NECESSITY of another.  He must be just, because he is
wise, he must be good, because he is omnipotent.  For, to exalt one
attribute at the expense of another equally noble and necessary,
bears the stamp of the warped reason of man, the homage of passion.
Man, accustomed to bow down to power in his savage state, can
seldom divest himself of this barbarous prejudice even when
civilization determines how much superior mental is to bodily
strength; and his reason is clouded by these crude opinions, even
when he thinks of the Deity.  His omnipotence is made to swallow
up, or preside over his other attributes, and those mortals are
supposed to limit his power irreverently, who think that it must be
regulated by his wisdom.

I disclaim that species of humility which, after investigating
nature, stops at the author.  The high and lofty One, who
inhabiteth eternity, doubtless possesses many attributes of which
we can form no conception; but reason tells me that they cannot
clash with those I adore, and I am compelled to listen to her
voice.

It seems natural for man to search for excellence, and either to
trace it in the object that he worships, or blindly to invest it
with perfection as a garment.  But what good effect can the latter
mode of worship have on the moral conduct of a rational being?  He
bends to power; he adores a dark cloud, which may open a bright
prospect to him, or burst in angry, lawless fury on his devoted
head, he knows not why.  And, supposing that the Deity acts from
the vague impulse of an undirected will, man must also follow his
own, or act according to rules, deduced from principles which he
disclaims as irreverent.  Into this dilemma have both enthusiasts
and cooler thinkers fallen, when they laboured to free men from the
wholesome restraints which a just conception of the character of
God imposes.

It is not impious thus to scan the attributes of the Almighty:  in
fact, who can avoid it that exercises his faculties? for to love
God as the fountain of wisdom, goodness, and power, appears to be
the only worship useful to a being who wishes to acquire either
virtue or knowledge.  A blind unsettled affection may, like human
passions, occupy the mind and warm the heart, whilst, to do
justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with our God, is forgotten.  I
shall pursue this subject still further, when I consider religion
in a light opposite to that recommended by Dr. Gregory, who treats
it as a matter of sentiment or taste.

To return from this apparent digression.  It were to be wished,
that women would cherish an affection for their husbands, founded
on the same principle that devotion ought to rest upon.  No other
firm base is there under heaven, for let them beware of the
fallacious light of sentiment; too often used as a softer phrase
for sensuality.  It follows then, I think, that from their infancy
women should either be shut up like eastern princes, or educated in
such a manner as to be able to think and act for themselves.

Why do men halt between two opinions, and expect impossibilities?
Why do they expect virtue from a slave, or from a being whom the
constitution of civil society has rendered weak, if not vicious?

Still I know that it will require a considerable length of time to
eradicate the firmly rooted prejudices which sensualists have
planted; it will also require some time to convince women that they
act contrary to their real interest on an enlarged scale, when they
cherish or affect weakness under the name of delicacy, and to
convince the world that the poisoned source of female vices and
follies, if it be necessary, in compliance with custom, to use
synonymous terms in a lax sense, has been the sensual homage paid
to beauty:  to beauty of features; for it has been shrewdly
observed by a German writer, that a pretty woman, as an object of
desire, is generally allowed to be so by men of all descriptions;
whilst a fine woman, who inspires more sublime emotions by
displaying intellectual beauty, may be overlooked or observed with
indifference, by those men who find their happiness in the
gratification of their appetites.  I foresee an obvious retort;
whilst man remains such an imperfect being as he appears hitherto
to have been, he will, more or less, be the slave of his appetites;
and those women obtaining most power who gratify a predominant one,
the sex is degraded by a physical, if not by a moral necessity.

This objection has, I grant, some force; but while such a sublime
precept exists, as, "be pure as your heavenly father is pure;" it
would seem that the virtues of man are not limited by the Being who
alone could limit them; and that he may press forward without
considering whether he steps out of his sphere by indulging such a
noble ambition.  To the wild billows it has been said, "thus far
shalt thou go, and no further; and here shall thy proud waves be
stayed."  Vainly then do they beat and foam, restrained by the
power that confines the struggling planets within their orbits,
matter yields to the great governing Spirit.  But an immortal soul,
not restrained by mechanical laws, and struggling to free itself
from the shackles of matter, contributes to, instead of disturbing,
the order of creation, when, co-operating with the Father of
spirits, it tries to govern itself by the invariable rule that, in
a degree, before which our imagination faints, the universe is
regulated.

Besides, if women are educated for dependence, that is, to act
according to the will of another fallible being, and submit, right
or wrong, to power, where are we to stop?  Are they to be
considered as viceregents, allowed to reign over a small domain,
and answerable for their conduct to a higher tribunal, liable to
error?

It will not be difficult to prove, that such delegates will act
like men subjected by fear, and make their children and servants
endure their tyrannical oppression.  As they submit without reason,
they will, having no fixed rules to square their conduct by, be
kind or cruel, just as the whim of the moment directs; and we ought
not to wonder if sometimes, galled by their heavy yoke, they take a
malignant pleasure in resting it on weaker shoulders.

But, supposing a woman, trained up to obedience, be married to a
sensible man, who directs her judgment, without making her feel the
servility of her subjection, to act with as much propriety by this
reflected light as can be expected when reason is taken at second
hand, yet she cannot ensure the life of her protector; he may die
and leave her with a large family.

A double duty devolves on her; to educate them in the character of
both father and mother; to form their principles and secure their
property.  But, alas! she has never thought, much less acted for
herself.  She has only learned to please men, to depend gracefully
on them; yet, encumbered with children, how is she to obtain
another protector; a husband to supply the place of reason?  A
rational man, for we are not treading on romantic ground, though he
may think her a pleasing docile creature, will not choose to marry
a FAMILY for love, when the world contains many more pretty
creatures.  What is then to become of her?  She either falls an
easy prey to some mean fortune hunter, who defrauds her children of
their paternal inheritance, and renders her miserable; or becomes
the victim of discontent and blind indulgence.  Unable to educate
her sons, or impress them with respect; for it is not a play on
words to assert, that people are never respected, though filling an
important station, who are not respectable; she pines under the
anguish of unavailing impotent regret.  The serpent's tooth enters
into her very soul, and the vices of licentious youth bring her
with sorrow, if not with poverty also, to the grave.

This is not an overcharged picture; on the contrary, it is a very
possible case, and something similar must have fallen under every
attentive eye.

I have, however, taken it for granted, that she was well disposed,
though experience shows, that the blind may as easily be led into a
ditch as along the beaten road.  But supposing, no very improbable
conjecture, that a being only taught to please must still find her
happiness in pleasing; what an example of folly, not to say vice,
will she be to her innocent daughters!  The mother will be lost in
the coquette, and, instead of making friends of her daughters, view
them with eyes askance, for they are rivals--rivals more cruel than
any other, because they invite a comparison, and drive her from the
throne of beauty, who has never thought of a seat on the bench of
reason.

It does not require a lively pencil, or the discriminating outline
of a caricature, to sketch the domestic miseries and petty vices
which such a mistress of a family diffuses.  Still she only acts as
a woman ought to act, brought up according to Rousseau's system.
She can never be reproached for being masculine, or turning out of
her sphere; nay, she may observe another of his grand rules, and,
cautiously preserving her reputation free from spot, be reckoned a
good kind of woman.  Yet in what respect can she be termed good?
She abstains, it is true, without any great struggle, from
committing gross crimes; but how does she fulfil her duties?
Duties!--in truth she has enough to think of to adorn her body and
nurse a weak constitution.

With respect to religion, she never presumed to judge for herself;
but conformed, as a dependent creature should, to the ceremonies of
the church which she was brought up in, piously believing, that
wiser heads than her own have settled that business:  and not to
doubt is her point of perfection.  She therefore pays her tythe of
mint and cummin, and thanks her God that she is not as other women
are.  These are the blessed effects of a good education! these the
virtues of man's helpmate.  I must relieve myself by drawing a
different picture.

Let fancy now present a woman with a tolerable understanding, for I
do not wish to leave the line of mediocrity, whose constitution,
strengthened by exercise, has allowed her body to acquire its full
vigour; her mind, at the same time, gradually expanding itself to
comprehend the moral duties of life, and in what human virtue and
dignity consist.  Formed thus by the relative duties of her
station, she marries from affection, without losing sight of
prudence, and looking beyond matrimonial felicity, she secures her
husband's respect before it is necessary to exert mean arts to
please him, and feed a dying flame, which nature doomed to expire
when the object became familiar, when friendship and forbearance
take place of a more ardent affection.  This is the natural death
of love, and domestic peace is not destroyed by struggles to
prevent its extinction.  I also suppose the husband to be virtuous;
or she is still more in want of independent principles.

Fate, however, breaks this tie.  She is left a widow, perhaps,
without a sufficient provision:  but she is not desolate!  The pang
of nature is felt; but after time has softened sorrow into
melancholy resignation, her heart turns to her children with
redoubled fondness, and anxious to provide for them, affection
gives a sacred heroic cast to her maternal duties.  She thinks that
not only the eye sees her virtuous efforts, from whom all her
comfort now must flow, and whose approbation is life; but her
imagination, a little abstracted and exalted by grief, dwells on
the fond hope, that the eyes which her trembling hand closed, may
still see how she subdues every wayward passion to fulfil the
double duty of being the father as well as the mother of her
children.  Raised to heroism by misfortunes, she represses the
first faint dawning of a natural inclination, before it ripens into
love, and in the bloom of life forgets her sex--forgets the
pleasure of an awakening passion, which might again have been
inspired and returned.  She no longer thinks of pleasing, and
conscious dignity prevents her from priding herself on account of
the praise which her conduct demands.  Her children have her love,
and her brightest hopes are beyond the grave, where her imagination
often strays.

I think I see her surrounded by her children, reaping the reward of
her care.  The intelligent eye meets her's, whilst health and
innocence smile on their chubby cheeks, and as they grow up the
cares of life are lessened by their grateful attention.  She lives
to see the virtues which she endeavoured to plant on principles,
fixed into habits, to see her children attain a strength of
character sufficient to enable them to endure adversity without
forgetting their mother's example.

The task of life thus fulfilled, she calmly waits for the sleep of
death, and rising from the grave may say, behold, thou gavest me a
talent, and here are five talents.

I wish to sum up what I have said in a few words, for I here throw
down my gauntlet, and deny the existence of sexual virtues, not
excepting modesty.  For man and woman, truth, if I understand the
meaning of the word, must be the same; yet the fanciful female
character, so prettily drawn by poets and novelists, demanding the
sacrifice of truth and sincerity, virtue becomes a relative idea,
having no other foundation than utility, and of that utility men
pretend arbitrarily to judge, shaping it to their own convenience.

Women, I allow, may have different duties to fulfil; but they are
HUMAN duties, and the principles that should regulate the discharge
of them, I sturdily maintain, must be the same.

To become respectable, the exercise of their understanding is
necessary, there is no other foundation for independence of
character; I mean explicitly to say, that they must only bow to the
authority of reason, instead of being the MODEST slaves of opinion.

In the superior ranks of life how seldom do we meet with a man of
superior abilities, or even common acquirements?  The reason
appears to me clear; the state they are born in was an unnatural
one.  The human character has ever been formed by the employments
the individual, or class pursues; and if the faculties are not
sharpened by necessity, they must remain obtuse.  The argument may
fairly be extended to women; for seldom occupied by serious
business, the pursuit of pleasure gives that insignificancy to
their character which renders the society of the GREAT so insipid.
The same want of firmness, produced by a similar cause, forces them
both to fly from themselves to noisy pleasures, and artificial
passions, till vanity takes place of every social affection, and
the characteristics of humanity can scarcely be discerned.  Such
are the blessings of civil governments, as they are at present
organized, that wealth and female softness equally tend to debase
mankind, and are produced by the same cause; but allowing women to
be rational creatures they should be incited to acquire virtues
which they may call their own, for how can a rational being be
ennobled by any thing that is not obtained by its OWN exertions?


CHAPTER 4.

OBSERVATIONS ON THE STATE OF DEGRADATION TO WHICH WOMAN IS REDUCED
BY VARIOUS CAUSES.

That woman is naturally weak, or degraded by a concurrence of
circumstances is, I think, clear.  But this position I shall simply
contrast with a conclusion, which I have frequently heard fall from
sensible men in favour of an aristocracy:  that the mass of mankind
cannot be any thing, or the obsequious slaves, who patiently allow
themselves to be penned up, would feel their own consequence, and
spurn their chains.  Men, they further observe, submit every where
to oppression, when they have only to lift up their heads to throw
off the yoke; yet, instead of asserting their birthright, they
quietly lick the dust, and say, let us eat and drink, for to-morrow
we die.  Women, I argue from analogy, are degraded by the same
propensity to enjoy the present moment; and, at last, despise the
freedom which they have not sufficient virtue to struggle to
attain.  But I must be more explicit.

With respect to the culture of the heart, it is unanimously allowed
that sex is out of the question; but the line of subordination in
the mental powers is never to be passed over.  Only "absolute in
loveliness," the portion of rationality granted to woman is,
indeed, very scanty; for, denying her genius and judgment, it is
scarcely possible to divine what remains to characterize intellect.

The stamina of immortality, if I may be allowed the phrase, is the
perfectibility of human reason; for, was man created perfect, or
did a flood of knowledge break in upon him, when he arrived at
maturity, that precluded error, I should doubt whether his
existence would be continued after the dissolution of the body.
But in the present state of things, every difficulty in morals,
that escapes from human discussion, and equally baffles the
investigation of profound thinking, and the lightning glance of
genius, is an argument on which I build my belief of the
immortality of the soul.  Reason is, consequentially, the simple
power of improvement; or, more properly speaking, of discerning
truth.  Every individual is in this respect a world in itself.
More or less may be conspicuous in one being than other; but the
nature of reason must be the same in all, if it be an emanation of
divinity, the tie that connects the creature with the Creator; for,
can that soul be stamped with the heavenly image, that is not
perfected by the exercise of its own reason?  Yet outwardly
ornamented with elaborate care, and so adorned to delight man,
"that with honour he may love," (Vide Milton) the soul of woman is
not allowed to have this distinction, and man, ever placed between
her and reason, she is always represented as only created to see
through a gross medium, and to take things on trust.  But,
dismissing these fanciful theories, and considering woman as a
whole, let it be what it will, instead of a part of man, the
inquiry is, whether she has reason or not.  If she has, which, for
a moment, I will take for granted, she was not created merely to be
the solace of man, and the sexual should not destroy the human
character.

Into this error men have, probably, been led by viewing education
in a false light; not considering it as the first step to form a
being advancing gradually toward perfection; (This word is not
strictly just, but I cannot find a better.) but only as a
preparation for life.  On this sensual error, for I must call it
so, has the false system of female manners been reared, which robs
the whole sex of its dignity, and classes the brown and fair with
the smiling flowers that only adorn the land.  This has ever been
the language of men, and the fear of departing from a supposed
sexual character, has made even women of superior sense adopt the
same sentiments.  Thus understanding, strictly speaking, has been
denied to woman; and instinct, sublimated into wit and cunning, for
the purposes of life, has been substituted in its stead.

The power of generalizing ideas, of drawing comprehensive
conclusions from individual observations, is the only acquirement
for an immortal being, that really deserves the name of knowledge.
Merely to observe, without endeavouring to account for any thing,
may, (in a very incomplete manner) serve as the common sense of
life; but where is the store laid up that is to clothe the soul
when it leaves the body?

This power has not only been denied to women; but writers have
insisted that it is inconsistent, with a few exceptions, with their
sexual character.  Let men prove this, and I shall grant that woman
only exists for man.  I must, however, previously remark, that the
power of generalizing ideas, to any great extent, is not very
common amongst men or women.  But this exercise is the true
cultivation of the understanding; and every thing conspires to
render the cultivation of the understanding more difficult in the
female than the male world.

I am naturally led by this assertion to the main subject of the
present chapter, and shall now attempt to point out some of the
causes that degrade the sex, and prevent women from generalizing
their observations.

I shall not go back to the remote annals of antiquity to trace the
history of woman; it is sufficient to allow, that she has always
been either a slave or a despot, and to remark, that each of these
situations equally retards the progress of reason.  The grand
source of female folly and vice has ever appeared to me to arise
from narrowness of mind; and the very constitution of civil
governments has put almost insuperable obstacles in the way to
prevent the cultivation of the female understanding:  yet virtue
can be built on no other foundation!  The same obstacles are thrown
in the way of the rich, and the same consequences ensue.

All the primal instincts and passions are still in us, though distorted,
exaggerated, diminished, modified, applied to different objects
and purposes. The man with vagabond instincts becomes an
explorer, Ishmael writes social dramas, the happier son of a defalcating
cashier rises to be a minister of finance, the born liar turns
novelist, the man with murder in his soul hunts big game in foreign
lands or settles down at home as a critic. And so, too, the born
warrior becomes a political leader; and politics, if it does not do
any of the things it professes to do, plays yet an invaluable
part in modern life, bridging over, perchance, the transition
from the bellicose ages to those belauded days when the war-drum
shall throb no longer, "and the kindly earth shall slumber,
lapt in universal law."

That this is confusedly and sub-consciously understood, even
by politicians, is shown by their very vocabulary. The Salvation
Army itself boasts no more militant a phraseology than the
profession whose business it is to administer peacefully
the affairs of the realm. That which should be, and sometimes is,
expressed by nautical metaphors--the ship of state, guiding the
helm, and the rest of it--is much more frequently expressed by
military metaphors. Even the posts of duty are the "spoils" of
office. The State which to Plato was a deliberately harmonised
music is to us a deliberate discord, and the acme of politics,
whose crowning glory should be a peaceful measure, is by the
vulgar not so inaccurately regarded as attained at a General
Election, the nomenclature of which positively bristles with
bayonets. Seats are won as towns were of old, and, as in the
days of Joshua, victory is achieved by walking round the town and
blowing your own trumpets. Great organs shamelessly lament that
their side has no good grievance to go to the country with,--as
if the absence of grievances were not the very object of government!
A stirring war-cry--that is the indispensable. If good government
were really the object of a General Election, it would
all be over and done with in a day. Election day would
everywhere be as simultaneous as Christmas, and votes would be
polled with the punctuality with which puddings are eaten.
But this would be to contract a campaign into a battle--to make a
short story out of a great military serial, peppered with
exciting incidents, to be continued in our next. We want our
vicissitudes, our sharpshooting, our skirmishing, our days of
triumph for the Whigs, and our days of triumph for the Tories.

What we like best of all is when the fighting is so level that the
Election progresses as breathlessly as a good University boat
race. Failing that, we like to see one side swamping the other, like
a great flood, the stream rising daily higher and higher, with a
crescendo roar, till the vanquished are swept away in a
thunderous mountain of waters. So for a full moon the waters
rage, the noise of battle roars, till our suppressed fighting
instincts have been deluded into repose and satisfaction, till the
champing war-horses have been quieted by being allowed
to snort and cry "Ha! ha!" to see the glitter of stage spears, and
to hear the noise of the supers and the shouting. This is the
real end masked beneath all those interminable phrases. And it is
achieved at any and every cost. For does not everybody complain
that a General Election upsets everything? The publishers groan,
the theatrical managers tear their wigs. Englishmen cannot think
of two things at once; they are like heavy, solid craft, sound of
timber but slow of turning.
"One thing at a time" is a national proverb.

They cannot even read two books at once, and if two classics should
be published on the same day one would be a failure. There is the
book of the week, and the book of the season, and the book of
the year. This applies even to our appreciation of past periods,
and because Shakespeare is the first of the Elizabethan dramatists,
the rest are nowhere.

Wherefore one would suppose that
everybody would make haste to get
the Election out of the way; but, on the contrary, it is allowed
to linger on, till sometimes our overstrained suspense snaps, and
the Election dribbles out in unregarded issues.

No, the fight's the thing!

War, if not dead, is banished from our shores; the duello has
been laughed to death; cock-fighting and bull-baiting have
ceased to charm: politics alone remains to gratify the pugnacity
and cruelty that civilisation has robbed of their due objects.
How we brighten up again at a bye-election, when duels which
passed unregarded in the big battle, when towns scarcely noted at
the fag-end of the great campaign, become the cynosure of every eye.

Through Slocum or Eatonswill the hub of the universe temporarily
passes: to its population of four thousand, mostly fools, are
entrusted the destinies of the Empire; it is theirs to make or
mar. The duel is watched by a breathless nation. The party
leaders on each side cheer on their men; their careers and claims
and countenances fill up the papers, and they cross swords in a
shower of telegrams. Advice to those about to enter Parliament: Elect
for a bye-election. Why be a nonentity, a mere M.P., when by
a little patience you may hold the centre of the stage, if only for
a week?

Better almost to be beaten at a bye-election than to be successful
at a General.

In case I should ever seek the suffrages of electors myself, I would
venture to remind opposition agents and private secretaries that
these random criticisms of the glorious constitution (hear, hear!)
of that great Empire on which the sun never sets (cheers), over
which the Union Jack waves (loud cheers)--a thousand years the
battle and the breeze--hem!

--I--I--ahem!

--Lord Salisbury (loud and prolonged cheers)--I mean that I trust
they will not forget that all this is set down without
prejudice.

VII
THE REALISTIC NOVEL
The realistic novel, we know from Zola, that apostle of insufficient
insight, is based on "human documents," and "human documents" are
made up of "facts."

_But in human life there are no facts._
This is not a paradox, but a "fact." Life is in the eye of the
observer.
The humour or the pity of it belongs entirely to the spectator, and
depends upon the gift of vision he brings. There are no facts, like
bricks, to build stories with. What, pray, in the realm of human
life _is_ a fact? By no means a stubborn thing, as the proverb
pretends. On the contrary, a most pliant, shifting, chameleon-coloured
thing, as flexible as figures in the hands of the statistician.

What is commonly called a fact is merely a one-sided piece
of information, a dead thing, not the series of complex, mutually
inter-working relations that constitutes a fact as it exhibits
itself to the literary vivisectionist.
I walked with a friend in a shabby district of central London,
a region that had once been genteel, but was now broken up into
apartments.
Squalid babies, with wan, pathetic faces, pullulated on the doorsteps;
they showed from behind dingy windows at the breasts of haggard
women.
The fronts of the houses were black, the plaster had crumbled away,
the paint had peeled off. It was the ruins of a minor Carthage,
and, like Marius, I was lost in mournful reverie; my companion
remarked, "These houses are going up; they now pay 7 per cent." He
was perfectly justified. There are a hundred ways of looking at any
fact.

The historian, the scientist, the economist, the poet, the
philanthropist, the novelist, the anarchist, the intelligent
foreigner,--each would take away a different impression from
the street, and all these impressions would be facts, all equally
valid, all equally true, and all equally false. Life, I repeat,
is in the eye of the observer. What is farce to you is often tragedy
to the actual performer. The man who slips over a piece of orange
peel, or chases his hat along the muddy pavement, is rarely
conscious of the humour of the situation. On the other hand, you
shall see persons involved in heartrending tragedies to whom
the thing shows as farce, like little children playing in
churchyards or riding tombstones astride. To the little imps
of comedy, who, according to Mr.
Meredith, sit up aloft, holding their sides at the spectacle of
mankind, to the
Spirit of the world, Beholding the absurdities of men, Their
vaunts, their feats, ...

human life must be a very different matter from what we poor
players on the scene imagine it; we are cutting a very different
figure, not only from that which faces us from the mirror
of vanity, but from that which is "as ithers see us." Not only,
then, may our tragedy be comedy; our comedy may be tragedy.
The play of humour at least suggests these alternatives. Life is
Janus-faced, and the humourist invests his characters with a double
mask; they stand for comedy as well as for tragedy; Don Quixote
wears the buskin as well as the sock. Humour, whose definition has
always eluded analysis, may, perhaps (to attempt a definition
_currente calamo_), be that subtle flashing from one aspect to
another, that turning the coin so rapidly that one seems
to see simultaneously the face and the reverse, the pity and
the humour of life, and knows not whether to laugh or weep. Humour
is, then, the simultaneous revelation of the dual aspects of life;
the synthetical fusion of opposites; the gift of writing with a
double pen, of saying two things in one, of showing shine and shadow
together.

This is why the humourist has always the gift of pathos; though the
gift of pathos does not equally imply the gift of humour. The tragic
writer must always produce one-sided work, so must the "funnyman"
who were only a "funny man" and not a humourist (though this is
rarer). Each can only show one side of life at a time; the
humourist alone can show both. Great novels of romance and
adventure, great works of imagination, great poems, may be
written by persons without humour; but only the humourist can
reproduce life. Milton is great; but the poet of life is Shakespeare.
Thus the whole case of "realism" falls to the ground. There being
no "facts," Zola's laborious series is futile; it may be true to
art, but it is not true to life. His vision is incomplete, is
inexhaustive; it lacks humour, and to the scientific novelist the
lack of humour is fatal. He is the one novelist who cannot succeed
without it. Leave out humour, and you may get art and many other
fine things, but you do not get the lights and shadows or the "values"
of life.

All novels are written from the novelist's point of view. They are
his vision of the world. They are not life, but individual refractions
of it.
The ironical pessimism of Thomas Hardy is as false as the sentimental
optimism of Walter Besant or the miso-androus meliorism of Sarah
Grand.
What Hall Caine happily calls "the scenic view of life" of Dickens
is no more true than the philosophic view of Mrs. Humphry Ward.
Each is existence viewing itself through a single medium. "Tess
of the D'Urbervilles" is as false as "Lorna Doone" or "Plain Tales
from the Hills." Life, large, chaotic, inexpressible, not to be
bound down by a formula, peeps at itself through the brain
of each artist, but eludes photography. This is the true
inwardness of the Proteus myth. The humourist alone, by presenting
life in its own eternal contradictoriness, by not being tied
down to one point of view, like his less gifted brother, comes
nearest to expressing its elusive essence. The great novelists are
Fielding, Cervantes, Flaubert, Thackeray. But all the novelists
supplement one another, and relatively-true single impressions
of life go to make up a true picture of
Life, like a dome of many coloured glass.

It is because there are all novels and every aspect of existence
in Shakespeare that he sits supreme, the throned sovereign of the
literature of life.

All this is writ to console those who suffer too poignantly
from book-tragedies and "pictures of life." The artist selects,
he studies tone and composition, whereas in real life tragedies are
often accompanied by "extenuating circumstances." The unloved girl
temporarily forgets her sorrow in the last new novel, or a
picnic up the river; the broken-hearted hero betakes himself to
billiards and brandy-and-soda, or toys with a beefsteak.

Again, many pathetic tales are the outcome of imperfect insight.
The novelist imagines how he would feel in the shoes of his
characters, and cries out with the pain of hypothetic bunions.

This mistake better deserves the name
of "the pathetic fallacy" than the poetic
misreading of Nature to which Buskin has
annexed it. A good novel may be made of
bad psychology; indeed, this is what most
novels are made of.

Yet the gentle reader, misled by the simulation of life, makes
himself miserable over dabs of black ink on white paper.

The failure of two imaginary beings to unite their lives in wedlock
brings unhappiness into myriad homes. How delicious is that
story of the German novelist who, having failed to unite his
leading couple at the conclusion of a newspaper serial, saw no way
of appeasing the grief and indignation of his vast audience save
by inserting in the advertisement columns of a later issue of the
journal an announcement of their union under the usual head of
"Marriages"!

VIII
IN DEFENCE OF GAMBLING
Without gambling life would lose its salt in many a humble
household. The humdrum, deadening routine of monotonous daily
toil finds relief by this creation of an outside interest; to
have a shilling on the favourite enlarges and colours existence,
gives it a wider and vaguer horizon.
Imagine the delicious anguish of suspense, the excitement of
hearing the result, the exultation of winning. And the beauty
of gambling is that you cannot lose. Gambling is really a disguised
system of purchase. One buys excitement, a most valuable emotion,
for which even the members of the Anti-Gambling League are prepared
to pay heavily in other forms!

And the advantage of gambling over all these other forms is the
possibility that you may not be called upon to pay for your
purchase after all--nay, that _you_ may even be paid instead! You
get not only excitement, but a possible bonus. Is there any earthly
transaction that offers such advantages?

Why, 't is always "heads I win, tails you lose." Who speaks of
losing at cards? As well speak of losing at play-going or
novel-reading; what is called loss is simply payment for excitement.
You cannot lose at cards, though you may win; unless it be in games
where skill preponderates, and then loss means penalty for lack
of skill. The mere transfer of money from hand to hand leaves
the wealth of the world what it was before. 'T is
redistribution, not destruction. It is scarcely relevant to look
for the evils of gambling in its effects--to point to ruined
reputations and ruined homes.

Everything is capable of abuse, from love to religion. The evil
of gambling lies in the fact that it is an unworthy form of
excitement--that it is possible to colour life more intellectually.
The Anti-Gambling League, for all its recent prospectus, will not
put down gambling among the poorer classes, except by
widening their outlook otherwise, by creating other interests
outside the dull daily groove. For the well-to-do classes there is
less excuse. With all the arts and amenities of life at their
command, it is degrading to use up time and nervous energy in so
brainless a pursuit. The gambling that is inherent in the
constitution of modern civilization is another affair:
that is pursued for the sake of gain; or for a livelihood. The Stock
Exchange is an unhappy consequence of the joint-stock company;
credit in business is an equally inevitable outcome of the ramified
mechanism of exchange. We are all gamblers to-day, insomuch
as there is no stable relation between work and reward, and the
failure of a bank in Calcutta may impoverish a shopkeeper in
Camden Town. Our investments may rise or fall in value through
the obscure machinations of unknown millionaires.
And even the Anti-Gambling League has no word to say against those
great gambling concerns, Life and Fire Assurance Societies, which
bet you that you will not die or be burnt out within a certain
number of years, or those journals which offer you large odds
that you won't be smashed up while reading them. The prudential
considerations behind these forms of gambling seem quite to moralise
them: indeed, to refuse to accept the bet of the Life Assurance
Companies is now considered immoral; a man is expected to amend on
his marriage at the very latest.

There is a form of gambling to which I must myself plead guilty. A
forlorn, shabby creature, pathetically spruced up, arrives from a
ten-mile tramp.

He has been a journalist or a poet, but owing to this or that he
is on his beam-ends. He has eaten nothing for two days. His wife
is dying, his children are weeping for food. His voice breaks
beautifully as he tells me I am his last hope. What is to be done?
According to Charles Lamb, the solution is to give, to give always.
For either the man is in need and speaks truth, or he is a liar and
therefore a consummate actor. We pay for stage representations: why
deny our obolus to the histrionics of the beggar? So
artistic a make up, an elocution with such moving notes of pathos,
surely deserve our tribute.

Nay (and this Elia forgot to note), the beggar-actor is frequently
the author of his own piece; that consistent argument, those
tragical episodes, those touches of nature, that minute detail,
all are his. For my part, this view does not touch me; I
scarcely ever pay for the play, so I expect even the beggar to
perform to me as to one of "the press."

If I give to beggars, it is purely from the gambling spirit. What are
the odds against the man being a scamp? If they are short, or
if the betting is level, I incline to the side of mercy.
The money is of so much more consequence to him than to me, if the
beggar is genuine, that the speculation is well warranted. I
know how wrong it is from the point of view of the Charity
Organization Society, but I am a man, not a bureau of beneficence.
Few of us, I fancy, escape this godly gambling.

How ill Society is ordered! We pay poor rates and support hospitals
and orphan asylums; but is there any thinking man who can banquet
with the assurance that nobody is starving? It spoils the dinner
of Dives to meditate on the longings of Lazarus, and this is the
true skeleton at the feast.

The business of philanthropy seems but a mockery, and Government
takes charitable toll from us without pacifying our consciences.

There is something rotten in the state of Denmark. Cannot the
intellect of man devise a means of guaranteeing the deserving
poor against starvation?

Novel-reading is the woman's substitute for gambling--the thing
that takes her outside her narrow circle of interests. Her
ravenous appetite for new novels is amazing; children are not so
gluttonous of cream-tarts.

To supply this demand sequestered spinsters in suburban or rustic
bowens sit spinning the woof and warp of life as it never was on
sea or land.
Bound goes the wheel, to and fro glides the shuttle, and the long,
endless pattern unwinds itself in all its wealth of imaginative
device and all its glory of fanciful colour. Poor things! What
are they to do?
They have not the means to study the life they depict; they cannot
mix in the circles they describe.

Fortunately their ignorance is their salvation; the pretty patterns
please the young ladies, the brave notes of colour set them
a-dreaming. And now in the revolt against the three-volume
novel these simple scribblers are to be swept away; the country
parcels will know them no more, and the three-deckers they built
of yore will be dismantled in the dry dock of the fourpenny box.

Poor creatures! Some will take to typewriting and some to
drink, some will be driven to the workhouse and some to literature.

IX
TRULY RURAL
"ENGINEER AND SURVEYOR'S DEPARTMENT.

"_5 & 6 Wm. IV., cap. 50, sect. 65._
"SIR,
"I am directed to call your attention to the present condition of
trees within your premises, which now overhang the public
footpath adjoining, and thereby cause considerable inconvenience
to the public. I shall be glad if you will kindly give the matter
your best attention, with a view to lopping or cutting the trees
in such a manner as to obviate the inconvenience at present complained
of.

"Yours obediently, "P. LEONARDO MACREADY, "_Engineer to the Board._"

Amid the cosmopolitan medley of letters on my metropolitan
breakfast-table--the long and formal-looking, the fat and
foreign, and the over-scrawled and the underpaid (the last mainly
requests for autographs)--this delightful home-grown epistle
came with refreshing piquancy. It brought a breath of summer into
the grey chillness of a London winter, a suggestion of rustling
foliage about the chandelier, and the scent of the hay over the
gaslights.

"My dear!" I exclaimed to the partner of my bosom (a tame
white rat that likes to perch there), "_Have we any trees?_"
My partner gave a little plaintive squeak. That is her idea
of conversation. She screams at everything. She would scream
at the sight of a mouse.

I pushed away my plate. I had sat down hungry as a hunter, and had
had two helpings of everything; but now I could eat no more.
Excitement had taken away my appetite.

The prospect of rural discoveries agitated me. I hastened to the
window and looked at the front garden. To my astonishment and joy
there was vegetation in it. There was a dwarf evergreen bush
and a fragment of vine stretching itself sleepily, and a tall
thin tree--they might all have got comfortably into one bed, but
they had been planted in three far apart, and this gave the garden
a desolate Ramsgate-in-winter air of "Beds to let."

The tall thin tree was absolutely naked, without an inch of foliage
to cover its wooden limbs; a mere mass of dry sticks. I
looked hard at the tree to see where it offended, determined to
pluck it out. But it returned my gaze with the stolidity of conscious
innocence--it held up its wooden arms in deprecation. I re-read Mr.
P.
Leonardo Macready's letter. "Which now overhang the public footpath"!
Ah!
that was what was the matter with my trees. It was raining, but I
am an Englishman and the law is sacred, and I went outside into
the public highway and looked at the tall thin tree from the new
point of view. Sure enough--very far up--there _was_ a bough
overhanging the public footpath.
I looked up at it and shook my fist menacingly, but it waved its
twigs in response with an irritating amiability. I began to understand
what an annoyance it must be to have a bough up there that you
couldn't flick at with your stick as you passed by, and that even
when weighed down by its summer greenery would bemock you if you
made a casual clutch at its foliage, and laugh at you in its leaves.
I went inside and returned with a step-ladder and an umbrella and
a carving-knife, and I stood on the summit of the ladder and made
abortive slashes at space with my right hand, while the open umbrella
in my left made equally abortive efforts to soar with me skywards.
After nearly stabbing the partner of my bosom I went in, both of
us wet like drowned rats, and as I settled myself again to coffee
and correspondence, I could not help wishing that Chang, the Chinese
giant, had remained alive to triumph over my tantalising trees.
Nor could I help wishing that the activity of the local engineers
and surveyors had been directed by His Gracious Majesty King William
IV. into quite a contrary channel.
William, spare that tree, Touch not a single bough; If you had
planted three, They would protect me now.When I treat of the peculiar duties of women, as I should treat of
the peculiar duties of a citizen or father, it will be found that I
do not mean to insinuate, that they should be taken out of their
families, speaking of the majority.  "He that hath wife and
children," says Lord Bacon, "hath given hostages to fortune; for
they are impediments to great enterprises, either of virtue or
mischief.  Certainly the best works, and of greatest merit for the
public, have proceeded from the unmarried or childless men." I say
the same of women.  But, the welfare of society is not built on
extraordinary exertions; and were it more reasonably organized,
there would be still less need of great abilities, or heroic
virtues.  In the regulation of a family, in the education of
children, understanding, in an unsophisticated sense, is
particularly required:  strength both of body and mind; yet the men
who, by their writings, have most earnestly laboured to domesticate
women, have endeavoured by arguments dictated by a gross appetite,
that satiety had rendered fastidious, to weaken their bodies and
cramp their minds.  But, if even by these sinister methods they
really PERSUADED women, by working on their feelings, to stay at
home, and fulfil the duties of a mother and mistress of a family, I
should cautiously oppose opinions that led women to right conduct,
by prevailing on them to make the discharge of a duty the business
of life, though reason were insulted.  Yet, and I appeal to
experience, if by neglecting the understanding they are as much,
nay, more attached from these domestic duties, than they could be
by the most serious intellectual pursuit, though it may be
observed, that the mass of mankind will never vigorously pursue an
intellectual object, I may be allowed to infer, that reason is
absolutely necessary to enable a woman to perform any duty
properly, and I must again repeat, that sensibility is not reason.

The comparison with the rich still occurs to me; for, when men
neglect the duties of humanity, women will do the same; a common
stream hurries them both along with thoughtless celerity.  Riches
and honours prevent a man from enlarging his understanding, and
enervate all his powers, by reversing the order of nature, which
has ever made true pleasure the reward of labour.
Pleasure--enervating pleasure is, likewise, within woman's reach
without earning it.  But, till hereditary possessions are spread
abroad, how can we expect men to be proud of virtue?  And, till
they are, women will govern them by the most direct means,
neglecting their dull domestic duties, to catch the pleasure that
is on the wing of time.

"The power of women," says some author, "is her sensibility;" and
men not aware of the consequence, do all they can to make this
power swallow up every other.  Those who constantly employ their
sensibility will have most: for example; poets, painters, and
composers.  Yet, when the sensibility is thus increased at the
expense of reason, and even the imagination, why do philosophical
men complain of their fickleness?  The sexual attention of man
particularly acts on female sensibility, and this sympathy has been
exercised from their youth up.  A husband cannot long pay those
attentions with the passion necessary to excite lively emotions,
and the heart, accustomed to lively emotions, turns to a new lover,
or pines in secret, the prey of virtue or prudence.  I mean when
the heart has really been rendered susceptible, and the taste
formed; for I am apt to conclude, from what I have seen in
fashionable life, that vanity is oftener fostered than sensibility
by the mode of education, and the intercourse between the sexes,
which I have reprobated; and that coquetry more frequently proceeds
from vanity than from that inconstancy, which overstrained
sensibility naturally produces.

Another argument that has had a great weight with me, must, I
think, have some force with every considerate benevolent heart.
Girls, who have been thus weakly educated, are often cruelly left
by their parents without any provision; and, of course, are
dependent on, not only the reason, but the bounty of their
brothers.  These brothers are, to view the fairest side of the
question, good sort of men, and give as a favour, what children of
the same parents had an equal right to.  In this equivocal
humiliating situation, a docile female may remain some time, with a
tolerable degree of comfort.  But, when the brother marries, a
probable circumstance, from being considered as the mistress of the
family, she is viewed with averted looks as an intruder, an
unnecessary burden on the benevolence of the master of the house,
and his new partner.

Who can recount the misery, which many unfortunate beings, whose
minds and bodies are equally weak, suffer in such
situations--unable to work and ashamed to beg?  The wife, a
cold-hearted, narrow-minded woman, and this is not an unfair
supposition; for the present mode of education does not tend to
enlarge the heart any more than the understanding, is jealous of
the little kindness which her husband shows to his relations; and
her sensibility not rising to humanity, she is displeased at seeing
the property of HER children lavished on an helpless sister.

These are matters of fact, which have come under my eye again and
again.  The consequence is obvious, the wife has recourse to
cunning to undermine the habitual affection, which she is afraid
openly to oppose; and neither tears nor caresses are spared till
the spy is worked out of her home, and thrown on the world,
unprepared for its difficulties; or sent, as a great effort of
generosity, or from some regard to propriety, with a small stipend,
and an uncultivated mind into joyless solitude.

These two women may be much upon a par, with respect to reason and
humanity; and changing situations, might have acted just the same
selfish part; but had they been differently educated, the case
would also have been very different.  The wife would not have had
that sensibility, of which self is the centre, and reason might
have taught her not to expect, and not even to be flattered by the
affection of her husband, if it led him to violate prior duties.
She would wish not to love him, merely because he loved her, but on
account of his virtues; and the sister might have been able to
struggle for herself, instead of eating the bitter bread of
dependence.

I am, indeed, persuaded that the heart, as well as the
understanding, is opened by cultivation; and by, which may not
appear so clear, strengthening the organs; I am not now talking of
momentary flashes of sensibility, but of affections.  And, perhaps,
in the education of both sexes, the most difficult task is so to
adjust instruction as not to narrow the understanding, whilst the
heart is warmed by the generous juices of spring, just raised by
the electric fermentation of the season; nor to dry up the feelings
by employing the mind in investigations remote from life.

With respect to women, when they receive a careful education, they
are either made fine ladies, brimful of sensibility, and teeming
with capricious fancies; or mere notable women.  The latter are
often friendly, honest creatures, and have a shrewd kind of good
sense joined with worldly prudence, that often render them more
useful members of society than the fine sentimental lady, though
they possess neither greatness of mind nor taste.  The intellectual
world is shut against them; take them out of their family or
neighbourhood, and they stand still; the mind finding no
employment, for literature affords a fund of amusement, which they
have never sought to relish, but frequently to despise.  The
sentiments and taste of more cultivated minds appear ridiculous,
even in those whom chance and family connexions have led them to
love; but in mere acquaintance they think it all affectation.

A man of sense can only love such a woman on account of her sex,
and respect her, because she is a trusty servant.  He lets her, to
preserve his own peace, scold the servants, and go to church in
clothes made of the very best materials.  A man of her own size of
understanding would, probably, not agree so well with her; for he
might wish to encroach on her prerogative, and manage some domestic
concerns himself.  Yet women, whose minds are not enlarged by
cultivation, or the natural selfishness of sensibility expanded by
reflection, are very unfit to manage a family; for by an undue
stretch of power, they are always tyrannizing to support a
superiority that only rests on the arbitrary distinction of
fortune.  The evil is sometimes more serious, and domestics are
deprived of innocent indulgences, and made to work beyond their
strength, in order to enable the notable woman to keep a better
table, and outshine her neighbours in finery and parade.  If she
attend to her children, it is, in general, to dress them in a
costly manner--and, whether, this attention arises from vanity or
fondness, it is equally pernicious.

Besides, how many women of this description pass their days, or, at
least their evenings, discontentedly.  Their husbands acknowledge
that they are good managers, and chaste wives; but leave home to
seek for more agreeable, may I be allowed to use a significant
French word, piquant society; and the patient drudge, who fulfils
her task, like a blind horse in a mill, is defrauded of her just
reward; for the wages due to her are the caresses of her husband;
and women who have so few resources in themselves, do not very
patiently bear this privation of a natural right.

A fine lady, on the contrary, has been taught to look down with
contempt on the vulgar employments of life; though she has only
been incited to acquire accomplishments that rise a degree above
sense; for even corporeal accomplishments cannot be acquired with
any degree of precision, unless the understanding has been
strengthened by exercise.  Without a foundation of principles taste
is superficial; and grace must arise from something deeper than
imitation.  The imagination, however, is heated, and the feelings
rendered fastidious, if not sophisticated; or, a counterpoise of
judgment is not acquired, when the heart still remains artless,
though it becomes too tender.

These women are often amiable; and their hearts are really more
sensible to general benevolence, more alive to the sentiments that
civilize life, than the square elbowed family drudge; but, wanting
a due proportion of reflection and self-government, they only
inspire love; and are the mistresses of their husbands, whilst they
have any hold on their affections; and the platonic friends of his
male acquaintance.  These are the fair defects in nature; the women
who appear to be created not to enjoy the fellowship of man, but to
save him from sinking into absolute brutality, by rubbing off the
rough angles of his character; and by playful dalliance to give
some dignity to the appetite that draws him to them.  Gracious
Creator of the whole human race! hast thou created such a being as
woman, who can trace thy wisdom in thy works, and feel that thou
alone art by thy nature, exalted above her--for no better purpose?
Can she believe that she was only made to submit to man her equal;
a being, who, like her, was sent into the world to acquire virtue?
Can she consent to be occupied merely to please him; merely to
adorn the earth, when her soul is capable of rising to thee?  And
can she rest supinely dependent on man for reason, when she ought
to mount with him the arduous steeps of knowledge?

Yet, if love be the supreme good, let women be only educated to
inspire it, and let every charm be polished to intoxicate the
senses; but, if they are moral beings, let them have a chance to
become intelligent; and let love to man be only a part of that
glowing flame of universal love, which, after encircling humanity,
mounts in grateful incense to God.

To fulfil domestic duties much resolution is necessary, and a
serious kind of perseverance that requires a more firm support than
emotions, however lively and true to nature.  To give an example of
order, the soul of virtue, some austerity of behaviour must be
adopted, scarcely to be expected from a being who, from its
infancy, has been made the weathercock of its own sensations.
Whoever rationally means to be useful, must have a plan of conduct;
and, in the discharge of the simplest duty, we are often obliged to
act contrary to the present impulse of tenderness or compassion.
Severity is frequently the most certain, as well as the most
sublime proof of affection; and the want of this power over the
feelings, and of that lofty, dignified affection, which makes a
person prefer the future good of the beloved object to a present
gratification, is the reason why so many fond mothers spoil their
children, and has made it questionable, whether negligence or
indulgence is most hurtful:  but I am inclined to think, that the
latter has done most harm.

Mankind seem to agree, that children should be left under the
management of women during their childhood.  Now, from all the
observation that I have been able to make, women of sensibility are
the most unfit for this task, because they will infallibly, carried
away by their feelings, spoil a child's temper.  The management of
the temper, the first and most important branch of education,
requires the sober steady eye of reason; a plan of conduct equally
distant from tyranny and indulgence; yet these are the extremes
that people of sensibility alternately fall into; always shooting
beyond the mark.  I have followed this train of reasoning much
further, till I have concluded, that a person of genius is the most
improper person to be employed in education, public or private.
Minds of this rare species see things too much in masses, and
seldom, if ever, have a good temper.  That habitual cheerfulness,
termed good humour, is, perhaps, as seldom united with great mental
powers, as with strong feelings.  And those people who follow, with
interest and admiration, the flights of genius; or, with cooler
approbation suck in the instruction, which has been elaborately
prepared for them by the profound thinker, ought not to be
disgusted, if they find the former choleric, and the latter morose;
because liveliness of fancy, and a tenacious comprehension of mind,
are scarcely compatible with that pliant urbanity which leads a
man, at least to bend to the opinions and prejudices of others,
instead of roughly confronting them.

But, treating of education or manners, minds of a superior class
are not to be considered, they may be left to chance; it is the
multitude, with moderate abilities, who call for instruction, and
catch the colour of the atmosphere they breathe.  This respectable
concourse, I contend, men and women, should not have their
sensations heightened in the hot-bed of luxurious indolence, at the
expence of their understanding; for, unless there be a ballast of
understanding, they will never become either virtuous or free:  an
aristocracy, founded on property, or sterling talents, will ever
sweep before it, the alternately timid and ferocious slaves of
feeling.

Numberless are the arguments, to take another view of the subject,
brought forward with a show of reason; because supposed to be
deduced from nature, that men have used morally and physically to
degrade the sex.  I must notice a few.

The female understanding has often been spoken of with contempt, as
arriving sooner at maturity than the male.  I shall not answer this
argument by alluding to the early proofs of reason, as well as
genius, in Cowley, Milton, and Pope, (Many other names might be
added.) but only appeal to experience to decide whether young men,
who are early introduced into company (and examples now abound) do
not acquire the same precocity.  So notorious is this fact, that
the bare mentioning of it must bring before people, who at all mix
in the world, the idea of a number of swaggering apes of men whose
understandings are narrowed by being brought into the society of
men when they ought to have been spinning a top or twirling a hoop.

It has also been asserted, by some naturalists, that men do not
attain their full growth and strength till thirty; but that women
arrive at maturity by twenty.  I apprehend that they reason on
false ground, led astray by the male prejudice, which deems beauty
the perfection of woman--mere beauty of features and complexion,
the vulgar acceptation of the world, whilst male beauty is allowed
to have some connexion with the mind.  Strength of body, and that
character of countenance, which the French term a physionomie,
women do not acquire before thirty, any more than men.  The little
artless tricks of children, it is true, are particularly pleasing
and attractive; yet, when the pretty freshness of youth is worn
off, these artless graces become studied airs, and disgust every
person of taste.  In the countenance of girls we only look for
vivacity and bashful modesty; but, the springtide of life over, we
look for soberer sense in the face, and for traces of passion,
instead of the dimples of animal spirits; expecting to see
individuality of character, the only fastener of the affections.
We then wish to converse, not to fondle; to give scope to our
imaginations, as well as to the sensations of our hearts.

At twenty the beauty of both sexes is equal; but the libertinism of
man leads him to make the distinction, and superannuated coquettes
are commonly of the same opinion; for when they can no longer
inspire love, they pay for the vigour and vivacity of youth.  The
French who admit more of mind into their notions of beauty, give
the preference to women of thirty.  I mean to say, that they allow
women to be in their most perfect state, when vivacity gives place
to reason, and to that majestic seriousness of character, which
marks maturity; or, the resting point.  In youth, till twenty the
body shoots out; till thirty the solids are attaining a degree of
density; and the flexible muscles, growing daily more rigid, give
character to the countenance; that is, they trace the operations of
the mind with the iron pen of fate, and tell us not only what
powers are within, but how they have been employed.

It is proper to observe, that animals who arrive slowly at
maturity, are the longest lived, and of the noblest species.  Men
cannot, however, claim any natural superiority from the grandeur of
longevity; for in this respect nature has not distinguished the
male.

Polygamy is another physical degradation; and a plausible argument
for a custom, that blasts every domestic virtue, is drawn from the
well-attested fact, that in the countries where it is established,
more females are born than males.  This appears to be an indication
of nature, and to nature apparently reasonable speculations must
yield.  A further conclusion obviously presents itself; if polygamy
be necessary, woman must be inferior to man, and made for him.

With respect to the formation of the foetus in the womb, we are
very ignorant; but it appears to me probable, that an accidental
physical cause may account for this phenomenon, and prove it not to
be a law of nature.  I have met with some pertinent observations on
the subject in Forster's Account of the Isles of the South Sea,
that will explain my meaning.  After observing that of the two
sexes amongst animals, the most vigorous and hottest constitution
always prevails, and produces its kind; he adds,--"If this be
applied to the inhabitants of Africa, it is evident that the men
there, accustomed to polygamy, are enervated by the use of so many
women, and therefore less vigorous; the women on the contrary, are
of a hotter constitution, not only on account of their more
irritable nerves, more sensitive organization, and more lively
fancy; but likewise because they are deprived in their matrimony of
that share of physical love which in a monogamous condition, would
all be theirs; and thus for the above reasons, the generality of
children are born females."

"In the greater part of Europe it has been proved by the most
accurate lists of mortality, that the proportion of men to women is
nearly equal, or, if any difference takes place, the males born are
more numerous, in the proportion of 105 to 100."

The necessity of polygamy, therefore, does not appear; yet when a
man seduces a woman, it should I think, be termed a LEFT-HANDED
marriage, and the man should be LEGALLY obliged to maintain the
woman and her children, unless adultery, a natural divorcement,
abrogated the law.  And this law should remain in force as long as
the weakness of women caused the word seduction to be used as an
excuse for their frailty and want of principle; nay, while they
depend on man for a subsistence, instead of earning it by the
exercise of their own hands or heads.  But these women should not
in the full meaning of the relationship, be termed wives, or the
very purpose of marriage would be subverted, and all those
endearing charities that flow from personal fidelity, and give a
sanctity to the tie, when neither love nor friendship unites the
hearts, would melt into selfishness.  The woman who is faithful to
the father of her children demands respect, and should not be
treated like a prostitute; though I readily grant, that if it be
necessary for a man and woman to live together in order to bring up
their offspring, nature never intended that a man should have more
than one wife.

Still, highly as I respect marriage, as the foundation of almost
every social virtue, I cannot avoid feeling the most lively
compassion for those unfortunate females who are broken off from
society, and by one error torn from all those affections and
relationships that improve the heart and mind.  It does not
frequently even deserve the name of error; for many innocent girls
become the dupes of a sincere affectionate heart, and still more
are, as it may emphatically be termed, RUINED before they know the
difference between virtue and vice:  and thus prepared by their
education for infamy, they become infamous.  Asylums and Magdalens
are not the proper remedies for these abuses.  It is justice, not
charity, that is wanting in the world!

A woman who has lost her honour, imagines that she cannot fall
lower, and as for recovering her former station, it is impossible;
no exertion can wash this stain away.  Losing thus every spur, and
having no other means of support, prostitution becomes her only
refuge, and the character is quickly depraved by circumstances over
which the poor wretch has little power, unless she possesses an
uncommon portion of sense and loftiness of spirit.  Necessity never
makes prostitution the business of men's lives; though numberless
are the women who are thus rendered systematically vicious.  This,
however, arises, in a great degree, from the state of idleness in
which women are educated, who are always taught to look up to man
for a maintenance, and to consider their persons as the proper
return for his exertions to support them.  Meretricious airs, and
the whole science of wantonness, has then a more powerful stimulus
than either appetite or vanity; and this remark gives force to the
prevailing opinion, that with chastity all is lost that is
respectable in woman.  Her character depends on the observance of
one virtue, though the only passion fostered in her heart--is love.
Nay the honour of a woman is not made even to depend on her will.

When Richardson makes Clarissa tell Lovelace that he had robbed her
of her honour, he must have had strange notions of honour and
virtue.  For, miserable beyond all names of misery is the condition
of a being, who could be degraded without its own consent!  This
excess of strictness I have heard vindicated as a salutary error.
I shall answer in the words of Leibnitz--"Errors are often useful;
but it is commonly to remedy other errors."

Most of the evils of life arise from a desire of present enjoyment
that outruns itself.  The obedience required of women in the
marriage state, comes under this description; the mind, naturally
weakened by depending on authority, never exerts its own powers,
and the obedient wife is thus rendered a weak indolent mother.  Or,
supposing that this is not always the consequence, a future state
of existence is scarcely taken into the reckoning when only
negative virtues are cultivated.  For in treating of morals,
particularly when women are alluded to, writers have too often
considered virtue in a very limited sense, and made the foundation
of it SOLELY worldly utility; nay, a still more fragile base has
been given to this stupendous fabric, and the wayward fluctuating
feelings of men have been made the standard of virtue.  Yes, virtue
as well as religion, has been subjected to the decisions of taste.

It would almost provoke a smile of contempt, if the vain
absurdities of man did not strike us on all sides, to observe, how
eager men are to degrade the sex from whom they pretend to receive
the chief pleasure of life; and I have frequently, with full
conviction, retorted Pope's sarcasm on them; or, to speak
explicitly, it has appeared to me applicable to the whole human
race.  A love of pleasure or sway seems to divide mankind, and the
husband who lords it in his little harem, thinks only of his
pleasure or his convenience.  To such lengths, indeed, does an
intemperate love of pleasure carry some prudent men, or worn out
libertines, who marry to have a safe companion, that they seduce
their own wives.  Hymen banishes modesty, and chaste love takes its
flight.

Love, considered as an animal appetite, cannot long feed on itself
without expiring.  And this extinction, in its own flame, may be
termed the violent death of love.  But the wife who has thus been
rendered licentious, will probably endeavour to fill the void left
by the loss of her husband's attentions; for she cannot contentedly
become merely an upper servant after having been treated like a
goddess.  She is still handsome, and, instead of transferring her
fondness to her children, she only dreams of enjoying the sunshine
of life.  Besides, there are many husbands so devoid of sense and
parental affection, that during the first effervescence of
voluptuous fondness, they refuse to let their wives suckle their
children.  They are only to dress and live to please them:  and
love, even innocent love, soon sinks into lasciviousness when the
exercise of a duty is sacrificed to its indulgence.

Personal attachment is a very happy foundation for friendship; yet,
when even two virtuous young people marry, it would, perhaps, be
happy if some circumstance checked their passion; if the
recollection of some prior attachment, or disappointed affection,
made it on one side, at least, rather a match founded on esteem.
In that case they would look beyond the present moment, and try to
render the whole of life respectable, by forming a plan to regulate
a friendship which only death ought to dissolve.

Friendship is a serious affection; the most sublime of all
affections, because it is founded on principle, and cemented by
time.  The very reverse may be said of love.  In a great degree,
love and friendship cannot subsist in the same bosom; even when
inspired by different objects they weaken or destroy each other,
and for the same object can only be felt in succession.  The vain
fears and fond jealousies, the winds which fan the flame of love,
when judiciously or artfully tempered, are both incompatible with
the tender confidence and sincere respect of friendship.

Love, such as the glowing pen of genius has traced, exists not on
earth, or only resides in those exalted, fervid imaginations that
have sketched such dangerous pictures.  Dangerous, because they not
only afford a plausible excuse to the voluptuary, who disguises
sheer sensuality under a sentimental veil; but as they spread
affectation, and take from the dignity of virtue.  Virtue, as the
very word imports, should have an appearance of seriousness, if not
austerity; and to endeavour to trick her out in the garb of
pleasure, because the epithet has been used as another name for
beauty, is to exalt her on a quicksand; a most insidious attempt to
hasten her fall by apparent respect.  Virtue, and pleasure are not,
in fact, so nearly allied in this life as some eloquent writers
have laboured to prove.  Pleasure prepares the fading wreath, and
mixes the intoxicating cup; but the fruit which virtue gives, is
the recompence of toil:  and, gradually seen as it ripens, only
affords calm satisfaction; nay, appearing to be the result of the
natural tendency of things, it is scarcely observed.  Bread, the
common food of life, seldom thought of as a blessing, supports the
constitution, and preserves health; still feasts delight the heart
of man, though disease and even death lurk in the cup or dainty
that elevates the spirits or tickles the palate.  The lively heated
imagination in the same style, draws the picture of love, as it
draws every other picture, with those glowing colours, which the
daring hand will steal from the rainbow that is directed by a mind,
condemned, in a world like this, to prove its noble origin, by
panting after unattainable perfection; ever pursuing what it
acknowledges to be a fleeting dream.  An imagination of this
vigorous cast can give existence to insubstantial forms, and
stability to the shadowy reveries which the mind naturally falls
into when realities are found vapid.  It can then depict love with
celestial charms, and dote on the grand ideal object; it can
imagine a degree of mutual affection that shall refine the soul,
and not expire when it has served as a "scale to heavenly;" and,
like devotion, make it absorb every meaner affection and desire.
In each other's arms, as in a temple, with its summit lost in the
clouds, the world is to be shut out, and every thought and wish,
that do not nurture pure affection and permanent virtue.  Permanent
virtue! alas! Rousseau, respectable visionary! thy paradise would
soon be violated by the entrance of some unexpected guest.  Like
Milton's, it would only contain angels, or men sunk below the
dignity of rational creatures.  Happiness is not material, it
cannot be seen or felt!  Yet the eager pursuit of the good which
every one shapes to his own fancy, proclaims man the lord of this
lower world, and to be an intelligential creature, who is not to
receive, but acquire happiness.  They, therefore, who complain of
the delusions of passion, do not recollect that they are exclaiming
against a strong proof of the immortality of the soul.

But, leaving superior minds to correct themselves, and pay dearly
for their experience, it is necessary to observe, that it is not
against strong, persevering passions; but romantic, wavering
feelings, that I wish to guard the female heart by exercising the
understanding; for these paradisiacal reveries are oftener the
effect of idleness than of a lively fancy.

Women have seldom sufficient serious employment to silence their
feelings; a round of little cares, or vain pursuits, frittering
away all strength of mind and organs, they become naturally only
objects of sense.  In short, the whole tenor of female education
(the education of society) tends to render the best disposed,
romantic and inconstant; and the remainder vain and mean.  In the
present state of society, this evil can scarcely be remedied, I am
afraid, in the slightest degree; should a more laudable ambition
ever gain ground, they may be brought nearer to nature and reason,
and become more virtuous and useful as they grow more respectable.

But I will venture to assert, that their reason will never acquire
sufficient strength to enable it to regulate their conduct, whilst
the making an appearance in the world is the first wish of the
majority of mankind.  To this weak wish the natural affections and
the most useful virtues are sacrificed.  Girls marry merely to
BETTER THEMSELVES, to borrow a significant vulgar phrase, and have
such perfect power over their hearts as not to permit themselves to
FALL IN LOVE till a man with a superior fortune offers.  On this
subject I mean to enlarge in a future chapter; it is only necessary
to drop a hint at present, because women are so often degraded by
suffering the selfish prudence of age to chill the ardour of youth.

>From the same source flows an opinion that young girls ought to
dedicate great part of their time to needle work; yet, this
employment contracts their faculties more than any other that could
have been chosen for them, by confining their thoughts to their
persons.  Men order their clothes to be made, and have done with
the subject; women make their own clothes, necessary or ornamental,
and are continually talking about them; and their thoughts follow
their hands.  It is not indeed the making of necessaries that
weakens the mind; but the frippery of dress.  For when a woman in
the lower rank of life makes her husband's and children's clothes,
she does her duty, this is part of her business; but when women
work only to dress better than they could otherwise afford, it is
worse than sheer loss of time.  To render the poor virtuous, they
must be employed, and women in the middle rank of life did they not
ape the fashions of the nobility, without catching their ease,
might employ them, whilst they themselves managed their families,
instructed their children, and exercised their own minds.
Gardening, experimental philosophy, and literature, would afford
them subjects to think of, and matter for conversation, that in
some degree would exercise their understandings.  The conversation
of French women, who are not so rigidly nailed to their chairs, to
twist lappets, and knot ribbands, is frequently superficial; but, I
contend, that it is not half so insipid as that of those English
women, whose time is spent in making caps, bonnets, and the whole
mischief of trimmings, not to mention shopping, bargain-hunting,
etc. etc.:  and it is the decent, prudent women, who are most
degraded by these practices; for their motive is simply vanity.
The wanton, who exercises her taste to render her person alluring,
has something more in view.

These observations all branch out of a general one, which I have
before made, and which cannot be too often insisted upon, for,
speaking of men, women, or professions, it will be found, that the
employment of the thoughts shapes the character both generally and
individually.  The thoughts of women ever hover around their
persons, and is it surprising that their persons are reckoned most
valuable?  Yet some degree of liberty of mind is necessary even to
form the person; and this may be one reason why some gentle wives
have so few attractions beside that of sex.  Add to this, sedentary
employments render the majority of women sickly, and false notions
of female excellence make them proud of this delicacy, though it be
another fetter, that by calling the attention continually to the
body, cramps the activity of the mind.

Women of quality seldom do any of the manual part of their dress,
consequently only their taste is exercised, and they acquire, by
thinking less of the finery, when the business of their toilet is
over, that ease, which seldom appears in the deportment of women,
who dress merely for the sake of dressing.  In fact, the
observation with respect to the middle rank, the one in which
talents thrive best, extends not to women; for those of the
superior class, by catching, at least a smattering of literature,
and conversing more with men, on general topics, acquire more
knowledge than the women who ape their fashions and faults without
sharing their advantages.  With respect to virtue, to use the word
in a comprehensive sense, I have seen most in low life.  Many poor
women maintain their children by the sweat of their brow, and keep
together families that the vices of the fathers would have
scattered abroad; but gentlewomen are too indolent to be actively
virtuous, and are softened rather than refined by civilization.
Indeed the good sense which I have met with among the poor women
who have had few advantages of education, and yet have acted
heroically, strongly confirmed me in the opinion, that trifling
employments have rendered women a trifler.  Men, taking her ('I
take her body,' says Ranger.) body, the mind is left to rust; so
that while physical love enervates man, as being his favourite
recreation, he will endeavour to enslave woman:  and who can tell
how many generations may be necessary to give vigour to the virtue
and talents of the freed posterity of abject slaves?  ('Supposing
that women are voluntary slaves--slavery of any kind is
unfavourable to human happiness and improvement.'--'Knox's
Essays'.)

In tracing the causes that in my opinion, have degraded woman, I
have confined my observations to such as universally act upon the
morals and manners of the whole sex, and to me it appears clear,
that they all spring from want of understanding.  Whether this
arises from a physical or accidental weakness of faculties, time
alone can determine; for I shall not lay any great stress upon the
example of a few women (Sappho, Eloisa, Mrs. Macaulay, the Empress
of Russia, Madame d'Eon, etc.  These, and many more, may be
reckoned exceptions; and, are not all heroes, as well as heroines,
exceptions to general rules?  I wish to see women neither heroines
nor brutes; but reasonable creatures.) who, from having received a
masculine education, have acquired courage and resolution; I only
contend that the men who have been placed in similar situations
have acquired a similar character, I speak of bodies of men, and
that men of genius and talents have started out of a class, in
which women have never yet been placed.


CHAPTER 5.

ANIMADVERSIONS ON SOME OF THE WRITERS WHO HAVE RENDERED WOMEN
OBJECTS OF PITY, BORDERING ON CONTEMPT.

The opinions speciously supported, in some modern publications on
the female character, and education, which have given the tone to
most of the observations made, in a more cursory manner, on the
sex, remain now to be examined.

SECTION 5.1.

I shall begin with Rousseau, and give a sketch of the character of
women in his own words, interspersing comments and reflections.  My
comments, it is true, will all spring from a few simple principles,
and might have been deduced from what I have already said; but the
artificial structure has been raised with so much ingenuity, that
it seems necessary to attack it in a more circumstantial manner,
and make the application myself.

Sophia, says Rousseau, should be as perfect a woman as Emilius is a
man, and to render her so, it is necessary to examine the character
which nature has given to the sex.

He then proceeds to prove, that women ought to be weak and passive,
because she has less bodily strength than man; and from hence
infers, that she was formed to please and to be subject to him; and
that it is her duty to render herself AGREEABLE to her master--this
being the grand end of her existence.

Supposing women to have been formed only to please, and be subject
to man, the conclusion is just, she ought to sacrifice every other
consideration to render herself agreeable to him:  and let this
brutal desire of self-preservation be the grand spring of all her
actions, when it is proved to be the iron bed of fate, to fit
which, her character should be stretched or contracted, regardless
of all moral or physical distinctions.  But if, as I think may be
demonstrated, the purposes of even this life, viewing the whole,
are subverted by practical rules built upon this ignoble base, I
may be allowed to doubt whether woman was created for man:  and
though the cry of irreligion, or even atheism be raised against me,
I will simply declare, that were an angel from heaven to tell me
that Moses's beautiful, poetical cosmogony, and the account of the
fall of man, were literally true, I could not believe what my
reason told me was derogatory to the character of the Supreme
Being:  and, having no fear of the devil before mine eyes, I
venture to call this a suggestion of reason, instead of resting my
weakness on the broad shoulders of the first seducer of my frail
sex.

"It being once demonstrated," continues Rousseau, "that man and
woman are not, nor ought to be, constituted alike in temperament
and character, it follows of course, that they should not be
educated in the same manner.  In pursuing the directions of nature,
they ought indeed to act in concert, but they should not be engaged
in the same employments:  the end of their pursuits should be the
same, but the means they should take to accomplish them, and, of
consequence, their tastes and inclinations should be different."
(Rousseau's 'Emilius', Volume 3 page 176.)

"Girls are from their earliest infancy fond of dress.  Not content
with being pretty, they are desirous of being thought so; we see,
by all their little airs, that this thought engages their
attention; and they are hardly capable of understanding what is
said to them, before they are to be governed by talking to them of
what people will think of their behaviour.  The same motive,
however, indiscreetly made use of with boys, has not the same
effect:  provided they are let to pursue their amusements at
pleasure, they care very little what people think of them.  Time
and pains are necessary to subject boys to this motive.

"Whencesoever girls derive this first lesson it is a very good one.
As the body is born, in a manner before the soul, our first concern
should be to cultivate the former; this order is common to both
sexes, but the object of that cultivation is different.  In the one
sex it is the developement of corporeal powers; in the other, that
of personal charms:  not that either the quality of strength or
beauty ought to be confined exclusively to one sex; but only that
the order of the cultivation of both is in that respect reversed.
Women certainly require as much strength as to enable them to move
and act gracefully, and men as much address as to qualify them to
act with ease."

*    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *    *

"Children of both sexes have a great many amusements in common; and
so they ought; have they not also many such when they are grown up?
There was a ring of pathos in his voice that seemed like the
echo of some sorrowful story.

"Are you sure that you have no other name than Janet Hope?"
he asked, presently.

"None, sir, that I know of. I have been called Janet Hope ever since
I can remember."
"But about your parents?

What were they called, and where did they live?"

"I know nothing whatever about them except what Sister Agnes told
me yesterday."
"And she said--what?"
"That my father was drowned abroad several years ago, and that my
mother died a year later."
"Poverina! But it is strange that Sister Agnes should have known
your parents. Perhaps she can supply the missing link. The mention
of her name reminds me that I have not yet sent word to Deepley
Walls that you are safe and sound at Rose Cottage. Geordie must
start without a moment's delay. I am an old friend of Lady Chillington,
my dear, so that she will be quite satisfied when she learns that
you are under my roof."
"But, sir, when shall I see the gentleman who got me out of the water?"
I asked.

"What, Geordie? Oh, you'll see Geordie in the morning, never fear!
A good boy! a fine boy! though it's his old uncle who says it."
Then he rang the bell, and when Deborah, his only servant, came up,
he committed me with many injunctions into her charge. Then taking
my head gently between his hands, he kissed me tenderly on the
forehead, and wished me "Good-night, and happy dreams."
Deborah was very kind. She brought me up a delicious little supper,
and decided that there was no need for me to take the doctor's
nauseous mixture. She took it herself instead, but merely as a sop
to her conscience and my own; "for, after all, you know, there's
very little difference in physic--it's all nasty; and I daresay
this mixture will do my lumbago no harm."
The effects of the accident had almost entirely passed away by next
morning, and I was dressed and downstairs by seven o'clock.

I found the Major hard at work digging up the garden for his
winter crops. "Ah, Poppetina, down so early!" he cried. "And how
do we feel this morning, eh? None the worse for our ducking, I
hope."
I assured him that I was quite well, and that I had never felt
better in my life.

"That will be good news for her ladyship," he replied, "and
will prove to her that Miss Hope has not fallen among Philistines.
In any case, she cannot be more pleased than I am to find that you
have sustained no harm from your accident. There is something,
Poverina, in that face of yours that brings back the past to me
strangely. But here comes Master Geordie."
I turned and saw a young man sauntering slowly down the
pathway. He was very fair, and, to me, seemed very handsome.
He had blue eyes, and his hair was a mass of short, crisp flaxen
curls. From the way in which the Major regarded him as he came
lounging up, I could see that the old soldier was very proud of
his young Adonis of a nephew.

The latter lifted his hat as he opened the wicket, and bade his
uncle good-morning.
Me he did not for the moment see.

"Miss Hope is not up yet, I suppose?" he said. "I trust she is none
the worse for her tumble over the weir."
"Our little water-nymph is here to answer for herself," said the
Major.

"The roses in her cheeks seem all the brighter for their wetting."

George Strickland turned smilingly towards me, and held out his
hand. "I am very glad to find that you have suffered so little from
your accident," he said. "When I fished you out of the river last
night you looked so death-like that I was afraid we should not be
able to bring you round without difficulty."
Tears stood in my eyes as I took his hand. "Oh, sir, how brave, how
noble it was of you to act as you did! You saved my life at the
risk of your own; and how can I ever thank you enough?"
A bright colour came into his cheek as I spoke. "My dear child,
you must not speak in that way," he said. "What I did was
a very ordinary thing.
Anyone else in my place would have done precisely the same.
I must not claim more merit than is due for an action so simple."

"To you it may seem a simple thing to do, but I cannot forget that
it was my life that you saved."

"What an old-fashioned princess it is!" said the Major. "Why,
it must have been born a hundred years ago, and have had a fairy
for its godmother. But here comes Deborah to tell us that breakfast
is ready.
Toasted bacon is better than pretty speeches; so come along with
you, and make believe that you have known each other for a
twelvemonth at least."
Rose Cottage was a tiny place, and there were not wanting proofs
that the Major's income was commensurate with the scale of his
establishment.

A wise economy had to be a guiding rule in Major Strickland's
life, otherwise Mr. George's college expenses would never have been
met, and that young gentleman would not have had a proper
start in life. Deborah was the only servant that the little household
could afford; but then the Major himself was gardener, butler,
valet and page in one.

Thus--he cleaned the knives in a machine of his own invention; he
brushed his own clothes; he lacquered his own boots, and at a
pinch could mend them. He dug and planted his own garden, and grew
enough potatoes and greenstuff to serve his little family the year
round. In a little paddock behind his garden the Major kept a cow;
in the garden itself he had half-a-dozen hives; while not far away
was a fowl-house that supplied him with more eggs than he could
dispose of, except by sale.

The Major's maxim was, that the humblest offices of labour could be
dignified by a gentleman, and by his own example he proved the rule.
What few leisure hours he allowed himself were chiefly spent with
rod and line on the banks of the Adair.

George Strickland was an orphan, and had been adopted and brought
up by his uncle since he was six years old. So far, the uncle had
been able to supply the means for having him educated in accordance
with his wishes. For the last three years George had been at
one of the public schools, and now he was at home for a few weeks'
holiday previously to going to Cambridge.

It will of course be understood that but a very small portion of
what is here set down respecting Rose Cottage and its inmates was
patent to me at that first visit; much of it, indeed, did not
come within my cognizance till several years afterwards.

When breakfast was over, the Major lighted an immense meerschaum,
and then invited me to accompany him over his little demesne. To
a girl whose life had been spent within the four bare walls
of a school-room, everything was fresh and everything was
delightful. First to the fowl-house, then to the hives, and after
that to see the brindled calf in the paddock, whose gambols and
general mode of conducting himself were so utterly absurd
that I laughed more in ten minutes after seeing him than I had done
in ten years previously.

When we got back to the cottage, George was ready to take me
on the river. The Major went down with us and saw us safely on board
the _Water Lily_, bade us good-bye for an hour, and then went
about his morning's business.

I was rather frightened at first, the _Water Lily_ was such a
tiny craft, so long and narrow that it seemed to me as if the least
movement on one side must upset it. But George showed me exactly
where to sit, and gave me the tiller-ropes, with instructions
how to manage them, and was himself so full of quiet confidence that
my fears quickly died a natural death, and a sweet sense of enjoyment
took their place.

We were on that part of the river which was below the weir,
and as we put out from shore the scene of my last night's adventure
was clearly visible. There, spanning the river just above the
weir, was the open-work timber bridge on which George was standing
when my cry for help struck his ears. There was the weir itself,
a sheet of foaming, frothing water, that as it fell dashed itself
in white-lipped passion against the rounded boulders that seemed
striving in vain to turn it from its course. And here, a
little way from the bottom of the weir, was the pool of quiet water
over which our little boat was now cleaving its way, and out of
which the handsome young man now sitting opposite to me had plucked
me, bruised and senseless, only a few short hours ago.

I shuddered and could feel myself turn pale as I looked. George
seemed to read my thoughts; he smiled, but said nothing. Then
bending all his strength to the oars, he sent the _Water Lily_
spinning on her course.
All my skill and attention were needed for the proper management
of the tiller, and for a little while all morbid musings were
banished from my mind.

Scarcely a word passed between us during the next half-hour, but I
was too happy to care much for conversation. When we had gone a
couple of miles or more, George pointed out a ruinous old house that
stood on a dreary flat about a quarter of a mile from the river.
Many years ago, he told me, that house had been the scene of a
terrible murder, and was said to have been haunted ever since. Nobody
would live in it; it was shunned as a place accursed, and was
now falling slowly into decay and ruin.

I listened to the story with breathless interest, and the telling
of it seemed to make us quite old friends. After this there seemed
no lack of subjects for conversation. George shipped his oars,
and the boat was allowed to float lazily down the stream. He told
about his schooldays, and I told about mine. The height of his
ambition, he said, was to go into the army, and become a soldier
like his dear old uncle.
But Major Strickland wanted him to become a lawyer; and, owing
everything to his uncle as he did, it was impossible for
him not to accede to his wishes. "Besides which," added George,
with a sigh, "a commission is an expensive thing to buy, and dear
old uncle is anything but rich."
When we first set out that morning I think that George, from the
summit of his eighteen years, had been inclined to look down upon
me as a little school miss, whom he might patronise in a kindly
sort of way, but whose conversation could not possibly interest a
man of his sense and knowledge of the world.

But whether it arose from that "old-fashioned" quality of which
Major Strickland had made mention, which caused me to seem so much
older than my years; or whether it arose from the genuine interest
I showed in all he had to say; certain it is that long before we
got back to Rose Cottage we were talking as equals in years and
understanding; but that by no means prevented me from looking up
to him in my own mind as to a being superior, not only to myself,
but to the common run of humanity.

I was sorry when we got back in sight of the weir, and as I stepped
ashore I thought that this morning and the one I had spent with
Sister Agnes in Charke Forest were the two happiest of my life. I
had no prevision that the fair-haired young man with whom I had
passed three such pleasant hours would, in after years, influence
my life in a way that just now I was far too much a child even to
dream of.

CHAPTER VI.

THE GROWTH OF A MYSTERY.

We started at five o'clock to walk back to Deepley Walls, the
Major, and I, and George. It was only two miles away
across the fields. I was quite proud to be seen in the company of
so stately a gentleman as Major Strickland, who was dressed this
afternoon as for a visit of ceremony.
He had on a blue frock-coat, tightly buttoned, to which the builder
had imparted an intangible something that smacked undeniably of the
old soldier. He wore a hat rather wide in the brim; a high stiff
checked cravat; a white vest; and lacquered military boots, over
which his tightly-strapped trousers fell without a crease.

He had white buckskin gloves, a stout silver-headed malacca cane,
and carried a choice geranium in his button-hole.

There was not much conversation among us by the way. The Major's
usual flow of talk seemed to have deserted him this afternoon, and
his mood seemed unconsciously to influence both George and me. Lady
Chillington's threat to send me to a French school weighed down
my spirits. I had found dear friends--Sister Agnes, the
kind-hearted Major, and his nephew, only to be torn from them--to
be plunged back into the cold, cheerless monotony of school-girl
life, where there would be no one to love me, but many to find
fault.

We went back by way of the plantation. George would not go
any farther than the wicket at its edge, and it was agreed that he
should there await the Major's return from the Hall. "I hope,
Miss Janet, that we shall see you at Rose Cottage again before
many days are over," he said, as he took my hand to bid me farewell.
"Uncle has promised to ask her ladyship to spare you for a few
days."

"I shall be very, very glad to come, Mr. George. As long as I live
I shall be in your debt, for I cannot forget that I owe you my life."

"The fairy godmother is whispering in her ear," said the Major
in a loud aside.

"She talks like a woman of forty."
While still some distance away we could see Lady Chillington sunning
herself on the western terrace. With a pang of regret I saw that
Sister Agnes was not with her. The Major quickened his pace; I clung
to his hand, and felt without seeing that her ladyship's eyes were
fixed upon me severely.

"I have brought back your wandering princess," said the Major, in
his cheery way, as he lifted his hat. Then, as he took her
proffered hand, "I hope your ladyship is in perfect health."
"No princess, Major Strickland, but a base beggar brat," said Lady
Chillington, without heeding his last words. "From the first moment
of my seeing her I had a presentiment that she would cause me nothing
but trouble and annoyance. That presentiment has been borne
out by facts--by facts!" She nodded her head at the Major, and rubbed
one lean hand viciously within the other.

"Your ladyship forgets that the child herself is here.

Pray consider her feelings."
"Were my feelings considered by those who sent her to Deepley Walls?
I ought to have been consulted in the matter--to have had time
given me to make fresh arrangements. It was enough to be burdened
with the cost of her maintenance, without the added nuisance of
having her before me as a continual eyesore. But I have arranged.
Next week she leaves Deepley Walls for the Continent, and if I never
see her face again, so much the better for both of us."
"With all due respect to your ladyship, it seems to me that your
tone is far more bitter than the occasion demands.

What may be the relationship between Miss Hope and yourself it is
quite impossible for me to say; but that there is a tie of some
sort between you I cannot for a moment doubt."
"And pray, Major Strickland, what reason may you have for believing
that a tie of any kind exists between this young person and the
mistress of Deepley Walls?"
"I will take my stand on one point: on the extraordinary resemblance
which this child bears to--" 
"To whom, Major Strickland?"
"To one who lies buried in Elvedon churchyard. You know whom I
mean.
Such a likeness is far too remarkable to be the result of accident."

"I deny the existence of any such likeness," said Lady Chillington,
vehemently. "I deny it utterly. You are the victim of your own
disordered imagination. Likeness, forsooth!" She laughed a bitter,
contemptuous laugh, and seemed to think that she had disposed of
the question for ever.
"Come here, child," said the Major, taking me kindly by the hand,
and leading me close up to her ladyship. "Look at her, Lady
Chillington," he added; "scan her features thoroughly, and tell me
then that the likeness of which I speak is nothing more than a
figment of my own brain."
Lady Chillington drew herself up haughtily.but by another, which is no less
difficult to answer, 'How will your discourse be received?'  In
infancy, while they are as yet incapable to discern good from evil,
they ought to observe it as a law, never to say any thing
disagreeable to those whom they are speaking to:  what will render
the practice of this rule also the more difficult, is, that it must
ever be subordinate to the former, of never speaking falsely or
telling an untruth."  To govern the tongue in this manner must
require great address indeed; and it is too much practised both by
men and women.  Out of the abundance of the heart how few speak!
So few, that I, who love simplicity, would gladly give up
politeness for a quarter of the virtue that has been sacrificed to
an equivocal quality, which, at best, should only be the polish of
virtue.

But to complete the sketch.  "It is easy to be conceived, that if
male children be not in a capacity to form any true notions of
religion, those ideas must be greatly above the conception of the
females:  it is for this very reason, I would begin to speak to
them the earlier on this subject; for if we were to wait till they
were in a capacity to discuss methodically such profound questions,
we should run a risk of never speaking to them on this subject as
long as they lived.  Reason in women is a practical reason,
capacitating them artfully to discover the means of attaining a
known end, but which would never enable them to discover that end
itself.  The social relations of the sexes are indeed truly
admirable:  from their union there results a moral person, of which
woman may be termed the eyes, and man the hand, with this
dependence on each other, that it is from the man that the woman is
to learn what she is to see, and it is of the woman that man is to
learn what he ought to do.  If woman could recur to the first
principles of things as well as man, and man was capacitated to
enter into their minutae as well as woman, always independent of
each other, they would live in perpetual discord, and their union
could not subsist.  But in the present harmony which naturally
subsists between them, their different faculties tend to one common
end; it is difficult to say which of them conduces the most to it:
each follows the impulse of the other; each is obedient, and both
are masters."

"As the conduct of a woman is subservient to the public opinion,
her faith in matters of religion, should for that very reason, be
subject to authority.  'Every daughter ought to be of the same
religion as her mother, and every wife to be of the same religion
as her husband:  for, though such religion should be false, that
docility which induces the mother and daughter to submit to the
order of nature, takes away, in the sight of God, the criminality
of their error'.*  As they are not in a capacity to judge for
themselves, they ought to abide by the decision of their fathers
and husbands as confidently as by that of the church."

(*Footnote.  What is to be the consequence, if the mother's and
husband's opinion should chance not to agree?  An ignorant person
cannot be reasoned out of an error, and when persuaded to give up
one prejudice for another the mind is unsettled.  Indeed, the
husband may not have any religion to teach her though in such a
situation she will be in great want of a support to her virtue,
independent of worldly considerations.)

"As authority ought to regulate the religion of the women, it is
not so needful to explain to them the reasons for their belief, as
to lay down precisely the tenets they are to believe:  for the
creed, which presents only obscure ideas to the mind, is the source
of fanaticism; and that which presents absurdities, leads to
infidelity."

Absolute, uncontroverted authority, it seems, must subsist
somewhere:  but is not this a direct and exclusive appropriation of
reason?  The RIGHTS of humanity have been thus confined to the male
line from Adam downwards.  Rousseau would carry his male
aristocracy still further, for he insinuates, that he should not
blame those, who contend for leaving woman in a state of the most
profound ignorance, if it were not necessary, in order to preserve
her chastity, and justify the man's choice in the eyes of the
world, to give her a little knowledge of men, and the customs
produced by human passions; else she might propagate at home
without being rendered less voluptuous and innocent by the exercise
of her understanding:  excepting, indeed, during the first year of
marriage, when she might employ it to dress, like Sophia.  "Her
dress is extremely modest in appearance, and yet very coquettish in
fact:  she does not make a display of her charms, she conceals
them; but, in concealing them, she knows how to affect your
imagination.  Every one who sees her, will say, There is a modest
and discreet girl; but while you are near her, your eyes and
affections wander all over her person, so that you cannot withdraw
them; and you would conclude that every part of her dress, simple
as it seems, was only put in its proper order to be taken to pieces
by the imagination."  Is this modesty?  Is this a preparation for
immortality?  Again.  What opinion are we to form of a system of
education, when the author says of his heroine, "that with her,
doing things well is but a SECONDARY concern; her principal concern
is to do them NEATLY."

Secondary, in fact, are all her virtues and qualities, for,
respecting religion, he makes her parents thus address her,
accustomed to submission--"Your husband will instruct you in good
time."

After thus cramping a woman's mind, if, in order to keep it fair,
he has not made it quite a blank, he advises her to reflect, that a
reflecting man may not yawn in her company, when he is tired of
caressing her.  What has she to reflect about, who must obey? and
would it not be a refinement on cruelty only to open her mind to
make the darkness and misery of her fate VISIBLE?  Yet these are
his sensible remarks; how consistent with what I have already been
obliged to quote, to give a fair view of the subject, the reader
may determine.

"They who pass their whole lives in working for their daily bread,
have no ideas beyond their business or their interest, and all
their understanding seems to lie in their fingers' ends.  This
ignorance is neither prejudicial to their integrity nor their
morals; it is often of service to them.  Sometimes, by means of
reflection, we are led to compound with our duty, and we conclude,
by substituting a jargon of words, in the room of things.  Our own
conscience is the most enlightened philosopher.  There is no need
of being acquainted with Tully's offices, to make a man of probity:
and perhaps the most virtuous woman in the world is the least
acquainted with the definition of virtue.  But it is no less true,
than an improved understanding only can render society agreeable;
and it is a melancholy thing for a father of a family, who is fond
of home, to be obliged to be always wrapped up in himself, and to
have nobody about him to whom he can impart his sentiments.

"Besides, how should a woman void of reflection be capable of
educating her children?  How should she discern what is proper for
them?  How should she incline them to those virtues she is
unacquainted with, or to that merit of which she has no idea?  She
can only sooth or chide them; render them insolent or timid; she
will make them formal coxcombs, or ignorant blockheads; but will
never make them sensible or amiable."  How indeed should she, when
her husband is not always at hand to lend her his reason --when
they both together make but one moral being?  A blind will, "eyes
without hands," would go a very little way; and perchance his
abstract reason, that should concentrate the scattered beams of her
practical reason, may be employed in judging of the flavour of
wine, discanting on the sauces most proper for turtle; or, more
profoundly intent at a card-table, he may be generalizing his ideas
as he bets away his fortune, leaving all the minutiae of education
to his helpmate or chance.

But, granting that woman ought to be beautiful, innocent, and
silly, to render her a more alluring and indulgent companion--what
is her understanding sacrificed for?  And why is all this
preparation necessary only, according to Rousseau's own account, to
make her the mistress of her husband, a very short time?  Probably,
since he married with a frequency not excelled by our HENRY
VIII. But what was HILDEGARDE like--HILDEGARDE, his favourite
spouse? If she in any way resembled the women who throng
the streets of Aix-la-Chapelle to-day, C.'s lot was not a happy
one.Excepting the Supreme Being, who is
self-existent, there is nothing beautiful but what is ideal."

But he returns to his unintelligible paradoxes again, when he thus
addresses Sophia.  "Emilius, in becoming your husband, is become
your master, and claims your obedience.  Such is the order of
nature.  When a man is married, however, to such a wife as Sophia,
it is proper he should be directed by her:  this is also agreeable
to the order of nature:  it is, therefore, to give you as much
authority over his heart as his sex gives him over your person,
that I have made you the arbiter of his pleasures.  It may cost
you, perhaps, some disagreeable self-denial; but you will be
certain of maintaining your empire over him, if you can preserve it
over yourself;  what I have already observed, also shows me, that
this difficult attempt does not surpass your courage.

"Would you have your husband constantly at your feet? keep him at
some distance from your person.  You will long maintain the
authority of love, if you know but how to render your favours rare
and valuable.  It is thus you may employ even the arts of coquetry
in the service of virtue, and those of love in that of reason."

I shall close my extracts with a just description of a comfortable
couple.  "And yet you must not imagine, that even such management
will always suffice.  Whatever precaution be taken, enjoyment will,
by degrees, take off the edge of passion.  But when love hath
lasted as long as possible, a pleasing habitude supplies its place,
and the attachment of a mutual confidence succeeds to the
transports of passion.  Children often form a more agreeable and
permanent connexion between married people than even love itself.
When you cease to be the mistress of Emilius, you will continue to
be his wife and friend; you will be the mother of his children."
(Rousseau's Emilius.)

Children, he truly observes, form a much more permanent connexion
between married people than love.  Beauty he declares will not be
valued, or even seen, after a couple have lived six months
together; artificial graces and coquetry will likewise pall on the
senses:  why then does he say, that a girl should be educated for
her husband with the same care as for an eastern haram?

I now appeal from the reveries of fancy and refined licentiousness
to the good sense of mankind, whether, if the object of education
be to prepare women to become chaste wives and sensible mothers,
the method so plausibly recommended in the foregoing sketch, be the
one best calculated to produce those ends?  Will it be allowed that
the surest way to make a wife chaste, is to teach her to practise
the wanton arts of a mistress, termed virtuous coquetry by the
sensualist who can no longer relish the artless charms of
sincerity, or taste the pleasure arising from a tender intimacy,
when confidence is unchecked by suspicion, and rendered interesting
by sense?

The man who can be contented to live with a pretty useful companion
without a mind, has lost in voluptuous gratifications a taste for
more refined enjoyments; he has never felt the calm satisfaction
that refreshes the parched heart, like the silent dew of heaven--of
being beloved by one who could understand him.  In the society of
his wife he is still alone, unless when the man is sunk in the
brute.  "The charm of life," says a grave philosophical reasoner,
is "sympathy; nothing pleases us more than to observe in other men
a fellow-feeling with all the emotions of our own breast."

But, according to the tenor of reasoning by which women are kept
from the tree of knowledge, the important years of youth, the
usefulness of age, and the rational hopes of futurity, are all to
be sacrificed, to render woman an object of desire for a short
time.  Besides, how could Rousseau expect them to be virtuous and
constant when reason is neither allowed to be the foundation of
their virtue, nor truth the object of their inquiries?

But all Rousseau's errors in reasoning arose from sensibility, and
sensibility to their charms women are very ready to forgive!  When
he should have reasoned he became impassioned, and reflection
inflamed his imagination, instead of enlightening his
understanding.  Even his virtues also led him farther astray; for,
born with a warm constitution and lively fancy, nature carried him
toward the other sex with such eager fondness, that he soon became
lascivious.  Had he given way to these desires, the fire would have
extinguished itself in a natural manner, but virtue, and a romantic
kind of delicacy, made him practise self-denial; yet, when fear,
delicacy, or virtue restrained him, he debauched his imagination;
and reflecting on the sensations to which fancy gave force, he
traced them in the most glowing colours, and sunk them deep into
his soul.

He then sought for solitude, not to sleep with the man of nature;
or calmly investigate the causes of things under the shade where
Sir Isaac Newton indulged contemplation, but merely to indulge his
feelings.  And so warmly has he painted what he forcibly felt,
that, interesting the heart and inflaming the imagination of his
readers; in proportion to the strength of their fancy, they imagine
that their understanding is convinced, when they only sympathize
with a poetic writer, who skilfully exhibits the objects of sense,
most voluptuously shadowed, or gracefully veiled; and thus making
us feel, whilst dreaming that we reason, erroneous conclusions are
left in the mind.

Why was Rousseau's life divided between ecstasy and misery?  Can
any other answer be given than this, that the effervescence of his
imagination produced both; but, had his fancy been allowed to cool,
it is possible that he might have acquired more strength of mind.
Still, if the purpose of life be to educate the intellectual part
of man, all with respect to him was right; yet, had not death led
to a nobler scene of action, it is probable that he would have
enjoyed more equal happiness on earth, and have felt the calm
sensations of the man of nature, instead of being prepared for
another stage of existence by nourishing the passions which agitate
the civilized man.

But peace to his manes!  I war not with his ashes, but his
opinions.  I war only with the sensibility that led him to degrade
woman by making her the slave of love.

...."Curs'd vassalage,
First idoliz'd till love's hot fire be o'er,
Then slaves to those who courted us before."
Dryden.

The pernicious tendency of those books, in which the writers
insidiously degrade the sex, whilst they are prostrate before their
personal charms, cannot be too often or too severely exposed.

Let us, my dear contemporaries, arise above such narrow prejudices!
If wisdom is desirable on its own account, if virtue, to deserve
the name, must be founded on knowledge; let us endeavour to
strengthen our minds by reflection, till our heads become a balance
for our hearts; let us not confine all our thoughts to the petty
occurrences of the day, nor our knowledge to an acquaintance with
our lovers' or husbands' hearts; but let the practice of every duty
be subordinate to the grand one of improving our minds, and
preparing our affections for a more exalted state!

Beware then, my friends, of suffering the heart to be moved by
every trivial incident:  the reed is shaken by a breeze, and
annually dies, but the oak stands firm, and for ages braves the
storm.

Were we, indeed, only created to flutter our hour out and die--why
let us then indulge sensibility, and laugh at the severity of
reason.  Yet, alas! even then we should want strength of body and
mind, and life would be lost in feverish pleasures or wearisome
languor.

But the system of education, which I earnestly wish to see
exploded, seems to presuppose, what ought never to be taken for
granted, that virtue shields us from the casualties of life; and
that fortune, slipping off her bandage, will smile on a
well-educated female, and bring in her hand an Emilius or a
Telemachus.  Whilst, on the contrary, the reward which virtue
promises to her votaries is confined, it is clear, to their own
bosoms; and often must they contend with the most vexatious worldly
cares, and bear with the vices and humours of relations for whom
they can never feel a friendship.

There have been many women in the world who, instead of being
supported by the reason and virtue of their fathers and brothers,
have strengthened their own minds by struggling with their vices
and follies; yet have never met with a hero, in the shape of a
husband; who, paying the debt that mankind owed them, might chance
to bring back their reason to its natural dependent state, and
restore the usurped prerogative, of rising above opinion, to man.

SECTION 5.2.

Dr. Fordyce's sermons have long made a part of a young woman's
library; nay, girls at school are allowed to read them; but I
should instantly dismiss them from my pupil's, if I wished to
strengthen her understanding, by leading her to form sound
principles on a broad basis; or, were I only anxious to cultivate
her taste; though they must be allowed to contain many sensible
observations.

Dr. Fordyce may have had a very laudable end in view; but these
discourses are written in such an affected style, that were it only
on that account, and had I nothing to object against his
MELLIFLUOUS precepts, I should not allow girls to peruse them,
unless I designed to hunt every spark of nature out of their
composition, melting every human quality into female weakness and
artificial grace.  I say artificial, for true grace arises from
some kind of independence of mind.

Children, careless of pleasing, and only anxious to amuse
themselves, are often very graceful; and the nobility who have
mostly lived with inferiors, and always had the command of money,
acquire a graceful ease of deportment, which should rather be
termed habitual grace of body, than that superiour gracefulness
which is truly the expression of the mind.  This mental grace, not
noticed by vulgar eyes, often flashes across a rough countenance,
and irradiating every feature, shows simplicity and independence of
mind.  It is then we read characters of immortality in the eye, and
see the soul in every gesture, though when at rest, neither the
face nor limbs may have much beauty to recommend them; or the
behaviour, any thing peculiar to attract universal attention.  The
mass of mankind, however, look for more TANGIBLE beauty; yet
simplicity is, in general, admired, when people do not consider
what they admire; and can there be simplicity without sincerity?
but, to have done with remarks that are in some measure desultory,
though naturally excited by the subject.

In declamatory periods Dr. Fordyce spins out Rousseau's eloquence;
and in most sentimental rant, details his opinions respecting the
female character, and the behaviour which woman ought to assume to
render her lovely.

He shall speak for himself, for thus he makes nature address man.
"Behold these smiling innocents, whom I have graced with my fairest
gifts, and committed to your protection; behold them with love and
respect; treat them with tenderness and honour.  They are timid and
want to be defended.  They are frail; O do not take advantage of
their weakness!  Let their fears and blushes endear them.  Let
their confidence in you never be abused.  But is it possible, that
any of you can be such barbarians, so supremely wicked, as to abuse
it?  Can you find in your hearts* to despoil the gentle, trusting
creatures of their treasure, or do any thing to strip them of their
native robe of virtue?  Curst be the impious hand that would dare
to violate the unblemished form of Chastity!  Thou wretch! thou
ruffian! forbear; nor venture to provoke heaven's fiercest
vengeance."  I know not any comment that can be made seriously on
this curious passage, and I could produce many similar ones; and
some, so very sentimental, that I have heard rational men use the
word indecent, when they mentioned them with disgust.

(*Footnote.  Can you?--Can you? would be the most emphatical
comment, were it drawled out in a whining voice.)

Throughout there is a display of cold, artificial feelings, and
that parade of sensibility which boys and girls should be taught to
despise as the sure mark of a little vain mind.  Florid appeals are
made to heaven, and to the BEAUTEOUS INNOCENTS, the fairest images
of heaven here below, whilst sober sense is left far behind.  This
is not the language of the heart, nor will it ever reach it, though
the ear may be tickled.

I shall be told, perhaps, that the public have been pleased with
these volumes.  True--and Hervey's Meditations are still read,
though he equally sinned against sense and taste.

I particularly object to the lover-like phrases of pumped up
passion, which are every where interspersed.  If women be ever
allowed to walk without leading-strings, why must they be cajoled
into virtue by artful flattery and sexual compliments?  Speak to
them the language of truth and soberness, and away with the lullaby
strains of condescending endearment!  Let them be taught to respect
themselves as rational creatures, and not led to have a passion for
their own insipid persons.  It moves my gall to hear a preacher
descanting on dress and needle-work; and still more, to hear him
address the 'British fair, the fairest of the fair', as if they had
only feelings.

Even recommending piety he uses the following argument.  "Never,
perhaps, does a fine woman strike more deeply, than when, composed
into pious recollection, and possessed with the noblest
considerations, she assumes, without knowing it, superiour dignity
and new graces; so that the beauties of holiness seem to radiate
about her, and the by-standers are almost induced to fancy her
already worshipping amongst her kindred angels!"  Why are women to
be thus bred up with a desire of conquest? the very epithet, used
in this sense, gives me a sickly qualm!  Does religion and virtue
offer no stronger motives, no brighter reward?  Must they always be
debased by being made to consider the sex of their companions?
Must they be taught always to be pleasing?  And when levelling
their small artillery at the heart of man, is it necessary to tell
them that a little sense is sufficient to render their attention
INCREDIBLY SOOTHING?  "As a small degree of knowledge entertains in
a woman, so from a woman, though for a different reason, a small
expression of kindness delights, particularly if she have beauty!"
I should have supposed for the same reason.

Why are girls to be told that they resemble angels; but to sink
them below women?  Or, that a gentle, innocent female is an object
that comes nearer to the idea which we have formed of angels than
any other.  Yet they are told, at the same time, that they are only
like angels when they are young and beautiful; consequently, it is
their persons, not their virtues, that procure them this homage.

Idle empty words!  what can such delusive flattery lead to, but
vanity and folly?  The lover, it is true, has a poetic licence to
exalt his mistress; his reason is the bubble of his passion, and he
does not utter a falsehood when he borrows the language of
adoration.  His imagination may raise the idol of his heart,
unblamed, above humanity; and happy would it be for women, if they
were only flattered by the men who loved them; I mean, who love the
individual, not the sex; but should a grave preacher interlard his
discourses with such fooleries?

In sermons or novels, however, voluptuousness is always true to its
text.  Men are allowed by moralists to cultivate, as nature
directs, different qualities, and assume the different characters,
that the same passions, modified almost to infinity, give to each
individual.  A virtuous man may have a choleric or a sanguine
constitution, be gay or grave, unreproved; be firm till be is
almost over-bearing, or, weakly submissive, have no will or opinion
of his own; but all women are to be levelled, by meekness and
docility, into one character of yielding softness and gentle
compliance.

I will use the preacher's own words.  "Let it be observed, that in
your sex manly exercises are never graceful; that in them a tone
and figure, as well as an air and deportment, of the masculine
kind, are always forbidding; and that men of sensibility desire in
every woman soft features, and a flowing voice, a form not robust,
and demeanour delicate and gentle."

Is not the following portrait--the portrait of a house slave?  "I
am astonished at the folly of many women, who are still reproaching
their husbands for leaving them alone, for preferring this or that
company to theirs, for treating them with this and the other mark
of disregard or indifference; when, to speak the truth, they have
themselves in a great measure to blame.  Not that I would justify
the men in any thing wrong on their part.  The chronicler of the
'Book of Snobs' was himself a bit of a snob, and the poet who sought
for the spiritual where Thackeray had looked for the snobbish, who
bade us note
"All the world's coarse thumb And finger failed to plumb, So passed
in making up the main account; All instincts immature, All purposes
unsure, That weighed not as his work, yet swelled the man's
amount,
was almost as weak as the satirist in that respect for titles
and riches which is the veritable 'last infirmity of noble
minds.'
"Still, Browning's is the truer view of human life, and till we see
our neighbours as Omniscience sees them, our kindest and cruellest
estimates will be equally wide of the mark.

"And conversely, unless you develop a personality, you cannot be
moral, or even immoral.

You can be social or anti-social--that is, your actions can make for
the good or the ill of society. But moral or immoral it is not
given to everybody to be. For I do not agree with those who
would substitute social and anti-social for those ancient
adjectives. We are concerned with the quality of acts as well
as with their effects, with the soul as well as its environment.
And it takes a real live soul to do good or evil.

That is the point of Mr. Kipling's Tomlinson--a mere bundle of
hearsays--who could win neither hell nor heaven. It is also the
teaching of Ibsen. You must not shrink from wrong because you are
told it is wrong, but because you see it is wrong. But few people
can expect to develop a personality of their own.

Current morality is the automatic application of misunderstood
principles.

And so it must always be. For the function of the average man
is to obey. Was it not Napoleon who said that men are meant either
to lead or to obey, and those who can do neither should be
killed off? Ethics is the conscience of the best regulating the
conduct of the worst. Hence there are no immutable rules of
morality:

"For the wildest dreams of Kew are the facts of Khatmandoo, And the
crimes of Clapham chaste at Martaban.

But there are immutable _principles_. To spit in a guest's face
is with some savage tribes a mark of respect. But this does not
invalidate the principle that to guests should be shown courtesy.

Rules vary with time and place, principles are eternal; and even if
unmentionable things are done in Africa and Polynesia, if 'the
dark places of the earth are full of cruelty,' that does not
invalidate the principles of morality, as our modern blood-and-thunder
young man affects to believe. For that the principles of right
and justice have not yet been discovered in barbarous countries
no more destroys their universality and legitimacy than the
principles of the differential calculus are affected by the primitive
practice of counting on the fingers.

And while the ethical geniuses--the senior wranglers of the
soul--are groping towards further truths and finer shades of
feeling, deeper reaches of pity and subtler perceptions of justice,
the rank and file and the wooden spoons must needs apply the old
ethics, even against the new teachers themselves.

Every truth has to fight for recognition, to prove itself not a
lie. The brilliant and impatient young men who scoff at conventions
because the people who hold them are unreal--not persons, feeling
and passing moral truths through their own soul, but parrots--forget
that just because the people are unreal, their maxims are real;
that they do not represent the people who mouth them, but the great
moralists and thinkers behind.

Against the brilliant rushlights of contemporary cleverness shine
the stars of the ages. 'T is the immemorial mistake of iconoclasts--even
granted they are taller than their fellow-men--to be ever
conscious of the extra inches, instead of the common feet.
Nevertheless" (and here the Young Fogey put on his most judicial
manner) "the extra inches must tell. For because real ethics resides
not in rules but in principles, obedience to the letter may
mean falsity to the spirit, if the circumstances that dictated
the rules have changed. This is not casuistry. 'T is a concept not
to be found in Panaetius or Cicero or the Jesuit Fathers. It means
that we are not to wear our boyhood's waistcoats, but to
be measured for manhood's.
Tight-lacing is bad for the spiritual circulation. 'Get rid of the
Hebrew old clo', cried that curious Carlyle, the chief dealer
in them. Amen, say I: but do not let us therefore go naked. And
since we have stumbled upon 'Sartor Resartus,' permit me a comparison
in keeping.

I once saw a tailor measuring the boys in a charity school. He
drew a chalk line five feet up a wall, and dividing the upper part
of the line by horizontal chalk-marks, stood the boys beside it,
one after another, and according to the chalk-mark which the crown
of the unfortunate creature's head grazed, Master Snip called out
'Fours,' 'Ones,' 'Fives.'

Fat boys or lean boys, big-bodied or big-legged, narrow-chested
or broad-shouldered, 't was all ones--or twos--to him. Did they
agree in height, the same clothes--tight or loose--for
all! Thus is it with our moral maxims.
Genius or goose, saint or sinner--your head to the chalk-mark! And
rightly. When one has to deal with great masses one cannot
consider little details. The principles of morality must be broad
and simple, and the world is right to apply them sternly and
undiscriminatingly. The general cannot consider the peculiarities
of a particular soldier, though the corporal of the regiment may
make allowances for him. And so with breaches of morals. The world
at large should condemn; but the private friends, who know the
circumstances in every petty involution, who know the temptations
and the extenuating factors, should form as it were a court of
appeal.

If they elected to stand by the offender, the world at large should
reconsider its verdict. This is what practically took place in the
George Eliot and Lewes instance. Weighed, not by the steelyard
of general principle, but by the delicate chemical balance of
special detail, they were not found wanting. The Magna Charta is
still only a pious aspiration. 'Every man shall be tried by a
jury of his peers.' How profound! For only our equals can know
our travails and temptations. How, now, if we had to try Shakespeare!
which of us would dare sit on the panel? Yet we 'chatter about
Shelley.' He did wrong--granted. But was it wrong of him to do
it? That is another question altogether. Subjective morality and
objective morality are two different things. But the whole subject
of the sexes is wrapped in hypocrisy, and the breaches of morality
are committed less by the celebrated than by the obscure. The
savage sarcasm of Schopenhauer's refusal to discuss monogamy
because it had never yet come within the range of practical politics
is still justified.

I remember once reading an anecdote about a besieged town. The
defenders resolved to make a sortie on a certain day, only, in
dread of their plan somehow leaking out beyond the gates, or of
their womankind dissuading some from the perilous enterprise, they
administered a solemn oath to one another that none of them should
tell his wife, nor speak of it again even to another man, till the
moment arrived.

But each individual man told the partner of his bosom, only
binding her by most fearsome oaths to say nothing to any other woman
or man.

All the women kept their oaths, each going about with the proud
sense of being the only woman in the great secret. And so the
women all met in the market-place, chattering about every
subject on earth but that which was nearest their hearts,
and the men moved among them, mutually silent. The whole community
knew the secret whereof no one spoke. You perceive the parallel? Sex
is the secret we are all in. Why shouldn't we talk openly?
Why shouldn't we face facts? The marriage laws should be made
as flexible, not as inflexible, as possible. Why? Because the
bad people will evade everything and the good people endure anything.

The bad people will break the best laws and the good people will
respect the worst laws.
Hence, stringency squeezes the saint and lets the sinner slip.
Harsh legislation puts a penalty on virtue: the vicious skirt
round it surreptitiously, or are openly happy in despite of
it. The only thing immutable in sexual morality is the principle
of regulating it with a view to the highest ends of the soul and
the state: the regulations themselves are mutable, and we should not
sacrifice too many human beings to gratify the idealism of
the happily married. At the same time do not suspect me of
Hilltopsy-turveydom, which seems to me based on bad physiology and
worse psychology.

Mr. Grant Allen, man of science as he is in his spare moments, is
more like Matthew Arnold's Shelley, a beautiful and ineffectual
angel beating in the void his luminous wings in vain. So complex is
the problem which seems to him so simple, that it is not improbable
that the present monogamy (tempered by polygamy) is the best of all
possible arrangements.

This is not to belaud the present system, any more than
it is optimistic to say this is the best of all possible worlds.
It may be so, but it remains a pity that no better was possible.
And Mrs. Grundy herself seems to me as over-abused as marriage. The
celerity with which she became a byword, from the moment she made
her accidental appearance in Tom Morton's 'Speed the Plough,' shows
how the popular instinct needed some such incarnation of
our neighbours' opinions.

She stands, the representative of the ethical level of the age, not
of fixed pruderies. She is by no means the staid old soul her
maligners imagine--never was there creature more changeable. As we
move on, so will she move on with us. Once she allowed our squires
to get drunk after dinner, now she is shocked at a one-bottle man.
You will never shake her off, you brilliant young gentlemen.

For as you established your own ethics, she would still be there
to see that your ideas were carried out. Granted she is a
scandal-monger. But scandal is the sewer-system of society: the
dirty work must be done somehow. Mrs.
Grundy is your scavenger. Americans don't talk scandal, but I
fail to see how they will keep their homes clean without it.
The scandal-mongers may be inspired by no lofty motives, but
they make a wonderful unpaid detective force. Sheridan was not a
philosopher. Ubiquitous and omniscient, Mrs. Grundy is always with
you.

Once you might have escaped her by making the grand tour, but now
she has a Cook's circular ticket and watches you from the
Pyramids or the temples of Japan,--especially if, like
myself, you have the misfortune to be a celebrity. The only way to
escape her is to be photographed widely. Wasn't it Adam Smith who
said that conscience was only the reflection in ourselves of our
neighbours' opinions? If we didn't value their opinions there
would be no morality.
Foreign travel makes you feel there is something in the idea. Who
cares what a parcel of jabbering strangers think about his actions?
The moment you lose touch with your environment, the moment you cease
to vibrate to its nuances, your morality is in a parlous condition.

Better go home and sit down on the well-known couch of Catullus, and
feel once more that people are real and life is earnest and the
horizon is not its goal. What is this mania for movement? If you
travel unintelligently you see nothing that you couldn't have seen
more comfortably in a panorama--the world going round you.

If you travel intelligently, you discover the relativity of
all customs and ideas, you distrust your own beliefs, your backbone
is relaxed, your vitality snapped, and you come home a
molluscous cosmopolitan. It is the same thing that happens if you
travel mentally instead of by mileage--if you go in for that modern
curse, 'Culture.' You are not meant to absorb the art and literature
of foreigners and dead peoples, fluttering like a bee from flower
to flower.

These things were made by men for their own race and age; they never
thought of you,--you are an eavesdropper.

Cathedrals were built for Christians to pray in, not for connoisseurs
to gloat over. You should develop along your own lines, strong
and simple, not be a many-sided nullity. The true Englishmen are
ploughmen and sailors and shopkeepers, not culture-snobs.

"The greatest poets in every language are those who know only
their own language. Shakespeare and Keats handled English as a
million Professors of Poetry cooperating could never handle it. The
greatest Art has always sprung from the direct pressure of the real
world upon the souls of the artists. To be cultured is to lose that
vivid sense of the reality of the life around you, to see it
intellectually rather than to feel it intuitively.

Hence art that is too self-conscious misses the throb of life. George
Eliot failed as soon as she began to substitute intellectual
concepts for the vivid impressions of early memories. The moment
people begin to prate about Art, the day of Art is over, and
decadence is set in. Art should be the natural semi-unconscious
enhancement of other things. The speaker wishing to convince becomes
artistically oratorical, the prophet becomes artistically poetic,
the church-builder artistically architectural, the painter of
Madonnas artistically picturesque, the composer of prayer-chants
artistically musical.

Art was the child of Religion, but it has long since abandoned its
mother.

Portrait and landscape painting arose as accessories to sacred
pictures; the origin of the opera is to be sought in the Mass;
literature developed from religious writings. But gradually it
was discovered that you might paint noblemen as well as
sages, and that scenery could be dissociated from the backgrounds
of Crucifixions and Marriages at Cana. And from seeing that Art
needn't have a religious meaning or content, men came to see that
it needn't have any meaning or content at all.

Art, indeed, presents possibilities of a divorce from intellect
and morals of which artists have eagerly availed themselves. But
Art for Art's sake is Dead-Sea fruit--rosy without, ashes within.
Socrates was not perhaps quite right in saying that the Beautiful
was the Useful, but it doesn't follow that the Beautiful should be
the Useless. Even crockery, cutlery, and furniture should never
be Beautiful at the cost of utility. Their Beauty should be
implicated with their natural shapes, inblent with and inseparable
from their uses, not a monstrous accretion from without. The most
artistic knife is the quintessence of knifehood."
"But that is my idea of Art for Art's sake," I interrupted, for he
had now got his second wind.

"Art has always to express the quintessence of something--be it a
street, a life, a national movement, a----"
"Art for Art's sake means making beautiful knives that won't cut
and beautiful glasses that won't hold water, and beautiful pictures
and poems that say nothing.

The people who want their Art dissociated from their morals are in
danger of spiritual blight, and inhabiting a universe of empty
nothings.

Too much self-consciousness is as sterile as too little.
Look at these modern Renaissances! They all----"
"Yes, I know: I have written about that," I said. "And now there
is another one, the Jewish. Have you read the plan for 'A Jewish
State,' by Dr. Herzl, of Vienna? No dreamer he, but wonderfully sane,
despite his lofty conception of a moralised, rationalised,
modern State. Too 'modern,' indeed, this idea of Messiah as a
joint-stock company!

I predicted years ago we should come to that. But methinks the
Doctor----"
"They are starting the Grand Prix," hastily interrupted the Young
Fogey.
"Good-bye! Such a delightful talk!" And turning his back on the
horses, he hurried off the field to lose himself and perhaps find
a new pair of English ears among the parasols and equipages
of the sunlit Prater.

XI
CRITICS AND PEOPLE
What is the critic's duty at the play? Does he represent Art, or
does he represent the Public?

If he represent Art, then he is but a refracting medium between
the purveyor and the public, which will therefore be wofully
mistaken if it seek in his critiques a guide to its play-going, as
it to some extent does.

For while people do not always like a play because they are told it
is good, they often refrain from going to see one because they are
told it is bad.

When I was a dramatic critic--a phrase that merely means I did not
pay for my seat--nothing struck me more forcibly than the frequent
discrepancy between the opinions of the audience at a _première_
and the opinions of the papers.

Again and again have I seen an audience moved to laughter and cheers
and tears by a play which the great outside public would be informed
the next morning was indifferent or worse.
--if
her person, and was there ever a person, though formed with
Medicisan symmetry, that was not slighted? be neglected, she will
make herself amends by endeavouring to please other men.  Noble
morality!  But thus is the understanding of the whole sex
affronted, and their virtue deprived of the common basis of virtue.
A woman must know, that her person cannot be as pleasing to her
husband as it was to her lover, and if she be offended with him for
being a human creature, she may as well whine about the loss of his
heart as about any other foolish thing.  And this very want of
discernment or unreasonable anger, proves that he could not change
his fondness for her person into affection for her virtues or
respect for her understanding.

Whilst women avow, and act up to such opinions, their
understandings, at least, deserve the contempt and obloquy that
men, WHO NEVER insult their persons, have pointedly levelled at the
female mind.  And it is the sentiments of these polite men, who do
not wish to be encumbered with mind, that vain women thoughtlessly
adopt.  Yet they should know, that insulted reason alone can spread
that SACRED reserve about the persons which renders human
affections, for human affections have always some base alloy, as
permanent as is consistent with the grand end of existence--the
attainment of virtue.

The Baroness de Stael speaks the same language as the lady just
cited, with more enthusiasm.  Her eulogium on Rousseau was
accidentally put into my hands, and her sentiments, the sentiments
of too many of my sex, may serve as the text for a few comments.
"Though Rousseau," she observes, "has endeavoured to prevent women
from interfering in public affairs, and acting a brilliant part in
the theatre of politics; yet, in speaking of them, how much has he
done it to their satisfaction!  If he wished to deprive them of
some rights, foreign to their sex, how has he for ever restored to
them all those to which it has a claim!  And in attempting to
diminish their influence over the deliberations of men, how
sacredly has he established the empire they have over their
happiness!  In aiding them to descend from an usurped throne, he
has firmly seated them upon that to which they were destined by
nature; and though he be full of indignation against them when they
endeavour to resemble men, yet when they come before him with all
THE CHARMS WEAKNESSES, VIRTUES, and ERRORS, OF their sex, his
respect for their PERSONS amounts almost to adoration."  True!--For
never was there a sensualist who paid more fervent adoration at the
shrine of beauty.  So devout, indeed, was his respect for the
person, that excepting the virtue of chastity, for obvious reasons,
he only wished to see it embellished by charms, weaknesses, and
errors.  He was afraid lest the austerity of reason should disturb
the soft playfulness of love.  The master wished to have a
meretricious slave to fondle, entirely dependent on his reason and
bounty; he did not want a companion, whom he should be compelled to
esteem, or a friend to whom he could confide the care of his
children's education, should death deprive them of their father,
before he had fulfilled the sacred task.  He denies woman reason,
shuts her out from knowledge, and turns her aside from truth; yet
his pardon is granted, because, "he admits the passion of love."
It would require some ingenuity to show why women were to be under
such an obligation to him for thus admitting love; when it is clear
that he admits it only for the relaxation of men, and to perpetuate
the species; but he talked with passion, and that powerful spell
worked on the sensibility of a young encomiast.  "What signifies
it," pursues this rhapsodist, "to women, that his reason disputes
with them the empire, when his heart is devotedly theirs."  It is
not empire--but equality, that they should contend for.  Yet, if
they only wished to lengthen out their sway, they should not
entirely trust to their persons, for though beauty may gain a
heart, it cannot keep it, even while the beauty is in full bloom,
unless the mind lend, at least, some graces.

When women are once sufficiently enlightened to discover their real
interest, on a grand scale, they will, I am persuaded, be very
ready to resign all the prerogatives of love, that are not mutual,
(speaking of them as lasting prerogatives,) for the calm
satisfaction of friendship, and the tender confidence of habitual
esteem.  Before marriage they will not assume any insolent airs,
nor afterward abjectly submit; but, endeavouring to act like
reasonable creatures, in both situations, they will not be tumbled
from a throne to a stool.

Madame Genlis has written several entertaining books for children;
and her letters on Education afford many useful hints, that
sensible parents will certainly avail themselves of; but her views
are narrow, and her prejudices as unreasonable as strong.

I shall pass over her vehement argument in favour of the eternity
of future punishments, because I blush to think that a human being
should ever argue vehemently in such a cause, and only make a few
remarks on her absurd manner of making the parental authority
supplant reason.  For every where does she inculcate not only BLIND
submission to parents; but to the opinion of the world.*

(*Footnote.  A person is not to act in this or that way, though
convinced they are right in so doing, because some equivocal
circumstances may lead the world to SUSPECT that they acted from
different motives.  This is sacrificing the substance for a shadow.
Let people but watch their own hearts, and act rightly as far as
they can judge, and they may patiently wait till the opinion of the
world comes round.  It is best to be directed by a simple
motive--for justice has too often been sacrificed to
propriety;--another word for convenience.)

She tells a story of a young man engaged by his father's express
desire to a girl of fortune.  Before the marriage could take place
she is deprived of her fortune, and thrown friendless on the world.
The father practises the most infamous arts to separate his son
from her, and when the son detects his villany, and, following the
dictates of honour, marries the girl, nothing but misery ensues,
because forsooth he married WITHOUT his father's consent.  On what
ground can religion or morality rest, when justice is thus set at
defiance?  In the same style she represents an accomplished young
woman, as ready to marry any body that her MAMMA pleased to
recommend; and, as actually marrying the young man of her own
choice, without feeling any emotions of passion, because that a
well educated girl had not time to be in love.  Is it possible to
have much respect for a system of education that thus insults
reason and nature?

Many similar opinions occur in her writings, mixed with sentiments
that do honour to her head and heart.  Yet so much superstition is
mixed with her religion, and so much worldly wisdom with her
morality, that I should not let a young person read her works,
unless I could afterwards converse on the subjects, and point out
the contradictions.

Mrs. Chapone's Letters are written with such good sense, and
unaffected humility, and contain so many useful observations, that
I only mention them to pay the worthy writer this tribute of
respect.  I cannot, it is true, always coincide in opinion with
her; but I always respect her.

The very word respect brings Mrs. Macaulay to my remembrance.  The
woman of the greatest abilities, undoubtedly, that this country has
ever produced.  And yet this woman has been suffered to die without
sufficient respect being paid to her memory.

Posterity, however, will be more just; and remember that Catharine
Macaulay was an example of intellectual acquirements supposed to be
incompatible with the weakness of her sex.  In her style of
writing, indeed, no sex appears, for it is like the sense it
conveys, strong and clear.

I will not call her's a masculine understanding, because I admit
not of such an arrogant assumption of reason; but I contend that it
was a sound one, and that her judgment, the matured fruit of
profound thinking, was a proof that a woman can acquire judgment,
in the full extent of the word.  Possessing more penetration than
sagacity, more understanding than fancy, she writes with sober
energy, and argumentative closeness; yet sympathy and benevolence
give an interest to her sentiments, and that vital heat to
arguments, which forces the reader to weigh them.*

(*Footnote.  Coinciding in opinion with Mrs. Macaulay relative to
many branches of education, I refer to her valuable work, instead
of quoting her sentiments to support my own.)

When I first thought of writing these strictures I anticipated Mrs.
Macaulay's approbation with a little of that sanguine ardour which
it has been the business of my life to depress; but soon heard with
the sickly qualm of disappointed hope, and the still seriousness of
regret--that she was no more!

SECTION 5.5.

Taking a view of the different works which have been written on
education, Lord Chesterfield's Letters must not be silently passed
over.  Not that I mean to analyze his unmanly, immoral system, or
even to cull any of the useful shrewd remarks which occur in his
frivolous correspondence--No, I only mean to make a few reflections
on the avowed tendency of them--the art of acquiring an early
knowledge of the world.  An art, I will venture to assert, that
preys secretly, like the worm in the bud, on the expanding powers,
and turns to poison the generous juices which should mount with
vigour in the youthful frame, inspiring warm affections and great
resolves.

For every thing, saith the wise man, there is reason; and who would
look for the fruits of autumn during the genial months of spring?
But this is mere declamation, and I mean to reason with those
worldly-wise instructors, who, instead of cultivating the judgment,
instil prejudices, and render hard the heart that gradual
experience would only have cooled.  An early acquaintance with
human infirmities; or, what is termed knowledge of the world, is
the surest way, in my opinion, to contract the heart and damp the
natural youthful ardour which produces not only great talents, but
great virtues.  For the vain attempt to bring forth the fruit of
experience, before the sapling has thrown out its leaves, only
exhausts its strength, and prevents its assuming a natural form;
just as the form and strength of subsiding metals are injured when
the attraction of cohesion is disturbed.  Tell me, ye who have
studied the human mind, is it not a strange way to fix principles
by showing young people that they are seldom stable?  And how can
they be fortified by habits when they are proved to be fallacious
by example?  Why is the ardour of youth thus to be damped, and the
luxuriancy of fancy cut to the quick?  This dry caution may, it is
true, guard a character from worldly mischances; but will
infallibly preclude excellence in either virtue or knowledge.  The
stumbling-block thrown across every path by suspicion, will prevent
any vigorous exertions of genius or benevolence, and life will be
stripped of its most alluring charm long before its calm evening,
when man should retire to contemplation for comfort and support.

A young man who has been bred up with domestic friends, and led to
store his mind with as much speculative knowledge as can be
acquired by reading and the natural reflections which youthful
ebullitions of animal spirits and instinctive feelings inspire,
will enter the world with warm and erroneous expectations.  But
this appears to be the course of nature; and in morals, as well as
in works of taste, we should be observant of her sacred
indications, and not presume to lead when we ought obsequiously to
follow.

In the world few people act from principle; present feelings, and
early habits, are the grand springs:  but how would the former be
deadened, and the latter rendered iron corroding fetters, if the
world were shown to young people just as it is; when no knowledge
of mankind or their own hearts, slowly obtained by experience
rendered them forbearing?  Their fellow creatures would not then be
viewed as frail beings; like themselves, condemned to struggle with
human infirmities, and sometimes displaying the light and sometimes
the dark side of their character; extorting alternate feelings of
love and disgust; but guarded against as beasts of prey, till every
enlarged social feeling, in a word--humanity, was eradicated.

In life, on the contrary, as we gradually discover the
imperfections of our nature, we discover virtues, and various
circumstances attach us to our fellow creatures, when we mix with
them, and view the same objects, that are never thought of in
acquiring a hasty unnatural knowledge of the world.  We see a folly
swell into a vice, by almost imperceptible degrees, and pity while
we blame; but, if the hideous monster burst suddenly on our sight,
fear and disgust rendering us more severe than man ought to be,
might lead us with blind zeal to usurp the character of
omnipotence, and denounce damnation on our fellow mortals,
forgetting that we cannot read the heart, and that we have seeds of
the same vices lurking in our own.

I have already remarked, that we expect more from instruction, than
mere instruction can produce:  for, instead of preparing young
people to encounter the evils of life with dignity, and to acquire
wisdom and virtue by the exercise of their own faculties, precepts
are heaped upon precepts, and blind obedience required, when
conviction should be brought home to reason.

Suppose, for instance, that a young person in the first ardour of
friendship deifies the beloved object--what harm can arise from
this mistaken enthusiastic attachment?  Perhaps it is necessary for
virtue first to appear in a human form to impress youthful hearts;
the ideal model, which a more matured and exalted mind looks up to,
and shapes for itself, would elude their sight.  He who loves not
his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God? asked the
wisest of men.

It is natural for youth to adorn the first object of its affection
with every good quality, and the emulation produced by ignorance,
or, to speak with more propriety, by inexperience, brings forward
the mind capable of forming such an affection, and when, in the
lapse of time, perfection is found not to be within the reach of
mortals, virtue, abstractly, is thought beautiful, and wisdom
sublime.  Admiration then gives place to friendship, properly so
called, because it is cemented by esteem; and the being walks alone
only dependent on heaven for that emulous panting after perfection
which ever glows in a noble mind.  But this knowledge a man must
gain by the exertion of his own faculties; and this is surely the
blessed fruit of disappointed hope! for He who delighteth to
diffuse happiness and show mercy to the weak creatures, who are
learning to know him, never implanted a good propensity to be a
tormenting ignis fatuus.

Our trees are now allowed to spread with wild luxuriance, nor do we
expect by force to combine the majestic marks of time with youthful
graces; but wait patiently till they have struck deep their root,
and braved many a storm.  Is the mind then, which, in proportion to
its dignity advances more slowly towards perfection, to be treated
with less respect?  To argue from analogy, every thing around us is
in a progressive state; and when an unwelcome knowledge of life
produces almost a satiety of life, and we discover by the natural
course of things that all that is done under the sun is vanity, we
are drawing near the awful close of the drama.  The days of
activity and hope are over, and the opportunities which the first
stage of existence has afforded of advancing in the scale of
intelligence, must soon be summed up.  A knowledge at this period
of the futility of life, or earlier, if obtained by experience, is
very useful, because it is natural; but when a frail being is shown
the follies and vices of man, that he may be taught prudently to
guard against the common casualties of life by sacrificing his
heart--surely it is not speaking harshly to call it the wisdom of
this world, contrasted with the nobler fruit of piety and
experience.

I will venture a paradox, and deliver my opinion without reserve;
if men were only born to form a circle of life and death, it would
be wise to take every step that foresight could suggest to render
life happy.  Moderation in every pursuit would then be supreme
wisdom; and the prudent voluptuary might enjoy a degree of content,
though he neither cultivated his understanding nor kept his heart
pure.  Prudence, supposing we were mortal, would be true wisdom,
or, to be more explicit, would procure the greatest portion of
happiness, considering the whole of life; but knowledge beyond the
conveniences of life would be a curse.

Why should we injure our health by close study?  The exalted
pleasure which intellectual pursuits afford would scarcely be
equivalent to the hours of languor that follow; especially, if it
be necessary to take into the reckoning the doubts and
disappointments that cloud our researches.  Vanity and vexation
close every inquiry:  for the cause which we particularly wished to
discover flies like the horizon before us as we advance.  The
ignorant, on the contrary, resemble children, and suppose, that if
they could walk straight forward they should at last arrive where
the earth and clouds meet.  Yet, disappointed as we are in our
researches, the mind gains strength by the exercise, sufficient,
perhaps, to comprehend the answers which, in another step of
existence, it may receive to the anxious questions it asked, when
the understanding with feeble wing was fluttering round the visible
effects to dive into the hidden cause.

The passions also, the winds of life, would be useless, if not
injurious, did the substance which composes our thinking being,
after we have thought in vain, only become the support of vegetable
life, and invigorate a cabbage, or blush in a rose.  The appetites
would answer every earthly purpose, and produce more moderate and
permanent happiness.  But the powers of the soul that are of little
use here, and, probably, disturb our animal enjoyments, even while
conscious dignity makes us glory in possessing them, prove that
life is merely an education, a state of infancy, of which the only
hopes worth cherishing should not be sacrificed.  I mean, therefore
to infer, that we ought to have a precise idea of what we wish to
attain by education, for the immortality of the soul is
contradicted by the actions of many people, who firmly profess the
belief.

If you mean to secure ease and prosperity on earth as the first
consideration, and leave futurity to provide for itself, you act
prudently in giving your child an early insight into the weaknesses
of his nature.  You may not, it is true, make an Inkle of him; but
do not imagine that he will stick to more than the letter of the
law, who has very early imbibed a mean opinion of human nature; nor
will he think it necessary to rise much above the common standard.
He may avoid gross vices, because honesty is the best policy; but
he will never aim at attaining great virtues.  The example of
writers and artists will illustrate this remark.

I must therefore venture to doubt, whether what has been thought an
axiom in morals, may not have been a dogmatical assertion made by
men who have coolly seen mankind through the medium of books, and
say, in direct contradiction to them, that the regulation of the
passions is not always wisdom.  On the contrary, it should seem,
that one reason why men have superiour judgment and more fortitude
than women, is undoubtedly this, that they give a freer scope to
the grand passions, and by more frequently going astray, enlarge
their minds.  If then by the exercise of their own reason, they fix
on some stable principle, they have probably to thank the force of
their passions, nourished by FALSE views of life, and permitted to
overleap the boundary that secures content.  But if, in the dawn of
life, we could soberly survey the scenes before us as in
perspective, and see every thing in its true colours, how could the
passions gain sufficient strength to unfold the faculties?

Let me now, as from an eminence, survey the world stripped of all
its false delusive charms.  The clear atmosphere enables me to see
each object in its true point of view, while my heart is still.  I
am calm as the prospect in a morning when the mists, slowly
dispersing, silently unveil the beauties of nature, refreshed by
rest.

In what light will the world now appear?  I rub my eyes and think,
perchance, that I am just awaking from a lively dream.

I see the sons and daughters of men pursuing shadows, and anxiously
wasting their powers to feed passions which have no adequate
object--if the very excess of these blind impulses pampered by that
lying, yet constantly-trusted guide, the imagination, did not, by
preparing them for some other state, render short sighted mortals
wiser without their own concurrence; or, what comes to the same
thing, when they were pursuing some imaginary present good.

After viewing objects in this light, it would not be very fanciful
to imagine, that this world was a stage on which a pantomime is
daily performed for the amusement of superiour beings.  How would
they be diverted to see the ambitious man consuming himself by
running after a phantom, and, pursuing the bubble fame in "the
cannon's mouth" that was to blow him to nothing:  for when
consciousness is lost, it matters not whether we mount in a
whirlwind or descend in rain.  And should they compassionately
invigorate his sight, and show him the thorny path which led to
eminence, that like a quicksand sinks as he ascends, disappointing
his hopes when almost within his grasp, would he not leave to
others the honour of amusing them, and labour to secure the present
moment, though from the constitution of his nature he would not
find it very easy to catch the flying stream?  Such slaves are we
to hope and fear!

But, vain as the ambitious man's pursuit would be, he is often
striving for something more substantial than fame--that indeed
would be the veriest meteor, the wildest fire that could lure a man
to ruin.  What! renounce the most trifling gratification to be
applauded when he should be no more! Wherefore this struggle,
whether man is mortal or immortal, if that noble passion did not
really raise the being above his fellows?

And love!  What diverting scenes would it produce--Pantaloon's
tricks must yield to more egregious folly.  To see a mortal adorn
an object with imaginary charms, and then fall down and worship the
idol which he had himself set up--how ridiculous!  But what serious
consequences ensue to rob man of that portion of happiness, which
the Deity by calling him into existence has (or, on what can his
attributes rest?) indubitably promised; would not all the purposes
of life have been much better fulfilled if he had only felt what
has been termed physical love?  And, would not the sight of the
object, not seen through the medium of the imagination, soon reduce
the passion to an appetite, if reflection, the noble distinction of
man, did not give it force, and make it an instrument to raise him
above this earthy dross, by teaching him to love the centre of all
perfection! whose wisdom appears clearer and clearer in the works
of nature, in proportion as reason is illuminated and exalted by
contemplation, and by acquiring that love of order which the
struggles of passion produce?

The habit of reflection, and the knowledge attained by fostering
any passion, might be shown to be equally useful though the object
be proved equally fallacious; for they would all appear in the same
light, if they were not magnified by the governing passion
implanted in us by the Author of all good, to call forth and
strengthen the faculties of each individual, and enable it to
attain all the experience that an infant can obtain, who does
certain things, it cannot tell why.

I descend from my height, and mixing with my fellow creatures, feel
myself hurried along the common stream; ambition, love, hope, and
fear, exert their wonted power, though we be convinced by reason
that their present and most attractive promises are only lying
dreams; but had the cold hand of circumspection damped each
generous feeling before it had left any permanent character, or
fixed some habit, what could be expected, but selfish prudence and
reason just rising above instinct?  Who that has read Dean Swift's
disgusting description of the Yahoos, and insipid one of Houyhnhnm
with a philosophical eye, can avoid seeing the futility of
degrading the passions, or making man rest in contentment?

The youth should ACT; for had he the experience of a grey head, he
would be fitter for death than life, though his virtues, rather
residing in his head than his heart could produce nothing great,
and his understanding prepared for this world, would not, by its
noble flights, prove that it had a title to a better.

Besides, it is not possible to give a young person a just view of
life; he must have struggled with his own passions before he can
estimate the force of the temptation which betrayed his brother
into vice.  Those who are entering life, and those who are
departing, see the world from such very different points of view,
that they can seldom think alike, unless the unfledged reason of
the former never attempted a solitary flight.

When we hear of some daring crime--it comes full upon us in the
deepest shade of turpitude, and raises indignation; but the eye
that gradually saw the darkness thicken, must observe it with more
compassionate forbearance.  The world cannot be seen by an unmoved
spectator, we must mix in the throng, and feel as men feel before
we can judge of their feelings.  If we mean, in short, to live in
the world to grow wiser and better, and not merely to enjoy the
good things of life, we must attain a knowledge of others at the
same time that we become acquainted with ourselves-- knowledge
acquired any other way only hardens the heart and perplexes the
understanding.

I may be told, that the knowledge thus acquired, is sometimes
purchased at too dear a rate.  I can only answer, that I very much
doubt whether any knowledge can be attained without labour and
sorrow; and those who wish to spare their children both, should not
complain if they are neither wise nor virtuous.  They only aimed at
making them prudent; and prudence, early in life, is but the
cautious craft of ignorant self-love.  I have observed, that young
people, to whose education particular attention has been paid,
have, in general, been very superficial and conceited, and far from
pleasing in any respect, because they had neither the unsuspecting
warmth of youth, nor the cool depth of age.  I cannot help imputing
this unnatural appearance principally to that hasty premature
instruction, which leads them presumptuously to repeat all the
crude notions they have taken upon trust, so that the careful
education which they received, makes them all their lives the
slaves of prejudices.

Mental as well as bodily exertion is, at first, irksome; so much
so, that the many would fain let others both work and think for
them.  An observation which I have often made will illustrate my
meaning.  When in a circle of strangers, or acquaintances, a person
of moderate abilities, asserts an opinion with heat, I will venture
to affirm, for I have traced this fact home, very often, that it is
a prejudice.  These echoes have a high respect for the
understanding of some relation or friend, and without fully
comprehending the opinions, which they are so eager to retail, they
maintain them with a degree of obstinacy, that would surprise even
the person who concocted them.

I know that a kind of fashion now prevails of respecting
prejudices; and when any one dares to face them, though actuated by
humanity and armed by reason, he is superciliously asked, whether
his ancestors were fools.  No, I should reply; opinions, at first,
of every description, were all, probably, considered, and therefore
were founded on some reason; yet not unfrequently, of course, it
was rather a local expedient than a fundamental principle, that
would be reasonable at all times.  But, moss-covered opinions
assume the disproportioned form of prejudices, when they are
indolently adopted only because age has given them a venerable
aspect, though the reason on which they were built ceases to be a
reason, or cannot be traced.  Why are we to love prejudices, merely
because they are prejudices?  A prejudice is a fond obstinate
persuasion, for which we can give no reason; for the moment a
reason can be given for an opinion, it ceases to be a prejudice,
though it may be an error in judgment:  and are we then advised to
cherish opinions only to set reason at defiance?  This mode of
arguing, if arguing it may be called, reminds me of what is
vulgarly termed a woman's reason.  For women sometimes declare that
they love, or believe certain things, BECAUSE they love, or believe
them.

It is impossible to converse with people to any purpose, who, in
this style, only use affirmatives and negatives.  Before you can
bring them to a point, to start fairly from, you must go back to
the simple principles that were antecedent to the prejudices
broached by power; and it is ten to one but you are stopped by the
philosophical assertion, that certain principles are as practically
false as they are abstractly true.  Nay, it may be inferred, that
reason has whispered some doubts, for it generally happens that
people assert their opinions with the greatest heat when they begin
to waver; striving to drive out their own doubts by convincing
their opponent, they grow angry when those gnawing doubts are
thrown back to prey on themselves.

The fact is, that men expect from education, what education cannot
give.  A sagacious parent or tutor may strengthen the body and
sharpen the instruments by which the child is to gather knowledge;
but the honey must be the reward of the individual's own industry.
It is almost as absurd to attempt to make a youth wise by the
experience of another, as to expect the body to grow strong by the
exercise which is only talked of, or seen.

Many of those children whose conduct has been most narrowly
watched, become the weakest men, because their instructors only
instill certain notions into their minds, that have no other
foundation than their authority; and if they are loved or
respected, the mind is cramped in its exertions and wavering in its
advances.  The business of education in this case, is only to
conduct the shooting tendrils to a proper pole; yet after laying
precept upon precept, without allowing a child to acquire judgment
itself, parents expect them to act in the same manner by this
borrowed fallacious light, as if they had illuminated it
themselves; and be, when they enter life, what their parents are at
the close.  They do not consider that the tree, and even the human
body, does not strengthen its fibres till it has reached its full
growth.

There appears to be something analogous in the mind.  The senses
and the imagination give a form to the character, during childhood
and youth; and the understanding as life advances, gives firmness
to the first fair purposes of sensibility--till virtue, arising
rather from the clear conviction of reason than the impulse of the
heart, morality is made to rest on a rock against which the storms
of passion vainly beat.

I hope I shall not be misunderstood when I say, that religion will
not have this condensing energy, unless it be founded on reason.
If it be merely the refuge of weakness or wild fanaticism, and not
a governing principle of conduct, drawn from self-knowledge, and a
rational opinion respecting the attributes of God, what can it be
expected to produce?  The religion which consists in warming the
affections, and exalting the imagination, is only the poetical
part, and may afford the individual pleasure without rendering it a
more moral being.  It may be a substitute for worldly pursuits; yet
narrow instead of enlarging the heart:  but virtue must be loved as
in itself sublime and excellent, and not for the advantages it
procures or the evils it averts, if any great degree of excellence
be expected.  Men will not become moral when they only build airy
castles in a future world to compensate for the disappointments
which they meet with in this; if they turn their thoughts from
relative duties to religious reveries.

Most prospects in life are marred by the shuffling worldly wisdom
of men, who, forgetting that they cannot serve God and mammon,
endeavour to blend contradictory things.  If you wish to make your
son rich, pursue one course --if you are only anxious to make him
virtuous, you must take another; but do not imagine that you can
bound from one road to the other without losing your way.*

(*Footnote.  See an excellent essay on this subject by Mrs.
Barbauld, in Miscellaneous pieces in Prose.)


CHAPTER 6.

THE EFFECT WHICH AN EARLY ASSOCIATION OF IDEAS HAS UPON THE
CHARACTER.

Educated in the enervating style recommended by the writers on whom
I have been animadverting; and not having a chance, from their
subordinate state in society, to recover their lost ground, is it
surprising that women every where appear a defect in nature?  Is it
surprising, when we consider what a determinate effect an early
association of ideas has on the character, that they neglect their
understandings, and turn all their attention to their persons?

The great advantages which naturally result from storing the mind
with knowledge, are obvious from the following considerations.  The
association of our ideas is either habitual or instantaneous; and
the latter mode seems rather to depend on the original temperature
of the mind than on the will.  When the ideas, and matters of fact,
are once taken in, they lie by for use, till some fortuitous
circumstance makes the information dart into the mind with
illustrative force, that has been received at very different
periods of our lives.  Like the lightning's flash are many
recollections; one idea assimilating and explaining another, with
astonishing rapidity.  I do not now allude to that quick perception
of truth, which is so intuitive that it baffles research, and makes
us at a loss to determine whether it is reminiscence or
ratiocination, lost sight of in its celerity, that opens the dark
cloud.  Over those instantaneous associations we have little power;
for when the mind is once enlarged by excursive flights, or
profound reflection, the raw materials, will, in some degree,
arrange themselves.  The understanding, it is true, may keep us
from going out of drawing when we group our thoughts, or transcribe
from the imagination the warm sketches of fancy; but the animal
spirits, the individual character give the colouring.  Over this
subtile electric fluid,* how little power do we possess, and over
it how little power can reason obtain!  These fine intractable
spirits appear to be the essence of genius, and beaming in its
eagle eye, produce in the most eminent degree the happy energy of
associating thoughts that surprise, delight, and instruct.  These
are the glowing minds that concentrate pictures for their
fellow-creatures; forcing them to view with interest the objects
reflected from the impassioned imagination, which they passed over
in nature.

(*Footnote.  I have sometimes, when inclined to laugh at
materialists, asked whether, as the most powerful effects in nature
are apparently produced by fluids, the magnetic, etc. the passions
might not be fine volatile fluids that embraced humanity, keeping
the more refractory elementary parts together--or whether they were
simply a liquid fire that pervaded the more sluggish materials
giving them life and heat?)

I must be allowed to explain myself.  The generality of people
cannot see or feel poetically, they want fancy, and therefore fly
from solitude in search of sensible objects; but when an author
lends them his eyes, they can see as he saw, and be amused by
images they could not select, though lying before them.

Education thus only supplies the man of genius with knowledge to
give variety and contrast to his associations; but there is an
habitual association of ideas, that grows "with our growth," which
has a great effect on the moral character of mankind; and by which
a turn is given to the mind, that commonly remains throughout life.
So ductile is the understanding, and yet so stubborn, that the
associations which depend on adventitious circumstances, during the
period that the body takes to arrive at maturity, can seldom be
disentangled by reason.  One idea calls up another, its old
associate, and memory, faithful to the first impressions,
particularly when the intellectual powers are not employed to cool
our sensations, retraces them with mechanical exactness.

This habitual slavery, to first impressions, has a more baneful
effect on the female than the male character, because business and
other dry employments of the understanding, tend to deaden the
feelings and break associations that do violence to reason.  But
females, who are made women of when they are mere children, and
brought back to childhood when they ought to leave the go-cart
forever, have not sufficient strength of mind to efface the
superinductions of art that have smothered nature.

Every thing that they see or hear serves to fix impressions, call
forth emotions, and associate ideas, that give a sexual character
to the mind.  False notions of beauty and delicacy stop the growth
of their limbs and produce a sickly soreness, rather than delicacy
of organs; and thus weakened by being employed in unfolding instead
of examining the first associations, forced on them by every
surrounding object, how can they attain the vigour necessary to
enable them to throw off their factitious character?--where find
strength to recur to reason and rise superior to a system of
oppression, that blasts the fair promises of spring?  This cruel
association of ideas, which every thing conspires to twist into all
their habits of thinking, or, to speak with more precision, of
feeling, receives new force when they begin to act a little for
themselves; for they then perceive, that it is only through their
address to excite emotions in men, that pleasure and power are to
be obtained.  Besides, all the books professedly written for their
instruction, which make the first impression on their minds, all
inculcate the same opinions.  Convinced sometimes against their
will, they are of the same opinion still. Loyalty and obstinacy will
look facts in the face and never blench, and every one remains
truer to his social circle than to his private judgments.
People's politics are their prejudices at a masked ball, and the
Conservatives will vote Conservative and the Liberals Liberal,
through a cannonade of unanswerable cartoons.

Apart from these two great standing armies, there is a shifting body
of free-lances, guerrillas, Jacks-o'-both-sides, call them what
you will--waverers who have too much conscience or too little,
who are swayed by their reason or their pocket, or who are gullible
enough to believe that the opposition will do better, or sportsmen
enough to desire fair play and a chance for the other side,
and who are found fighting now in this camp, now in that.
The camps themselves are fairly matched: Rads and Tories--the sexes
of politics--are as evenly created as men and women. They are
like ten-pound weights standing on either scale of a balance.
What, then, determines the oscillation this way or that? Evidently
the miserable little half-ounce weight placed sometimes on one
side, sometimes on the other.

In fine,'tisthe tiny squadron of free-lances that wins general
elections, the voters who think or who don't think, or who
veer to be with the majority. The Jacks-o'-both-sides rule
England, even as the Parnell brigade ruled Parliament.

To this floating population is it given to make or unmake Cabinets;
theirs is the righteous indignation that sweeps the country like a
new broom, and sweeps Ministries into limbo; to them is made the
magniloquent "appeal to the country!" _L'état, c'est nous!_ might
be the motto of this third party, were it but conscious of itself
as a party.

"The majority is never right," cries Dr. Stockmann in "The Enemy of
the People." "Never, I say. That is one of those conventional
lies against which a free, thoughtful man must rebel. Who are they
that make up the majority of a country? Is it the wise men or the
foolish? I think we must agree that the foolish folk are, at
present, in a terribly overwhelming majority all around and about
us the wide world over. But, devil take it, it can surely never
be right that the foolish should rule over the wise....
The majority has might--unhappily--but right it has not. I
and a few others are right." But how if "I and a few others" organised
themselves after the fashion of the Parnellites? how if the wise
men made up their minds that the world should no longer be governed
with the proverbial minimum of wisdom, and, taking advantage of the
natural balance of parties, resolved that they should be the ones
to supply the principle of movement to the equilibrated social
machine?

Surely the Millennium could not long resist the Philosophers'
party. But, alas!
would the wise men agree? Would not they also split up into two
factions?
And even if philosophers were kings and kings philosophers, _would_
the kingdom of Plato be at hand?

Popular suffrage is much maligned. "Think," says Bouvard, one
of the tragi-comic twain who serve for title to that saddest
of all humorous books, Flaubert's "Bouvard et Pécuchet," "think
of all those who buy pomades and patent medicines. These blockheads
form the electorate and we submit to their will. Why can't one
make three thousand a year by breeding rabbits? Because too
much crowding together is fatal to them. In like manner, by the
mere coming together of a crowd the germs of stupidity which it
contains get developed and the consequences are incalculable."
But popular suffrage does not operate like this at all.
One might almost say that half the stupidity contradicts and
annihilates the other half: in practice the franchise carries
its own antidote,--the "germs of stupidity" do not get developed,
but destroyed. The metaphor of germs would be more appropriate if
applied to the ideas of the party-programmes, for these ideas are
introduced by a few wise or foolish men and disseminated epidemically
throughout their respective parties.
Democracy never escapes aristocracy, for the people never invents
ideas; its whole power is that of choice between the ideas offered
by its would-be leaders, and even these ideas it accepts less as
a philosopher than as a patient, rather as "germs" than as thoughts.

And when once it has accepted its leaders or its representatives,
the beautiful parliamentary system deprives it of all further
rights of interference for a term of years, and the policy of the
country is far more dependent on the intestine rivalries and
manoeuvrings of the representatives than on the desires and demands
of the represented. In a really democratic system there would be
a central bureau of statesmen not necessarily elected by the voice
of the people, and this bureau should have for object not the
wrangling over measures, but the mere proposition of them.

These trained thinkers and diplomatists--accepting advice freely
from the great newspapers and the chiefs of factions--would propose
whatever measures seemed necessary from time to time for the
preservation, the elevation, and the dignity of the commonweal, and
these propositions would be submitted officially to every
franchise-holder, just as the inquisitive census-paper or the
parochial voting-paper is to-day. The "Ayes" or "Noes" of the people
would have it, not of those who represent them, save the mark! The
details could be drafted by specialists, as to-day. That this
would be a better or even a feasible system I do not say;
but I do maintain that any other democracy than this is a fraud.
To have the ten-thousandth part of a voice in selecting among the
varying policies of sundry ambitious gentlemen, all of whom
have been foisted on me by committees, and of whom the successful
one--whose professed views may be quite antithetical to mine and
can at best only roughly represent them--will have, when he is not
absent or manoeuvred into silence, the six-hundred-and-seventieth
part of a voice in accepting or rejecting the ideas of half a dozen
very ambitious gentlemen, whose measures are themselves liable to
be quashed at the eleventh hour by an Upper House that sits without
my will or consent, and which is in its turn legally liable to be
superseded by the Sovereign, whose government is all the while being
really carried on in silence by permanent officials whose very names
I do not know and who have no connection with me beyond accepting,
in ignorance of my existence, my dole towards their salaries,--this
is not a form of democracy that appeals very attractively to me as
an individual member of Demos.

And, moreover, the position of my Member
of Parliament is scarcely less paradoxical than my own rôle of
free and independent elector.

He is the mouthpiece of his constituents, and yet he is expected to
have a will and conscience of his own. Why? Why should he be any
more honest than a lawyer or a journalist? Each of these classes
is paid to maintain certain propositions, and the most successful
in these lines are those with the highest powers of persuasion.

The constituency wishes certain opinions and desires put
forward in Parliament,--why should the man who offers to execute
the job be presumed to share those opinions and desires? The point
is, can he represent them more forcibly than the rival
candidates?
I do not for a moment imagine that the M. P. invariably agrees
with the politics of his electors; I only inquire why he should have
to profess to,--why should he pay this homage of hypocrisy to an
illogical ideal?
Theoretically we do not elect our M. P. because _he_ wants to get on,
but because _we_ want to get on or the country to get on; because
_we_ want certain measures carried, not because _he_ wants certain
measures carried. Therefore it is to our interest to get the
most skilled advocate at our command; his personal opinions are
no concern of ours. A fig for his ambitions and aspirations!
This may not be a dignified position for the M. P., but it is the
one logically implicated in the democratic notion of universal
suffrage; and when the gentleman honestly asserts himself
and his private ambitions and his private conscience, he is deucedly
dishonest to his constituents.

To be strictly logical, indeed, M. P.'

s should confine themselves to stating the wishes of the people
they represent: they might as well be mechanical dolls, moved through
the lobbies by the respective wire-pullers and fitted with
inarticulate noises. Or, for the matter of that, they might be
superseded altogether by written summaries of the opinions of
the winning majority in each constituency on all the points at
issue in the current session. The chiefs of the party could play
the game with markers. But indeed what is the use of dealing the
cards at all, when the Prime Minister holds all the trumps in
advance, not up his sleeve, but openly on the table? As for the
speeches in the House, they have as much effect upon the issue
as the conversations at the card-table. They are an obsolete
survival from the times when members were liable to come to
the House with open minds, instead of having them closed by
their constituencies. Indeed, I can suggest a simple device by which,
without any departure from the ancient forms of the House,
most of the evils of Party Government could be swept away. By
the system of "pairing" a Tory may neutralize a Radical, and
both go on together without interfering with the good of the
country.

Let therefore the entire minority pair off with members of
the opposite party, leaving the bare majority in possession of the
floor. Being agreed on their policy, these would not want to make
speeches, but would simply spend their time walking through the
"Ayes" lobby. A few afternoons of pleasant promenading would
provide the country with enough legislation for a lifetime.
_Solvitur ambulando._ The party leaders would be enabled to husband
their energies for the hustings, since like all the agreeable
members they would easily find "partners." It is only the bores who
would be left to walk the House. It will be observed that this
incalculable gain of time, temper, money, and Acts of Parliament
would be secured without revolution, on constitutional lines, and
by a mere extension of an existing practice.

I am convinced the salvation of the country depends on the universal
adoption of the system of Parliamentary "pairing," or legislation
by walking "wall-flowers."
A further advantage of this system deserves to be noted. As it takes
forty members to make a House, should the Governmental majority
fall below this number no business could be transacted. Thus
it would become impossible, when the country was almost equally
divided, for one party to impose its will on the nation by force
of a bare majority.

Again, therefore, a very necessary reform would be achieved on
strictly constitutional lines.

In so confused a constitution, or so constitutional a confusion,
it ill becomes one to inquire why pre-eminence in Parliament is
attained by dexterity in the word-duel, and why a John Stuart Mill,
who gave his life to the study of sociological questions, is a
failure in the House, while a Randolph Churchill, who confessedly
found politics more exciting than any other form of sport, including
even horse-racing, should be a success.

As in Athens of old, the rhetorician is master of the field.
Does it not seem ridiculous that a man shall be allowed to
legislate who has not passed an examination in political
philosophy, political economy, and universal history? As absurd
as that men should be able to set up as critics merely by
purchasing reviews, that they should be permitted to ply without
a license. Still, monstrous as is the mischief wrought by the quack
critic, his sphere of influence is limited. But this question
of government touches us all. No one ought to be allowed in the House
who has not satisfactorily grappled with papers like the following.

1.

Explain the use of the following phrases: "Home Rule," "Liberty,"
"Well-being of the Masses," "G. O. M.," "Good of the State," "The
Constitution." What meaning do you attach to them, if any?

2. "The Function of an Opposition Is To Oppose." Criticise
this statement from the point of view of the Party in
Power, and trace carefully the modification in its view
produced by a change of government.

3. What is a good electoral address? Is there any relation between
it and its owner's votes in the House?

4. (a) Prove that Female Franchise is demanded not only by the women
of England, but by every consideration of reason and justice.

(b) Disprove the same.

5. The leader of your party suddenly reverses his policy.

(a) What would you think?

(b) What would you say?

(c) How would you vote?

Give no reasons for your answer.

6. If C represents Conscience, and C1 the Constituency, show that
C1 will always be represented by C2[*].

[Transcriber's note: So in original.]

7. What is a working-man? Explain why professional
men who work sixteen hours a day
are excluded from this category.

8. Define a political victory, and
distinguish between a political victory
and a moral victory.

But perhaps the discrepancy is less than
meets the eye.

The House of Commons is a _Representative_ Assembly; the rhetoricians
and fencers represent the unreason and the pugnacity of the
partisans. A country has the politicians it deserves. I
have heard the most ignorant girls rage against Mr. Gladstone;
damsels in their teens who knew nothing of life or its problems,
nor could have studied any question for themselves; pretty girls
withal, but who at the mention of the veteran statesman took on
the avenging aspect of the Eumenides.

It was a girl of quite another temper who replied to me when,
talking over old times and old discussions, I said I had not yet
become a Socialist: "I don't think you ever knew what you were."
I winced as at a just reproach, yet when I had left her the retort
occurred to me (as retorts will, when too late) that there was no
particular merit in being a "what," that men were not necessarily
"'ists" or "'ites," that thoughts did not fit into pigeonholes, and
that if there was any merit in the matter it consisted rather in
preserving free play and elasticity of mind.

Because certain men had put certain ideas into the world it
did not follow that every other man had definitely to accept or
reject each and all of them, and to become an "'ite" or an "anti-'ite"
in so doing.
Plague take great men! What right had they to force one into the
jury-box? Still less was it compulsory to return a verdict if,
as the vulgar were apt to think, the acceptance of any one "'ism"
precluded the acceptance of another, so that to be an Ibsenite was
synonymous with detesting the dramas of Sardou, and to be a
Wagnerite involved a horror of Mendelssohn. It was only the
uncultured who held their artistic and political creeds with the
narrowness of Little Bethel, importing into thought and aesthetics
the zealotry they had lost in religion. The book of Experience,
thought I, is not an Encyclopaedia, with every possible topic
neatly ranged in alphabetical order; 'tis no A B C Time Table,
with the trains docketed for the enlightenment of the simple,'t
is rather an Encyclopaedia torn into a million million fragments
by kittens and pasted together again by infants, so that all possible
things are inextricably interfused, every one with every other;
't is a Bradshaw edited by a maniac, where the trains that start
but don't arrive are not even distinguished from the trains that
arrive but don't start.

Wherever persons are conscious of the infinite complexities
of things, they will be found cautious of creed and timid of assertion.
You have probably noted that at Waterloo Station, in London, no
porter will ever bind himself to a definite statement concerning
any train.

It is only the inartistic who hold that black is black and white
is white, unconditionally, irretrievably; and who have invented
the proverb "He'd say black's white" to express the Sophist _in
excelsis_.

It must be true, as Ruskin contends, that not one man in fifteen
thousand has ever observed anything, else how account for this
wide-spread fallacy? The "wit of one," instead of
crystallising this "wisdom of the many," should have flatly
contradicted it. For, take two blackboards and place
them at right angles to each other: let a ray of bright sunlight
fall upon them, so that one cast a shadow on the other. The
portion of blackboard overshadowed will indeed be blackish,
but the portion illuminated by full sunlight will be comparatively
white, although it is still thought of as a "_black_-board." So,
too, ask the man in the street for the colour of trees, and he will
reply "green." If I may permit myself a vulgar locution, the green
is in his eye. Trees are, of course, all colours of the rainbow,
according to kind and season; and grass, too, is by no means always
so green as people think it. We start in our childhood with
prejudices on these subjects--what is education but the
systematic imparting of prejudice?

--and we rarely recover. Even the primitive rhymes of childhood
fix ideas unalterably in our minds:

The rose is red, the violet's blue, Sugar is sweet and so are
you.

Tea-roses are not red nor Neapolitan violets blue; sugar is only sweet
to those unversed in metaphysics, and sugar of lead not even to
them. As for the compliment to the juvenile petticoat, let it
remain. But the blackness of black is a superstition that
deserves no such courteous concessions. There is, in fact, no black
and no white at all, as any black-and-white artist will tell
you. Black is not a colour: it is merely the negation of light.
By day nothing is ever black--it always contains reflected light
from some surrounding object or objects: if you look at a "black"
thing by day, you see its details, which convincingly proves that
light is not absent.

If there were such a thing as a black object, it could only prove
its existence by being seen; but if it is seen it is no
longer black, and if it is black it is no longer seen. The mourners
at a funeral no more wear black than the bridesmaids at a wedding
wear white.
To be white, a thing would have to escape all reflected light; and
even if this were possible, the sunlight itself, the source of all
light and colour, would tinge it with yellow, or red, or pink,
according to the time of day.

"What!" the injudicious reader will cry, "is not snow white?
Does not the Dictionary boast even a double-barreled epithet
'snow-white'! How about the 'great white sea' that stretches
round the Pole?" I cannot help it: these adjectives, these
expressions were invented before artists had taught men to see:
hastily, as by men falling in love at first sight, who are
destined to make many discoveries concerning their idol later on.
Snow is never white, any more than the beloved is absolutely
blameless.

For snow to be "snow-white," the sky would have to be white,
whereas in those arctic circles it should be either blue or grey.
Moreover, the snow being only semi-opaque must be tinctured by the
shadow of the darkness of its own depths; as for icebergs, well,
you may see green, brown, and even deep-grey ice, whilst the
whitest have pinnacles and crags that must break the light like
prisms into all the colours of the spectrum, and all these
hues, again, do not fail to tint the snow. Nor will the white
bear improve the situation, for, to judge by the specimen in our
London Zoological Gardens, white bears are dirty yellow, just as
black bears are dirty brown.

But, so far from realising that black may be white, your average voter
seems to imagine that neither is ever even tempered: that his
party is purest white, and the opposition party impurest black. That
the other side reverses this colouring does not trouble him: it
is merely due to the aforesaid sophistical faculty of proving
black white. I once knew a man--no average voter he--who owned
two comic papers, the one Radical, the other Conservative. How he
must have chuckled as he planned the cartoons and settled the
chiaroscuro! What blacks for the Tories to be answered by
counter-blacks for the Radicals! Beaconsfield as a sweep,
Gladstone as an Angel of Light; Beaconsfield as Ormuzd, Gladstone
as Ahriman; each in turn Lucifer, Son of the Morning, and
Satan, the discomfited demon. I tremble to think what would have
happened if, by one of those _contretemps_ which sometimes occur
even in real life, the cartoons had got interchanged.

And caricatures such as these influence the elections! The most
childish nonsense, written in the picture-language so dear to
children! And on such ineptitudes the destinies of the nation
are supposed to turn! 'T is a comforting reflection, then,
that the whole thing is so largely a farce, that the real
axis of events is elsewhere--by no means a thing to grieve over.
If the British Constitution is a paradox not to be fathomed by
human intellect, why, that is a quality which it shares with
Space and Time and all deep and elemental things.

Your deep thinker is invariably a paradox-monger, because everything
when probed to its bottom proves illusive, and is found to contain
its own contradiction. Truth is not a dead butterfly, to be transfixed
with a pin and labelled, but a living, airy, evasive butterfly.
Perhaps that is the inner meaning of the Whistlerian motto. The
Hegelian self-contradictoriness of the British Constitution
will not, therefore, affright us.
The want of
modesty, which I principally deplore as subversive of morality,
arises from the state of warfare so strenuously supported by
voluptuous men as the very essence of modesty, though, in fact, its
bane; because it is a refinement on sensual desire, that men fall
into who have not sufficient virtue to relish the innocent
pleasures of love.  A man of delicacy carries his notions of
modesty still further, for neither weakness nor sensibility will
gratify him--he looks for affection.

Again; men boast of their triumphs over women, what do they boast
of? Truly the creature of sensibility was surprised by her
sensibility into folly--into vice;* and the dreadful reckoning
falls heavily on her own weak head, when reason wakes.  For where
art thou to find comfort, forlorn and disconsolate one?  He who
ought to have directed thy reason, and supported thy weakness, has
betrayed thee!  In a dream of passion thou consentedst to wander
through flowery lawns, and heedlessly stepping over the precipice
to which thy guide, instead of guarding, lured thee, thou startest
from thy dream only to face a sneering, frowning world, and to find
thyself alone in a waste, for he that triumphed in thy weakness is
now pursuing new conquests; but for thee--there is no redemption on
this side the grave!  And what resource hast thou in an enervated
mind to raise a sinking heart?

(*Footnote.  The poor moth fluttering round a candle, burns its
wings.)

But, if the sexes be really to live in a state of warfare, if
nature has pointed it out, let men act nobly, or let pride whisper
to them, that the victory is mean when they merely vanquish
sensibility.  The real conquest is that over affection not taken by
surprise--when, like Heloisa, a woman gives up all the world,
deliberately, for love.  I do not now consider the wisdom or virtue
of such a sacrifice, I only contend that it was a sacrifice to
affection, and not merely to sensibility, though she had her share.
And I must be allowed to call her a modest woman, before I dismiss
this part of the subject, by saying, that till men are more chaste,
women will be immodest.  Where, indeed, could modest women find
husbands from whom they would not continually turn with disgust?
Modesty must be equally cultivated by both sexes, or it will ever
remain a sickly hot-house plant, whilst the affectation of it, the
fig leaf borrowed by wantonness, may give a zest to voluptuous
enjoyments.)

Men will probably still insist that woman ought to have more
modesty than man; but it is not dispassionate reasoners who will
most earnestly oppose my opinion.  No, they are the men of fancy,
the favourites of the sex, who outwardly respect, and inwardly
despise the weak creatures whom they thus sport with.  They cannot
submit to resign the highest sensual gratification, nor even to
relish the epicurism of virtue--self-denial.

To take another view of the subject, confining my remarks to women.

The ridiculous falsities which are told to children, from mistaken
notions of modesty, tend very early to inflame their imaginations
and set their little minds to work, respecting subjects, which
nature never intended they should think of, till the body arrived
at some degree of maturity; then the passions naturally begin to
take place of the senses, as instruments to unfold the
understanding, and form the moral character.

In nurseries, and boarding schools, I fear, girls are first
spoiled; particularly in the latter.  A number of girls sleep in
the same room, and wash together.  And, though I should be sorry to
contaminate an innocent creature's mind by instilling false
delicacy, or those indecent prudish notions, which early cautions
respecting the other sex naturally engender, I should be very
anxious to prevent their acquiring indelicate, or immodest habits;
and as many girls have learned very indelicate tricks, from
ignorant servants, the mixing them thus indiscriminately together,
is very improper.

To say the truth, women are, in general, too familiar with each
other, which leads to that gross degree of familiarity that so
frequently renders the marriage state unhappy.  Why in the name of
decency are sisters, female intimates, or ladies and their waiting
women, to be so grossly familiar as to forget the respect which one
human creature owes to another?  That squeamish delicacy which
shrinks from the most disgusting offices when affection or humanity
lead us to watch at a sick pillow, is despicable.  But, why women
in health should be more familiar with each other than men are,
when they boast of their superiour delicacy, is a solecism in
manners which I could never solve.

In order to preserve health and beauty, I should earnestly
recommend frequent ablutions, to dignify my advice that it may not
offend the fastidious ear; and, by example, girls ought to be
taught to wash and dress alone, without any distinction of rank;
and if custom should make them require some little assistance, let
them not require it till that part of the business is over which
ought never to be done before a fellow-creature; because it is an
insult to the majesty of human nature.  Not on the score of
modesty, but decency; for the care which some modest women take,
making at the same time a display of that care, not to let their
legs be seen, is as childish as immodest.*

(*Footnote.  I remember to have met with a sentence, in a book of
education that made me smile.  "It would be needless to caution you
against putting your hand, by chance, under your neck-handkerchief;
for a modest woman never did so!")

I could proceed still further, till I animadverted on some still
more indelicate customs, which men never fall into.  Secrets are
told--where silence ought to reign; and that regard to cleanliness,
which some religious sects have, perhaps, carried too far,
especially the Essenes, amongst the Jews, by making that an insult
to God which is only an insult to humanity, is violated in a brutal
manner.  How can DELICATE women obtrude on notice that part of the
animal economy, which is so very disgusting?  And is it not very
rational to conclude, that the women who have not been taught to
respect the human nature of their own sex, in these particulars,
will not long respect the mere difference of sex, in their
husbands?  After their maidenish bashfulness is once lost, I, in
fact, have generally observed, that women fall into old habits; and
treat their husbands as they did their sisters or female
acquaintance.

Besides, women from necessity, because their minds are not
cultivated, have recourse very often, to what I familiarly term
bodily wit; and their intimacies are of the same kind.  In short,
with respect to both mind and body, they are too intimate.  That
decent personal reserve, which is the foundation of dignity of
character, must be kept up between women, or their minds will never
gain strength or modesty.

On this account also, I object to many females being shut up
together in nurseries, schools, or convents.  I cannot recollect
without indignation, the jokes and hoiden tricks, which knots of
young women indulged themselves in, when in my youth accident threw
me, an awkward rustic, in their way.  They were almost on a par
with the double meanings, which shake the convivial table when the
glass has circulated freely.  But it is vain to attempt to keep the
heart pure, unless the head is furnished with ideas, and set to
work to compare them, in order, to acquire judgment, by
generalizing simple ones; and modesty by making the understanding
damp the sensibility.

It may be thought that I lay too great a stress on personal
reserve; but it is ever the hand-maid of modesty.  So that were I
to name the graces that ought to adorn beauty, I should instantly
exclaim, cleanliness, neatness, and personal reserve.  It is
obvious, I suppose, that the reserve I mean, has nothing sexual in
it, and that I think it EQUALLY necessary in both sexes.  So
necessary indeed, is that reserve and cleanliness which indolent
women too often neglect, that I will venture to affirm, that when
two or three women live in the same house, the one will be most
respected by the male part of the family, who reside with them,
leaving love entirely out of the question, who pays this kind of
habitual respect to her person.

When domestic friends meet in a morning, there will naturally
prevail an affectionate seriousness, especially, if each look
forward to the discharge of daily duties; and it may be reckoned
fanciful, but this sentiment has frequently risen spontaneously in
my mind.  I have been pleased after breathing the sweet bracing
morning air, to see the same kind of freshness in the countenances
I particularly loved; I was glad to see them braced, as it were,
for the day, and ready to run their course with the sun.  The
greetings of affection in the morning are by these means more
respectful, than the familiar tenderness which frequently prolongs
the evening talk.  Nay, I have often felt hurt, not to say
disgusted, when a friend has appeared, whom I parted with full
dressed the evening before, with her clothes huddled on, because
she chose to indulge herself in bed till the last moment.

Domestic affection can only be kept alive by these neglected
attentions; yet if men and women took half as much pains to dress
habitually neat, as they do to ornament, or rather to disfigure
their persons, much would be done towards the attainment of purity
of mind.  But women only dress to gratify men of gallantry; for the
lover is always best pleased with the simple garb that sits close
to the shape.  There is an impertinence in ornaments that rebuffs
affection; because love always clings round the idea of home.

As a sex, women are habitually indolent; and every thing tends to
make them so.  I do not forget the starts of activity which
sensibility produces; but as these flights of feeling only increase
the evil, they are not to be confounded with the slow, orderly walk
of reason.  So great, in reality, is their mental and bodily
indolence, that till their body be strengthened and their
understanding enlarged by active exertions, there is little reason
to expect that modesty will take place of bashfulness.  They may
find it prudent to assume its semblance; but the fair veil will
only be worn on gala days.

Perhaps there is not a virtue that mixes so kindly with every other
as modesty.  It is the pale moon-beam that renders more interesting
every virtue it softens, giving mild grandeur to the contracted
horizon.  Nothing can be more beautiful than the poetical fiction,
which makes Diana with her silver crescent, the goddess of
chastity.  I have sometimes thought, that wandering with sedate
step in some lonely recess, a modest dame of antiquity must have
felt a glow of conscious dignity, when, after contemplating the
soft shadowy landscape, she has invited with placid fervour the
mild reflection of her sister's beams to turn to her chaste bosom.

A Christian has still nobler motives to incite her to preserve her
chastity and acquire modesty, for her body has been called the
Temple of the living God; of that God who requires more than
modesty of mien.  His eye searcheth the heart; and let her
remember, that if she hopeth to find favour in the sight of purity
itself, her chastity must be founded on modesty, and not on worldly
prudence; or verily a good reputation will be her only reward; for
that awful intercourse, that sacred communion, which virtue
establishes between man and his Maker, must give rise to the wish
of being pure as he is pure!

After the foregoing remarks, it is almost superfluous to add, that
I consider all those feminine airs of maturity, which succeed
bashfulness, to which truth is sacrificed, to secure the heart of a
husband, or rather to force him to be still a lover when nature
would, had she not been interrupted in her operations, have made
love give place to friendship, as immodest.  The tenderness which a
man will feel for the mother of his children is an excellent
substitute for the ardour of unsatisfied passion; but to prolong
that ardour it is indelicate, not to say immodest, for women to
feign an unnatural coldness of constitution.  Women as well as men
ought to have the common appetites and passions of their nature,
they are only brutal when unchecked by reason:  but the obligation
to check them is the duty of mankind, not a sexual duty.  Nature,
in these respects, may safely be left to herself; let women only
acquire knowledge and humanity, and love will teach them modesty.
There is no need of falsehoods, disgusting as futile, for studied
rules of behaviour only impose on shallow observers; a man of sense
soon sees through, and despises the affectation.

The behaviour of young people, to each other, as men and women, is
the last thing that should be thought of in education.  In fact,
behaviour in most circumstances is now so much thought of, that
simplicity of character is rarely to be seen;  yet, if men were
only anxious to cultivate each virtue, and let it take root firmly
in the mind, the grace resulting from it, its natural exteriour
mark, would soon strip affectation of its flaunting plumes;
because, fallacious as unstable, is the conduct that is not founded
upon truth!

(Footnote.  The behaviour of many newly married women has often
disgusted me.  They seem anxious never to let their husbands forget
the privilege of marriage, and to find no pleasure in his society
unless he is acting the lover.  Short, indeed, must be the reign of
love, when the flame is thus constantly blown up, without its
receiving any solid fuel.)

Would ye, O my sisters, really possess modesty, ye must remember
that the possession of virtue, of any denomination, is incompatible
with ignorance and vanity! ye must acquire that soberness of mind,
which the exercise of duties, and the pursuit of knowledge, alone
inspire, or ye will still remain in a doubtful dependent situation,
and only be loved whilst ye are fair! the downcast eye, the rosy
blush, the retiring grace, are all proper in their season; but
modesty, being the child of reason, cannot long exist with the
sensibility that is not tempered by reflection.  Besides, when
love, even innocent love, is the whole employ of your lives, your
hearts will be too soft to afford modesty that tranquil retreat,
where she delights to dwell, in close union with humanity.


CHAPTER 8.

MORALITY UNDERMINED BY SEXUAL NOTIONS OF THE IMPORTANCE OF A GOOD
REPUTATION.

It has long since occurred to me, that advice respecting behaviour,
and all the various modes of preserving a good reputation, which
have been so strenuously inculcated on the female world, were
specious poisons, that incrusting morality eat away the substance.
And, that this measuring of shadows produced a false calculation,
because their length depends so much on the height of the sun, and
other adventitious circumstances.

>From whence arises the easy fallacious behaviour of a courtier?
>From this situation, undoubtedly:  for standing in need of
dependents, he is obliged to learn the art of denying without
giving offence, and, of evasively feeding hope with the chameleon's
food;  thus does politeness sport with truth, and eating away the
sincerity and humanity natural to man, produce the fine gentleman.

Women in the same way acquire, from a supposed necessity, an
equally artificial mode of behaviour.  Yet truth is not with
impunity to be sported with, for the practised dissembler, at last,
becomes the dupe of his own arts, loses that sagacity which has
been justly termed common sense; namely, a quick perception of
common truths:  which are constantly received as such by the
unsophisticated mind, though it might not have had sufficient
energy to discover them itself, when obscured by local prejudices.
The greater number of people take their opinions on trust, to avoid
the trouble of exercising their own minds, and these indolent
beings naturally adhere to the letter, rather than the spirit of a
law, divine or human.  "Women," says some author, I cannot
recollect who, "mind not what only heaven sees."  Why, indeed
should they? it is the eye of man that they have been taught to
dread--and if they can lull their Argus to sleep, they seldom think
of heaven or themselves, because their reputation is safe; and it
is reputation not chastity and all its fair train, that they are
employed to keep free from spot, not as a virtue, but to preserve
their station in the world.

To prove the truth of this remark, I need only advert to the
intrigues of married women, particularly in high life, and in
countries where women are suitably married, according to their
respective ranks by their parents.  If an innocent girl become a
prey to love, she is degraded forever, though her mind was not
polluted by the arts which married women, under the convenient
cloak of marriage, practise; nor has she violated any duty--but the
duty of respecting herself.  The married woman, on the contrary,
breaks a most sacred engagement, and becomes a cruel mother when
she is a false and faithless wife.  If her husband has still an
affection for her, the arts which she must practise to deceive him,
will render her the most contemptible of human beings; and at any
rate, the contrivances necessary to preserve appearances, will keep
her mind in that childish or vicious tumult which destroys all its
energy.  Besides, in time, like those people who habitually take
cordials to raise their spirits, she will want an intrigue to give
life to her thoughts, having lost all relish for pleasures that are
not highly seasoned by hope or fear.

Sometimes married women act still more audaciously; I will mention
an instance.

A woman of quality, notorious for her gallantries, though as she
still lived with her husband, nobody chose to place her in the
class where she ought to have been placed, made a point of treating
with the most insulting contempt a poor timid creature, abashed by
a sense of her former weakness, whom a neighbouring gentleman had
seduced and afterwards married.  This woman had actually confounded
virtue with reputation; and, I do believe, valued herself on the
propriety of her behaviour before marriage, though when once
settled, to the satisfaction of her family, she and her lord were
equally faithless--so that the half alive heir to an immense estate
came from heaven knows where!

To view this subject in another light.

I have known a number of women who, if they did not love their
husbands, loved nobody else, giving themselves entirely up to
vanity and dissipation, neglecting every domestic duty; nay, even
squandering away all the money which should have been saved for
their helpless younger children, yet have plumed themselves on
their unsullied reputation, as if the whole compass of their duty
as wives and mothers was only to preserve it.  Whilst other
indolent women, neglecting every personal duty, have thought that
they deserved their husband's affection, because they acted in this
respect with propriety.

Weak minds are always fond of resting in the ceremonials of duty,
but morality offers much simpler motives; and it were to be wished
that superficial moralists had said less respecting behaviour, and
outward observances, for unless virtue, of any kind, is built on
knowledge, it will only produce a kind of insipid decency.  Respect
for the opinion of the world, has, however, been termed the
principal duty of woman in the most express words, for Rousseau
declares, "that reputation is no less indispensable than chastity."
"A man," adds he, "secure in his own good conduct, depends only on
himself, and may brave the public opinion; but a woman, in behaving
well, performs but half her duty; as what is thought of her, is as
important to her as what she really is.  It follows hence, that the
system of a woman's education should, in this respect, be directly
contrary to that of ours.  Opinion is the grave of virtue among the
men; but its throne among women."  It is strictly logical to infer,
that the virtue that rests on opinion is merely worldly, and that
it is the virtue of a being to whom reason has been denied.  But,
even with respect to the opinion of the world, I am convinced, that
this class of reasoners are mistaken.

This regard for reputation, independent of its being one of the
natural rewards of virtue, however, took its rise from a cause that
I have already deplored as the grand source of female depravity,
the impossibility of regaining respectability by a return to
virtue, though men preserve theirs during the indulgence of vice.
It was natural for women then to endeavour to preserve what once
lost--was lost for ever, till this care swallowing up every other
care, reputation for chastity, became the one thing needful to the
sex.  But vain is the scrupulosity of ignorance, for neither
religion nor virtue, when they reside in the heart, require such a
puerile attention to mere ceremonies, because the behaviour must,
upon the whole be proper, when the motive is pure.

To support my opinion I can produce very respectable authority; and
the authority of a cool reasoner ought to have weight to enforce
consideration, though not to establish a sentiment.  Speaking of
the general laws of morality, Dr. Smith observes--"That by some
very extraordinary and unlucky circumstance, a good man may come to
be suspected of a crime of which he was altogether incapable, and
upon that account be most unjustly exposed for the remaining part
of his life to the horror and aversion of mankind.  By an accident
of this kind he may be said to lose his all, notwithstanding his
integrity and justice, in the same manner as a cautious man,
notwithstanding his utmost circumspection, may be ruined by an
earthquake or an inundation.  Accidents of the first kind, however,
are perhaps still more rare, and still more contrary to the common
course of things than those of the second; and it still remains
true, that the practice of truth, justice and humanity, is a
certain and almost infallible method of acquiring what those
virtues chiefly aim at, the confidence and love of those we live
with.  A person may be easily misrepresented with regard to a
particular action; but it is scarcely possible that he should be so
with regard to the general tenor of his conduct.  An innocent man
may be believed to have done wrong:  this, however, will rarely
happen.  On the contrary, the established opinion of the innocence
of his manners will often lead us to absolve him where he has
really been in the fault, notwithstanding very strong
presumptions."

I perfectly coincide in opinion with this writer, for I verily
believe, that few of either sex were ever despised for certain
vices without deserving to be despised.  I speak not of the calumny
of the moment, which hangs over a character, like one of the dense
fogs of November over this metropolis, till it gradually subsides
before the common light of day, I only contend, that the daily
conduct of the majority prevails to stamp their character with the
impression of truth.  Quietly does the clear light, shining day
after day, refute the ignorant surmise, or malicious tale, which
has thrown dirt on a pure character.  A false light distorted, for
a short time, its shadow--reputation; but it seldom fails to become
just when the cloud is dispersed that produced the mistake in
vision.

Many people, undoubtedly in several respects, obtain a better
reputation than, strictly speaking, they deserve, for unremitting
industry will mostly reach its goal in all races.  They who only
strive for this paltry prize, like the Pharisees, who prayed at the
corners of streets, to be seen of men, verily obtain the reward
they seek; for the heart of man cannot be read by man!  Still the
fair fame that is naturally reflected by good actions, when the man
is only employed to direct his steps aright, regardless of the
lookers-on, is in general, not only more true but more sure.

There are, it is true, trials when the good man must appeal to God
from the injustice of man; and amidst the whining candour or
hissing of envy, erect a pavilion in his own mind to retire to,
till the rumour be overpast; nay, the darts of undeserved censure
may pierce an innocent tender bosom through with many sorrows; but
these are all exceptions to general rules.  And it is according to
these common laws that human behaviour ought to be regulated.  The
eccentric orbit of the comet never influences astronomical
calculations respecting the invariable order established in the
motion of the principal bodies of the solar system.

I will then venture to affirm, that after a man has arrived at
maturity, the general outline of his character in the world is
just, allowing for the before mentioned exceptions to the rule.  I
do not say, that a prudent, worldly-wise man, with only negative
virtues and qualities, may not sometimes obtain a smoother
reputation than a wiser or a better man.  So far from it, that I am
apt to conclude from experience, that where the virtue of two
people is nearly equal, the most negative character will be liked
best by the world at large, whilst the other may have more friends
in private life.  But the hills and dales, clouds and sunshine,
conspicuous in the virtues of great men, set off each other; and
though they afford envious weakness a fairer mark to shoot at, the
real character will still work its way to light, though bespattered
by weak affection, or ingenious malice.*

(*Footnote.  I allude to various biographical writings, but
particularly to Boswell's Life of Johnson.)

With respect to that anxiety to preserve a reputation hardly
earned, which leads sagacious people to analyze it, I shall not
make the obvious comment; but I am afraid that morality is very
insidiously undermined, in the female world, by the attention being
turned to the show instead of the substance.  A simple thing is
thus made strangely complicated; nay, sometimes virtue and its
shadow are set at variance.  We should never, perhaps, have heard
of Lucretia, had she died to preserve her chastity instead of her
reputation.  If we really deserve our own good opinion, we shall
commonly be respected in the world; but if we pant after higher
improvement and higher attainments, it is not sufficient to view
ourselves as we suppose that we are viewed by others, though this
has been ingeniously argued as the foundation of our moral
sentiments.  (Smith.)  Because each bystander may have his own
prejudices, besides the prejudices of his age or country.  We
should rather endeavour to view ourselves, as we suppose that Being
views us, who seeth each thought ripen into action, and whose
judgment never swerves from the eternal rule of right.  Righteous
are all his judgments--just, as merciful!

The humble mind that seeketh to find favour in His sight, and
calmly examines its conduct when only His presence is felt, will
seldom form a very erroneous opinion of its own virtues.  During
the still hour of self-collection, the angry brow of offended
justice will be fearfully deprecated, or the tie which draws man to
the Deity will be recognized in the pure sentiment of reverential
adoration, that swells the heart without exciting any tumultuous
emotions.  In these solemn moments man discovers the germ of those
vices, which like the Java tree shed a pestiferous vapour
around--death is in the shade! and he perceives them without
abhorrence, because he feels himself drawn by some cord of love to
all his fellow creatures, for whose follies he is anxious to find
every extenuation in their nature--in himself.  If I, he may thus
argue, who exercise my own mind, and have been refined by
tribulation, find the serpent's egg in some fold of my heart, and
crush it with difficulty, shall not I pity those who are stamped
with less vigour, or who have heedlessly nurtured the insidious
reptile till it poisoned the vital stream it sucked?  Can I,
conscious of my secret sins, throw off my fellow creatures, and
calmly see them drop into the chasm of perdition, that yawns to
receive them.  No! no!  The agonized heart will cry with
suffocating impatience--I too am a man! and have vices, hid,
perhaps, from human eye, that bend me to the dust before God, and
loudly tell me when all is mute, that we are formed of the same
earth, and breathe the same element.  Humanity thus rises naturally
out of humility, and twists the cords of love that in various
convolutions entangle the heart.

This sympathy extends still further, till a man well pleased
observes force in arguments that do not carry conviction to his own
bosom, and he gladly places in the fairest light to himself, the
shows of reason that have led others astray, rejoiced to find some
reason in all the errors of man; though before convinced that he
who rules the day makes his sun to shine on all.  Yet, shaking
hands thus, as it were, with corruption, one foot on earth, the
other with bold strides mounts to heaven, and claims kindred with
superiour natures.  Virtues, unobserved by men, drop their balmy
fragrance at this cool hour, and the thirsty land, refreshed by the
pure streams of comfort that suddenly gush out, is crowned with
smiling verdure; this is the living green on which that eye may
look with complacency that is too pure to behold iniquity! But my
spirits flag; and I must silently indulge the reverie these
reflections lead to, unable to describe the sentiments that have
calmed my soul, when watching the rising sun, a soft shower
drizzling through the leaves of neighbouring trees, seemed to fall
on my languid, yet tranquil spirits, to cool the heart that had
been heated by the passions which reason laboured to tame.

The leading principles which run through all my disquisitions,
would render it unnecessary to enlarge on this subject, if a
constant attention to keep the varnish of the character fresh, and
in good condition, were not often inculcated as the sum total of
female duty; if rules to regulate the behaviour, and to preserve
the reputation, did not too frequently supersede moral obligations.
But, with respect to reputation, the attention is confined to a
single virtue--chastity.  If the honour of a woman, as it is
absurdly called, is safe, she may neglect every social duty; nay,
ruin her family by gaming and extravagance; yet still present a
shameless front --for truly she is an honourable woman!

Mrs. Macaulay has justly observed, that "there is but one fault
which a woman of honour may not commit with impunity."  She then
justly and humanely adds--This has given rise to the trite and
foolish observation, that the first fault against chastity in woman
has a radical power to deprave the character.  But no such frail
beings come out of the hands of nature.  The human mind is built of
nobler materials than to be so easily corrupted; and with all their
disadvantages of situation and education, women seldom become
entirely abandoned till they are thrown into a state of
desperation, by the venomous rancour of their own sex."

But, in proportion as this regard for the reputation of chastity is
prized by women, it is despised by men:  and the two extremes are
equally destructive to morality.

Men are certainly more under the influence of their appetites than
women; and their appetites are more depraved by unbridled
indulgence, and the fastidious contrivances of satiety.  Luxury has
introduced a refinement in eating that destroys the constitution;
and, a degree of gluttony which is so beastly, that a perception of
seemliness of behaviour must be worn out before one being could eat
immoderately in the presence of another, and afterwards complain of
the oppression that his intemperance naturally produced.  Some
women, particularly French women, have also lost a sense of decency
in this respect; for they will talk very calmly of an indigestion.
It were to be wished, that idleness was not allowed to generate, on
the rank soil of wealth, those swarms of summer insects that feed
on putrefaction; we should not then be disgusted by the sight of
such brutal excesses.

There is one rule relative to behaviour that, I think, ought to
regulate every other; and it is simply to cherish such an habitual
respect for mankind, as may prevent us from disgusting a fellow
creature for the sake of a present indulgence.  The shameful
indolence of many married women, and others a little advanced in
life, frequently leads them to sin against delicacy.  For, though
convinced that the person is the band of union between the sexes,
yet, how often do they from sheer indolence, or to enjoy some
trifling indulgence, disgust?

The depravity of the appetite, which brings the sexes together, has
had a still more fatal effect.  Nature must ever be the standard of
taste, the guage of appetite--yet how grossly is nature insulted by
the voluptuary.  Leaving the refinements of love out of the
question; nature, by making the gratification of an appetite, in
this respect, as well as every other, a natural and imperious law
to preserve the species, exalts the appetite, and mixes a little
mind and affection with a sensual gust.  The feelings of a parent
mingling with an instinct merely animal, give it dignity; and the
man and woman often meeting on account of the child, a mutual
interest and affection is excited by the exercise of a common
sympathy.  Women then having necessarily some duty to fulfil, more
noble than to adorn their persons, would not contentedly be the
slaves of casual appetite, which is now the situation of a very
considerable number who are, literally speaking, standing dishes to
which every glutton may have access.

I may be told, that great as this enormity is, it only affects a
devoted part of the sex--devoted for the salvation of the rest.
But, false as every assertion might easily be proved, that
recommends the sanctioning a small evil to produce a greater good;
the mischief does not stop here, for the moral character, and peace
of mind, of the chaster part of the sex, is undermined by the
conduct of the very women to whom they allow no refuge from guilt:
whom they inexorably consign to the exercise of arts that lure
their husbands from them, debauch their sons and force them, let
not modest women start, to assume, in some degree, the same
character themselves.  For I will venture to assert, that all the
causes of female weakness, as well as depravity, which I have
already enlarged on, branch out of one grand cause--want of
chastity in men.

This intemperance, so prevalent, depraves the appetite to such a
degree, that a wanton stimulus is necessary to rouse it; but the
parental design of nature is forgotten, and the mere person, and
that, for a moment, alone engrosses the thoughts.  So voluptuous,
indeed, often grows the lustful prowler, that he refines on female
softness.

To satisfy this genius of men, women are made systematically
voluptuous, and though they may not all carry their libertinism to
the same height, yet this heartless intercourse with the sex, which
they allow themselves, depraves both sexes, because the taste of
men is vitiated; and women, of all classes, naturally square their
behaviour to gratify the taste by which they obtain pleasure and
power.  Women becoming, consequently weaker, in mind and body, than
they ought to be, were one of the grand ends of their being taken
into the account, that of bearing and nursing children, have not
sufficient strength to discharge the first duty of a mother; and
sacrificing to lasciviousness the parental affection, that ennobles
instinct, either destroy the embryo in the womb, or cast it off
when born.  Nature in every thing demands respect, and those who
violate her laws seldom violate them with impunity.  The weak
enervated women who particularly catch the attention of libertines,
are unfit to be mothers, though they may conceive; so that the rich
sensualist, who has rioted among women, spreading depravity and
misery, when he wishes to perpetuate his name, receives from his
wife only an half-formed being that inherits both its father's and
mother's weakness.

Contrasting the humanity of the present age with the barbarism of
antiquity, great stress has been laid on the savage custom of
exposing the children whom their parents could not maintain; whilst
the man of sensibility, who thus, perhaps, complains, by his
promiscuous amours produces a most destructive barrenness and
contagious flagitiousness of manners.  Surely nature never intended
that women, by satisfying an appetite, should frustrate the very
purpose for which it was implanted?

I have before observed, that men ought to maintain the women whom
they have seduced; this would be one means of reforming female
manners, and stopping an abuse that has an equally fatal effect on
population and morals.  Another, no less obvious, would be to turn
the attention of woman to the real virtue of chastity; for to
little respect has that woman a claim, on the score of modesty,
though her reputation may be white as the driven snow, who smiles
on the libertine whilst she spurns the victims of his lawless
appetites and their own folly.

Besides, she has a taint of the same folly, pure as she esteems
herself, when she studiously adorns her person only to be seen by
men, to excite respectful sighs, and all the idle homage of what is
called innocent gallantry.  Did women really respect virtue for its
own sake, they would not seek for a compensation in vanity, for the
self-denial which they are obliged to practise to preserve their
reputation, nor would they associate with men who set reputation at
defiance.

The two sexes mutually corrupt and improve each other.  This I
believe to be an indisputable truth, extending it to every virtue.
Chastity, modesty, public spirit, and all the noble train of
virtues, on which social virtue and happiness are built, should be
understood and cultivated by all mankind, or they will be
cultivated to little effect.  And, instead of furnishing the
vicious or idle with a pretext for violating some sacred duty, by
terming it a sexual one, it would be wiser to show, that nature has
not made any difference, for that the unchaste man doubly defeats
the purpose of nature by rendering women barren, and destroying his
own constitution, though he avoids the shame that pursues the crime
in the other sex.  These are the physical consequences, the moral
are still more alarming; for virtue is only a nominal distinction
when the duties of citizens, husbands, wives, fathers, mothers, and
directors of families, become merely the selfish ties of
convenience.

Why then do philosophers look for public spirit?  Public spirit
must be nurtured by private virtue, or it will resemble the
factitious sentiment which makes women careful to preserve their
reputation, and men their honour.  A sentiment that often exists
unsupported by virtue, unsupported by that sublime morality which
makes the habitual breach of one duty a breach of the whole moral
law.


CHAPTER 9.

OF THE PERNICIOUS EFFECTS WHICH ARISE FROM THE UNNATURAL
DISTINCTIONS ESTABLISHED IN SOCIETY.

>From the respect paid to property flow, as from a poisoned
fountain, most of the evils and vices which render this world such
a dreary scene to the contemplative mind.  For it is in the most
polished society that noisome reptiles and venomous serpents lurk
under the rank herbage; and there is voluptuousness pampered by the
still sultry air, which relaxes every good disposition before it
ripens into virtue.

One class presses on another; for all are aiming to procure respect
on account of their property:  and property, once gained, will
procure the respect due only to talents and virtue.  Men neglect
the duties incumbent on man, yet are treated like demi-gods;
religion is also separated from morality by a ceremonial veil, yet
men wonder that the world is almost, literally speaking, a den of
sharpers or oppressors.

There is a homely proverb, which speaks a shrewd truth, that
whoever the devil finds idle he will employ.  And what but habitual
idleness can hereditary wealth and titles produce?  For man is so
constituted that he can only attain a proper use of his faculties
by exercising them, and will not exercise them unless necessity, of
some kind, first set the wheels in motion.  Virtue likewise can
only be acquired by the discharge of relative duties; but the
importance of these sacred duties will scarcely be felt by the
being who is cajoled out of his humanity by the flattery of
sycophants.  There must be more equality established in society, or
morality will never gain ground, and this virtuous equality will
not rest firmly even when founded on a rock, if one half of mankind
are chained to its bottom by fate, for they will be continually
undermining it through ignorance or pride.  It is vain to expect
virtue from women till they are, in some degree, independent of
men; nay, it is vain to expect that strength of natural affection,
which would make them good wives and good mothers.  Whilst they are
absolutely dependent on their husbands, they will be cunning, mean,
and selfish, and the men who can be gratified by the fawning
fondness, of spaniel-like affection, have not much delicacy, for
love is not to be bought, in any sense of the word, its silken
wings are instantly shrivelled up when any thing beside a return in
kind is sought.  Yet whilst wealth enervates men; and women live,
as it were, by their personal charms, how, can we expect them to
discharge those ennobling duties which equally require exertion and
self-denial.  Hereditary property sophisticates the mind, and the
unfortunate victims to it, if I may so express myself, swathed from
their birth, seldom exert the locomotive faculty of body or mind;
and, thus viewing every thing through one medium, and that a false
one, they are unable to discern in what true merit and happiness
consist.  False, indeed, must be the light when the drapery of
situation hides the man, and makes him stalk in masquerade,
dragging from one scene of dissipation to another the nerveless
limbs that hang with stupid listlessness, and rolling round the
vacant eye which plainly tells us that there is no mind at home.

I mean, therefore, to infer, that the society is not properly
organized which does not compel men and women to discharge their
respective duties, by making it the only way to acquire that
countenance from their fellow creatures, which every human being
wishes some way to attain.  The respect, consequently, which is
paid to wealth and mere personal charms, is a true north-east
blast, that blights the tender blossoms of affection and virtue.
Nature has wisely attached affections to duties, to sweeten toil,
and to give that vigour to the exertions of reason which only the
heart can give.  But, the affection which is put on merely because
it is the appropriated insignia of a certain character, when its
duties are not fulfilled is one of the empty compliments which vice
and folly are obliged to pay to virtue and the real nature of
things.

To illustrate my opinion, I need only observe, that when a woman is
admired for her beauty, and suffers herself to be so far
intoxicated by the admiration she receives, as to neglect to
discharge the indispensable duty of a mother, she sins against
herself by neglecting to cultivate an affection that would equally
tend to make her useful and happy.  True happiness, I mean all the
contentment, and virtuous satisfaction that can be snatched in this
imperfect state, must arise from well regulated affections; and an
affection includes a duty.  Men are not aware of the misery they
cause, and the vicious weakness they cherish, by only inciting
women to render themselves pleasing; they do not consider, that
they thus make natural and artificial duties clash, by sacrificing
the comfort and respectability of a woman's life to voluptuous
notions of beauty, when in nature they all harmonize.

Cold would be the heart of a husband, were he not rendered
unnatural by early debauchery, who did not feel more delight at
seeing his child suckled by its mother, than the most artful wanton
tricks could ever raise; yet this natural way of cementing the
matrimonial tie, and twisting esteem with fonder recollections,
wealth leads women to spurn.  To preserve their beauty, and wear
the flowery crown of the day, that gives them a kind of right to
reign for a short time over the sex, they neglect to stamp
impressions on their husbands' hearts, that would be remembered
with more tenderness when the snow on the head began to chill the
bosom, than even their virgin charms.  The maternal solicitude of a
reasonable affectionate woman is very interesting, and the
chastened dignity with which a mother returns the caresses that she
and her child receive from a father who has been fulfilling the
serious duties of his station, is not only a respectable, but a
beautiful sight.  So singular, indeed, are my feelings, and I have
endeavoured not to catch factitious ones, that after having been
fatigued with the sight of insipid grandeur and the slavish
ceremonies that with cumberous pomp supplied the place of domestic
affections, I have turned to some other scene to relieve my eye, by
resting it on the refreshing green every where scattered by nature.
I have then viewed with pleasure a woman nursing her children, and
discharging the duties of her station with, perhaps, merely a
servant made to take off her hands the servile part of the
household business.  I have seen her prepare herself and children,
with only the luxury of cleanliness, to receive her husband, who
returning weary home in the evening, found smiling babes and a
clean hearth.  My heart has loitered in the midst of the group, and
has even throbbed with sympathetic emotion, when the scraping of
the well known foot has raised a pleasing tumult.

Whilst my benevolence has been gratified by contemplating this
artless picture, I have thought that a couple of this description,
equally necessary and independent of each other, because each
fulfilled the respective duties of their station, possessed all
that life could give.  Raised sufficiently above abject poverty not
to be obliged to weigh the consequence of every farthing they
spend, and having sufficient to prevent their attending to a frigid
system of economy which narrows both heart and mind.  I declare, so
vulgar are my conceptions, that I know not what is wanted to render
this the happiest as well as the most respectable situation in the
world, but a taste for literature, to throw a little variety and
interest into social converse, and some superfluous money to give
to the needy, and to buy books.  For it is not pleasant when the
heart is opened by compassion, and the head active in arranging
plans of usefulness, to have a prim urchin continually twitching
back the elbow to prevent the hand from drawing out an almost empty
purse, whispering at the same time some prudential maxim about the
priority of justice.

Destructive, however, as riches and inherited honours are to the
human character, women are more debased and cramped, if possible by
them, than men, because men may still, in some degree, unfold their
faculties by becoming soldiers and statesmen.

As soldiers, I grant, they can now only gather, for the most part,
vainglorious laurels, whilst they adjust to a hair the European
balance, taking especial care that no bleak northern nook or sound
incline the beam.  But the days of true heroism are over, when a
citizen fought for his country like a Fabricius or a Washington,
and then returned to his farm to let his virtuous fervour run in a
more placid, but not a less salutary stream.  No, our British
heroes are oftener sent from the gaming table than from the plough;
and their passions have been rather inflamed by hanging with dumb
suspense on the turn of a die, than sublimated by panting after the
adventurous march of virtue in the historic page.

The statesman, it is true, might with more propriety quit the Faro
Bank, or card-table, to guide the helm, for he has still but to
shuffle and trick.  The whole system of British politics, if system
it may courteously be called, consisting in multiplying dependents
and contriving taxes which grind the poor to pamper the rich; thus
a war, or any wild goose chace is, as the vulgar use the phrase, a
lucky turn-up of patronage for the minister, whose chief merit is
the art of keeping himself in place.

It is not necessary then that he should have bowels for the poor,
so he can secure for his family the odd trick.  Or should some show
of respect, for what is termed with ignorant ostentation an
Englishman's birth-right, be expedient to bubble the gruff mastiff
that he has to lead by the nose, he can make an empty show, very
safely, by giving his single voice, and suffering his light
squadron to file off to the other side.  And when a question of
humanity is agitated, he may dip a sop in the milk of human
kindness, to silence Cerberus, and talk of the interest which his
heart takes in an attempt to make the earth no longer cry for
vengeance as it sucks in its children's blood, though his cold hand
may at the very moment rivet their chains, by sanctioning the
abominable traffick.  The savage, as we know him, lives on the game
he hunts and shoots, and prefers his fellow-man to vegetarianism.
No one ever accused the red Indian of nervous prostration, "when
wild in woods the noble savage ran"; nor are leopards and tigers
usually in broken-down health.

But, in justice to the Natural Food Society, I must admit that it
displays a pleasant absence of fanaticism, for there is a proviso
in italics: "_All persons about to experiment with the non-starch
food system are urged at first not to use nuts, but to use instead
whatever animal food they have been accustomed to._" The central
feature of the system is abstention from bread, cereals, pulses,
and starchy vegetables, for which food fruits are to be substituted.

All this seems a mighty poor excuse for the formation of a new sect.
Fortunately the Society uses up its superfluous energies "in
working for the higher life," and in its coupling of health and
holiness is sound in its psychology, whatever it may be in its
physiology.

You never heard of Peterkin's pudding, by the way, but there
is a fine moral baked in it. Johannes came to his wife one day
and said, "_Liebes_ Gretchen, could you not make me a pudding such
as Peterkin is always boasting his wife makes him? I am dying of
envy to taste it. Every time he talks of it my chops water."

"It is not impossible I could make you one," said Gretchen
good-naturedly; "I will go and ask Frau Peterkin how she makes it."
When Johannes returned that evening from the workshop, where
Peterkin had been raving more than ever over his wife's pudding,
Gretchen said gleefully, "I have been to Frau Peterkin: she
has a good heart, and she gave me the whole recipe for Peterkin's
pudding." Johannes rubbed his hands, and his mouth watered
already in anticipation. "It is made with raisins," began Gretchen.
Johannes's jaw fell. "We can scarcely afford raisins," he interrupted:
"couldn't you manage without raisins?" "Oh, I dare say," said Gretchen,
doubtfully. "There is also candied lemon-peel." Johannes whistled.
"Ach, we can't run to that," he said.
"No, indeed," assented Gretchen; "but we must have suet and yeast."
"I don't see the necessity," quoth Johannes. "A good cook
like you"--here he gave her a sounding kiss--"can get along without
such trifles as those."

"Well, I will try," said the good Gretchen, as cheerfully as she
could; and so next morning Johannes went to work light-hearted and
gay. When he returned home, lo! the long-desired dainty stood on
the supper-table, beautifully brown. He ran to embrace his wife
in gratitude and joy; then he tremblingly broke off a hunch
of pudding and took a huge bite. His wife, anxiously watching his
face, saw it assume a look of perplexity, followed by one of
disgust. Johannes gave a great snort of contempt.
"_Lieber Gott!_" he cried, "and _this_ is what Peterkin is always
bragging about!"

XIII
THE ABOLITION OF MONEY
The Cynic was very old and very wise and very unpopular. I was the
only person at his "At Home" that afternoon. I gave him
my views on Bi-metallism, having just read the leader in the
"Times." He yawned obtrusively, and growled, "Bi-metallism, indeed!
The only remedy for modern civilisation is A-metallism. Money
must be abolished. The root of all evil must be pulled up."
"Money abolished!" I echoed in amaze. "Why, any student of
political economy will tell you we could not live without it. Lacking
a common measure of value, we----"
"So it has always been held by students when answering political-economy
papers," he interrupted impatiently.

"Yet I dreamt once of a land where the currency was called in, and
the morning stars sang together."
"But the exchange of commodities----" I began.

"Was effected by the sublime simplicity of barter. At one sweep were
swept away all that monstrous credit system which had created an
army of accountants and a Court of bankruptcy; all that chaos
of single and double-faced entry--all that sleight-of-hand abracadabra
of signatures--all those paper phantoms of capital. The Stock
Exchange and other gambling-hells shrivelled up. There was a vast
saving of clerical labour, and there were few loopholes for fraud.
Everything was too simple.

Swift retribution overtook the man who shirked his obligations
to his fellows. Nobody could juggle with bits of paper at the North
Pole and ruin people at the South. The windows of human Society were
cleared of the gigantic complex cobweb full of dead flies. One
could look inside and see what was going on. 'Gentlemen' could not
flourish in the light. They were like the fungi that grew in
cellars. Every man became both a worker and a trader."
"Not an unmixed gain, that," I protested.

"I grant you," said the Cynic. "Some of the finer shades of fine
gentlemanliness were lost: the honourable feeling of cheating one's
tradesmen, the noble scorn of tailors, the lofty despisal of duns.
When all men were tradesmen, these higher class distinctions
fused into one another. There arose a clannish feeling which
prevented the tradesman from defrauding one of his own class. But
there was an even graver evil to be placed to the debit side of
the new system. For the professors of political economy (who had
thrown up their posts as a conscientious protest against the
abolition of money and of salaries) proved to be right.

So clumsy was the mechanism of exchange that men were actually driven
to doing more than one kind of work. All those advantages of
specialisation which Adam Smith, supplemented by Babbage, had so
laboriously pointed out were completely lost to a wasteful world.
Rather than be without certain luxuries and necessaries men
gave up moving their legs all day up and down in time with
iron treadles, or feeding machines with bits of material exactly
alike, or remaining doubled up underground, or making marks from
hour to hour and from year to year on pieces of ruled paper. The
waste by friction became enormous.

Some of the least thrifty even made their own furniture, and wove
their own clothes, and carved out rude ornaments for
themselves. Whether from a natural want of economy, or from an
unwillingness to encounter the difficulties of traffic, or from a
mere spirit of independence, these men deliberately reverted to the
condition from which mankind had so painfully emerged.

"Some even pretended to enjoy it, and, rather paradoxically, asserted
that the abolition of gold had brought about the golden age of
primitive legend. Others who felt keenly the falling-off in
production, and the absence of those huge stores of unsold commodities
which glutted the ancient markets, and gave a nation a sense of
wealth in the midst of poverty; the aesthetic spirits who lamented
the disappearance of the ancient mansions and palaces, which,
although they were empty three parts of the year, yet afforded men
the consolation of knowing that they were ample enough to shelter
the majority of the homeless--men of this stamp were chagrined by
the cumbersome mechanism of exchange, which made these glories of
the past impracticable, and they were for introducing counters.

But counters, although they had the advantage of lacking intrinsic
value, would be quite as bad as actual coins if men could entirely
trust one another never to repudiate their obligations.
Unfortunately Society had grown so honest under the new _régime_
that this condition was fulfilled, and the operation of counters
would have been identical with that of money. Moreover,
counters would have brought back card-playing, horse-racing, fire
and life assurance, and other forms of gambling, which without them
involved such complex calculations and valuations of loaves
and fishes that all the pleasure was spoilt. When these things
were pointed out to the aesthetic and the economical, they were
convinced and remained of the same opinion.

"But even with all these deficits, the balance in favour of the _status
quo_ was eminently satisfactory. It was rediscovered that man really
wanted very little here below, and that it was better for all to
get it than for some to continue to want it; and, taking into
account also the general freedom from war, newspapers, and other
evils of a moneyed civilisation, it must be conceded that the common
people had very little to grumble at."
"But what of the uncommon people?" I interrupted at last. "They must
have been martyred."
"Certainly, for the good of the common people. You see, everything
was topsy-turvey. Besides, they suffered only during the earlier
stages of transition. There was, for instance, the poet who went
round among the workmen to chaffer verses. But there were
few willing to barter solid goods for poetry.

Here and there an intelligent artisan in love purchased a serenade,
and an occasional lunatic (for Nature hath her aberrations under any
system) became the proprietor of an epic. But the sons of toil
drove few bargains or hard with the sons of the Muses. The best
poets fared worst, for the crowd sympathised not with their temper,
nor with their diction, and they were like to die of starvation
and so achieve speedy recognition. But the minor poets, too, were
in sore strait. The market was exceedingly limited. Sellers were
many and buyers few.

Rondeaux were hawked about from butcher to baker, at ten to the
joint, or three to the four-pound loaf, and triolets were
going at a hollow-toothful of brandy. A ballade-worth of butter
would hardly cover a luncheon biscuit, while a five-act blank-verse
tragedy was given away for a pound of tea, and that only when the
characters were incestuous and the caesuras irreproachable.
A famous female poet was reduced to pawning her best sonnet for
a glass of lemonade and a bun.

"Times were no less hard for the comic writer.

Hitherto he had only to outrage his mother-tongue, or to debase
the moral currency, to find the land ready to accord him of the
fat thereof. He used to sit in a room in Fleet street and make or
steal jokes in return for gold. By the wonderful mechanism of the
old Society other men and women, in whatever part of the world he
might stray, would rush to feed and clothe and house him,
and play and sing and dance to him, and physic him, and drive
him about in carriages, and tell him the news and shave him, and
press upon him aromatic mixtures to smoke, and love him, and kowtow
to him, and beg of him, and even laugh at his jokes, all in return
for making or stealing jokes in Fleet street.

Some of these men and women would detest jokes, or have a blindness
to their points; nevertheless, not one but would be eager to
express in the most practical form his or her sense of the
services rendered to Society by the joker. But now that
people saw with open eyes through the transparent mechanism of
exchange, they were extremely loth to part with their tangible
commodities in return for mere flashes of wit or vulgarity.
Previously they had only half realised that they were soberly and
seriously making coats, or working machines, or smelting iron,
while these jesters were merely cudgelling their brains or consulting
back files.

The complexity of the thing had disguised the facts. But now that
they saw exactly what was going on, they became suddenly callous
to numerous vested interests, and their new-found desire to know
why they should give up the fruits of their labour pressed very
cruelly upon innocent individuals. The comic writer found it no joke
to live with 'I'd Rajah not's' going at seventy-five to the
cigarette, or mockeries of the mother-in-law yielding but
a ton of coals to the thousand. Puns were barely vendible,
and even comic pictures could only be sold at a great sacrifice
of decency.

"The heir was a type of sufferer. When he came around asking for
champagne and chicken, the working-man said, 'What are you offering
us in exchange?' and he replied, 'My relationship to my
father.' But they would not buy.

"Antiquarians and scholars, too, found it a hard task to live. No
one needed the things they raked up from the dust-heap of the past.
Critics were in an exceptionally critical condition. No one cared
to exchange his productions with a man who in return had to offer
only his opinion of somebody else's!

As this opinion was usually worthless even under the old _régime_,
people soon began to turn up their noses at it, and nobody would
give a rusk for the information that Turner was a better
artist than Nature, or that hanging was too good for Whistler. Remarks
about the Italian Renaissance were accounted paltry equivalents
for green peas, invidious comparisons among the Lake poets
were not easily negotiable for alpaca umbrellas, and the subtlest
misreadings of Shakespeare were considered trivial substitutes for
small-clothes. The artists were reduced to borrowing half-rolls
from their models, partly because people had gone back to
Nature and liked their scenery free from oil, and drank in the
Spirit of Beauty without water, and partly because it was so difficult
to assess the value of a picture now that critics had been starved
out and speculation had died away.

Allegorical painters continued a much-misunderstood race, and
the fusion of classes had reacted fatally on the brisk trade in
'Portraits of a Gentleman.' People who, in their celestial
aspirations after the True, the Good, and the Beautiful, had forgotten
that they ate and drank and required food, warmth, and shelter
to hatch all these sublime things with Capital Letters--people who
had heretofore poured lofty scorn on those who could not forget
that a man was a being with a body--these were now the most clamant
demanders of the material. Only by the withdrawal of physical
necessaries and luxuries did they come to realise how much they
had depended on such, or to perceive the impossibility of the
Worship of Truth on an empty stomach. Alas!
under this crude system of barter the most ardent expression of their
sentiments concerning the ideal and the _Kalokagathon_ would not
keep them in cigars.

The professional paradoxist went about with holes in his boots.
Epigrams in hand, sickness at heart, and emptiness at stomach, he
crawled through the town in search of a buyer. He offered a dozen
of the choicest apothegms for a pair of hob-nailed boots, conjuring
the cobbler like the veriest 'commercial' to note the superiority
of the manufacture.
He pointed out that he travelled with the latest novelties
in Impressionist Ethics, perfect unfitness guaranteed.

He even offered to make a reduction if the cobbler would take a
quantity. The worthy craftsman, stung by the prospect of a cheap
job lot of epigrams, was prevailed upon to look at the
goods. But when he read that 'Vice is the foundation of all virtue,'
that 'Self-sacrifice is the quintessence of selfishness,' and that
'The Good of Evil outweighs the Evil of Good,' he felt that he
could do much better with his boots, even if he only employed them
to kick the epigrammatist. The poor wretch thought himself lucky
when he succeeded in purchasing two epigramsworth of tobacco
and a paradoxworth of potatoes. To cap his misfortunes, the
nation suffered from a sudden invasion of immigrant epigrammatists,
so that cynicisms went a-begging at ten for a sausage-roll. Nor was
the dull but moral maxim at less discount than the witty but
improper epigram.

Essays inculcating the most superior virtues failed to counterbalance
a day's charing, and the finest spiritualistic soft soap would not
wash clothes.
Even the washerwoman deemed her work more real and valuable than the
manufacture of moralities too fine for use, and the deliberate
effusion of sentiments too good to be true.

"In those days, too, a complete political platform, comprising a
score of first-class articles of faith, sold at a pair of second-hand
slop-trousers, and a speech of three hours and three hundred
parentheses could not fetch more than a pot of jam in the open
market.

The workhouses were crowded with politicians, critics, poets,
novelists, bishops, sporting tipsters, scholars, heirs, soldiers,
dudes, painters, journalists, peers, bookmakers, landlords,
punsters, idealists, and other incorrigible persons. Nothing
was more curious and heartrending in the history of this transition
to a new stage than the rapidity with which those who had been
most exigent towards life bated their terms. Men who, in their
aspirations after the Good and the Beautiful and the True, had
unwittingly wasted an intolerable deal of the world's substance
in riotous idealising,--men who had so long breathed the atmosphere
of ottomans and rose-leaves that they were barely conscious of their
privileges,--now found themselves clamouring for bread wherewith
to stay the cravings of their inner selves, and accounted themselves
happy if they found a roof to shelter them.

The pathos of it was that they felt it all too intensely to see the
pathos of it, or to express it in poem, picture, or song.

"It was, of course, the current political economy to which was due
this immense depreciation in the exchange value of the higher kinds
of intellectual and artistic work.

In the old Socialistic system which had been swept away by the
abolition of money, men had purchased literary and musical
commodities in common, each consumer paying his quota for his share
of an unconsumable and infinitely divisible whole. But now few
individuals cared or could afford to purchase whole works for
their private edification; and so it came to pass that men
of talent suffered as much as men of genius in the olden days.
And when it began to be understood of the people that the times
were other, and that Art and Letters and Apostleship would not pay,
men turned in resignation to work with their hands, and they made
all kinds of useful things.

"And the bookmakers returned not to their pens, nor the
pot-boiling painters to their palettes, nor the apostles
to their prophesying, being otherwise engaged and not
thereto driven by inward necessity.

"And the Society of Authors perished!

"But the great poets, and the prophets, and the workers in colour
and form, upon whom the spirit rested, these wrought on when their
daily labour for a livelihood was at an end, for joy of their art
and for the religious fire that was in them, giving freely of their
best to their fellow-men, and exempt for evermore from all taint
of trade."

The Cynic paused, and I sat silent, deeply impressed by what he
had said, and striving to imprint every word of it upon my memory,
so that I might sell it to a magazine.

XIV
MODERN MYTH-MAKING
So far as I can gather from the publications of the Folklore Society,
the science of Folklore is in a promising condition. The doctors
seem to be agreed neither about the facts nor the methods nor
the conclusions, but otherwise their unanimity is wonderful.

Woman, however, a slave in every situation to prejudice seldom
exerts enlightened maternal affection; for she either neglects her
children, or spoils them by improper indulgence.  Besides, the
affection of some women for their children is, as I have before
termed it, frequently very brutish; for it eradicates every spark
of humanity.  Justice, truth, every thing is sacrificed by these
Rebekahs, and for the sake of their own children they violate the
most sacred duties, forgetting the common relationship that binds
the whole family on earth together.  Yet, reason seems to say, that
they who suffer one duty, or affection to swallow up the rest, have
not sufficient heart or mind to fulfil that one conscientiously.
It then loses the venerable aspect of a duty, and assumes the
fantastic form of a whim.

As the care of children in their infancy is one of the grand duties
annexed to the female character by nature, this duty would afford
many forcible arguments for strengthening the female understanding,
if it were properly considered.

The formation of the mind must be begun very early, and the temper,
in particular, requires the most judicious attention--an attention
which women cannot pay who only love their children because they
are their children, and seek no further for the foundation of their
duty, than in the feelings of the moment.  It is this want of
reason in their affections which makes women so often run into
extremes, and either be the most fond, or most careless and
unnatural mothers.

To be a good mother--a woman must have sense, and that independence
of mind which few women possess who are taught to depend entirely
on their husbands.  Meek wives are, in general, foolish mothers;
wanting their children to love them best, and take their part, in
secret, against the father, who is held up as a scarecrow.  and he
swept a massive arm round the blighted scene in the crowded
Kaiserplatz.

A small boy who thought the beneficent stranger in blue serge was
chucking pfennings about the Square, careered wildly round in search
of the treasure. We walked on without undeceiving him. To quote
again from an old friend: "There is nothing more conducive to the
production and maintenance of a healthy mind in a sound body than
enterprise and industry, even when, owing to misapprehension or
miscalculation, their exercise leads to no immediate reward."Her parental affection, indeed, scarcely deserves the
name, when it does not lead her to suckle her children, because the
discharge of this duty is equally calculated to inspire maternal
and filial affection; and it is the indispensable duty of men and
women to fulfil the duties which give birth to affections that are
the surest preservatives against vice.  Natural affection, as it is
termed, I believe to be a very weak tie, affections must grow out
of the habitual exercise of a mutual sympathy; and what sympathy
does a mother exercise who sends her babe to a nurse, and only
takes it from a nurse to send it to a school?

Every state of mind tends to set up nervous vibration, and every
nervous vibration tends to set up a state of mind.
In either case the tendency may be, and usually is, counteracted.
The average member of a spiritualistic circle cannot prevent the
thought in his brain taking on bodily expression to the extent of
a muscular contraction stimulating the very sensitive tips of the
fingers. You cannot think of a joke or see the humour of anything
without wanting to smile, though you may suppress your smile in
obedience to other considerations.

Nor can you put your features into smiling position, without
experiencing a latent sense of amusement, though you would not know
what you were smiling at.

But if six cool scientific intellects, acquainted with the tricks
of their own organisms and determined to dissever thought from
motion, were to sit round a table, they might sit till doomsday
without the "spirit" turning up.

This is what the spiritualists mean by unsympathetic
persons, persons obnoxious to the spirits, persons with antipathetic
auras, and all the rest of the jargon.
But six intellects taken at random, being anything but cool and
scientific, are not able to prevent their ideas passing over into
action in the shape of muscular twitches; though if even the
unscientific were to look up at the ceiling and forget all about
the table, the table would probably forget to move.

Now the majority of the replies of the table deal with matters
actively present to the consciousness of at least one of the
six owners of the superimposed hands. When the table raps out something
known only to this one person, and the startled person admits that
the table is right, an uncanny feeling is produced; the
table seems at least to be a thought-reader, and on this wave of
astonishment the hypothesis of "spirits" rides up triumphantly.
When the topic is one of which nobody knows anything--_e.g._, whether
the supposed spirit is a man or woman--chance, or a vague idea
floating up in the mind of one of the party, determines the
reply.

But what of those replies in which some striking truth is told of
which none of the party was conscious, as for instance in the
examples I gave in my last, when the table informed us that Mr.
Jones's "Bauble Shop" was then playing at Eastbourne, or that "The
Road to Fortune" had been playing in the town in which we were
the week before we arrived? To clear up this most remarkable
aspect of the whole matter we must go still deeper into Psychology.

What we are pleased to call our Mind is made up of two parts--our
Consciousness and--what I shall call loosely yet sufficingly and
without prejudice to Metaphysics--our Sub-Consciousness.

The latter is immeasurably the vaster portion. It is a tossing
ocean of thoughts which feeds the narrow little fountain
of Consciousness. It holds all our memories. We cannot be conscious
of all ourselves and all our past at once--that way madness
lies, or divinity. We may know ten languages, but we can only
think in the mould of one at a time. Our thoughts and memories
can only come up into clear Consciousness by ones or twos--to be
dealt with and then dismissed. They spirit from the great deep of
Sub-Consciousness into the thin fountain-stream of Consciousness,
and fall back again into the great deep.
Such a parent
acquires all the rights of the most sacred friendship, and his
advice, even when his child is advanced in life, demands serious
consideration.

With respect to marriage, though after one and twenty a parent
seems to have no right to withhold his consent on any account; yet
twenty years of solicitude call for a return, and the son ought, at
least, to promise not to marry for two or three years, should the
object of his choice not entirely meet with the approbation of his
first friend.

But, respect for parents is, generally speaking, a much more
debasing principle; it is only a selfish respect for property.  The
father who is blindly obeyed, is obeyed from sheer weakness, or
from motives that degrade the human character.

A great proportion of the misery that wanders, in hideous forms
around the world, is allowed to rise from the negligence of
parents; and still these are the people who are most tenacious of
what they term a natural right, though it be subversive of the
birth right of man, the right of acting according to the direction
of his own reason.

I have already very frequently had occasion to observe, that
vicious or indolent people are always eager to profit by enforcing
arbitrary privileges; and generally in the same proportion as they
neglect the discharge of the duties which alone render the
privileges reasonable.  This is at the bottom, a dictate of common
sense, or the instinct of self-defence, peculiar to ignorant
weakness; resembling that instinct, which makes a fish muddy the
water it swims in to elude its enemy, instead of boldly facing it
in the clear stream.

>From the clear stream of argument, indeed, the supporters of
prescription, of every denomination, fly:  and taking refuge in the
darkness, which, in the language of sublime poetry, has been
supposed to surround the throne of Omnipotence, they dare to demand
that implicit respect which is only due to His unsearchable ways.
But, let me not be thought presumptuous, the darkness which hides
our God from us, only respects speculative truths-- it never
obscures moral ones, they shine clearly, for God is light, and
never, by the constitution of our nature, requires the discharge of
a duty, the reasonableness of which does not beam on us when we
open our eyes.

The indolent parent of high rank may, it is true, extort a show of
respect from his child, and females on the continent are
particularly subject to the views of their families, who never
think of consulting their inclination, or providing for the comfort
of the poor victims of their pride.  The consequence is notorious;
these dutiful daughters become adulteresses, and neglect the
education of their children, from whom they, in their turn, exact
the same kind of obedience.

Females, it is true, in all countries, are too much under the
dominion of their parents; and few parents think of addressing
their children in the following manner, though it is in this
reasonable way that Heaven seems to command the whole human race.
It is your interest to obey me till you can judge for yourself; and
the Almighty Father of all has implanted an affection in me to
serve as a guard to you whilst your reason is unfolding; but when
your mind arrives at maturity, you must only obey me, or rather
respect my opinions, so far as they coincide with the light that is
breaking in on your own mind.

A slavish bondage to parents cramps every faculty of the mind; and
Mr. Locke very judiciously observes, that "if the mind be curbed
and humbled too much in children; if their spirits be abased and
broken much by too strict an hand over them; they lose all their
vigour and industry."  This strict hand may, in some degree,
account for the weakness of women; for girls, from various causes,
are more kept down by their parents, in every sense of the word,
than boys.  The duty expected from them is, like all the duties
arbitrarily imposed on women, more from a sense of propriety, more
out of respect for decorum, than reason; and thus taught slavishly
to submit to their parents, they are prepared for the slavery of
marriage.  I may be told that a number of women are not slaves in
the marriage state.  True, but they then become tyrants; for it is
not rational freedom, but a lawless kind of power, resembling the
authority exercised by the favourites of absolute monarchs, which
they obtain by debasing means.  I do not, likewise, dream of
insinuating that either boys or girls are always slaves, I only
insist, that when they are obliged to submit to authority blindly,
their faculties are weakened, and their tempers rendered imperious
or abject.  I also lament, that parents, indolently availing
themselves of a supposed privilege, damp the first faint glimmering
of reason rendering at the same time the duty, which they are so
anxious to enforce, an empty name; because they will not let it
rest on the only basis on which a duty can rest securely:  for,
unless it be founded on knowledge, it cannot gain sufficient
strength to resist the squalls of passion, or the silent sapping of
self-love.  But it is not the parents who have given the surest
proof of their affection for their children, (or, to speak more
properly, who by fulfilling their duty, have allowed a natural
parental affection to take root in their hearts, the child of
exercised sympathy and reason, and not the over-weening offspring
of selfish pride,) who most vehemently insist on their children
submitting to their will, merely because it is their will.  On the
contrary, the parent who sets a good example, patiently lets that
example work; and it seldom fails to produce its natural
effect--filial respect.

Children cannot be taught too early to submit to reason, the true
definition of that necessity, which Rousseau insisted on, without
defining it; for to submit to reason, is to submit to the nature of
things, and to that God who formed them so, to promote our real
interest.

Why should the minds of children be warped as they just begin to
expand, only to favour the indolence of parents, who insist on a
privilege without being willing to pay the price fixed by nature?
I have before had occasion to observe, that a right always includes
a duty, and I think it may, likewise fairly be inferred, that they
forfeit the right, who do not fulfil the duty.

_Per contra_, for his unjaded imagination absolutely new scenes
and dialogues have no more novelty than the comparatively aged.
Probability or truth to life he demands not, perfection of form
were thrown away upon him. His soul melts before the simplest pathos,
he is made happy by a happy ending, and when Momus sits on a
hat "he openeth his mouth and saith Ha! ha!" He is a flute upon which
you may play what false notes you will. In some versions of "Uncle
Tom's Cabin" he placidly accepts two Topsies.For, I
believe, as a general rule, it must be allowed, that the affection
which we inspire always resembles that we cultivate; so that
natural affections, which have been supposed almost distinct from
reason, may be found more nearly connected with judgment than is
commonly allowed.  Nay, as another proof of the necessity of
cultivating the female understanding, it is but just to observe,
that the affections seem to have a kind of animal capriciousness
when they merely reside in the heart.

It is the irregular exercise of parental authority that first
injures the mind, and to these irregularities girls are more
subject than boys.  The will of those who never allow their will to
be disputed, unless they happen to be in a good humour, when they
relax proportionally, is almost always unreasonable.  To elude this
arbitrary authority, girls very early learn the lessons which they
afterwards practise on their husbands; for I have frequently seen a
little sharp-faced miss rule a whole family, excepting that now and
then mamma's anger will burst out of some accidental cloud-- either
her hair was ill-dressed,* or she had lost more money at cards, the
night before, than she was willing to own to her husband; or some
such moral cause of anger.

(*Footnote.  I myself heard a little girl once say to a servant,
"My mamma has been scolding me finely this morning, because her
hair was not dressed to please her."  Though this remark was pert,
it was just.  And what respect could a girl acquire for such a
parent, without doing violence to reason?)

After observing sallies of this kind, I have been led into a
melancholy train of reflection respecting females, concluding that
when their first affection must lead them astray, or make their
duties clash till they rest on mere whims and customs, little can
be expected from them as they advance in life.  How, indeed, can an
instructor remedy this evil? for to teach them virtue on any solid
principle is to teach them to despise their parents.  Children
cannot, ought not to be taught to make allowance for the faults of
their parents, because every such allowance weakens the force of
reason in their minds, and makes them still more indulgent to their
own.  It is one of the most sublime virtues of maturity that leads
us to be severe with respect to ourselves, and forbearing to
others; but children should only be taught the simple virtues, for
if they begin too early to make allowance for human passions and
manners, they wear off the fine edge of the criterion by which they
should regulate their own, and become unjust in the same proportion
as they grow indulgent.

The affections of children, and weak people, are always selfish;
they love others, because others love them, and not on account of
their virtues.  Yet, till esteem and love are blended together in
the first affection, and reason made the foundation of the first
duty, morality will stumble at the threshold.  But, till society is
very differently constituted, parents, I fear, will still insist on
being obeyed, because they will be obeyed, and constantly endeavour
to settle that power on a Divine right, which will not bear the
investigation of reason.


Thus the rim fills as rapidly as the hub, and the metal is of a
uniform and high temperature when it reaches the chill.

[Illustration: CASTING OF CAR WHEELS.]

In the wheels made by this firm, every alternate rib is connected
with the rim, and runs off to nothing near the hub; the intermediate
ribs are attached to the hub, and diminish in width toward the
rim.--_Jour.
Railway App._
* * * * *

ELECTRICITY AND PRESTIDIGITATION.

The wonderful ease with which electricity adapts itself to the
production of mechanical, calorific, and luminious effects at
a distance, long ago gave rise to the idea of applying it to certain
curious and amusing effects that simple minds willingly style
_supernatural_, because of their powerlessness to find a satisfactory
explanation of them.

[Illustration: FIG. 1.--RAPPING AND TALKING TABLE. ]
Who has not seen, of old, Robert Houdin's heavy chest and Robert
Houdin's magic drum? These two curious experiments are, as
well known, founded upon the properties of electro-magnets.

At present we shall make known two other arrangements, which are
based upon the same action, and which, presenting old experiments
under a new form, rejuvenate them by giving them another interest.

The first apparatus (Fig. 1), which presents the appearance of an
ordinary round center table, permits of reproducing at will the
"spirit rappings" and sepulchral voice experiments.

The table support contains a Leclanche pile, of compact form, carefully
hidden in the part that connects the three legs. The top
of the table is in two parts, the lower of which is hollow, and
the upper forms a cover three or four millimeters in thickness. In
the center of the hollow part is placed a vertical electro-magnet,
one of the wires of which communicates with one of the poles of
the pile, and the other with a flat metallic circle glued to
the cover of the table. Beneath this circle, and at a slight distance
from it, there is a toothed circle, F, connected with the other pole
of the pile. When the table is pressed lightly upon, the cover
bends and the flat circle touches the toothed one, closes the
circuit of the pile upon the electro-magnet, which latter attracts
its armature and produces a sharp blow.Added to this, he will never acquire
that frank ingenuousness of behaviour, which young people can only
attain by being frequently in society, where they dare to speak
what they think; neither afraid of being reproved for their
presumption, nor laughed at for their folly.

Forcibly impressed by the reflections which the sight of schools,
as they are at present conducted, naturally suggested, I have
formerly delivered my opinion rather warmly in favour of a private
education; but further experience has led me to view the subject in
a different light.  I still, however, think schools, as they are
now regulated, the hot-beds of vice and folly, and the knowledge of
human nature, supposed to be attained there, merely cunning
selfishness.

At school, boys become gluttons and slovens, and, instead of
cultivating domestic affections, very early rush into the
libertinism which destroys the constitution before it is formed;
hardening the heart as it weakens the understanding.

I should, in fact, be averse to boarding-schools, if it were for no
other reason than the unsettled state of mind which the expectation
of the vacations produce.  On these the children's thoughts are
fixed with eager anticipating hopes, for, at least, to speak with
moderation, half of the time, and when they arrive they are spent
in total dissipation and beastly indulgence.

But, on the contrary, when they are brought up at home, though they
may pursue a plan of study in a more orderly manner than can be
adopted, when near a fourth part of the year is actually spent in
idleness, and as much more in regret and anticipation; yet they
there acquire too high an opinion of their own importance, from
being allowed to tyrannize over servants, and from the anxiety
expressed by most mothers, on the score of manners, who, eager to
teach the accomplishments of a gentleman, stifle, in their birth,
the virtues of a man.  Thus brought into company when they ought to
be seriously employed, and treated like men when they are still
boys, they become vain and effeminate.

LONDON: CHARLES KNIGHT, 90. FLEET STREET.

And sold by all Booksellers in Town and Country; on application to
whom may be obtained Descriptive Catalogue of the Publications
issued by CHARLES KNIGHT. {416}
MR. PARKER _has recently published:_--
A GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN GRECIAN, ROMAN, ITALIAN, AND GOTHIC
ARCHITECTURE.

Exemplified by upwards of Eighteen Hundred Illustrations, drawn
from the best examples. Fifth Edition, 3 vols. 8vo. cloth, gilt tops,
2l. 8s.

"Since the year 1836, in which this work first appeared, no fewer
than four large editions have been exhausted. The fifth edition
is now before us, and we have no doubt will meet, as it deserves,
the same extended patronage and success. The text has been considerably
augmented by the enlargement of many of the old articles, as well
as by the addition of many new ones among which Professor Willis
has embodied great part of his Architectural Nomenclature of the
Middle Ages the number of woodcuts has been increased from 1100 to
above 1700 and the work its present form is, we believe, unequalled
in the architectural literature of Europe for the amount of accurate
information it furnishes, and the beauty of its illustrations."

--_Notes and Queries._
AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE. BY JOHN
HENRY PARKER, F.S.A. 16mo. with numerous Illustrations. Price 4s.
6d.

THE PRIMEVAL ANTIQUITIES OF ENGLAND AND DENMARK COMPARED. BY J. J. A.At boarding schools
of every description, the relaxation of the junior boys is
mischief; and of the senior, vice.  Besides, in great schools what
can be more prejudicial to the moral character, than the system of
tyranny and abject slavery which is established amongst the boys,
to say nothing of the slavery to forms, which makes religion worse
than a farce?  For what good can be expected from the youth who
receives the sacrament of the Lord's supper, to avoid forfeiting
half-a-guinea, which he probably afterwards spends in some sensual
manner?  Half the employment of the youths is to elude the
necessity of attending public worship; and well they may, for such
a constant repetition of the same thing must be a very irksome
restraint on their natural vivacity.  As these ceremonies have the
most fatal effect on their morals, and as a ritual performed by the
lips, when the heart and mind are far away, is not now stored up by
our church as a bank to draw on for the fees of the poor souls in
purgatory, why should they not be abolished?

But the fear of innovation, in this country, extends to every
thing.  This is only a covert fear, the apprehensive timidity of
indolent slugs, who guard, by sliming it over, the snug place,
which they consider in the light of an hereditary estate; and eat,
drink, and enjoy themselves, instead of fulfilling the duties,
excepting a few empty forms, for which it was endowed.  These are
the people who most strenuously insist on the will of the founder
being observed, crying out against all reformation, as if it were a
violation of justice.  I am now alluding particularly to the
relicks of popery retained in our colleges, where the protestant
members seem to be such sticklers for the established church; but
their zeal never makes them lose sight of the spoil of ignorance,
which rapacious priests of superstitious memory have scraped
together.  No, wise in their generation, they venerate the
prescriptive right of possession, as a strong hold, and still let
the sluggish bell tingle to prayers, as during the days, when the
elevation of the host was supposed to atone for the sins of the
people, lest one reformation should lead to another, and the spirit
kill the letter.  These Romish customs have the most baneful effect
on the morals of our clergy; for the idle vermin who two or three
times a day perform, in the most slovenly manner a service which
they think useless, but call their duty, soon lose a sense of duty.
At college, forced to attend or evade public worship, they acquire
an habitual contempt for the very service, the performance of which
is to enable them to live in idleness.  It is mumbled over as an
affair of business, as a stupid boy repeats his task, and
frequently the college cant escapes from the preacher the moment
after he has left the pulpit, and even whilst he is eating the
dinner which he earned in such a dishonest manner.

Nothing, indeed, can be more irreverent than the cathedral service
as it is now performed in this country, neither does it contain a
set of weaker men than those who are the slaves of this childish
routine.  A disgusting skeleton of the former state is still
exhibited; but all the solemnity, that interested the imagination,
if it did not purify the heart, is stripped off.  The performance
of high mass on the continent must impress every mind, where a
spark of fancy glows, with that awful melancholy, that sublime
tenderness, so near a-kin to devotion.  I do not say, that these
devotional feelings are of more use, in a moral sense, than any
other emotion of taste; but I contend, that the theatrical pomp
which gratifies our senses, is to be preferred to the cold parade
that insults the understanding without reaching the heart.

Amongst remarks on national education, such observations cannot be
misplaced, especially as the supporters of these establishments,
degenerated into puerilities, affect to be the champions of
religion.  Religion, pure source of comfort in this vale of tears!
how has thy clear stream been muddied by the dabblers, who have
presumptuously endeavoured to confine in one narrow channel, the
living waters that ever flow toward God-- the sublime ocean of
existence!  What would life be without that peace which the love of
God, when built on humanity, alone can impart?  Every earthly
affection turns back, at intervals, to prey upon the heart that
feeds it; and the purest effusions of benevolence, often rudely
damped by men, must mount as a free-will offering to Him who gave
them birth, whose bright image they faintly reflect.

In public schools, however, religion, confounded with irksome
ceremonies and unreasonable restraints, assumes the most ungracious
aspect:  not the sober austere one that commands respect whilst it
inspires fear; but a ludicrous cast, that serves to point a pun.
For, in fact, most of the good stories and smart things which
enliven the spirits that have been concentrated at whist, are
manufactured out of the incidents to which the very men labour to
give a droll turn who countenance the abuse to live on the spoil.

There is not, perhaps, in the kingdom, a more dogmatical or
luxurious set of men, than the pedantic tyrants who reside in
colleges and preside at public schools.  The vacations are equally
injurious to the morals of the masters and pupils, and the
intercourse, which the former keep up with the nobility, introduces
the same vanity and extravagance into their families, which banish
domestic duties and comforts from the lordly mansion, whose state
is awkwardly aped on a smaller scale.  The boys, who live at a
great expence with the masters and assistants, are never
domesticated, though placed there for that purpose; for, after a
silent dinner, they swallow a hasty glass of wine, and retire to
plan some mischievous trick, or to ridicule the person or manners
of the very people they have just been cringing to, and whom they
ought to consider as the representatives of their parents.

Can it then be a matter of surprise, that boys become selfish and
vicious who are thus shut out from social converse? or that a mitre
often graces the brow of one of these diligent pastors? I have seen
a host rise serenely after such an occurrence, and nobody dreamt
of imputing it to him for wickedness.
But the contrast between the magniloquence of poor BEN and the
deadly failure of his wine, was too great. Even Lady MABEL, a
kind girl without affectations, could not forbear a smile when
the incident was narrated to her in the drawing-room, and some of
the other guests, whose names I charitably refrain from mentioning,
seemed quite radiant with pleasure at the misfortune of their host.

CHUMP, however, was not long in recovering, and before many hours
had passed, he was assuring us in the smoking-room, that he proposed
to establish sport in his particular district on a broad and enduring
basis.

On the following morning there was a lawn-meet at the Manor, and, as
I'm a living sinner, our wretched host was flung flat on his back
before the eyes of all the neighbouring sportsmen and sportswomen
by a fiery chestnut which he bought for £400 from a well-known
dealer.

What became of him during the rest of the day I know not. Indeed I
shrink from continuing the story of his ridiculous humiliations,
and I merely desire to remark that if this be your Excellency's
manner of rewarding those who serve you, I pray that I may be for
ever preserved from your patronage.

So much, then, for BENJAMIN. In spite of everything I have a
sort of sneaking regard for the poor man, especially since I
discovered that he was not a free agent, but was inspired in word
and action by your blatant influence. Were it not that I feared to
weary you, I might proceed at much greater length. I might parade
before you regiment upon regiment of pompous local magnates and
political nobodies all drilled and disciplined by your offensive
methods, and all of them as absurd and preposterous as they can
be made. But the spectacle would only move you to derision. One
point, however, I must insist on. Whatever you do, don't throw
JOSHUA POSER across my path again.
I might do him an injury. We were at College together, he being my
senior by a year.

Even then he always assumed a condescension towards me, an air as
of one who temporarily stepped down from a pedestal to mingle
with common grovellers. He became a personage in the City, a
Chairman and a Director of Companies, and I lost sight of
him.
Yesterday I met him, and he was good enough to address me. "Yes,
yes," he observed, "I remember you well. I have read some of your
contributions to periodical literature, and I can honestly say I was
pleased; yes, I was pleased. Of course the work is unequal, and I
marked one or two passages that might have been omitted with advantage.
For instance, the discussion between the vicar and the family
doctor is not quite in the most refined taste, but there is distinct
promise even in that.

By the way, why don't you write in _The New Congeries_? Your style
would suit it. I always take that paper in, and I find it very
much appreciated in the pantry. The butler reads it, when we have
done with it, and passes it on to the footman. It keeps them out
of mischief. Now take my advice, and contribute to that." I humbly
murmured my thanks to this intolerable person, and left him. As I
turned away I half thought I heard the sound of your Excellency's
bellows in the neighbourhood of POSER. Was I wrong?

I remain (merely in an epistolary sense), Your Excellency's humble
servant,
DIOGENES ROBINSON.

* * * * * 
APPROPRIATE TITLE FOR MR. ANDREW LANG.--The Folk-LoreateBut these should be national establishments, for whilst
school-masters are dependent on the caprice of parents, little
exertion can be expected from them, more than is necessary to
please ignorant people.  Indeed, the necessity of a master's giving
the parents some sample of the boy's abilities, which during the
vacation, is shown to every visiter, is productive of more mischief
than would at first be supposed.  For they are seldom done
entirely, to speak with moderation, by the child itself; thus the
master countenances falsehoods, or winds the poor machine up to
some extraordinary exertion, that injures the wheels, and stops the
progress of gradual improvement.  The memory is loaded with
unintelligible words, to make a show of, without the
understanding's acquiring any distinct ideas: but only that
education deserves emphatically to be termed cultivation of mind,
which teaches young people how to begin to think.  The imagination
should not be allowed to debauch the understanding before it gained
strength, or vanity will become the forerunner of vice:  for every
way of exhibiting the acquirements of a child is injurious to its
moral character.

How much time is lost in teaching them to recite what they do not
understand! whilst, seated on benches, all in their best array, the
mammas listen with astonishment to the parrot-like prattle, uttered
in solemn cadences, with all the pomp of ignorance and folly.  Such
exhibitions only serve to strike the spreading fibres of vanity
through the whole mind; for they neither teach children to speak
fluently, nor behave gracefully.  So far from it, that these
frivolous pursuits might comprehensively be termed the study of
affectation: for we now rarely see a simple, bashful boy, though
few people of taste were ever disgusted by that awkward
sheepishness so natural to the age, which schools and an early
introduction into society, have changed into impudence and apish
grimace.

Yet, how can these things be remedied whilst schoolmasters depend
entirely on parents for a subsistence; and when so many rival
schools hang out their lures to catch the attention of vain fathers
and mothers, whose parental affection only leads them to wish, that
their children should outshine those of their neighbours?

Without great good luck, a sensible, conscientious man, would
starve before he could raise a school, if he disdained to bubble
weak parents, by practising the secret tricks of the craft.

In the best regulated schools, however, where swarms are not
crammed together many bad habits must be acquired; but, at common
schools, the body, heart, and understanding, are equally stunted,
for parents are often only in quest of the cheapest school, and the
master could not live, if he did not take a much greater number
than he could manage himself; nor will the scanty pittance, allowed
for each child, permit him to hire ushers sufficient to assist in
the discharge of the mechanical part of the business.  Besides,
whatever appearance the house and garden may make, the children do
not enjoy the comforts of either, for they are continually
reminded, by irksome restrictions, that they are not at home, and
the state-rooms, garden, etc. must be kept in order for the
recreation of the parents; who, of a Sunday, visit the school, and
are impressed by the very parade that renders the situation of
their children uncomfortable.

What you want is a little knowledge of life, and twelve months'
hard labour.

But though topsy-turveydom may be attained with comparative ease, it
performs a lofty philosophical function. Everything rusts by use.
Our moral ideals grow mouldy if preached too much; our stories
stale if told too often. Conventionality is but a living death. The
other side of everything must be shown, the reverse of the
medal, the silver side of the shield as well as the golden.
Convex things are equally concave, and concave things convex. The
world was made round so that one man's "up" should be another
man's "down." The world is the Earthly Paradox, with four
cardinal points of mutual contradiction, all equally N., S., E.,
and W. 'T is thus a symbol of all paradoxes, of all propositions
in which mutually contradictory things are true.

Nay, paradox is the only truth, for it cannot be denied; including,
like the world, its own contradiction. Topsy-turveydom unfolds our
musty ideas to the sun and spreads them out the other way. The
man who reverses the Fifth Commandment and says that parents should
honour their children is not a flippant jester, but a philosophic
thinker. This is the true inwardness of the topsy-turvey
humourist.
Topsy-turveydom has played a prodigious part in the progress of
thought.
The history of philosophy and science is merely a tale of development
by topsy-turveydom, every new thinker simply contradicting his
predecessor.I have already animadverted on the bad habits which females acquire
when they are shut up together; and I think that the observation
may fairly be extended to the other sex, till the natural inference
is drawn which I have had in view throughout--that to improve both
sexes they ought, not only in private families, but in public
schools, to be educated together.  If marriage be the cement of
society, mankind should all be educated after the same model, or
the intercourse of the sexes will never deserve the name of
fellowship, nor will women ever fulfil the peculiar duties of their
sex, till they become enlightened citizens, till they become free,
by being enabled to earn their own subsistence, independent of men;
in the same manner, I mean, to prevent misconstruction, as one man
is independent of another.  Nay, marriage will never be held sacred
till women by being brought up with men, are prepared to be their
companions, rather than their mistresses; for the mean doublings of
cunning will ever render them contemptible, whilst oppression
renders them timid.  So convinced am I of this truth, that I will
venture to predict, that virtue will never prevail in society till
the virtues of both sexes are founded on reason; and, till the
affection common to both are allowed to gain their due strength by
the discharge of mutual duties.

Were boys and girls permitted to pursue the same studies together,
those graceful decencies might early be inculcated which produce
modesty, without those sexual distinctions that taint the mind.
Lessons of politeness, and that formulary of decorum, which treads
on the heels of falsehood, would be rendered useless by habitual
propriety of behaviour.  Not, indeed put on for visiters like the
courtly robe of politeness, but the sober effect of cleanliness of
mind.  Would not this simple elegance of sincerity be a chaste
homage paid to domestic affections, far surpassing the meretricious
compliments that shine with false lustre in the heartless
intercourse of fashionable life?  But, till more understanding
preponderate in society, there will ever be a want of heart and
taste, and the harlot's rouge will supply the place of that
celestial suffusion which only virtuous affections can give to the
face.  Gallantry, and what is called love, may subsist without
simplicity of character; but the main pillars of friendship, are
respect and confidence--esteem is never founded on it cannot tell
what.

The Mantchus and the Romanoffs are not exactly chums, And a Tartar
insurrection, when that little trouble comes, As it may do if you
press too much at Pekin, well, who knows?
There is always something pleasing in the quarrels of one's foes.

The Mantchus miss a many of once subject Tartar tribes Who
have--gravitated Russwards. Little call for blows or bribes To
make blood-relations mingle. On the Mantchus this may jar, But
we've not forgotten Kuldja, and we recollect Kashgar.This argument may be carried further than philosophers are aware
of, for if nature destined woman, in particular, for the discharge
of domestic duties, she made her susceptible of the attached
affections in a great degree.  Now women are notoriously fond of
pleasure; and naturally must be so, according to my definition,
because they cannot enter into the minutiae of domestic taste;
lacking judgment the foundation of all taste.  For the
understanding, in spite of sensual cavillers, reserves to itself
the privilege of conveying pure joy to the heart.

