"But who have we here?" said one of the young dragoons.  He waited a
moment "Etes--vous Francais?" I gave him no answer.  He then addressed me
in German--"Sprechen sie geldufig Deutsch?"

"Why," chimed in my conductor, "he does speak a little French
indifferently enough; but still"

Here I was introduced to the young officers, and we all sat down at table;
the colonel, civility itself, pressing my host to drink his own wine, and
eat his own food and even rating the servants for not being sufficiently
alert in their attendance on their own master.

"Well, my dear-----, how have you sped with the Prince?"

"Why, colonel," said my protector, in his calm way, "as well as I expected.
I was of some service to him when he was here before, at the time he was
taken so very ill, and he has not forgotten it; so I am not included
amongst the unfortunate detenus for the payment of the fine.  But that is
not all; for I am allowed to go tomorrow to my father's, and here is my
passport."

"Wonders will never cease," said the colonel; "but who is that boy?"

"He is one of the crew of the English boats which tried to cut off
Colonel-----the other evening, near Cuxhaven.  His life was saved by a
very laughable circumstance certainly; merely, by the marshal's sword,
from resting on the stove, having become almost red--hot." And here he
detailed the whole transaction as it took place, which set the party
a--laughing most heartily.

I will always bear witness to the extreme amenity with which I was now
treated by the French officers.  The evening passed over quickly.  About
eleven we retired to rest, my friend furnishing me with clothes, and
warning me, that next morning he would call me at daylight, to proceed to
his father's country--seat, where he intimated that I must remain in the
meantime.

Next morning I was roused accordingly, and a long, low, open carriage
rattled up to the door, just before day--dawn.  Presently the reveille was
beaten, and answered by the different posts in the city, and on the
ramparts.

We drove on, merely showing our passport to the sentries at the different
bridges, until we reached the gate, where we had to pun up until the
officer on duty appeared, and had scrupulously compared our personal
appearance with the written description.  All was found correct, and we
drove on.

It surprised me very much, after having repeatedly heard of the great
strength of Hamburgh, to look out on the large mound of green turf that
constituted its chief defence.

It is all true that there was a deep ditch and glacis beyond; but there
was no covered way, and both the scarp and counterscarp were simple
earthen embankments; so that, had the ditch been filled up with fascines,
there was no wall to face the attacking force after crossing it,--nothing
but a green mound, precipitous enough, certainly, and crowned with a low
parapet of masonry, and bristling with batteries about half way down, so
that the muzzles of the guns were flush with the neighbouring country
beyond the ditch.  Still there was wanting, to my imagination, the
strength of the high perpendicular wall, with its gaping embrasures, and
frowning cannon.  All this time it never occurred to me, that to breach
such a defence as that we looked upon was impossible.  You might have
plumped your shot into it until you had converted it into an iron mine,
but no chasm could have been forced in it by all the artillery in Europe;
so battering in a breach was entirely out of the question, and this, in
truth, constituted the great strength of the place.

We arrived, after an hour's drive, at the villa belonging to my
protector's family, and walked into a large room, with a comfortable
stove, and extensive preparations made for a comfortable breakfast.

Presently three young ladies appeared. They were his sisters,--blue--eyed,
fair--haired, white--skinned, round--sterned, plump little partridges.

"Haben sie gefruhstucht?" said the eldest.

"Pas encore," said he in French, with a smile. "But, sisters, I have
brought a stranger here, a young English officer, who was recently
captured in the river."

"An English officer!" exclaimed the three ladies, looking at me, a poor,
little, dirty midshipman, in my soiled linen, unbrushed shoes, dirty
trowsers and jacket, with my little square of white cloth on the collar;
and I began to find the eloquent blood mangling in my cheeks, and tingling
in my ears; but their kindly feelings got the better of a gentle
propensity to laugh, and the youngest said--"Sie sind gerade zu rechter
zeit gekommen:" when, finding that her German was Hebrew to me, she tried
the other tack "Vous arrivez a propos, le dejeuner est pret."

However I soon found, that the moment they were assured that I was in
reality an Englishman, they all spoke English, and exceedingly well too.
Our meal was finished, and I was standing at the window looking out on a
small lawn, where evergreens of the most beautiful kinds were checkered
with little round clumps of most luxuriant hollyhocks, and the fruit trees
in the neighborhood were absolutely bending to the earth under their loads
of apples and pears.  Presently my friend came up to me; my curiosity
could no longer be restrained.

"Pray, my good sir, what peculiar cause, may I ask, have you for showing
me, an entire stranger to you, all this unexpected kindness?  I am fully
aware that I have no claim on you."

"My good boy, you say true; but I have spent the greatest part of my life
in London, although a Hamburgher born, and I consider you, therefore, in
the light of a countryman.  Besides, I will not conceal that your gallant
bearing before Davoust riveted my attention, and engaged my good wishes."

"But how come you to have so much influence with the general, I mean?"

"For several reasons," he replied. "For those, amongst others, you heard
the colonel--who has taken the small liberty of turning me out of my own
house in Hamburgh--mention last night at supper.  But a man like Davoust
cannot be judged of by common rules.  He has, in short, taken a fancy to
me, for which you may thank your stars although your life has been
actually saved by the Prince having burned his fingers,--But here comes
my father."

A venerable old man entered the room, leaning on his stick.  I was
introduced in due form.

"He had breakfasted in his own room," he said, "having been ailing; but he
could not rest quietly, after he had heard there was an Englishman in the
house, until he had himself welcomed him."

I shall never forget the kindness I experienced from these worthy people.
For three days I was fed and clothed by them as if I had been a member of
the family.

Like a boy as I was, I had risen on the fourth morning at grey dawn, to be
aiding in dragging the fish--pond, so that it might be cleaned out.

This was an annual amusement, in which the young men and women in the
family, under happier circumstances, had been in the invariable custom of
joining; and, changed as these were, they still preserved the fashion.
The seine was cast in at one end, loaded at the bottom with heavy sinks,
and buoyant at the top with cork floats.  We hauled it along the whole
length of the pond, thereby driving the fish into an enclosure, about
twenty feet square, with a sluice towards the pond, and another fronting
the dull ditch that flowed past beyond it.  Whenever we had hunted the
whole of the finny tribes--(barring those slippery youths the eels, who,
with all their cleverness, were left to dry in the mud)--into the toils,
we filled all the tubs, and pots, and pans, and vessels of all kinds and
descriptions, with the fat, honest looking Dutchmen, the carp and tench,
who really submitted to their captivity with all the resignation of most
ancient and quiet fish, scarcely indicating any sense of its irksomeness,
except by a lumbering sluggish flap of their broad heavy tails.

A transaction of this kind could not take place amongst a group of young
folk without shouts of laughter, and it was not until we had caught the
whole of the fish in the pond, and placed them in safety, that I had
leisure to look about me.  The city lay about four miles distant from us.
The whole country about Hamburgh is level, except the right bank below it
of the noble river on which it stands, the Elbe.  The house where I was
domiciled stood on nearly the highest point of this bank, which gradually
sloped down into a swampy hollow, nearly level with the river.  It then
rose again gently until the swell was crowned with the beautiful town of
Altona, and immediately beyond appeared the ramparts and tall spires of
the noble city itself.

The morning had been thick and foggy, but as the sun rose, the white mist
that had floated over the whole country, gradually concentrated and
settled down into the hollow between us and Hamburgh, covering it with an
impervious veil, which even extended into the city itself, filling the
lower part of it with a dense white bank of fog, which rose so high that
the spires alone, with one or two of the most lofty buildings, appeared a
bove the rolling sea of white fleece--like vapour, as if it had been a
model of the stronghold, in place of the reality, packed in white wool, so
distinct did it appear, diminished as it was in the distance.  On the
tallest spire of the place, which was now sparkling in the early sunbeams,
the French flag, the pestilent tricolor, that waved sluggishly in the
faint morning breeze.

It attracted my attention, and I pointed it out to my patron.  Presently
it was hauled down, and a series of signals was made at the yard--arm of a
spar, that had been slung across it.  Who can they be telegraphing to?
thought I, while I could notice my host assume a most anxious and startled
look, while he peered down into the hollow. But he could see nothing, as
the fog bank still filled the whole of the space between the city and the
acclivity where we stood.

"What is that?" said I; for I heard, or thought I heard, a low rumbling
rushing noise in the ravine.  Mr-----heard it as well as I apparently,
for he put his finger to his lips--as much as to say, "Hold your tongue,
my good boy nous verrons."

